Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 31 Theology & Religious Studies



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. Overview

 Oxford University’s Faculty of Theology and Religion seeks to develop its research and impact
 through its:

    o   concentration of expertise within the traditional theological disciplines
    o   recent appointments in the Study of Religion
    o   location within a large, dynamic and research intensive university with rich opportunities
        for cross-disciplinary work and interdisciplinarity
    o   attractiveness to a broad spectrum of funders.

 The Faculty currently comprises 212 undergraduate students, 272 postgraduate students (165
 PGR; 107 PGT), and 24 permanent post-holders, as well as 25 further positions, including
 Departmental Lecturers, post-doctoral fellows, and Faculty Appointed Researchers. The Unit of
 Assessment [UoA] also includes staff employed elsewhere in the University whose research falls
 within our discipline. The Faculty’s Research Areas, Research Centres and Networks promote a
 research culture that is rooted in our home disciplines while at the same time committed to
 dialogue with cognate fields. Since it falls within the Humanities Division of Oxford University, the
 Faculty also benefits from the infrastructural support for cross-disciplinary research that is
 provided by The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH). This institutional context
 has enabled the Faculty to maintain its historic research strengths while forging new collaborations
 with, for example, the University’s Faculties of Classics, English, History, History of Art, Modern
 Languages, Music, Oriental Studies, Philosophy, and the Medical Sciences Division. With
 TORCH, we have also established connections with a broad range of external and professional
 bodies.

 Our REF2014 environment statement referred to the changing focus of the UoA following our 2012
 decision to re-define ourselves as a ‘Faculty of Theology and Religion’. This development was the
 result of some twenty years of work to integrate our research and teaching in Christian Theology
 with our growing expertise in the Study of Religion. Building on this newly expanded conception
 of our identity and intellectual horizons, in 2013 we created a raft of new permanent posts in the
 Study of Religion. Our goal was to recognise the increasing plurality of religious life both in Britain
 and globally, and to engage with the full range of scholarly methods that are relevant to the study
 of religion, including those that are integral to anthropology, sociology, and comparative religion.
 The ensuing process of reconfiguration and realignment has required a major and sustained
 organisational effort during the current REF period.

 Under the leadership of three consecutive Chairs (Foot, Zachhuber, and Ward), the Faculty has
 sought to nurture intellectual exchange within and across our newly diverse range of disciplines –
 and all academic staff and graduate students are now active within at least one of our seven
 Research Areas: Biblical Studies; Christian and Religious Ethics; Historical and Systematic
 Theology; History of Christianity; Philosophical Theology; Science and Religion; and Study of
 Religions. This disciplinary regrouping of the Faculty has enabled us to retain and consolidate our
                                                                                                       1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 traditional core specialisms while taking a cross-disciplinary, global approach to the study of
 religion. In recent appointments, we have sought to extend these opportunities for cross-
 disciplinary research (see e.g. Macfarlane’s appointment).

 We have further expanded our research through close collaborations with an array of research
 institutes in the University, including the Oxford Centres for Hindu Studies; Buddhist Studies;
 Islamic Studies; and Hebrew and Jewish Studies, as well as the University’s six Permanent Private
 Halls: Wycliffe Hall and St Stephen’s House (Anglican); St Benet’s Hall, Blackfriars, and Campion
 Hall (Roman Catholic); and Regent’s Park College (Baptist). These bodies contribute to our
 publications and our knowledge exchange activities, and expand the audiences for our research
 – and in turn we help to sustain the vitality of their intellectual life. The Faculty is also developing
 links with three new College-based Oxford research initiatives, each of which is directed by a
 Faculty member: the Laudato Si’ Research Institute at Campion Hall (Deane-Drummond); the
 Centre for the Study of the Bible at Oriel College (Najman); and the ‘Religion and the Frontier
 Challenges’ postdoctoral research fellowship programme at Pembroke College (Jones).

 1b. Strategic Aims for Research and Impact 2014–2021

 In our 2014 REF submission, following our redesignation as a Faculty of Theology and Religion,
 we identified the following research objectives:

    (1) The development of the Study of Religions
    (2) Retaining our historic strengths in Biblical Studies
    (3) Building upon and expanding our expertise in Ethics
    (4) Strengthening existing leadership in Science and Religion.

 In the course of this REF period, each of these four objectives has been achieved:

 1. We now have a critical mass of expertise in the Study of Religion across multiple fields.
 Significant appointments during this REF cycle include:

       Abulafia (Abrahamic Religions); Flood (Hindu Studies and Comparative Religion);
       Freud-Kandel (Modern Jewish Studies); Jones (Study of Religion); Westerhoff
       (Buddhist Philosophy); Al-Azem (classical Islamic legal thought); and Frazier (Hindu
       and Comparative Philosophy).

 These new appointments, which cross the ‘world religions’, have enabled us to weave together
 textual and fieldwork-based approaches with classical and modern specialisms, to form a diverse
 and coherent research cluster. Following this broadening of expertise, we have been able to
 publish in new fields, establish new research seminars, and attract a new stream of highly qualified
 postgraduate researchers.

 2. Four of our six posts in Biblical Studies are now fully endowed (Bockmuehl; Downs; Najman;
 Quick) and the College element of a further position has been fully endowed (Strawbridge).

 3. Funding has also been secured for two major Faculty-led research projects with a strong ethical
 focus and significant interdisciplinary connections: The Oxford Character Project (GBP1.95M) and
 the Compassion in Healthcare project (GBP199,258).




                                                                                                        2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. In this REF cycle, we have also secured major grants in Science and Religion, totalling over
 USD6 million, thereby consolidating our global leadership in this field.

 We have also been guided by our 2018-21 Research Strategy, which commits the Faculty to the
 following goals:

    a)    supporting individual research
    b)    enhancing internal and external collaborations and partnerships
    c)    developing our postgraduate and post-doctoral research community
    d)    regular auditing of the Faculty’s research culture.

 We have met these goals in the following ways.

 (a) Support for individual research: In 2017, the Faculty established a Director of
 Undergraduate Studies and Outreach and, in 2019, a Graduate Studies Coordinator. Previously,
 the associated administrative roles were rotated between senior academic colleagues, and the
 creation of these two 0.5 FTE positions has helped to mitigate the impact of high administrative
 workloads on staff research time. Other recent developments with the same objective include: an
 increase in postholders’ allowances (to GBP1.5k pre-Covid) to meet the costs of research
 activities, including travel and conference attendance; and the introduction of a Research
 Assistant and Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme, enabling full-time postholders to employ a
 postgraduate student for up to 6 hours a week.

 (b) We have established a wide range of collaborations, as illustrated below. (For further
 discussion, please see Section 4b ‘Collaboration as a Core Component of the Faculty’s Research
 Culture’.)

 (b-i) Collaborations within the Faculty: Our recent appointments have led to the development
 of new research collaborations. For example, we have broadened our expertise in the philosophy
 of religion, which now includes:

         Buddhist philosophy (Westerhoff); Hindu and Comparative Philosophy (Frazier);
         Indian philosophy (Flood); and medieval Islamic philosophy and law (al-Akiti, Al-
         Azem); as well as the philosophy of Christianity (Rasmussen, Wood and Wynn).

 Following Wynn’s appointment as lead for the Philosophical Theology Research Area, this
 confluence of interests will enable us to establish research projects in the comparative philosophy
 of religion, and to contribute to a significant broadening of the discipline of philosophy of religion.
 Wynn’s recently awarded grant on ‘God-Concepts and Spiritual Wellbeing’ (USD234,656, from
 December 2020) aims to give momentum to this collaboration. Other examples of collaboration
 between our traditional and recently established Research Areas include a conference on ‘Ageing,
 Suffering, Despair: Toward Patience and Hope for Health Care’, co-sponsored by the McDonald
 and Ian Ramsey Centres and the Healthcare Values Partnership (postponed from May 2020). We
 have also taken steps to bring our traditional research fields into closer dialogue: for instance, the
 Patristic and Modern Theology Graduate Seminars have now been combined.

 (b-ii) Academic collaborations within and beyond the University: Our Research Areas also
 foster international collaborations. For example, the International Patristics Conference has played
 an important role in sustaining the Faculty’s long-established reputation in Patristics. (This
 conference is held every four years in Oxford and attracts over 1,000 delegates from around the
 world.) Two key appointments made in this REF period have enabled us to continue to support
                                                                                                     3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this venture: Harrison as Lady Margaret Professor of Divinity and Booth as A. G. Leventis
 Associate Professor in Eastern Christianity (a position shared with History and recently endowed
 in perpetuity). We have also been active in promoting collaborations with other Faculties within
 the University. For instance, the Faculty resources various cross-Faculty seminars for academic
 staff and post-doctoral and postgraduate researchers. Examples include:

       ‘Ethical Reading: Authenticity’ (with Classics, History and Oriental Studies); the
       ‘Hermeneutic Interventions Workshop’ (with English and Philosophy); ‘Medieval
       Church and Culture’ (with History); and a new joint seminar with Philosophy on
       Mysticism (Lodge and Wynn).

 We have continued to support a longstanding shared seminar with History, ‘Religion in the British
 Isles, 1400-1700’ (MacCulloch, Macfarlane, Maltby). In addition, the Network on ‘Categories of
 Religion and the Secular in Islam’ has engaged themes in Sociology, Law and Comparative
 Literature, while the Network on Ancient Music and Theology brings together researchers working
 on ancient Greek and Roman Music, Theology, Biblical Studies, Music History, Literature and
 Philosophy.

 (b-iii) External partnerships and impact: We realise that our intellectual activity can have real
 world impact, and have developed significant knowledge exchange activities and partnerships with
 beneficiaries across our Research Areas. These include major engagements in policy (medical,
 political and military), media, pre-university education, and the culture sector (including film, art,
 music, poetry). These activities have been pursued at local, national and international scales.

 We continue to nurture and develop our long-standing and extensive relationships with religious
 communities. UoA members hold wide-ranging positions of influence within Christian churches,
 for instance via the contribution of the four Canon Professors of Christ Church to the life of the
 Cathedral and Diocese of Oxford; Harrison and Strawbridge’s work on the Archbishop’s
 Examination Committee; the involvement of Faculty members as Canon Theologians at major
 Cathedrals (e.g. Gillingham, Maltby and Strawbridge); Lloyd’s position on the Ministry Council of
 the Church of England; Atherstone, Hordern and Strawbridge’s membership of the Church of
 England’s Faith & Order Commission, and Atherstone and Strawbridge’s membership of the
 Liturgical Commission; Maltby’s positions on the General Synod and the Crown Nominations
 Commission; and Ellis’s service on the Baptist Steering Group and the Advisory Council for the
 Vatican-led project, ‘Sport at the Service of Humanity’. UoA members have also engaged in
 knowledge exchange partnerships with churches, such as Strawbridge’s consultancy for the
 General Synod of the Church of England and her advisory role in designing the intellectual content
 for the 2020 Lambeth Conference (postponed to 2022).

 We have cultivated increasingly significant collaborations with the healthcare profession, following
 the close partnerships built with Oxford University Hospitals and the University’s Medical Sciences
 Division. For example, through a collaboration with the Royal Society of Medicine, the Royal
 College of Physicians, and Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Hordern has
 explored the meaning and practice of compassion in healthcare, drawing on Christian and
 philosophical traditions in Ethics (as evidenced in his impact case study). The resulting policy
 reports, including Advancing Medical Professionalism (2018), co-authored with the Royal College
 of Physicians, have had a substantial impact on healthcare practice (e.g. on processes for
 responding compassionately to patient complaints) and on the curriculum for medical students
 (e.g. incorporating humanities teaching as a thread in clinical training). In another such venture,
 Southwood ran a Wellcome-funded series of conferences alongside the chaplaincy team at Oxford
 University Hospitals, focusing on Christian teachings about pain and illness, and the role of the
                                                                                                     4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chaplaincy within healthcare settings. These events (2017-2019) were accredited as part of the
 continuing professional development training offered by the Royal College of Physicians.

 The UOA has a long track record of encouraging its individual members to develop significant
 links with the media. In 2019, Daniel was recognised as a ‘New Generation Thinker’ by BBC Radio
 3 and the Arts and Humanities Research Council. Nelstrop’s film ‘Complete Surrender’ on female
 mystics received widespread recognition: it was not only selected for various festivals but won a
 ‘Best Documentary’ award at the Love Story Film Festival and was judged ‘Best Foreign
 Documentary' at the Durgapur Short Film Festival (both 2020). And MacCulloch’s highly acclaimed
 BBC2 series ‘Sex and the Church’ (2015) and his programme on Thomas Cromwell, ‘Henry VIII’s
 Enforcer’ (2018) demonstrated his ability to deploy meticulous scholarship in a public setting.
 Other outreach activities have emerged from research fields developed within the Faculty since
 2014. Jones has run an extensive knowledge exchange programme with third-sector
 organisations in India, involving women’s rights activists and social workers. This programme
 illustrates the fruitfulness of the Faculty’s investment in the Study of Religions and demonstrates
 its commitment – shared with TORCH and the University through its internationalisation strategy
 – to expanding academic and knowledge exchange partnerships in the Global South.

 As noted above, TORCH hosts and publicises research projects and promotes Humanities
 networks, and by engaging with its resources, we have been able to foster other collaborations
 between UoA members and non-academic partners. For example, TORCH hosts the public-facing
 Oxford Psalms Network (Gillingham), which has linked researchers in Theology and English and
 enabled public engagement with the reception histories of the Psalms. The Faculty is also attached
 to the Mystical Theology Network (Nelstrop). This network brings research on mysticism into
 dialogue with a wider public, and has shaped the work of artists, including painters, musicians,
 dancers and especially filmmakers. These networks have further strengthened the interdisciplinary
 character of our research and our connections to non-academic partners.

 Along with our Networks, the Faculty’s Research Centres also act as hubs for knowledge
 exchange activities, and they have had a considerable impact on public debate and policy. For
 more information about the Research Centres and Networks, including their role in facilitating
 knowledge exchange, please see Section 4a ‘The Contribution of the Faculty’s Research Centres
 and Networks’. The Faculty’s Research Centres and Networks provide one central plank in our
 future strategy for public engagement.

 The Faculty’s Advisory Board supports our contribution to debates beyond the academy. We have
 recently recruited two Board members from the cultural sector to help us further align our research
 priorities with developments in this sphere: Michael Wakelin (Religion and Media consultant) and
 Elizabeth Oldfield (Director of the religious think-tank Theos). In all, the Advisory Board has 12
 members, representing our key external stakeholders, including:

       the teaching and legal professions (de Bono and Orchard); religion and the media
       (Odone and Wakelin); religion and politics (Bryant, Goodliff, Oldfield, Wittenberg);
       museums and libraries (Hobbs); business and innovation (Law); and publishing (Tate
       and Taylor).

 Thanks to its broadly based composition, the Board has ensured that the Faculty’s research
 speaks to contemporary issues in culture and society, as well as contributing to the formation of
 public policy.


                                                                                                   5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (c) Development of our postgraduate and post-doctoral research community: Over the
 census period, the 24 permanent post-holders in the Faculty of Theology and Religion have
 supervised 165.5 doctorates to successful completion. This is a yearly average of nearly 24. In
 REF2014, our yearly average for completion of research degrees was 17, so this represents an
 increase of some 40%. Most of those students were located within the Faculty, but colleagues
 have also supervised students registered in Classics, History, Social Anthropology, Oriental
 Studies and Philosophy. Early Career Researchers, along with staff holding fixed-term
 departmental lectureships, are encouraged to teach Master’s students, and supervise their
 dissertations, but are not formally involved in doctoral supervision.

 The new position of Graduate Studies Coordinator (see (a) above) has helped us to take a more
 focused approach to the development of our systems of research student support, training, and
 pastoral care. In addition, the division of the Faculty’s research into seven Research Areas (see
 above, Section 1a), each with associated seminar series and research-led activities, has enabled
 postgraduates and post-doctoral researchers in the Faculty to participate in lively intellectual
 communities within their own fields of expertise. The Research Centres provide further support of
 this kind. In addition, the cross-disciplinary ventures documented under (b) above give
 postgraduates and post-doctoral fellows opportunities to range beyond traditional disciplinary
 boundaries. The Faculty encourages recent doctoral students to apply for post-doctoral awards,
 and we have maintained a high proportion of ECRs during the period of this REF. 15 of the staff
 returned by the UoA are ECRs (24.59% of all staff, up from 22.22% in 2014). The substantial sums
 raised in this REF period to support postdoctoral positions testify to our commitment to emerging
 researchers. (For further detail, see Section 3a below.)

 (d) Auditing the Faculty’s research: The Faculty’s Research Committee supervises all aspects
 of its research and research culture. Currently chaired by Bockmuehl, the Committee sets the
 Faculty’s research priorities and strategy; works with the Humanities Division to identify and track
 research funding and awards schemes; supports colleagues to initiate bids for grant funding; in
 the light of the Faculty’s research vision, reviews and comments on draft research proposals and
 grant applications; and advertises, assesses and recruits for postdoctoral and early-career
 scholarships. The Committee works in close partnership with the Faculty’s five Research Centres,
 e.g. by identifying relevant areas of enquiry, and by reviewing their activities periodically. In this
 way, it is able to facilitate cross-pollination between the Centres, and between their research and
 the work of other groups in the University with cognate interests.

 We expect high standards of research integrity, and require staff to adhere to ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks implemented University-wide. The University is a signatory of the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA). Research involving human participants
 and personal data is subject to review by the University’s Research Ethics Committee. The faculty
 research committee also ensures that research integrity is given serious consideration during
 project creation; where appropriate ethical clearance is sought through the relevant central ethics
 committee to which the faculty submits annually. Regular training is offered at divisional level,
 targeted at ECRs and students but available to all staff; these events are advertised throughout
 the faculty.

 (e) Open Access: The UoA promotes an open research environment. We encourage all our
 colleagues to use our institutional repository, the Oxford Research Archive (ORA). Training and
 support are provided by staff in the Bodleian Libraries and via the dedicated ‘open access Oxford’
 microsite.


                                                                                                      6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Research & Innovation Committee approved a new Open Access Publications
 Policy in March 2018. This supports the ‘green’ route to open access; journal articles and
 conference papers have been Open Access since 2016. The UoA encourages the use of Oxford-
 linked ORCIDs as a unique author identifier, and mandates the deposit of electronic theses into
 ORA for all doctoral graduates (by default, a thesis is open access on deposit, unless granted a
 1-year or 3-year embargo).

 1c. Specific Objectives for the Future

 We have set ourselves the following objectives for the next REF cycle, to build on existing
 strengths, and lay the groundwork for further expansion into new fields of research.

    1. Attracting scholars of exceptional quality to positions of academic leadership, especially
       our Statutory Professorships, which are key to the Faculty’s strategic leadership. This is
       one example of our commitment to the University’s objective ‘to promote and enable
       ambitious research of exceptional quality’ (University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23, p.
       3).

    2. Working with potential donors to secure the endowment of posts, approaching both
       individuals and trusts, in the UK and North America, who are willing to support the Faculty’s
       research activities through grants or gifts. A priority is to identify potential donors who can
       help us to strengthen our emerging research and teaching areas. A new post in Qur’anic
       and Classical Arabic and a new post in Modern Islam, and the consolidation of dedicated
       posts in Judaism, Hinduism and Buddhism, would enable us to further expand our
       provision in Study of Religion. A further target is to secure funding for a tutorial fellowship
       in Science and Religion.

    3. Supporting the University’s Development Office to obtain additional scholarships for our
       postgraduates. While some current donors in the fields of Science and Religion, Study of
       Religion and Biblical Studies have made gifts to support graduate study (e.g. we have
       received GBP250k to fully fund two doctoral studentships in the Study of Religion), we are
       able to offer financial support to only a small proportion of our graduate students. Securing
       further bursaries therefore remains a key priority. The pursuit of such funding is integral to
       our plans to maintain and further develop a vigorous research environment.

    4. Achieving the Athena Swan Bronze Award, to ensure that our processes and structures
       are properly informed by equality and diversity. Although this objective was clearly
       formulated in 2019, such concerns have become increasingly important in 2020 following
       the Black Lives Matter Movement, and discussion in the wider University about the legacies
       of the past. Harrison chairs the Faculty’s Equality and Diversity Committee, which is
       preparing the ground for an application, and sharing experience and good practice with
       other Humanities Faculties.

    5. Exploiting the many opportunities that will be provided by the Stephen Schwarzman Centre
       for the Humanities, scheduled to be completed in 2024. Funded by a gift of GBP150m, the
       Centre will offer an outstanding physical and intellectual environment, and support
       interdisciplinary research through the provision of shared spaces for research across the
       humanities. (Further detail is provided in Section 3b below.)




                                                                                                     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The Faculty currently comprises 24 permanent post-holders: 9 Statutory Professors (i.e. holders
 of Endowed Chairs), 5 Full Professors and 10 Associate Professors. The 9 Statutory Chairs are
 of particular importance in establishing our future research agenda and attracting research
 students of international quality. 6 of these positions have been filled in the current REF period. In
 addition, we currently have 10 Departmental Lecturers and related positions, 2 Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie post-doctoral fellows, and 13 Faculty Appointed Researchers. Academic staff belong to one
 or more of the Faculty’s seven Research Areas (see Section 1a above), each of which is headed
 by at least one Statutory Professor. These Heads act as the Subject Coordinators for postgraduate
 teaching in the relevant field, and oversee regular graduate seminars, with the support of modest
 funding from the Faculty – e.g. to invite outside speakers.

 The Faculty recruits staff in the light of its developing research priorities and teaching needs, taking
 into account emerging challenges and opportunities. Our creation of new posts in the Study of
 Religion is a striking illustration of this general approach (see above, Section 1b).

 All research staff are supported in their pursuit of funding by the Director of Research, assisted by
 the research facilitator in the Humanities Division, who helps formulate applications for grants and
 fellowships, and advertises opportunities with deadlines. Staff are eligible for one term of
 sabbatical leave after every six terms of office and must gain approval for a programme of research
 in advance. Periods of sabbatical leave may be accumulated at the discretion of the Faculty Board.

 The University has developed a comprehensive Code of Practice for the Employment and Career
 Development of Research Staff (last revised in August 2019), which maps closely to the national
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff promulgated by Vitae UK.
 Oversight of the Code of Practice and its implementation is managed locally by the Chair of the
 Faculty Board, the Director of Research, and the Faculty Head of Administration. In addition, the
 Faculty offers various kinds of support, encouragement, and career guidance for all its staff,
 including post-doctoral Fellows and Departmental Lecturers.

 1. Early career researchers: A peer-mentoring scheme encourages the career development of
 ECRs. Annually, each staff member, including ECRs, is paired with a colleague, and the pair then
 discuss their work, the challenges they face, and possible funding applications, before reporting
 back to the Faculty Chair after a formal meeting. The mentoring system helps to integrate new
 members of staff into the Faculty’s research culture and enables them to explore possible funding
 bids. In the current REF period, several recent appointees, including Hordern, Southwood and
 Strawbridge, successfully applied for funds as a result of the guidance received through the
 mentoring system. Postdoctoral fellows are supported both through the Humanities Division and
 through a Faculty mentor (frequently the PI on their grant), who meets with them at least once
 during each term of their Fellowship. All ECRs are eligible to apply for internal research funds. In
 these ways, the Faculty seeks to enact the University’s commitment to ‘enhance the opportunities
 and support for early-career researchers’ (University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23, p. 3).

 2. Newly appointed staff: In 2018-19, in line with wider university practice, the Faculty introduced
 two new policies to assist young and relatively new academic staff with the management of their
 time: a policy concerning their responsibilities in their Initial Period of Office, and a Faculty stint
 policy on teaching commitments, to help staff negotiate their work-load with regard to their College

                                                                                                        8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stints. (A ‘stint’ is the amount of teaching a staff member is formally required to offer as a result of
 their College association and contract.)

 3. All academic staff: The Chair of the Faculty meets with staff individually each year to talk
 through their plans for research, addressing any difficulties they may face. This process is carried
 out in accordance with the University’s annual HR cycle involving Teaching Excellence Awards,
 Recognition of Distinction Awards, and Mid-term and End of Initial Period of Office reviews. In the
 present REF cycle, four Statutory Professors received additional Recognition of Distinction
 Awards (Abulafia, Foot, Harrison and Ward) and two Departmental Lecturers (Sarisky and Oliver)
 received Teaching Excellence Awards. In addition, over the last three years, two Associate
 Professors (Hausner and Westerhoff) were promoted to full professorial status. This REF period
 has also seen 8 colleagues successfully complete their Initial Period of Office. The Chair of the
 Faculty, Research Director, and Head of Administration and Finance apply all other University
 staff HR policies described in the Institutional Environment Statement such as flexible working,
 and ensures the wide communication and encouragement to apply for support, for example
 additional research seed funding for returning carers.

 b. Support, Training, and Supervision of Postgraduate Research Students

 The Faculty attracts many research students, typically offering places to between 40 and 70
 students each year, of whom 20 to 40 take up their places. Applications have risen in recent years:
 89, 115 and 148 students respectively applied to begin their studies in the years 2018-20. Doctoral
 supervision is concentrated among permanent post-holders to ensure that students are supported
 by experienced supervisors with the necessary expertise. Joint supervision is common (often with
 interdisciplinary contributions from post-holders in other faculties) and enables the mentoring of
 staff who have not previously supervised doctorates. To ensure that students are properly
 supported throughout their studies, staff continue to supervise their doctoral students when on
 research leave.

 Along with primary research guidance from their supervisors, students enjoy additional support
 from College advisors and the Humanities Division training team, who organise annually circa 200
 training courses, workshops and events for doctoral students and postdocs. The Faculty‘s
 commitment to improving student research culture is evident from our creation of the position of
 Graduate Studies Coordinator in 2019. (For details, see Section 1b above.) As well as providing
 the usual research seminars associated with each of our Research Areas, and the termly Faculty
 Research seminar, the Faculty also hosts other regular events for graduates throughout the year.
 Examples include Ward’s ‘Wednesday Club’ meetings, when an academic staff member gives an
 informal talk on their research interests; regular student-led seminars in Science and Religion; and
 a workshop in Ecclesiastical History. All these initiatives give research students an opportunity to
 share ideas, establish connections with visiting speakers, and to build up a network of support
 within the student research community. In addition, many Colleges run seminars and termly
 gatherings, giving their graduate theologians opportunity to nominate speakers and chair
 discussions. (Examples include: Oriel, Campion Hall, Wycliffe Hall, and Regent’s Park). Student-
 led reading groups and other informal groups also offer peer support to supplement that provided
 by the Faculty.

 The Faculty makes a small number of financial awards, adding to the funds that are available
 through the Colleges and other sources. In recent years, the Faculty has secured competitive
 funding annually via the Humanities Division – notably, AHRC, Ertegun and Clarendon
 scholarships, but also the recently-established BAME studentships and other scholarships for

                                                                                                        9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specific groups. Currently, 45 students (PGR and PGT) hold University awards, including 3 with
 prestigious Ertegun scholarships. In addition, we have access to around GBP19,000 each year
 from various trust funds to support students in difficult financial circumstances. Further funds can
 be requested at the College and University level.

 The Faculty continues to improve its support for the professional development of research
 students. We benefit from the resources available through the Humanities Division’s AHRC
 Doctoral Training Partnership. And in 2014, we established a Graduate Teaching Training Scheme
 to enable doctoral students to acquire and hone core teaching skills, and to benefit from additional
 skills workshops covering matters such as digital skills, public outreach, and careers outside the
 academy. Feedback from undergraduates has shown that they welcome the involvement of
 postgraduates in teaching roles and the distinctive perspective they can bring. The Faculty warmly
 encourages its PGRs to make the most of the training and personal development opportunities
 offered by the University’s Learning and Teaching Training programme. The CTL offers routes to
 a Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning in HE and an accredited Teaching
 Recognition Scheme. The University’s Language Centre supports our students’ language skills,
 and offers 11 online courses (including Russian and Georgian) in addition to a large number of
 courses on site. We are committed to equal opportunity in the recruitment and support of graduate
 students, and to supporting graduates with children through nursery provision and flexible working.

 Since 2017-18, we have offered a more structured programme of seminars and workshops
 following the appointment of the Faculty’s first Postgraduate Professional Development Director.
 This postholder works closely with the Graduate Studies Coordinator to develop the tailored skills
 training and experience we offer to our research students, which supplements the training
 provided by the Division with more focused input relevant to the Faculty’s research fields.
 Workshops cover basic research and writing skills, including the mastering of bibliographical
 software (e.g. Endnote), writing literature reviews, the use of digital tools and methods, and
 accessing Oxford’s libraries (particularly special collections and archives). Senior scholars lead
 sessions on conference presentations, preparing articles for publication, and postdoctoral
 applications. Workshops on the three milestones in doctoral study at Oxford (Transfer of Status,
 Confirmation of Status, and Submission) are particularly well-received.

 Additionally, some of our Research Areas run their own subject-specific professional development
 sessions for their postgraduates. For instance, early-career researchers in Ecclesiastical History
 co-ordinate a regular workshop for postgraduates, dedicated to skills training, graduate
 presentation, and peer feedback and support. Research supervisors in all areas provide advice to
 postgraduate students on career trajectories, including the planning of profile-building
 presentations at leading international conferences and publication of research articles.

 Recently, the Faculty’s research students launched the online Journal of the Oxford Graduate
 Theological Society, with an editorial board of students and an advisory board of senior members
 of the Faculty. The first issue appeared in 2020: https://www.jogts.org/index.php/jogts. The Faculty
 is enthusiastic about this initiative, which will help to showcase the innovative and creative
 research produced by Oxford graduate students, as well as promote the work of former Oxford
 students who have gone on to academic careers. The journal will enable our students to receive
 feedback on their work, interact with a wider audience, and will help to raise their profiles within
 the scholarly community.

 The Faculty’s research students annually elect six graduate representatives to serve on the
 Graduate Joint Consultative Committee, allowing any concerns about the Faculty’s research
 culture to be brought to the attention of the Faculty Board and the Graduate Studies Committee.
                                                                                               10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Graduate representatives are invited to speak to issues addressed at Faculty Board and GSC,
 and encouraged to propose items for the agenda under ‘Open Business’.

 c. Equality and Diversity

 The faculty is seeking to develop the work of TRS-UK; in the first instance the faculty is gathering
 an evidence base. We expect this review, which includes benchmarking within Humanities and
 comparison with other departments in the UK, to set targets and agree actions accordingly.

 At present, half of the Faculty’s Statutory Professors who act as Subject Coordinators are women:
 History of Christianity (Foot); Old Testament/Hebrew Bible (Najman); Patristics (Harrison); and
 Study of Religion (Abulafia) – as are a large proportion of recent appointees to permanent
 positions (Strawbridge, Quick, Macfarlane). We have been seeking funding to support women
 graduates, and a new DPhil scholarship at Blackfriars for women in Theology was filled for the
 first time this academic year. In addition, in the most recent round, the Faculty secured two of
 three of the new BAME studentships. These scholarships are aimed at Master’s students and
 open to students across the Humanities.

 The Equality and Diversity Committee reports directly to the Faculty Board and oversees all
 policies that may affect working conditions. This Committee is instrumental in monitoring our Initial
 Period of Office and Faculty Stint policies. We are working towards applying for an Athena Swan
 bronze award in 2022 (as above, Section 1c). This target gives tangible expression to our
 commitment to inclusivity within the Faculty’s research culture in accordance with the University’s
 aim to create ‘a supportive, inclusive culture and increase the diversity of University staff at all
 levels’ (University of Oxford Strategic Plan 2018-23, p. 4).

 Our commitment to religious equality and diversity, both institutionally and intellectually, is evident
 from our research conversations on such themes as religious diversity, pluralism, and inclusion in
 the modern world. For example, Hausner’s ethnographic research has illuminated the religious
 experience of several marginalised communities, including diaspora communities in the UK and
 sex-worker and non-conformist communities in contemporary London. Frazier has worked with
 both the World Council of Churches and the Vatican on Hindu ‘liberation theologies’ and European
 diaspora communities. And Abulafia has applied her research on Abrahamic religions to
 collaborations in Israel and Germany over religious conflict and inter-religious dialogue.

 The same concerns are evident in our research on women’s rights and gender justice. Quick and
 Southwood have published on gender and power relations in the Old Testament/Hebrew Bible.
 Reddie has written about the challenge posed to the Church and Christian Theology by Black
 Lives Matter, and how to teach racial awareness to ministerial candidates. Jones has written on
 women’s rights and equality in the Islamic world, particularly in studies of Islamic family law. The
 Ramsey Centre’s ‘Emerging Voices’ project seeks to foreground the work of young women
 scholars in Science and Religion. And the Faculty has recently agreed to support a new student
 initiative ‘Women in Theology’, which aims to provide a supportive network and forum for
 discussing challenges faced by women in the field.




                                                                                                      11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Research Income

 The Faculty has a well-established record of supporting its research, impact and outreach
 activities through grant applications and other forms of external income support. It provides
 professional services support via a Research Facilitator to all colleagues who want to apply for
 external funds. The faculty Research Committee provides supportive advice to applicants on
 strategy and direction, and has oversight of large-scale applications. Success in winning external
 grants, coupled with strategic use of internal research funds as seed-funding have allowed us to
 grow our research income by about one-third. Over this REF period:

    o    Faculty post-holders have raised a total of GBP6,566,341 in research income,
    o    With a yearly average of GBP938,049
    o    Up by 32% on the yearly average of GBP708,133 in the previous REF period.

 Nearly 55% (GBP3,589,477) has come from non-EU charities (particularly the John Templeton
 Foundation), 16% from Research Councils (GBP1,053,020) and 13% from UK charities
 (GBP850,725). These monies have supported a wide range of ambitious projects including the
 following:

        ‘The Rise of Christian Theology’ (British Academy, Zachhuber); ‘Engaging
        Healthcare’ (British Academy, Hordern); ‘The Protestant Spirit’ (British Academy,
        Zahl); ‘Qazis, Courts and Living Shari’a’ (AHRC, Jones); ‘Renouncing the World’
        (Leverhulme, Hausner); ‘Theological Method’ (Leverhulme, Ward); and ‘The New
        Madhyamaka’ (Templeton, Westerhoff).

 Consistent with our goal of consolidating and extending our expertise in Ethics and in Science and
 Religion (see above, Section 1b), we have raised substantial sums to support these fields. For
 example, in Ethics, we have secured funding for The Oxford Character Project (Biggar, John
 Templeton Foundation, GBP1.95M) and the project Compassion in Healthcare (Hordern, AHRC,
 GBP199,258). We have also secured major grants to promote our global leadership in Science
 and Religion, including the following:

        resourcing of teaching and research in Oxford (McGrath, John Templeton Foundation,
        USD811,389); establishing research programmes and networks in Science and
        Religion in Latin America (Pinsent, John Templeton Foundation, USD1,954,372) and
        in Eastern Europe (Pinsent, two grants, John Templeton Foundation, USD234,565
        and USD2,971,688); and developing natural theology as a tool of cultural and
        ecclesial engagement (McGrath, Issachar Fund, USD257,944).

 The faculty is committed to supporting early-career grant funding and ensures professional advice
 and support is given to all those applying. A faculty group reviews all ECR fellowship applications,
 provides mentoring for appointees, and encourages access to internal funds. Spending on British
 Academy funded fellowships totals GBP692,668 and on Leverhulme funded positions
 GBP180,160. In addition, 5 Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellows were appointed, and 9 Templeton
 funded fellows.

 The faculty has also made extensive use of Oxford University’s John Fell Fund, established to
 foster a proactive approach to research opportunities in all subject areas, especially projects with

                                                                                                   12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an interdisciplinary emphasis. In this REF cycle, we received GBP268,604 from the Fell Fund to
 develop collaborative research, in addition to GBP140,793 from the Wellcome Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund. The Faculty used these funds to develop its core research objectives,
 including public engagement and the strengthening of our work in the Study of Religion and
 Science and Religion. Projects funded by the Fell Fund since 2014, many of which paved the way
 for larger funded projects, include:

       ‘Advancing Medical Professionalism: Teaching in the University of Oxford’s Medical
       School’ (Hordern); ‘A Common Imagination: Scriptural Interpretation among Jews and
       Greeks’ (Ward); ‘Shamanic Healing in South Asia’ (Hausner); ‘Qazis, Courts and
       Everyday Shari’a in India’ (Jones); and ‘God, Science, and the Rise of “No Religion”’
       (Henson).

 b. Infrastructure

 The Faculty forms part of the Humanities Division (along with Classics, English, History,
 Languages, Linguistics, Music, Oriental Studies, Philosophy and the Ruskin School of Fine Art),
 but retains considerable autonomy as budget holder with its own administrative team. Divisional
 research funds, won through a bidding process, have been important for a number of initiatives in
 this REF cycle (e.g., Bockmuehl, Biggar, Foot, Najman, and Hausner).

 Currently the Faculty is housed in the Gibson Building in the Radcliffe Observatory Quarter, which
 is close to the Divisional offices, the Faculty of Philosophy (with which we share an undergraduate
 degree programme) and the Theology and Philosophy Library. As members of Colleges, most
 permanent post-holders have their offices in the Colleges, with the Faculty providing any
 necessary equipment. Three postdoctoral fellows with College associations have their offices
 provided by the College, and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie postdoctoral fellow had an office in the
 Oxford Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies as a Visiting Scholar. Other postdoctoral fellows
 are at present housed in the Gibson Building, along with Departmental Lecturers, administration
 staff, the Head of Finance and Administration, and the Faculty Board Chair.

 The Stephen Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities aims to foster closer collaboration between
 the Humanities disciplines in the University through their co-location within a strategic new
 building. It will provide a home for seven Humanities Faculties, including Theology and Religion,
 plus six Faculty libraries. Specifications for the Faculty’s space in the Schwarzman Centre will
 include a dedicated area for postdoctoral fellows, greatly increased space for graduate study, and
 shared facilities designed to promote cross-disciplinary exchange. Oxford’s new Institute for Ethics
 in AI will also be based here, and will provide an exciting opportunity for Faculty members with
 relevant interests to develop their work in this field.

 The Faculty has developed a research culture that identifies where grant funding can support
 career trajectories as well as new projects, ideas or research directions. We make use of the
 funding and administrative framework provided by TORCH and the Humanities Research Support
 Team, which includes grant application advice from embryonic idea to submission, a process
 which is combined with Faculty mentoring for applicants and oversight from the Research
 Committee and its Director. An example is the identification of Quick during her first year of
 appointment (2019) as an ideal nomination for the Philip Leverhulme Prize. Her award (one of
 only five in Philosophy and Theology throughout the UK) for a project on concepts of beauty and
 aesthetics in the Hebrew Bible will help her connect the Hebrew Bible to the history of aesthetics
 and will shed new light on both disciplines.

                                                                                                   13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. Research Library Facilities

 The University’s many libraries, known collectively as the Bodleian, contain more than 13 million
 items, and stock is added at an average of one thousand items per day. Together, this makes
 them the largest and most diverse collection for the support of teaching and research in any
 institution of higher education in the UK. In addition to vast print and archival collections, the
 Bodleian offers access to more than 100,000 electronic journals, newspapers, and magazines and
 over 1,500 licensed electronic databases and reference works. At present, 10.3 million requests
 for e-journal articles are made annually, while database searches average 14.4 million annually.
 Current e-book stock comprises more than 1,000,000 items, with 9.9 million section requests in
 the last academic year. The Bodleian’s current annual expenditure for electronic resources is
 GBP6,084,465.

 The Theology and Religion collections and the materials budget are managed by the librarian for
 the Philosophy and Theology Faculties Library, who works in close collaboration with members of
 the Faculty and with other subject librarians. There are approximately 3,500 Library members,
 including members of other faculties, and loans average 80,000 each year. The Philosophy and
 Theology Library will be incorporated into the new Humanities Library in the Schwarzman Centre
 in 2024.

 The annual Theology and Religion library materials budget for purchased items (books, journals,
 and e-resources) is almost GBP110,000 (not including e-resources purchased through other cost-
 centres). Subject-specific e-resources for Theology and Religion include ATLA, BIBIL, DMLBS,
 HALAT, Index Religiosus, wide-ranging primary texts in original languages and translations, and
 the whole corpus of Oxford University Press e-publications, including Oxford Scholarship Online,
 Oxford Reference Online, and Oxford Bibliographies Online. The faculty ringfences funds for the
 needs of research students which are disbursed by the Library.

 Print provision for Theology and Religion is divided between the Central Bodleian’s Lower Reading
 Room, which houses the open access reference collections for Theology, the closed stacks, where
 8.5 million items are available by e-order and daily delivery, and the lending collection of the
 Philosophy and Theology Faculties Library. This collection comprises 50,000 books, available on
 open shelves or by order from closed access. E-resources have been a particular strength for the
 Faculty, enabling multiple students to access material simultaneously, regardless of location or
 library opening hours. Researchers from the UoA have access to other specialist resources,
 including the library of the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies, and the Oxford Centre for Hindu
 Studies library which houses more than 20,000 books. Many individual College libraries also have
 their own extensive Theology collections.




                                                                                                 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4a. The Contribution of the Faculty’s Research Centres and Networks

 The Faculty hosts five Research Centres. Each is directed by a postholder, frequently a Statutory
 Professor, and draws on the interests of other UoA members. All five Centres are explicitly
 interdisciplinary, encouraging and affirming the importance of collaborative research across
 disciplinary boundaries.

 The McDonald Centre for Theology, Ethics, and Public Life
 (Established in 2008, endowed in perpetuity in 2011; directed by Biggar).

 This Centre seeks to foster dialogue between Christian ethics and bodies that shape public opinion
 and policy. In 2014-20, its conferences included: ‘What’s Wrong with Rights?’ (2015); ‘How Can
 Realpolitik be Ethical?’ (2016); and ‘Chinese “Just War” Ethics’ (2017). The proceedings of various
 Centre-sponsored conferences have been published:

       the proceedings of the 2014 conference, ‘In Defence of War?’, were published in
       Studies in Christian Ethics (2015); the 2017 conference appeared as The Ethics of
       Everyday Life: Moral Theology Meets Anthropology and the Social Sciences
       (Georgetown UP, 2019); and the 2018 conference as ‘Is Religious Liberty under
       Threat? A Trans-Atlantic Dialogue’, in Studies in Christian Ethics (2020).

 After the 2019 conference, ‘Academic Freedom under Threat: What’s to be Done?’, the Centre
 Director led a debate that resulted in the launch of the UK’s Free Speech Union (FSU) (February
 2020) and a briefing paper, Free Speech and Academic Freedom in UK Universities (May 2020).
 The Centre also supports the Oxford Character Project, originally funded by the Templeton World
 Charity Foundation to a value of GBP203k. This has recently been supplemented by a further
 grant of GBP1.95m from the John Templeton Foundation to fund a three-year project on ‘Virtues
 and Vocations’, which began in September 2020. Five new research fellows have now been
 appointed to conduct research on character formation in business, finance, law and technology.

 The Ian Ramsey Centre for Science and Religion
 (Established in 1986; directed by McGrath)

 This Centre encourages research, public engagement, and knowledge transfer at the interface
 between religious beliefs, theological concepts, and the sciences. The Centre hosts the digital
 humanities project ‘Special Divine Action’ (directed by Pinsent and McGrath). This project is
 hosted through a dedicated website and YouTube channel, and curates thousands of
 presentations, interviews, videos and animations on the theme of God’s action in the world. As
 well as engaging non-academic audiences, the project has inspired a major effort to promote
 philosophical engagement in schools. Aiming to enhance insights into ‘Big Questions’ at the
 intersection of science, philosophy, and theology, the project has catalysed the development of
 innovative teaching practice and has reached tens of thousands of participants. In addition, the
 Ian Ramsey Centre’s annual Oxford conference gathers leading researchers in this
 interdisciplinary field, and includes sessions designed to encourage and inform early career
 scholars, particularly doctoral students. In 2018, the Centre established the Ian Ramsey Centre
 Studies in Science and Religion, a monograph series published with Oxford University Press,
 designed to make significant interventions in the field. Its first two volumes were published in 2019:


                                                                                                     15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Peter Harrison, ed., Science Without God? Rethinking the History of Scientific
       Naturalism; and Alister McGrath, The Territories of Human Reason: Science and
       Theology in an Age of Multiple Rationalities.

 Further works are in preparation. As noted above (see Section 3a), the Centre is also extensively
 engaged with the creation and resourcing of research networks in Latin America and Central and
 Eastern Europe, raising substantial funds in the process. We aim to expand this activity during the
 next REF cycle.

 The Centre for Theology and Modern European Thought
 (Established in 2007; directed by Rasmussen)

 This Centre promotes the interdisciplinary study of the relationships between theology and other
 areas of intellectual life. One of its most significant recent achievements was the production of the
 Oxford Handbook of Nineteenth Century Christian Thought (2017) edited by core members of the
 Centre (Rasmussen, Zachhuber, and Wolfe, who is now at St Andrews). This landmark volume
 proposes a fresh reading of the Christian intellectual tradition across ‘the long nineteenth century’.
 In addition to organising research seminars during term time, the Centre usually hosts an annual
 international conference. The theme chosen for the 2020 conference (postponed until 2021) is
 ‘Theological Genealogies of Modernity’.

 The Centre for the Reception History of the Bible
 (Established in 2002; directed by Joynes)

 This Centre offers a rich programme of interdisciplinary seminars, focused upon intellectual
 engagement with the Bible, and its cultural appropriation. For example, in 2018-19, the Centre
 hosted a series of seminars on ‘The Bible in Art, Music and Literature’, attracting audiences from
 within and beyond the university. The Centre’s Day Conferences have focused on major themes
 in biblical reception – such as ‘Shakespeare and the Bible’ (2016) and ‘Picturing the Gospels’
 (2018). The Centre collaborates regularly with local institutions such as the Bodleian Library
 (2017), Christ Church Picture Gallery (2018), and the Ashmolean (2019).

 The British Centre for Durkheimian Studies
 (Relocated to the Faculty of Theology & Religion in 2017; directed by Hausner)

 This Centre provides a forum and hub for scholarship on Durkheimian themes in multiple fields,
 including religion, anthropology, sociology, law, and politics, drawing together leading scholars
 around the world. The move to the Faculty of Theology and Religion was marked by an inaugural
 workshop: ‘Why Did Durkheim Have to Die?’, assessing the place of Durkheimian thought in the
 field of religion over the course of the 20th century. The resulting papers were published as a
 special issue of the journal Durkheimian Studies/Études Durkheimiennes (Vol. 23, 2019). In 2019,
 the Centre established a partnership between Durkheim research centres at the Universities of
 Oxford, Aix-Marseille, and Cologne, to foster links with European scholars of Durkheim's work and
 legacy. The Centre also maintains connections with North and South American colleagues.

 The Faculty also hosts three international, interdisciplinary research networks, directed by Faculty
 members:

       Categories of Religion and the Secular in Islam (Henley); The Oxford Psalms Network
       (Gillingham, which led to Gillingham’s 2018 book Psalms through the Centuries as

                                                                                                     16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       well as outputs by other members of the Steering Committee); and The Healthcare
       Values Partnership (Hordern, funded by the Sir Halley Stewart Trust).

 We have also benefited from the success of College-based research initiatives. These include The
 Centre for the Study of the Bible, established at Oriel in 2018 (Najman) and ‘Religion and the
 Frontier Challenges’, a programme focused upon contemporary religion and global change hosted
 at Pembroke (Jones). The latter initiative, begun in 2019, will support up to eight post-doctoral
 scholars over the next 5 years, each scholar being appointed for three years (4 are currently in
 post). In addition, The Laudato Si’ Institute based at Campion Hall was founded in 2019, to engage
 with the ecological vision set out in Pope Francis’s Encyclical of that name (Deane-Drummond).
 Although these research ventures have their own areas of focus, overlapping interests regularly
 lead to collaborations (e.g., the Ian Ramsey Centre has worked both with the McDonald Centre
 and, separately, the Laudato Si’ Institute).

 4b. Collaboration as a Core Component of the Faculty’s Research Culture

 The Faculty’s development is driven by its affirmation of traditional fields of research, and its
 commitment to using this strength to engage new questions and issues, via collaborative forms of
 enquiry. The Faculty enacts this approach at three distinct levels.

 1. Collaboration within the Faculty.
 Cross-disciplinary collaborations within the Faculty are supported by our Research Centres and
 Research Areas, often focusing on themes which can be examined from multiple perspectives.
 Examples include: the concept of human nature, addressed at the 2017 Ramsey Centre
 conference; the notion of martyrdom, the subject of a 2020 public seminar at the Centre for the
 Study of the Bible; and the theme of sacrifice, explored at a 2019 symposium in the Centre for the
 Reception History of the Bible. Similarly, an interdisciplinary conference organised by Bockmuehl
 examined the significance of Austin Farrer as a New Testament scholar, philosophical theologian,
 and literary figure, the proceedings being published as Austin Farrer: Oxford Warden, Scholar,
 Preacher (2020). Ongoing collaboration across these areas is also secured via the work of the
 Research Areas, and their seminar programmes. Some graduate programmes also encourage
 discussion across subject lines, such as the MSt programmes in Study of Religion and Biblical
 Interpretation.

 2. Collaboration with other Faculties, Colleges, and Centres within Oxford University.
 There are extensive collaborative research projects between the Faculty of Theology and Religion
 and other Humanities Faculties, often facilitated by TORCH. Examples include the relation of
 Theology and Music (Harrison), and reading practices across disciplines, particularly the Old
 Testament/Hebrew Bible and Classics (Najman). In addition, there was a year-long collaboration
 (2018-19) on the Dead Sea Scrolls between the New Testament Seminar (Bockmuehl), the Old
 Testament/Hebrew Bible Seminar (Najman), and the Seminar for Jewish History and Literature in
 the Graeco-Roman Period (Goodman), culminating in an international day conference, whose
 proceedings are forthcoming in 2021 as a curated edition of the leading journal Revue de Qumran.
 With the support of TORCH, the Gordon Milburn Junior Research Fellow in Mysticism (Serrado)
 set up a Network in Early and Medieval Mysticism. The Faculty’s strength in the History of
 Christianity is expressed in its close relationship with the Faculty of History (Abulafia, Booth, Foot,
 MacCulloch, Macfarlane), while there are also close relationships between Study of Religions
 scholars and the Oriental Institute. We have also developed links with the sciences. For example,
 Hordern led a 4-year collaboration with clinicians, patient organisations, and colleagues from
 medical sciences (including Oxford, UCL and Queen’s Belfast) on the theme of precision
                                                                                                      17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 medicine. This collaboration led to a special issue of The New Bioethics and papers
 recommending changes in the conduct and culture of clinical trials in medical science journals
 such as Trials and Biomedicine Hub.

 The University’s Permanent Private Halls [PPHs] also make a rich contribution to the Faculty’s
 research culture (as noted above, Section 1a). Based at Campion Hall, the Laudato Si’ Research
 Institute has a pioneering role in developing eco-theological approaches to environmental issues.
 Blackfriars, a Dominican foundation, resources research in the thought of Thomas Aquinas
 through its Aquinas Institute, directed by Conrad, and is also home to the Las Casas Institute for
 Social Justice. Regent’s Park College (Baptist) has developed a significant research programme
 and series of academic publications relating to Baptist history, identity, and Theology through its
 Centre for Baptist Studies (Kreitzer). The PPHs co-ordinate the Faculty’s only graduate degree in
 Practical Theology – the Master of Theology in Applied Theology (MTh), which enables theological
 reflection upon experience in pastoral practice, mainly in the context of ministry in churches.

 3. Collaboration beyond the University, with other academic institutions and public
 bodies, including international partnerships.
 Examples include: Bockmuehl’s two-year project with the University of Notre Dame (funded by the
 Catholic Biblical Association) on the New Testament’s influence on the Creed, and the Ramsey
 Centre’s project on ‘Science, Philosophy, and Theology: Capability Building in Latin America’
 (2014-17), funded for USD1.92 million, involving collaboration with 46 academic institutions in
 Latin America. The Ramsey Centre has also developed a more recent project on ‘Science,
 Theology, and Humane Philosophy’ in eastern Europe. Following a funded scoping exercise, the
 project received USD3 million in funding in 2019 to work with 50 different universities, centres,
 institutes and academies in Central and Eastern Europe from Azerbaijan, Georgia and the Ukraine
 in the south to Lithuania and Latvia in the north. The Faculty also welcomes visiting researchers
 from other academic institutions and sees their contribution as a key stimulus to our work. During
 this cycle, we welcomed 44 visiting international scholars from 13 different countries.

 Alongside its engagement with the academic world, the Faculty also works with other communities
 and publics, especially schools and public institutions:

 (a) Schools

 (i) We shape ongoing debates at the heart of the A Level RS curriculum. McGrath’s The Dawkins
 Delusion (AQA and WJEC), Flood’s work concerning Hinduism and society (Edexcel), and
 Hampson’s arguments about Christianity and gender (AQA) are required content in syllabus
 specifications. Books by Faculty members (e.g. Barton, Flood, McGrath, MacCulloch) are cited as
 teachers’ resources by AQA, Edexcel, OCR and WJC in RS and History A Level specifications.

 (ii) We have consistently committed to communicating our research specialisms to young
 audiences. For example, in a three-year collaboration with Academy Conferences, the Ramsey
 Centre has hosted events for ‘Gifted and Talented’ pupils across the UK where academic staff
 (e.g. McGrath, Pinsent and Ward) have delivered workshops on Science and Religion to
 thousands of school pupils. In addition, many Faculty members (e.g. Apetrei, Biggar, Edwards,
 Jones, MacCulloch, Marshall, Pinsent, Strawbridge, Zachhuber) have given talks in schools
 around the UK. The Faculty also welcomes hundreds of Y12 and Y13 students to three annual
 University Open Days at which senior academic staff deliver lectures and workshops (2015-20:
 Abulafia, Foot, Gillingham, MacCulloch, McGrath, Southwood, Strawbridge, Westerhoff and


                                                                                                  18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wood). These sessions enable our staff to share their work with school audiences, for example
 Abulafia on Jacob and Esau, or McGrath on God, science and faith.

 (iii) The link between specific research and work with schools is seen most strikingly in our
 contributions to access programmes and events delivered in collaboration with major widening
 participation projects at the University. Annually, the Faculty delivers an academic programme
 within the ‘UNIQ’ summer school – for Y12 students from UK state schools, predominantly those
 from disadvantaged contexts. In 2019, Strawbridge shared her work on relics and reception
 history, and in 2018, Southwood discussed her research on forced marriage.

 (iv) We also support the OxNET project, improving University access for disadvantaged pupils in
 London and the North of England. In addition, Pembroke College runs the North West Philosophy
 and World Religions Centre at Ashton Sixth Form College in Greater Manchester, which involves
 a range of schools and colleges in the North West. The Centre offers lectures and seminars for
 Y12 students introducing the subject, study skills and the nature of university-level studies. Faculty
 members have been key in designing and delivering these seminar programmes (Jones, Henley
 plus several Faculty DPhil candidates and postdoctoral researchers) and have worked closely with
 partners from Theology departments in other universities including Manchester, Leeds, Lancaster
 and Durham. The initiative has encouraged many disadvantaged pupils to apply for Theology and
 other humanities programmes, at Oxford and elsewhere.

 (b) Public Institutions

 Links between the Faculty and the medical profession again reflect our collaborative approach to
 research. These connections are evident in the work of the Healthcare Values Partnership
 (Hordern) and Downs’ project on cultural and religious influences on vaccine hesitancy in
 Tanzania. We are also involved in engaging and resourcing the major religious traditions and
 communities in Britain. For example, Strawbridge leads an international team producing biblical
 resources for the 2020 Lambeth Conference of the Anglican Communion (now postponed until
 2022). We also have strong links with the media, which allows our research to reach a wider
 audience. For example, Daniel presented a Radio 3 Documentary ‘Sir Isaac Newton and the
 Philosophers’ Stone’ (July 2019), a Radio 3 interview on the Free Thinking Festival (April 2019),
 and appeared on TV with Morgan Freeman in The Story of God (May 2019).

 Our research also engages a variety of other external agencies, often having a strongly ethical
 dimension. Richman, who recently completed her doctorate on African religious practices, used
 her research to advise the London Metropolitan Police and the NHS on issues of exorcism and
 abuse. Aspray works with refugee charities on Christian responses to refugee crises as part of the
 ‘Religion and the Frontier Challenges’ research programme. These collaborations are not limited
 to the United Kingdom: Ward’s work on training NGOs and raising education aspirations in the
 townships of South Africa, and his influence on handling religious pluralism in Singapore is notable
 here, as is Biggar’s influence on American military thinking about ‘just war’ issues in Syria and
 elsewhere, through lectures and briefings at military academies and defence institutions in Europe
 and the USA. (For further examples, see above, Section 1b, ‘External partnerships’.)




                                                                                                     19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4c. Contributions to the Profession and Marks of Recognition

 Various Faculty members are involved in editing journals and serving on the editorial board of
 journals and other major reference projects. The following offers a representative sample of such
 activities:

    o   Abulafia: advisory board of The Encyclopedia of Jewish-Christian Relations (to be
        published by De Gruyter in 2021); also editorial board, The International Journal of Levant
        Studies.
    o   Downs: editorial board, Catholic Biblical Quarterly.
    o   Foot: editorial board, English Historical Review and (until 2020), BBC History Magazine.
    o   Hausner: editorial boards, European Bulletin of Himalayan Research and Durkheimian
        Studies/Etudes Durkheimiennes, and Co-Editor of Religion and Society: Advances in
        Research.
    o   Jones: editorial board, Journal of Islamic Research.
    o   MacCulloch: editorial boards, Journal of Ecclesiastical History and Studies in Early Modern
        Religious Tradition.
    o   Najman: editorial boards, Revue de Qumran, Journal of Hebrew Scriptures, and Journal
        for the Study of Judaism.
    o   Southwood: editorial board, Horizons in Biblical Literature.
    o   Strawbridge, editorial boards, Journal for the Study of the New Testament and Journal for
        the Reception of the Bible.
    o   Wynn: Editor, Religious Studies (2016-18).

 Four members of the Faculty (Abulafia, Fiddes, Flood, Harrison) were elected Fellows of the British
 Academy during this REF cycle. MacCulloch serves as Vice President for Public Engagement of
 the Academy and received the 2019 Leopold Lucas Prize from the University of Tübingen,
 honouring his outstanding achievements in the fields of theology, intellectual history, and historical
 research. Rowland (retired 2014) was awarded the British Academy’s Burkitt Medal for Biblical
 Studies in 2018, and Biggar was appointed to the Pontifical Academy in 2017. Strawbridge was
 awarded the inaugural Society of Biblical Literature – De Gruyter Prize in Biblical Studies and
 Reception History for The Pauline Effect.

 The Faculty hosts several important and influential public lectures in Oxford. These are listed with
 some examples of speakers from this REF cycle below:

    o   The Bampton Lectures, established in 1780: David Ford, George Pattison, and Peter
        Harrison.
    o   The Ptarmigan Lectures in Patristics: Gillian Clark, Garth Fowden, and Averil Cameron.
    o   The Wilde Lectures in Natural and Comparative Religion: Alexander Pruss, Mark Wynn,
        Anne Blackburn, and Jonathan Kvanvig.
    o   The Hensley Henson Lectures: Foot, who laid the foundations for a new project to write an
        intellectual biography of the Venerable Bede; and MacCulloch, whose lectures on ‘Thomas
        Cromwell: Enterprising Reformation’ offered an overview of his six years of research on
        Cromwell’s career and significance.
    o   The Speaker’s Lectures in Biblical Studies: Gary Anderson, Mark Goodacre, Yvonne
        Sherwood, and Adele Reinhartz (the last postponed).




                                                                                                     20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4d. Disciplinary Sustainability

 We recognise the challenges facing our discipline but believe we are in a strong position to
 contribute to its sustainability, for these reasons:

 1. The Faculty has a significant concentration of expertise in each of its seven Research Areas
 (listed in Section 1a), and each Area sustains a lively conversation through seminars and other
 research-led initiatives. The Faculty’s permanent staff can offer leadership in many traditional
 fields of theological enquiry, such as Biblical Studies (Bockmuehl, Downs, Najman, Quick,
 Southwood, Strawbridge), Patristics (Booth, Edwards, Harrison), Church History (Abulafia, Foot,
 Macfarlane, MacCulloch), and Modern Theology (Rasmussen, Ward, Zachhuber). As noted, in
 recent years, the Faculty has also acquired substantial expertise in the Study of Religion and
 Science and Religion. This subject-specific research is further supported by the work of the
 tradition-focused Oxford Centres for Buddhist Studies, Hebrew and Jewish Studies, Hindu
 Studies, and Islamic Studies. Each of these Centres comprises a core of research specialists, who
 can offer wide-ranging support for graduate students in their fields, and anchor strong international
 research connections.

 2. The UoA’s members and Research Centres have also pioneered new approaches to emerging
 questions at the boundaries of our Research Areas, including:

       gender and theology (Frazier, Hausner, Jones, Quick, Southwood, Ward); eco-
       theology (Deane-Drummond); scientific, social and medical issues in theology
       (Biggar, Daniel, Downs, Hordern, McGrath, Pinsent); interreligious relations and
       dialogue (Abulafia, Booth, Jones, Ward); and comparative philosophy (Frazier,
       Westerhoff).

 Our capacity to develop funded research projects means we can establish e.g. postdoctoral
 fellowships in response to emerging research themes or issues of public interest. (For some
 examples, see Section 3a.) This capacity is enhanced by the strongly entrepreneurial outlook of
 some Faculty members (e.g. Brooks, Hordern, Najman, and Pinsent).

 3. The faculty is alive to the opportunities presented by potential donors to fund shifts within the
 discipline by enabling the creation of new posts to engage questions that lie beyond the Faculty’s
 current domain of expertise. Recent developments include the creation of the Chair in The Study
 of the Abrahamic Religions and the Idreos Chair of Science and Religion, both of which reflect
 developments in the research landscape that captured the imagination of donors. In addition, in
 2020, the Faculty secured external funding for a Departmental Lectureship in Modern Catholic
 Theology. We expect that this position will significantly strengthen our research profile in such
 areas as ‘Global Catholicism’, liberation theology, African theology, or Asian theology.

 The narrative we have developed in this concluding section, on ‘collaboration and contribution to
 the research base, economy and society’, shows the importance we attach to establishing and
 deepening relationships with diverse audiences and constituencies. These collaborations have, in
 turn, shaped our research environment, by helping us to see how our projects can respond to
 questions whose origins lie outside the academy. In these ways, our recent history demonstrates
 how the intellectual life of our Faculty, and scholarly enquiry in general, can enrich, and be
 enriched by, broader cultural conversations.




                                                                                                    21
