Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1     Overview: Unit Context and Structure

 The UoA is centred in Politics and International Relations at Edinburgh (PIR), a vibrant group of
 52 staff (50.65 FTE), committed to producing innovative scholarship and impact. Over the REF
 period, PIR has continued its long-term growth trajectory, investing in 16 new posts to
 strengthen our scholarship in territorial politics, political behaviour and public policy; while
 investing in three areas of growing strength: political theory, security studies, and international
 political economy. This strategic expansion, combined with strong grant performance and a
 major investment in support for impact, has enabled us to fully exploit our location in Edinburgh
 at the heart of political and constitutional upheaval, making a transformative contribution to
 understanding governance, political behaviour and constitutional change. At the same time, a
 range of new interdisciplinary and international partnerships have helped position us at the
 cutting edge of debates on global justice, security, gender and race, climate change, and
 democratic innovation.

 Our flourishing research environment is evidenced by:
      A tripling of HESA grant income from £3.9m in REF 2014 to £12.16m.
      17 prestigious research fellowships including an ERC Starting Grant (€1.35m), three
       Marie Skłodowska-Curie (MSC) fellowships, two UK in a Changing Europe Senior
       Fellowships, and a Turing Fellowship.
      Training the next generation of researchers through a three-fold increase in research
       fellows funded through competitive external awards, major investments in PhD
       scholarships and a 62% increase in PhD completions.
      20 prestigious awards to our staff for their contributions to research and impact, including
       the European Consortium for Political Research Politics and Gender Career Prize (Mackay);
       the International Studies Association Distinguished Scholar in Foreign Policy Analysis
       award (Kaarbo); the ESRC Impact Champion prize (Jeffery); the PSA Communications
       Prize (McEwen); and the PSA prize for Best Book in Political Science (Boswell).
      A step change in our impact and public engagement, evidenced by prominent advisory
       roles in Scottish, UK and Local Government, the Scottish Parliament, public appointments,
       as well as a prestigious AHRC-ESRC Fellowship to the FCO.

 1.2     Research Strategy

 Our strategy over this REF period has focused on supporting high quality research and impact
 across five broad themes, each of which addresses key challenges for governance, justice and
 representation. The themes (described in more detail in S1.3) intentionally cut across the
 traditional sub-fields of political science and international relations, enabling us to adopt creative
 approaches to addressing urgent issues in contemporary politics. The themes are:
      Future of the State, building on our long-standing strengths in comparative territorial politics
       and multi-level governance, including through the new ESRC-funded Centre on
       Constitutional Change.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Knowledge & Governance, exploring the role of evidence and expertise in policy, including
     through the ESRC-funded What Works Scotland and our new Centre for Science,
     Knowledge and Policy.
    Democracy & Representation, where we have prioritised innovative methodological
     approaches to understanding political behaviour, representation and democratic institutions,
     with a strong focus on gender.
    Trade, Markets & International Cooperation, including a significant expansion of our
     international political economy group to build expertise on EU trade, finance and international
     treaties.
    Conflict, Security & Justice, where our expanded group of IR, political and critical theorists
     address issues of global ethics and justice, including through a new Centre on Security
     Research.

 This strategy was forged through extensive consultation across all staff, research groups and
 centres led by Henderson as Head of Subject from 2014 onwards. Through a series of meetings
 and away days, the UoA identified research areas where we felt we should build on our
 comparative advantage, develop further around a small critical mass of scholars or move in
 entirely new directions to address emerging challenges. Ongoing consultation also identified
 hiring priorities for each planning cycle, including our focus on building expertise across our five
 themes, while developing capacity around methods and skills, and expanding the geographical
 scope of our expertise.

 Through this consultation, staff also identified two central priorities that cut across all of the
 themes. The first of these was a commitment to engaging with a broad array of disciplines,
 which we see as crucial for answering many of the ‘wicked problems’ facing states. Our research
 and area studies centres have increasingly become engines of interdisciplinary research and
 impact, fostering close collaborations with colleagues in law, sociology, anthropology,
 economics, geoscience, business, informatics, psychology, theology, philosophy, and the arts.
 Secondly, PIR staff were keen to build on our strongly international and comparative
 approach. To pursue this goal, we have expanded the geographical scope of our expertise
 through recruitment, and strengthened our international networks through a series of
 collaborative grants with international scholars and partner institutions – including the EU Smart
 Urban Intermediaries programme co-led by Escobar which has reshaped urban governance in
 deprived neighbourhoods across Europe, and Duncanson’s work on rebuilding after war, which
 developed an innovative Feminist Roadmap for Sustainable Peace (see S4).

 We have devoted considerable time and resources to accelerating our impact and public
 engagement across our five research themes by building strategic relations with key
 government/policy actors through staff mobility (in Scottish Government, FCO), consultancy and
 advisory roles while also pursuing extensive public and media engagement, including over 150
 public events such as lectures and workshops, film series, music performances and Edinburgh
 festival events.

 Crucially, as our department has grown, we have been committed to ensuring we sustain a
 cohesive, inclusive and enabling environment, in which staff at all career stages are
 supported in setting and achieving ambitious goals (see S2). Through strong leadership from an
 unusually female dominated professoriate (7/12 chairs), we have managed expansion in a way
 that preserves a strong ethos of collegiality, intellectual openness and flexible working,
 evidenced in our multiple awards for community building, leadership and mentorship (see S2).




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3   Research Themes

 Our five research themes bring together staff from across a range of theoretical and
 methodological approaches, to address key challenges in politics and governance. Below we
 present examples of research achievements under each theme.

 The Future of the State

 Edinburgh has a global reputation for its research expertise in comparative territorial politics and
 multi-level governance (Basta, Convery, Cram, Henderson, Jeffery, Kenny, Kumarasingham,
 McEwen, Mackay, Mitchell, Swenden). We sought to cement this reputation by attracting large
 external grants, further developing impact and hiring new colleagues that expanded the range of
 cases and methods we use.

 We were awarded in 2014, together with the University of Aberdeen, a £1.1m ESRC-funded
 Centre on Constitutional Change (CCC). Based in Edinburgh’s Old Town and adjacent to the
 Scottish Parliament, the CCC (co-directed by McEwen and incorporating Basta, Convery, Cram,
 Henderson, Kenny, Mitchell and Swenden) has played a crucial role in providing rigorous, policy-
 oriented research to lead and inform debates on the UK’s constitutional future, including through
 Jeffery’s leadership of the ESRC Future of the UK and Scotland Programme. This includes three
 large ESRC grants: Between Two Unions (£679k), Brexit and the Repatriation of Competences
 (£295k) and A Family of Nations (£571k). The Centre is also home to two high profile
 Edinburgh/Cardiff-run surveys coordinated by Henderson: the Future of England and the State
 of the Union surveys, which gather annual data on constitutional preferences across the UK. Our
 investment in this area is seen in recent work by new colleagues. For example, Basta’s Publius
 article, which won the APSA prize for best article on federalism and international relations,
 shows how the symbolic recognition of secessionist claims can fuel political contestation far
 more than the actual content of new institutional arrangements.

 Beyond the UK and EU, our research explores challenges for the nation-state across the
 Middle East, Africa and South Asia (Alahmad, Allinson, Hammond, Kim, Kumarasingham, Stein,
 Swenden and Volpi), with a particular focus on understanding the state within its international
 context. Allinson’s monograph on the Struggle for the State in Jordan traces the instability of
 states in the Arab world to the historical legacy of state formation in the twentieth century,
 winning the Jadaaliyya 2016 Political Economy Book Prize. As leader of a Leverhulme
 International Network on Indian federalism (£113k), Swenden enhanced understanding of
 centre-state relations in the world’s largest federation, chronicling the weak administrative
 capacity at India’s centre. Our new colleague Kumarasingham’s concept of ‘Eastminster’, which
 tracks the adaptation of the Westminster model in Asia, generated worldwide attention, including
 invitations by the Federal Court of Malaysia, and prominent international keynotes including the
 Smuts Memorial Lecture in Cambridge.

 Knowledge & Governance

 Our second research theme interrogates the role of public engagement, knowledge and
 evidence in policy-making and political debate (Alahmad, Bevan, Bomberg, Boswell, Cook,
 Escobar, Evensen, Kaczmarska, Mitchell). We teamed up with the University of Glasgow to host
 What Works Scotland (total funding £4.1m 2014-18, £1.02m to our UoA), an ESRC-funded
 multi-institutional partnership with government to identify and support best practice in public
 services through action research. Co-led by Mitchell, then Escobar from 2015, the centre
 advanced public service reform while improving outcomes for communities of place, interest and
 practice. It has also facilitated Escobar’s work on democratic innovation, from deliberative


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 decision-making to new forms of community ownership and social economy (see Impact Case
 Study, ICS 2). This work is now being developed within the Edinburgh Futures Institute, a major
 new investment (£140m) in research, training and engagement to harness the potential of data
 and digital innovation for social good, as part of the Data Driven Innovation initiative within the
 Edinburgh and Southeast Scotland City Deal.

 Capitalising on the University’s interdisciplinary strengths in knowledge, expertise and
 governance, in 2014 Boswell launched and was inaugural Director of the Centre for Science,
 Knowledge and Policy, which Geddes now leads. SKAPE involves six others in this UoA, as well
 as 30 colleagues from across the social sciences, law and medicine. Boswell has played a key
 role in shaping this field, including through two ESRC projects (total £1.05m). Her 2009 book,
 The Political Uses of Expert Knowledge, was awarded the 2020 APSA prize for best book of the
 past decade on ideas, knowledge and policy. Geddes’ Dramas at Westminster is the first book to
 systematically explore the role of evidence in parliamentary settings, described by RAW Rhodes
 as ‘the best book on the UK Parliament by a political scientist’ since 2005. Supported by an
 ESRC (£19k) Impact Accelerator Award he has been informing how select committees can
 engage more widely with experts. Bevan complements this work as lead methodologist for the
 international Comparative Agendas Project (CAP). CAP, which classifies all policy activity into a
 universal coding scheme, has become one of the most used datasets in the study of public
 policy. In her recent monograph Making Global Knowledge in Local Contexts, short-listed for the
 ISA International Political Sociology book award, Kaczmarska shows how social scientific
 knowledge in Russia is strongly shaped by the political system and public opinion. Alahmad’s
 research, based on her MSF Individual Fellowship at Ghent, exposes the performativity of social
 scientific knowledge on the state, tracing how strongly normative expertise has contributed to the
 failure of state-building attempts in Iraq. Bomberg’s research has shown how spiritual resources
 underpin collective action on environmental issues, funded through an AHRC project (£129k to
 UoA of £709k total) in collaboration with colleagues in theology, history and philosophy.

 Democracy & Representation

 Our research on elections, parties and political representation has produced big datasets,
 surveys, neuropolitical and computational analysis, offering fresh insights on decision-making,
 elections, parties and gender (Convery, Cram, Daoust, Henderson, Kenny, Liu, March, Mackay,
 Mitchell, Odmalm, Ozdemir). Cram has deployed behavioural, brain-imaging and eye-tracking
 experiments to understand the socio-psychological, physiological and neurological processes
 shaping political behaviour. Building on plans set out in REF2014, together with colleagues
 from Psychology, Informatics and Medicine, Cram set up the Neuropolitics Research Labs
 (NRLabs). Through a series of collaborative projects (£1.0m), NRLabs explores identity and
 decision-making through advances in cognitive neuroscience, including three ESRC grants
 (£829k) analysing how individuals respond to identity triggers in the context of independence
 and Brexit. This research fed into the EU’s Joint Research Centre report ‘Understanding our
 Political Nature: How to put knowledge and reason at the heart of political decision-making’.
 Cram collaborates closely with Llewellyn, a computer scientist in the UoA, to apply machine
 learning and quantitative methods to analyse social media data, building the world’s largest
 corpus of tweets on Brexit for academic research to expose the extent of Russian interference in
 elections and referendums.

 Over the REF period, PIR has become a major hub for analysis of elections and voter
 behaviour, supported through new appointments (Daoust and Ozdemir, joining Henderson and
 Mitchell), hosting both the 2014 Scottish Referendum Study (£283k) and the 2016 Scottish
 Election Study (£554k). Henderson’s analysis of voting highlights the role played by risk in
 Scottish referendum (Political Behavior) and the importance of national identity as a source of


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 territorial variation in the Brexit vote (Regional Studies). Daoust’s The Motivation to Vote
 explores voter turnout across 25 countries, to identify new predictors of engagement.

 Research on individual-level attitudes and behaviour sits alongside a rich body of work on
 political parties. This includes an ESRC-funded party membership study (£115k) led by
 Mitchell, which offers in-depth analysis of the motivations of SNP members. Convery’s research
 tracking how the Conservative party has adapted to devolution prompted one former leadership
 candidate to claim the book was ‘crying out for a second edition’ to analyse recent events.
 Colleagues Kaczmarska, March and Odmalm each explore different dimensions of populism:
 Kaczmarska is Co-I on a NOK200k Norwegian Research Council grant on populism in Russia;
 March co-edited a masterful overview of Europe’s Radical Left tracking processes of de-
 radicalisation and Odmalm’s co-edited The European Mainstream and the Populist Radical Right
 charts how political parties compete over issues such as migration.

 Our gender politics scholars (Kenny and Liu joining Mackay and Duncanson) work across
 multiple scales addressing issues of political representation, gender inequalities, and political
 and institutional change. They have led methodological advances in their international field
 through foundational work on feminist institutionalism (FI), and drive the University’s
 interdisciplinary work on gender and sexualities studies through leadership of genderED.
 Mackay’s research on political representation, institutional change, and FI theory was
 recognised with a career achievement award by the European Conference on Politics and
 Gender (ECPR). Kenny’s research on political parties, recruitment and FI theory explores
 pathways to power (EJPR). Liu employs multi-level modelling to explore the impact of female
 politicians on women’s political engagement (PRQ). (See S2 and 4 for how this expertise has
 shaped our research environment.)

 Trade, Markets & International Cooperation

 Our research on trade and markets has expanded through new appointments (Calvert,
 Hopewell (now UBC), Martill, Rommerskirchen, Singh (now George Mason) and Western,
 joining Damro, Hardie, and the late John Peterson) to create, with the addition of two colleagues
 post census, one of the largest clusters working on this area across the UK. One significant
 strand of research focuses on EU trade. The Europa Institute, a collaboration across PIR and
 Law, is the UK’s longest-running research institute on Europe. Co-led by Damro, it was recently
 awarded a prestigious (€124k) Jean Monet Centre of Excellence Grant. Since 2014, Damro has
 further developed his award-winning analysis of ‘market power Europe’ through his Fernand
 Braudel Senior Fellowship at the EUI (2014), and his work on this concept has been cited over
 600 times, sparking a lively debate in the field (including, for example, commentaries in JEPP
 and JCMS). This is complemented by Martill’s work (JCMS) on the cultural origins of the UK-EU
 divide that plagued Brexit negotiations.

 A second strength is our world-leading collection of scholars working on social studies of
 finance with close links across Sociology and the Business School. Scholars at Edinburgh
 employ a sociology of finance approach to enable a broad analysis of financial markets. This has
 attracted a €2m ERC grant (hosted in UoA21) on Evaluation Practices in Financial Markets and
 a £514k ESRC grant on the sociology of high frequency trading, both involving Hardie and
 Rommerskirchen. Hardie’s co-authored Chains of Finance offers a ‘fundamental rethinking’ of
 the knock-on consequences of investment chains. Rommerskirchen’s PhD (supervised at
 Edinburgh) won the PSA prize for best dissertation in IR and is now a monograph Free Riders in
 the Storm. Both have also made significant contributions to work on monetary power; recent
 publications in RIPE were described by one editor as ‘starting an academic mini industry’.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We hired new colleagues who work on international treaties as a way to expand our
 geographic and substantive expertise. Calvert’s research on investment treaties has found that
 Latin American countries are not passive recipients of international rules, but knowingly break
 them where domestic interests necessitate (RIPE). Western’s rigorous quantitative analysis
 similarly finds that domestic interests play a strong role in how and why states ratify international
 agreements (ISQ/BJPS). The UoA supported Hopewell (now UBC) in securing an ESRC Future
 Research leaders Grant (£185k). Her resulting book clarifies the implications of the rise of the
 BRICs to the WTO and international trade agreements.

 Conflict, Security & Justice

 Our political theorists (Mihai joining Cook, Cripps, Hayward, Oberman, Thaler) explore
 transitional justice, violence and ethics. Mihai’s ERC Starting Grant (€1.35m) on Illuminating
 the Grey Zone produced a ground-breaking book Negative Emotions and Transitional Justice,
 exploring how political institutions channel public emotions like disgust and indignation to enable
 democracy to flourish in post-conflict societies. Thaler’s Naming Violence: A Critical Theory of
 Genocide, Torture and Terrorism, funded by a MSC Career Integration Grant (€100k),
 demonstrated how both individual and public imaginations lack the vocabulary to process acts of
 violence and calls for greater ‘sober realism’. In a series of influential articles on the ethics of
 immigration, including in APSR, Oberman argued that open immigration would reduce global
 poverty. He is developing this through a two-year secondment to Madrid via a MSC Individual
 Fellowship (€173k). Cripps’s research (Global Justice) argued that failure to address climate
 change leads agents to make tragic choices. Together with Hayward’s Human Rights and the
 Environment, it offers a powerful complement to the policy-orientated environmental research of
 Bomberg and Evensen. The research of our political theorists is supported by our new Centre for
 Ethics and Critical Thought (CRITIQUE), launched in 2020 and led by Cook and Mihai.
 CRITIQUE serves as an interdisciplinary hub for ethical and critical reflection on key global
 challenges, including racial segregation, gender oppression, political violence, and climate
 change.

 Intersecting with this work is a cluster of research on security, conflict and foreign policy (Abbott,
 Hom, Kaczmarska, Martill, Perugini and Turner joining Birdsall, Duncanson, Neal and Kaarbo).
 Perugini drew on his MSC Individual Fellowship (€196k) research to produce two books, Human
 Shields and The Human Right to Dominate, the latter making ‘an important theoretical argument
 with global ramifications’. Both challenge assumptions about the ethics of violence and the
 politics of human rights. Birdsall’s research on the use of drones in counterterrorism raises
 ethical questions about their use and consequences for international law. Neal’s monograph
 Security as Politics charts the normalisation of security in UK parliamentary politics while Hom’s
 monograph International Relations and the Problem of Time challenges us to rethink the theory
 and practice of international politics by reimagining time itself. Interdisciplinary work in this area
 includes a £6.4m ESRC-DfID Political Settlements project led by Law for which Co-Is Thaler and
 Mackay contributed political theory and feminist institutionalist perspectives on negotiating peace
 and engendering post-conflict institutions.

 This strand of work is supported through the Centre for Security Research (CeSeR). Established
 in 2014 by Kaarbo and Neal, CeSeR brings together 55 members from across the University to
 forge a distinctively Edinburgh agenda, capturing the political, sociological, legal and
 psychological facets of security. The psychological aspects build on Kaarbo’s research on
 political psychology and foreign policy analysis. Her work developing tools to measure and
 evaluate the impact of leadership styles and national role conceptions on foreign policy was
 recently recognised with an ISA career achievement award.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4   Supporting Impact

 Over the REF period, we have transformed our support for impact, through a series of strategic
 investments across three main areas. First, we invested in expert professional support (from
 0.6FTE to 6.95 FTE) to provide specialist support in media engagement, events organisation,
 digital communications, graphic design, policy and industry engagement. Support includes
 training, such as ‘Learning Lunches’ to hone impact skills, event management to enhance public
 dissemination and bespoke digital platforms including websites, infographics and videos to
 increase the visibility of research.

 Second, we maximised opportunities to secure impact-focused internal and external
 funding. Internal seed-funding across three schemes offering £10-15k each – the Knowledge
 Exchange and Impact grant, a Strategic Impact Grant, and the Edinburgh ESRC Impact
 Accelerator – provided scholars in our UoA with over £90k during the REF period. These
 investments, alongside professional services support, gave us a competitive edge in responding
 to external funding opportunities in response to policy and political challenges, including major
 ESRC investments in WWS and CCC. The UoA also won six competitive fellowships with
 research excellence and impact at their core, including two Senior Fellowships within the ESRC
 Future of the UK and Scotland programme and two fellowships in the ESRC’s UK in a Changing
 Europe initiative. Edinburgh was the only UK institution to win two Brexit Priority grants under
 this initiative, both led within this UoA.

 Third, we designed our research centres as hubs of knowledge exchange, where academics
 and dedicated communications professionals create, identify and maximise impact opportunities.
 WWS supported co-production and collaboration with public service providers, enabling 40
 knowledge exchange events with practitioners and policymakers from across public, third and
 community sectors (see ICS 3). The CCC has nurtured partnerships with the devolved, UK and
 Irish governments and international consulates, as well as parliaments, parliamentary
 committees, the wider policy community and media to inform the development, understanding
 and scrutiny of constitutional reforms (see ICS 1 and 4). As the impact agenda grew in
 significance, SKAPE harnessed academic expertise from political science and cognate
 disciplines to understand the relationship between research and policy, underpinning its work
 with the Scottish Government to establish an Expert Advisory Group on Migration and
 Population (ICS 2).

 Fourth, we created space within academic workloads to facilitate secondments, advisory
 positions and public appointments. Staff have undertaken four secondments, six public
 appointments, 16 advisory positions within government and other public bodies, two
 parliamentary advisory roles and participated in, or chaired, five expert panels. For example,
 Henderson’s public appointments to the Local Government Boundary Review for Scotland and
 the Boundary Commission for Scotland contributed to the development of ICS 5. Dorman’s
 £201k AHRC-ESRC-FCO-funded knowledge exchange fellowship facilitated a secondment to
 the Africa Directorate within the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, enabling the London Team
 and the Embassy in Harare ‘to better appreciate the wider risks and dynamics at play and gain a
 more nuanced understanding of how certain messages/narratives land in the Zimbabwean
 context’. Bevan’s CAP expertise led to an academic fellowship with the Scottish Parliament on
 Improving Parliamentary Scrutiny Using Data Science Techniques resulting in two reports and
 an analysis of public engagement data for committees.

 The UoA’s excellence in knowledge exchange has been recognised in a series of prestigious
 prizes, including the PSA Communications Prize (McEwen), Runner-Up ESRC Impact (Policy)
 Prize (CCC team), College Impact Prize (CCC team), and College Recognition Award for


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Community Impact (Escobar). Before departing to become Vice Chancellor in York, Jeffery won
 the ESRC Impact Champion prize for his leadership in impact, including his work with the wider
 territorial politics team as Director of the Future of the UK and Scotland programme. S4 outlines
 the range of impact activities undertaken by a wide selection of UoA staff.

 1.5    Research Ethics and Open Research

 We are committed to the highest standards of research ethics and integrity, and have drawn on
 our expertise to lead on good practice. Raab leads the Turing Institute’s Data Ethics Group,
 applying his extensive expertise on data and privacy; Neal drew on his expertise on UK security
 policy to advise the School on implementation of 2015 Prevent legislation; and genderED
 (Mackay) has developed specialised materials for ODA-related research projects to evaluate the
 gender impact of research. We continually adapt our ethical procedures to address challenges of
 research with big data, experimental data, as well as web-based and social media research.
 Our research on voting behaviour and citizen participation requires robust safeguards given the
 lowering of the voting age in Scotland to 16, as do the neurological processes studied by
 NRLabs. Our three-level online ethics review is supplemented by specialised review for higher
 risk research. All staff have access to guidance from Ethics Leaders in the UoA, School and
 College, and online research ethics training.

 We have adopted measures to enhance the transparency, accessibility and replicability of our
 research. In 2016, Bevan became the first School academic lead on Data, responsible for
 promoting Open Research and helping to draft the College Open Research Strategy. He has
 pioneered data-sharing in his own work, releasing the new UK Statutory Instruments and the
 Scottish Statutory Instruments datasets alongside other open access datasets as part of this
 leading role in the UK Comparative Agendas Project. He became PIR’s inaugural Research
 Ethics Lead in 2018. As College Dean of Research, Boswell oversaw the development of the
 College Open Research Strategy, which sets out ambitious plans surpassing REF OA
 requirements for open access. UoA staff have 93% compliance with OA requirements.

 1.6    Future Strategy

 Over the next five years, we will continue to make strategic investments to position the UoA to
 lead national and global research and policy debates across our five themes. In addition, we will
 build capacity in three key areas:
      With the Edinburgh Futures Institute and its Digital Innovations Lab, we will harness the
       potential of digital and data-driven technologies to promote inclusive and participatory
       governance, strengthening collaborations with Informatics, Design and Data Studies.
      Work with the Data Driven Innovation programme to support the development and
       distribution of large data resources around our five research areas.
      Capitalise on investments in security and trade to generate and grow opportunities for
       knowledge exchange and impact in these areas, demonstrating sector-leading KEI across
       all substantive research areas.

 We recognise the challenges of the Covid pandemic and the disruptions to research, especially
 for those at earlier career stages, with caring responsibilities, and health issues and we have
 enhanced our support for these groups (see S2). Four researchers in our UoA have already
 received external funding for Covid-related research, including on behavioural compliance
 (Daoust) and a green recovery from Covid (Evensen) (see also S2).




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1    Staffing Strategy

 Over the REF period our success in external funding and flourishing teaching programmes have
 enabled us to recruit 25 new staff, of which 16 are new posts. Our recruitment strategy was
 guided by two main goals. First, we emphasized hiring and supporting ECRs to ensure renewal
 of the discipline; of our 25 appointments, only one was a limited term Lectureship to cover a
 secondment. Second, we sought to foster interdisciplinarity by recruiting staff with PhDs in
 philosophy, media and communications, women’s, gender and sexuality studies, computing
 science, East Asian Studies, and development studies. These appointments enabled us to
 deepen expertise in particular skills, substantive areas and geographic expertise. Specifically,
 we:
      grew ambitiously in quantitative methods thanks to our involvement in the highly successful
       Nuffield-funded Edinburgh QStep Centre, hiring Bevan, Ozdemir (who now leads QStep)
       and Western. They have been joined by additional quantitative methods experts Daoust,
       Evensen, Liu, Llewellyn, Rommerskirchen;
      hired those with established track records in domestic and international impact with
       governments, parliaments and NGOs (Geddes, Kenny, Kumarasingham, Perugini);
      hired to address new research opportunities around global challenges. This includes six
       security studies experts (Turner, Perugini, Hom, Martill, Kaczmarska, Abbott), five in ethics
       and justice (Mihai, Thaler, Cripps, Cook and Oberman) and four in political economy
       (Rommerskirchen, Calvert, Hopewell (now UBC), Margulis (now UBC));
      enhanced our depth and breadth for our geographic areas of expertise, including additional
       expertise in Middle East and North Africa (Abbott, Alahmad, Allinson, Perugini, Volpi),
       Russia and Southeast Asia (Kaczmarska, Kim, Hammond, Turner) and Latin America
       (Calvert) as well as renewed expertise in the UK (Geddes, Kumarasingham).

 This major investment in the next generation has also enhanced our diversity: 76% of PIR staff
 originate from outside the UK, from 12 countries across three continents, and three of our new
 colleagues self-identify as visible minorities.

 Twenty of our UoA staff were promoted during the REF period resulting in a UoA profile of 1
 Career Development Fellow, 15 Lecturers, 24 Senior Lecturers and 12 Personal Chairs.
 Promotion applications benefitted from new enhanced support, including a series of training
 workshops and constructive feedback on application materials from senior colleagues,
 pioneered by McEwen in her capacity as School promotions representative.

 We have had very low levels of staff departure. This includes six permanent staff leaving to
 accept positions outside the UK (in each case closer to their countries of origin). Jeffery left to
 become the Vice Chancellor of the University of York. Our esteemed colleague Professor John
 Peterson tragically died while in service.

 2.2    Staff Support and Development

 As part of our 2014 strategy Henderson coordinated a benchmarking exercise to identify
 world-leading research support from international exemplars of excellence. Staff identified and
 researched 30 leading UK and international universities, reporting back any best practice
 examples of research support. This exercise, and a concerted effort to help shape the research
 environment in our wider school, college and university through key leadership positions,



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 guided our approach to retaining and enhancing various support mechanisms around access to
 funding, mentoring and workspaces. We outline these below.

 The UoA has robust processes in place to ensure staff are supported in realising ambitious
 research goals. Staff have 40% time allocated for research within the workload model, and are
 eligible to apply for one semester research sabbatical after five semesters. 32 staff benefited
 from research leave over the REF period. All staff have access to School and College funds to
 support research. This includes up to £2k per year to support new grant applications, pilot
 research or networking; and up to £5k to prepare grant applications of over £1m. As Research
 Director for PIR Hardie was instrumental in creating the Researcher Development Fund (£1.8k,
 with £2k for ECRs) to support training and career development activities as well as conference
 participation.

 These opportunities complement university funding for impact (see S1) or for interdisciplinary
 projects, including a £15k Challenge Investment Fund, which Perugini used to establish an
 interdisciplinary network with lawyers at QMUL, journalists, Doctors without Borders, Human
 Rights Watch and the Red Cross on ‘the erosion of the civilian’. Liu and Llewellyn were recently
 awarded a College KEI grant to study the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown in Edinburgh with an
 interdisciplinary team drawn from linguistics, psychosocial studies, language technology and big
 data analysis.

 All staff receive annual review meetings with the Head of Subject or a senior delegate, to
 discuss research and career goals, and ensure appropriate training, resources and support are
 in place to realise these. All new staff benefit from an enhanced induction process, including
 early meetings with both the Head of Subject and Research Convenor to identify specific
 research needs and mentoring, coupled with follow up meetings six months later. A new
 handbook for incoming staff curates key resources for research. New staff are now allocated two
 academic ‘buddies’ to ease their transition into the University and city.

 We have enhanced our mentoring support, which now covers staff at all career stages not
 just ECRs. Mentoring covers ‘whole career’ advice, including but not limited to research, and is
 demand-led. To supplement its mentoring scheme in 2015 PIR established a Research
 Support Group (RSG) to support colleagues to identify and realise key research goals. The
 RSG includes a mix of scholars across subfields and career stages with diverse skills in
 publications, grant application writing and mentoring. Offering mentor-led support, each RSG
 member is responsible for supporting approximately six members of staff and meets with them
 multiple times a year to identify how to achieve research goals. The RSG also identifies
 opportunities for PIR-wide research support and has initiated writing retreats, devolved funding
 for research groups, paired article authors or grant applicants and secured external reviews for
 R&Rs at high profile publication outlets. As evidence of how seriously we take our mentoring
 responsibilities, two UoA staff won the College award for mentoring (Hardie, Mackay) in
 recognition of outstanding support for colleagues (making us the only UoA to have won the
 award twice).

 PIR has a vibrant culture of peer review of draft outputs and grant applications. All staff
 organise their own ‘Master Classes’ in which 2-3 colleagues with relevant expertise provide
 feedback and advice. We now curate data on staff experiences with publishers and journals, so
 that colleagues know who to ask for advice. We also make available, and retain, both in house
 and via the University’s research support network, portfolios of successful grant applications.
 These forms of academic peer support have been crucial to our success in grants, expanding
 the proportion of those applying for and winning funding (see S3.1).



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PIR holds well-attended weekly seminars for staff to present their research to the whole subject
 area. In addition, our centres and research groups (for example British politics, IPE) hold events
 to provide in-depth specialist advice on research outputs. Our political theorists, for example,
 meet weekly during term time to provide line-by-line feedback on draft publications for staff and
 PGRs.

 PIR staff have created resources to facilitate peer skill development in a fast-changing
 research environment. Dorman led a series of Twitter workshops, helping expand the proportion
 of staff maintaining research Twitter accounts to 85%. We have also provided time for staff to
 pursue specialised interdisciplinary skills training. Examples include FTE release for Cram to
 pursue an MSc in Cognitive Neuroscience and for Cook to pursue a postgraduate certification in
 digital education.

 2.3   Post-doctoral and Early Career Researchers

 We host a thriving community of Early Career Researchers (ECRs), including our expanded
 cohort of Lecturers, of whom 19 joined us as their first permanent academic post. Our workload
 model provides additional support for those preparing new teaching, allocating 50% additional
 time for preparation. We offer dedicated workshops for ECRs on new investigator funding, and
 provide comprehensive support and peer review for applications. ECRs are also represented in
 the RSG, to provide skill development around mentoring, as well as succession planning for
 research leadership. As Dean of Research, Boswell led the University’s action plan to support
 Early Career Researchers, which included prioritising early career colleagues for access to
 sabbatical and seed funding for research. The various funding and support mechanisms in PIR
 and across the University have supported two thirds of current ECRs in winning grants or
 publishing monographs. Thirteen of our Lecturers were promoted to Senior Lecturer over the
 REF period.

 We also hosted a substantial number of postdoctoral researchers. This includes four
 colleagues employed as Chrystal Macmillan (1 year) or Career Development (3 year) Fellows,
 the latter a postdoctoral scheme initiated by Mackay as Head of School. The Fellowships
 provide rounded training for postdoctoral fellows, allowing ECRs to gain valuable experience
 convening courses and supervising students, with generous research time built in to develop
 their research track record. We have also hosted seven ECRs on externally funded postdoctoral
 fellowships; and created 33 research fellowship positions through collaborative external projects,
 notably through ESRC and ERC-funded grants.

 We offer additional support to those on fixed-term research fellow or postdoctoral
 fellowships. The University fully implements the principles of the UK’s Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers (2019), and runs a series of courses/programmes to
 support research careers. The School Committee for Research Staff runs tailored research and
 career development workshops for fixed-term research staff, on publication strategies or
 responding to reviewers’ comments, as well as writing retreats. All research fellows receive
 annual reviews with a research mentor separate from the regular meetings they have with line
 managers. We encourage staff nearing the end of their contracts to make use of the University’s
 Talent Register, which facilitates possible deployment to relevant research posts as they arise.
 We have been active in addressing the issue of precarity for ECRs, reducing the proportion of
 fixed term R&T contracts to one (covering a staff secondment).




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4   Research Students

 Our expanding cohort of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are a crucial part of our research
 environment, and over the REF period we made substantial investments to ensure they received
 enhanced support and training.

 We significantly expanded funding for PhD studentships, through two major initiatives. First,
 the UoA worked with the School to create 10 fully funded studentships for PIR in 2016, allowing
 us to support both new and on-course students. This was in addition to the nine studentships
 funded through other School and University schemes over the REF period. Second, to widen
 participation, in 2017 the School invested £1m in a new scheme to support students with non-
 traditional career paths. Named after Professor Alice Brown (our first female politics professor
 and first Ombudsperson of the Scottish Parliament), these fellowships funded three PIR
 students, building in professional development with an emphasis on training in knowledge
 exchange and public engagement. Postgraduate researchers have also won competitive
 studentships from ESRC (16) and comparable grant agencies in Spain, Mexico, and Canada
 (10). In memory of John Peterson, we have raised funds for Peterson PhD awards to recognise
 his career-long commitment to postdoctoral training. These investments have underpinned a
 37% expansion in the number of PGR completions compared to the REF2014 period.

 We offer comprehensive training and skills development for MRes and PhD students,
 including a suite of research methods courses offered through the ESRC- and Scottish Funding
 Council-funded Scottish Graduate School of Social Science, and the School’s own postgraduate
 training programme. First-year PhD researchers benefit from training in research skills and
 career development, as well as peer support and cohort-building, through our Theory and
 Practice (T&P) course. PGRs in subsequent years benefit from career development workshops
 on job or grant applications, and publishing through our Student Development Office PhD Skills
 Hub. Our methods skills training has been enhanced since 2018 by the new Research Methods
 Training Centre. Based in the School (with Bevan, Henderson, Liu, Ozdemir and Western as
 active members), the RTC offers online and in-person short courses in qualitative and
 quantitative methods, building on the expansion of courses made possible via the Q-Step grant.
 External funding also facilitated mobility opportunities for PGRs. Five of our EXACT EU
 Innovative Training Network fellows held placements in European think tanks before returning to
 Edinburgh.

 All students benefit from a supervisory team of two or more staff, often pairing earlier career
 Lecturers with more senior colleagues. Reflecting our interdisciplinary orientation, staff also co-
 supervise 24 PGRs across the university, including the College of Medicine and Edinburgh
 College of Art. PGRs receive monthly (or more frequent) supervision meetings, and annual
 reviews on progress. Towards the end of the first year, all PGRs prepare a 10,000 word paper
 for review by a formal board, which includes the PG Convenor, supervisors and an additional
 colleague with expertise in the area. Both the annual review process and first year board review
 provide opportunities for students to raise confidentially any concerns about supervision or
 support.

 The School offers a range of resources to support PGRs. PGRs can access financial support
 for fieldwork and conference attendance to the same levels as early career staff (with 131
 successful claims made by PIR PGRs since 2018). Our PGR hardship fund was expanded after
 March 2020, in recognition of the challenges faced by students during the pandemic. All PGRs
 are encouraged to join the UoA’s various research groups, many serving as co-convenors. As
 we encourage PGRs to mirror the vibrant PIR culture of peer support, our students have



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 established reading groups and run a well-attended annual day-long PIR PhD showcase, in
 which students present their dissertation research, with feedback from fellow students and staff.

 Over the REF period, our recently completed PGRs have won three dissertation prizes from
 the PSA, BISA and IMISCOE. Two have won prestigious postdoctoral fellowships from the
 ESRC and Institute for the Advanced Study of the Humanities. Recently completed PGRs have
 gone on to range of positions, including as lecturers/assistant professors in the UK and US; and
 as analysts/researchers in local, Scottish and UK government and in a range of agencies, think
 tanks and NGOs such as the Independent National Electoral Commission in Nigeria, IPPR and
 Trust for London.

 2.5   Equality and Diversity

 PIR is strongly committed to promoting equality in recruitment and support for staff, and to
 fostering an inclusive and diverse research culture. Staff in our unit have promoted equality
 and diversity across the institution through a series of initiatives. Mackay created and
 Thompson (retired 2019) served as inaugural chair of the School’s People+ Committee, to tackle
 issues around workplace culture and work-life balance, gender and race equality, physical
 accessibility, trans/non-binary issues, harassment, bullying and mental health. People+ identified
 challenges through surveys of work satisfaction and focus groups with PGRs. These resulted in
 several new initiatives, including: hosting events on women in academia and speed mentoring
 sessions; developing new guidance on preferred pronouns; introducing a policy of no alcohol at
 School events; ensuring a gender-neutral wheelchair-accessible toilet on each floor of our main
 building; and providing baby-changing facilities and a secure, single-occupancy breastfeeding
 and/or expressing room with a dedicated milk storage fridge (for which our School was awarded
 an NHS Lothian Breastfeeding Friendly certificate in 2016). Thompson and Mackay, as Head of
 School, led a successful application for an Athena Swan Bronze award.

 Recognising the particular challenges of parenthood for female academics, Henderson initiated,
 as Head of PIR, expanded support for staff during and after maternity leave, including: individual
 meetings pre- and post-leave, to ensure women are aware of their rights and to address any
 concerns; support for organising Keeping in Touch days during maternity leave, where desired
 by staff; and full accrual of sabbatical while on maternity leave. We encourage staff with caring
 responsibilities to make full use of flexible working. Ten staff have benefited from such
 arrangements since 2014, including partial FTE (four staff), or compressed weeks (six staff,
 including, for a time, the Head of PIR). We schedule work events within 9-5 and timetable staff
 meetings to accommodate known patterns of flexible working arrangements, thus ensuring the
 full participation of all staff.

 Our expertise on gender, immigration and race has shaped practices on diversity beyond PIR.
 UoA staff direct (Mackay) and sit on the steering group (Boswell, Duncanson, Kenny) of
 genderED, a university-wide interdisciplinary hub showcasing excellence in teaching, research
 and knowledge exchange on gender and sexualities studies. Liu is a member of the University’s
 Race Inequalities group, and on the steering committee of Race.ED, a university-wide initiative
 to showcase excellence in race and decolonial studies. Staff are also active in the UoE Staff
 Pride (LGBT+) Network, which won Stonewall Scotland Network of the Year in 2018.

 We spearheaded various activities involving both PGRs and staff to foster an inclusive
 atmosphere, such as running groups, football teams, and day hikes. Convery created a School
 choir, which brings together students, academics and professional services staff to create a
 sense of belonging to our School-wide community. The choir performs at important events such
 as the graduation celebrations.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The UoE REF2021 Code of Practice promotes maximum inclusivity through a return of 100% of
 the institution’s eligible academic staff on contract at census date. This builds on an inclusive
 practice in REF2014, where we returned 93% of staff. This inclusive approach reflects a
 commitment to a supportive and egalitarian research culture, in which staff across all career
 stages enjoy equal access to all forms of research support. This environment has contributed to
 a broad distribution of selected outputs across staff. 11 ECRs have generated 24 of our
 publications.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Research Income

 Over the REF period our research income has tripled, from £3.9m to £12.16m. This growth
 reflects broad engagement across UoA staff, with 75% having held externally-funded grants in
 this REF period. Grant income has included considerable investments in new centres and large
 grants, greater engagement with international funding schemes as well as a number of
 prestigious fellowships.

 We have won £2.1m in large investments to fund Centres: £1.1m from the ESRC to help
 establish the Centre on Constitutional Change (CCC) and £1.02m from ESRC/Scottish
 Government to fund What Works Scotland (WWS). These investments helped colleagues bid
 successfully for an additional £2m in large grants on constitutional change and citizen
 engagement.

 We have pursued external funding to advance our internationalisation strategy, both by
 accelerating our grant capture from non-UK sources and building international research teams.
 This includes various European Commission grants (€327k to UoA of €3.9m total) for Boswell,
 Evensen, Mackay and Raab. Staff also secured UK funding to develop international
 partnerships, for example Swenden’s Leverhulme Trust grant (£113k) to bring 20 Gurukul
 fellows from India to the UK.

 We have dramatically expanded the number of prestigious international fellowships and
 excellence awards. This includes Damro’s Jean Monet Centre of Excellence for the Europa
 Institute (€124k), and Mihai’s (€1.35m) ERC award. Research support for our ECRs is reflected
 in three MSC awards to Oberman, Perugini and Thaler, and an ESRC Future Research Leaders
 grant for Hopewell.

 This sits alongside a series of large ESRC grants totalling £1.65m won by Cram, Evensen,
 Henderson and Mitchell to generate new datasets on democracy and representation including
 referendum studies, election studies and party membership studies, as well as evaluations of the
 EU and attitudes to public policy.

 We have pursued smaller awards for seminars and networking as a means to build impact
 audiences or help ECRs build research networks. This includes £29k (ESRC) for CeSeR to run
 seminars on security in an independent Scotland, and Kumarasingham’s Royal Society of
 Edinburgh grant (£15k) with Law to establish the Keith Forum on Commonwealth
 Constitutionalism, harnessing knowledge from practitioners and academics across the
 commonwealth to explore current constitutional challenges.

 All of these are based in Edinburgh but UoA staff are also co-investigators on 30 grants held
 elsewhere in the UK or internationally, including over £3m as Co-Is on grants based in 10 other


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 countries. In total, staff in our UoA have been named on over £24.6m in UK and international
 funding since 2014.

 3.2   Support for Research Grants

 Our success in grant capture reflects expanded financial and professional support for
 applications. Our Research Office has more than doubled in size over the REF period, from 6.8
 FTE in REF2014 to 14.5 FTE in REF2021. New posts include a Portfolio Manager, Research
 Programme Manager, KEI Manager, Research Data and Information Officer, as well as pre and
 post-award senior support officers. Together, the team provides support for costings, reviews
 and ethics on applications as well as support with the considerable reporting requirements for
 some funders. This support is complemented by specialised University services, delivered by the
 Edinburgh Research Office, which offers horizon scanning and information sharing of
 upcoming funding opportunities; briefing events on grant schemes; a calendar of funding
 opportunities; and a dossier of successful applications. Thanks to the various supports in place,
 over 87% of UoA staff applied for funding in this REF period, and 75% of UoA staff won external
 funding.

 Edinburgh Innovations provides a specialised commercialisation service, including support for
 consulting work. Fifteen UoA staff have delivered consulting to a range of national and
 international organisations, including OECD (Boswell, on immigration), UN Women (Mackay, on
 political leadership), Rand (Hardie, on fiscal rules) British Council (Damro, on UK soft power),
 Gruppo di Volontariato Civile (Perugini, on humanitarian assistance in the West Bank), and
 COSLA (Escobar, on community planning partnerships).

 3.3   Infrastructure and Facilities

 Two thirds of UoA staff are located in the refurbished Chrystal Macmillan Building (CMB) in
 George Square, with most others in adjacent buildings. CMB has electronically bookable
 meeting pods, a range of presentation and practice suites and a computer lab. Its public spaces,
 including a large atrium and Violet Laidlaw room, are suitable for conferences, receptions and
 research displays. Several large screens throughout the building advertise forthcoming research
 events. Since January 2019 the CMB atrium has included an exhibition, as part of the School’s
 UncoverED project, highlighting the contributions of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic
 undergraduate and postgraduate research alumni from the 1780s to the 1980s. CMB has
 undergone additional refurbishment since opening in 2008, including the complete replacement
 of all lifts (at a cost of £500k) to enhance accessibility; and the addition in 2015 of a ground floor
 café and social/study space. Spearheaded by Mackay, it won the 2017 College award for Most
 Effective University Community Building Initiative.

 The Centre on Constitutional Change is located in the 18th century St John’s Land, within a
 few minutes’ walk of the Scottish Parliament, BBC and St Andrew’s House, where many
 government staff are located. It contains a suite of meeting rooms, including a 30-person
 boardroom. Its location has facilitated regular seminars and meetings involving politicians and
 civil servants, including five visits of UK Parliament Select Committees. NRLabs opened in
 January 2016 with four experimental workspaces (computers, software, headsets and eye-
 tracking equipment) allowing for in-house experiments, behavioural games, face-emotion
 coding, and eye-tracking. NRLabs staff also have shared access to University fMRI scanning
 and physical hormone testing.

 During this REF period University Estates and SPS invested in infrastructure and facilities
 including £1.75m to renovate listed buildings in George Square (next to CMB) into a dedicated


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 centre for PhD students, co-designed with student users. The new space is named, as
 selected by PhD students, after Edinburgh alumna and anti-apartheid activist Dr Kesaveloo
 Goonam, and contains 137 desks in shared offices. Students are assigned dedicated working
 space, replacing the limited hotdesking facilities previously available.

 These investments sit alongside two transformative developments in data connectivity and data-
 driven innovation. The £1.3b Edinburgh and South-East Scotland City Region Deal, spear-
 headed by Jeffery as Senior Vice Principal, involves an investment of £375m for research and
 training opportunities to staff and students around DDI to tackle global challenges such as
 inequality, and to further inclusive economic growth in the city and region. As part of this
 investment, the University has established the Edinburgh Futures Institute, an interdisciplinary
 hub for world-leading research to be housed in the newly renovated Victorian city hospital next
 to campus. Cram and Escobar are playing a leading role in developing EFI research and impact
 on democratic innovation, receiving EFI funding to develop engagement with industry,
 government and local communities.

 Within a five-minute walk of CMB are two world-class research libraries: the University Main
 Library on George Square, one of ten libraries on campus, with 2m books, 1.4m e-books and
 185k e-journals, and the National Library of Scotland’s main George IV building, one of six legal
 deposit libraries in the UK. The NLS contains 15m books, 7m manuscript items, almost 2m maps
 and 100,000 journal, magazine and newspaper titles as well as collections of private papers. Its
 reading rooms provide dedicated writing space to researchers.

 The School’s Infrastructure, Information and Learning Technology Services Team has
 increased from 11.3 FTE in REF2014 to 14.91 FTE in REF2021. The team helps to coordinate
 costings for infrastructure and technology requirements for grant applications, and provides
 laptops to research students as required, along with access to necessary software. Our Apps
 Anywhere facility means that computing and IT facilities are available remotely from home or
 indeed anywhere in the world for those engaged in research across the globe. This enabled us
 to pivot smoothly to digital working from home after March 2020.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1   Collaboration and Networks

 We have pursued our interdisciplinary and international strategies by encouraging staff through
 mentoring to take active leadership roles. This includes interdisciplinary collaborations
 beyond the Unit. Within the University, Volpi leads the Alwaleed Centre for the Study of Islam in
 the Contemporary World, bringing together 13 researchers from across the arts, humanities and
 social sciences to promote understanding of contemporary Islam and the globalised Muslim
 world. March is Deputy Director of the Dashkova Centre, a hub for University research and
 knowledge exchange on Russia, and for academic engagement between Russia and Scotland.
 Raab co-directs the Centre for Research into Information, Surveillance and Privacy (CRISP) an
 interdisciplinary research centre bringing together leading scholars from four universities.

 Staff across all career stages have played active roles in initiating and leading international
 research networks. Two of our gender specialists (Mackay and Kenny) lead the Feminism and
 Institutionalism International Network, which brings together scholars across Europe, North
 American and Australia to explore how the study of formal institutions and informal practices can
 better accommodate issues of gender, power and change. In 2018 Kaczmarska used ISA
 funding to establish a network on local and global limits on academic freedom (Academic
 Freedom, IR Knowledge and Policy Advice). Working with scholars in or on Brazil, Peru, Turkey,


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Hungary, Russia, India, US, UK, Kazakhstan and Tajikistan the network identifies ways to build
 expertise in foreign and security policy. Boswell created the ECPR’s Standing Group on
 Knowledge and Governance. Neal was a founding member of the ISA’s Theory section. Basta
 co-convenes the new UACES research network (RE)Imagining Territorial Politics in the Time of
 Crisis which has since March 2020 been producing a series of short reports on the reaction to
 COVID in multi-level states.

 Staff in the Unit collaborate in a range of international projects. We hold grants or have
 published outputs with colleagues in 43 UK universities and 32 international universities. This
 includes grants on federalism, democracy, consociationalism and secession with colleagues in
 India (Swenden), Korea (Kim), Sri Lanka (Kumarasingham) and Indonesia (Hammond). In
 addition, we have held 20 international visiting positions in 15 countries.

 Through a range of support measures, we have also played a key role in creating more than 40
 databases or datasets for international scholars to analyse in their work. These include
 election studies, a decade of survey research through the Future of England Surveys, surveys of
 referendum preferences and constitutional attitudes, databases of candidate characteristics to
 evaluate recruitment and selection practices, databases of political apologies, and successive
 years of data from the comparative agendas project (CAP). Many of these have been possible
 thanks to external funding initially supported by internal seed funding.

 4.2   User Engagement

 The period 2014-2020 was one of political uncertainty in the UK and around the world, and UoA
 members have sought to apply their knowledge and expertise to inform these developments. We
 have cultivated relationships with and across a range of user groups, as outlined below.

 Governments: As well as secondments with the UK and Scottish Governments, staff provided
 training, ‘master classes’ and expert advice to the UK Government (FCO, UKREP, DEFRA,
 DfID, Cabinet Office, HM Treasury, Home Office, the MoD, the Scotland Office, and the
 Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport), the Scottish Government, the Welsh
 Government and local governments across Scotland. This generated impact beyond that
 detailed in case studies. Raab’s work on data ethics, and his critique of the UK government’s
 draft data science ethical framework, led to his appointment as adviser supporting the
 government’s revised Data Ethics Framework in 2018. Duncanson worked closely with the MoD
 on its defence strategy on women, peace and security, including organising three academic-
 practitioner workshops and providing comments on a draft that led to corrections and
 improvements in the published strategy. Recognition of our expertise was evident in invitations
 to address foreign governments, including the Canadian federal government and the
 government of Quebec, the Basque and Catalan governments; ministerial, official and
 parliamentary delegations from across the globe, and addresses to international bodies including
 the United Nations, the European Commission, the OECD and the Council of Europe.

 Parliaments: We invested in building relationships with parliamentary committee clerks and
 research units and encouraged our scholars to respond to parliamentary enquiries. This
 enhanced our contribution to parliamentary scrutiny. Since 2014, eight staff from across the UoA
 made 24 appearances as expert witnesses before 12 different Westminster parliamentary
 committees, and nine staff made 36 appearances before 13 different committees in the devolved
 legislatures. In total, 21 staff members from the UoA have generated 522 citations across the
 UK’s legislatures. Geddes was invited by the Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology,
 the ESRC and Research England to explore how legislatures can better engage with academic
 research (£19k).


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Public bodies: We developed strong and sustained collaborations with over 40 public bodies.
 For example, Mitchell supported Police Scotland in developing new approaches to leadership
 training by assisting in the development, delivery and evaluation of a Leadership for Outcomes
 course, in which senior policy officers address ‘wicked problems’. The resulting proposals fed
 into deliberations of the Justice Board, which is charged with monitoring progress on the
 government’s Justice Vision and Priorities. Calvert joined an Expert Group on International
 Investment Facilitation, hosted by the International Trade Centre (a joint agency of the UN and
 WTO), set up to inform multi-lateral negotiations on the WTO’s investment facilitation framework.

 Third sector organisations, campaign groups and charities: We supported third sector
 organisations in responding to policy change, and have developed partnerships to extend the
 reach of academic research. Perugini, for example, carried out a constructive critique of
 Amnesty International’s work in the 2014 Gaza War, in cooperation with Newstone Global (NG),
 a specialised provider of expertise in international development research, monitoring, evaluation
 and training, which led AI to change its practices to ensure that context analysis is incorporated
 into its outputs on Israel/Palestine. Kim conducted extensive engagement with civil society
 organizations, artists, NGOs, advocacy groups, and peace-building organizations in Myanmar,
 focussing on the role of the arts in conflict transformation, and minority inclusion. In 2019 she
 used Global Challenge funding to lead a healing festival in cooperation with the Pansodan,
 Myanmar’s leading art gallery, to engage audiences in reflections on Myanmar’s cultural
 diversity and its impact on public life.

 Media: In multiple languages and across each research stream we applied our research to
 contextualise and inform understandings of elections, party politics, populism, immigration,
 energy policy, security, human rights as well as political developments in a range of countries.
 Our expertise provided rigorous and impartial analysis at critical moments, exemplified by the
 media profile of UoA experts during the Scottish independence referendum campaign, during
 which the team gave at least 219 interviews to the domestic and international media, reaching
 38 countries. This included broadcast interviews on all main UK network news channels in the
 UK, and major international networks such as CNN, Al Jazeera and Xinhua, features on TV and
 radio documentaries, advisory roles on broadcasts, and ‘on the spot analysis’ throughout results’
 broadcasts: (Mitchell (STV); McEwen (BBC Radio 4/5Live); Henderson (BBC World Service);
 Jeffery (BBC 1 Scotland); and Convery (CNN). Collectively, UoA academics produced almost a
 thousand citations in print media, from local newspapers (e.g. Edinburgh Evening News,
 Stornoway Gazette); to national tabloids (Sun, Daily Record, Daily Mirror, Daily Mail, etc.) and
 broadsheets (Guardian, Telegraph, Times, Observer, etc.) and international outlets (including
 New York Times, Washington Post, Le Figaro, El Pais, and Japan Times, among others).

 A highlight of our extensive reach was NRLabs’ uncovering of the activity patterns and impact of
 Russian-related trolls in the Brexit referendum. Coverage included features on the front page of
 the Guardian (and shared over 20,000 times on social media), almost all UK papers, the New
 York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, Economist, Times, Independent, Huffington
 Post, VICE, Buzzfeed, as well as CNN, ITV, BBC and Channel 4. This extensive coverage
 subsequently attracted the attention of the Russian and French embassies as well as the
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office, generated briefing requests from the FCO, the Home Office
 and individual MPs, and led to the research being cited in a report by the Committee on Foreign
 Relations in the United States Senate.

 Digital media has become increasingly important over the course of the REF cycle. UoA staff
 have produced over 400 research blogs since 2014. Their reach is extended by staff Twitter
 accounts with almost 90,000 followers cumulatively, as well as departmental, school and press
 office social media accounts within the university. For example, the Centre on Constitutional


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Change, which acts as a hub for engagement with constitutional research as well as a vehicle
 for disseminating UoA work in this area, has over 6,000 followers, including senior politicians,
 such as the Scottish First Minister, senior officials, including permanent secretaries, journalists,
 and members of the public. Over the course of the REF cycle, it has generated 1,267 blog posts,
 389,862 website users and 1,037,041 page views.

 Public Engagement: We encourage academic staff to pursue dissemination strategies that
 ensure research findings engage the public directly and have hosted 150 public events, working
 with local parliamentarians, schools, community and church groups to address public audiences.
 This includes taking advantage of Edinburgh’s status as a festival city. Staff have participated in
 the Edinburgh Book Festival (Kaarbo, March, McEwen, Jeffery), Edinburgh International Science
 Festival (Bomberg) and the Scottish Parliament’s Festival of Politics (where Escobar, Henderson
 and McEwen have appeared multiple times). A particular highlight is Cook’s two live shows,
 'Bring Back Child Labour!' and 'Abolish Childhood!', at the Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas, part of
 Edinburgh Fringe Festival, and which also featured in BBC TV ‘Edinburgh Night’s Edinburgh
 Fringe review programme. In these performances, he brought political philosophy to a public
 audience, discussing how commitments to equality and social justice have radical implications
 for our approaches to childhood.

 We made use of digital platforms to engage public audiences. Scholars in our UoA (Convery,
 Henderson, Mitchell, McEwen, Damro) led the world’s first ‘real-time’ Massive Open Online
 Courses spanning key democratic events using a template developed by Convery, including the
 2014 Scottish independence referendum, 2015 UK General Election, 2016 devolved elections in
 Scotland and Wales (in collaboration with Cardiff University) and the 2016 Brexit referendum.
 The courses, which included interactive live seminars online, mini lectures, involvement from
 referendum campaigns and political parties, reached over 15,000 registered users across the
 world.

 4.3   Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Alongside our commitment to interdisciplinary research, we have pursued an agenda of
 engaging extensively with our various professional bodies that support work in our
 disciplines. Staff have been elected to executive positions of their professional associations:
 PSA (Kenny, Mackay); ISA (Hom, Kaarbo); APSA and MPSA (Liu); Association of Social and
 Political Philosophy (Cook, Cripps); British Society for Middle Eastern Studies (Perugini, Stein,
 Volpi); British Association for Islamic Studies (Volpi); Council for British Research in the Levant
 (Allinson); and the British Association for Chinese Studies (Hammond). As Equality and Diversity
 lead for the PSA, Kenny drafted the association’s E&D strategy, implemented a new prize and
 awards framework to improve transparency and authored the PSA’s anti-harassment and
 discrimination policy. In addition, staff have convened or currently lead ten specialist groups of
 their professional bodies, in four instances creating and then serving as inaugural convenors. In
 the six years since the PSA launched its ‘specialist group of the year’ award it has been won four
 times by groups led by staff in our UoA (Bomberg, Convery, Geddes, Kenny).

 UoA staff have organised no fewer than 56 workshops or conferences in the UK and 15
 internationally with an accumulated audience of 2700 academics. Several of these were in
 Edinburgh, including BISA (2016). We have already begun preparations to host the ECPR Joint
 Sessions in 2022. In 2020 we were to host the 70th anniversary conference of the PSA, ten years
 after hosting its 60th anniversary conference. The event was cancelled in April because of the
 Covid-19 pandemic. Since March 2020 we have adapted to circumstances and held 46
 workshops or seminars online, reaching a total audience of 2,300 for events such as book



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 launches, and workshops for ECRs. The largest was a 1,000-person workshop for academics,
 activists and practitioners on gender, security and climate change.

 UoA staff serve the discipline in a variety of ways, including as editors of ten journals since
 2014 across the themes of governance (e.g. Government and Opposition), security and ethics
 (e.g. Res Publica, Contemporary Political Theory, Foreign Policy Analysis), as well as
 representation and democracy (e.g. Politics and Gender, Political Behavior). Reflecting its
 international reputation for scholarship in territorial politics PIR served as home to Regional and
 Federal Studies (edited by Jeffery, then McEwen, then Swenden) until 2018. In line with our
 ambitions to engage more with the discipline, Edinburgh PIR now hosts the British Journal of
 Politics and International Relations. Ten staff have been involved in the running of BJPIR as co-
 editors (Peterson and Convery, joined later by Kaarbo, Kenny and Turner) or consultant editors
 (Cripps, Hardie, Henderson, Kaarbo, Mackay and Mitchell).

 A third of our staff sit on the advisory boards of an additional 20 journals covering a range of
 expertise across our subfields (e.g. Journal of European Public Policy, Policy and Politics,
 Journal of Legislative Studies, Contemporary Political Theory, Security Dialogue, Europe-Asia
 Studies, Third World Quarterly, Political Studies Review) as well as journals with geographic
 areas of expertise (African Politics, East European Politics, Russian politics, Korea Observer).
 Staff serve as books series editors for various publishers. Kaarbo is co-editor of Role Theory
 and IR (Routledge), Raab is general editor of Studies in Surveillance (Routledge), March edits
 Russian politics and society (ibidem), Damro edits Contemporary European Studies
 (EUACES/Routledge) while Kaczmarska is on the board of Global Epistemics (Rowman). In
 addition, UoA colleagues have also reviewed book manuscripts and draft articles for well over a
 hundred academic presses and journals.

 UoA members are heavily involved in arrangements for research training beyond Edinburgh,
 including the Scottish ESRC Doctoral Training partnership, which is hosted at UoE through the
 Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS). The DTP is the UK’s largest facilitator of
 funding, training and support for doctoral students in social science. In addition, UoA staff have
 organised or taught on various international courses, including prestigious summer schools
 associated with ECPR, EURAC and the International Federation for Information Processing.

 Our collective impact on the discipline is reflected in a number of esteem indicators. Staff were
 invited to serve on juries to award publication and dissertation prizes, both for the PSA
 (Henderson, Mackay and Thaler) and internationally, APSA (Mackay), ISA (Hom) and Canadian
 PSA (Henderson). Cram twice chaired the jury to select the best article in the Journal of
 Common Market Studies while the BJPIR editorial team selects its annual article winner. The
 award is now named after John Peterson. Seven PIR staff served on commissioning and review
 panels for the ESRC, British Academy, Leverhulme (Boswell, Cook, Cram, Henderson,
 Hopewell, Mihai and Swenden); EU Horizon programmes and ERC (Boswell, Mihai); and other
 national and international research funding agencies (Boswell, Henderson).

 In addition to the prizes and awards listed in S1, colleagues were elected to fellowships in the
 Royal Society of Edinburgh (Boswell, Henderson, and Mackay) joining Mitchell and Raab; the
 Academy of Social Sciences (Boswell), joining Mackay and Raab; and the British Academy
 (Boswell). UoA staff take a leading role in these organisations, serving on key committees
 (Boswell, Henderson, Mackay) and leading working groups (Boswell, Raab). Boswell has been
 elected to serve as Vice President (Public Policy) of the British Academy, from July 2021.




                                                                                             Page 20
