Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: A1 Clinical Medicine

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context

 1.1.1 Overview
 Warwick Medical School (WMS) was established in 2000 with an initial focus on health science
 research and delivery of an innovative graduate entry MBChB programme. Since that time WMS
 has built on the outstanding multidisciplinary research environment at the University of Warwick
 (UoW) to develop a research strategy focussed on niche areas of biomedical discovery
 research and on developing translational clinical research strengths in a small number of
 areas of unmet need. Our outputs were recognized in REF2014 (ranked 8th), and over the last
 7 years we have dramatically strengthened our research environment (by doubling research
 income per FTE, establishing multiple research centres of excellence, new PhD and research-
 led UG programs, and MRC and Wellcome funded strategic awards). This development is
 reflected in the election of Achtman to the Royal Society of London (FRS), the award of the
 BSCB Hooke Medal to McAinsh (2018) and Royle (2021) and the emergence of significant
 research impact.

 We have streamlined our biomedical research activities into a single entity, establishing the
 Division of Biomedical Sciences (BMS) in 2015. This structure provides a more efficient
 platform to deliver world-class discovery science, acts as a hub for interdisciplinary biomedical
 research across UoW and supports our ambition to further develop translational medicine
 programmes in partnership with the University Hospital Coventry & Warwickshire (UHCW). BMS
 holds research culture and inclusivity at the centre of all of its activities and is a strong advocate
 for open science.

 BMS now sits alongside the Division of Health Sciences and the Warwick Clinical Trials Unit
 (WCTU) within WMS creating a vibrant collaborative environment that cuts across traditional
 research boundaries thereby facilitating our ambition to increase translational research activity in
 distinctive areas and generate significant impacts in health. Together with the School of Life
 Sciences (SLS), and other departments within the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Medicine
 (REF5a-1.6) there is now deep interdisciplinary strength in fundamental and applied biomedical
 research across UoW; evidenced by collaborations with physical and engineering sciences and
 clinicians. We believe this interdisciplinary strategy puts us in a strong position to address major
 current and future global medical challenges.

 1.1.2. Major strategic developments
  £54M Warwick/Wolfson-funded Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Building (IBRB,
     completing January 2021 – REF5a-4.2).
  £4M expansion of the Centre for Mechanochemical Cell Biology (CMCB) with 4 Wellcome
     Investigators.
  New cross-UoW multidisciplinary research centres – the Centre for Early Life (CfEL) and
     Cancer Research Centre.
  Joint academic appointments with Chemistry (Gibson, Perrier) and Physics (Kantsler, Polin)
     to hard-wire our interdisciplinary approach.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    £4M Warwick-Wellcome Trust funded Quantitative Biomedicine (QBP) program to support
     new early-career Investigators and public engagement and the £0.8 million Wellcome-
     Warwick Translational Partnership (W-WTP) to support translation of discovery research
     (REF5a-2.7).
    New Tommy’s National Centre for Miscarriage Research, Enterobase Microbial genome
     database and PathLake Centre of Excellence.
    New Institute of Digital Healthcare in partnership with Warwick Manufacturing Group with a
     view to the future of medicine.
    Recognition of Health as a global research priority within UoW through a Health Global
     Research Priority (GRP), a cross-campus vehicle to support collaboration and innovation
     (REF5a-2.9.1).
    Renewal of our interdisciplinary MRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and expansion
     through MRC iCASE and National Productivity Investment Fund.
    New PhD program in partnership with A*STAR Singapore.
    Athena Swan Silver Award and sustained capacity-building through internal promotions,
     maintaining good gender balance.




 1.1.3 Impact and collaboration with external bodies
 Our staff seek to maximise the impact of their research, contributing to the national and
 international research environment via collaboration, engagement with industry and the
 promotion of public engagement; see Sections 4.2/4.3. To achieve this, we work with other
 academic departments in UoW, our local partner hospital (UHCW) and other NHS Trusts as well


                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as national and international funding bodies and agencies such as Wellcome, British Council,
 and A*STAR-Singapore. The important contribution to these organisations from many of our
 staff helps ensure that we deliver the highest priority research with the maximum possible impact
 on discovery and translational research. Building an outstanding academic environment brings
 new ideas, and then research impact, not only those included as our three case studies (1.
 Enterobase-a platform to trace disease outbreaks, 2. Prevention strategies for recurrent
 pregnancy loss, 3. New therapeutics for neurological disorders), but also many more emerging
 cases including two new spin-outs (Nanosyrinx and Cytoswim), SARS-COV-2 diagnostics,
 cryoprotectants for biologicals, repurposed drugs for preventing miscarriage, Oxytocin receptor
 antagonists for treatment of preterm labour, and the digitisation of routine histopathology.

 1.1.4 Setting within University and local healthcare environment
 UoW creates a lively interdisciplinary research culture through its strong departments, network of
 research centres and nine GRPs (REF5a-2.9.1). WMS forms a single department within the
 Faculty of Science, Engineering and Medicine facilitating the collaborative working both within
 WMS and with other departments that we see as an essential part of our interdisciplinary
 research activity. The Health GRP (co-led by Young, FMedSci) ‘pump-primes’ collaborative
 interactions with an emphasis on supporting the development of early career researchers
 (ECRs) in areas that span traditional disciplines. The Health GRP interacts with our other
 Centres and engages with a range of external stakeholders (e.g. UHCW) as well as providing a
 vehicle for collaboration with industry. As described in Section 4, we have a strong and
 successful partnership with UHCW. Our close collaborations have allowed us to appoint to posts
 of shared value and to invest in integration with frontline clinicians. We have an established
 laboratory base at UHCW, our Clinical Sciences Research Laboratories, which is currently home
 to eight research groups and actively engages with frontline clinical staff across our priority
 research themes.

 1.2 Unit structure and strategy

 1.2.1 Division of Biomedical Sciences
 All staff included in the Warwick UoA A1 return are based in the Division of Biomedical
 Sciences (BMS; head, McAinsh) which is home to almost 200 staff/research students making
 up approximately 33% of Warwick Medical School. Our 39 principal investigators (PIs; 33.1 FTE
 eligible) include both clinical and non-clinical academics alongside four that are jointly appointed
 with other UoW departments in support of our interdisciplinary ethos (returned in UoA B8/UoA
 B9). PIs and their research groups are supported by a strong dedicated administration team
 (12.1 FTE) and extensive technical services group ensuring efficient laboratory operations.

 1.2.2 Leadership and governance
 Research strategy in WMS is led by Balasubramanian (Pro-Dean, Research) who chairs the
 WMS Research Committee and is a member of the University Research Committee chaired by
 the PVC (Research) (REF5a-2.4). He works closely on a day-to-day basis with the Head of
 Division, BMS (McAinsh). Both McAinsh and Balasubramanian also sit on the WMS Senior
 Management Group; this leadership group includes the Dean (Kumar), Pro-Dean Education,
 Heads of Governance, Administration, Finance, Marketing, MBChB, Career Development,
 Postgraduate Research and the Heads of the WCTU and Division of Health Sciences. Within
 BMS Brosens provides clinical leadership, while Blanks oversees industry/impact development
 and is a member of the University Research Impact Advisory Group, chaired by the PVC
 (Research) (REF5a-2.6). Our research is closely integrated with education as Straube is deputy
 director of WMS postgraduate research, while BMS also takes responsibility for medical student

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and undergraduate education.

 1.2.3 Strategy
 Our priority during this REF period has been to: 1. consolidate and extend our discovery
 science base, and 2. develop distinctive areas of translational and experimental medicine
 by strengthening our partnership with UHCW. To achieve this, we set out to establish and
 develop a number of defined research programmes and centres (see sections 1.2.4 and 1.2.5
 for detail – Fig. 1). The latter are interdisciplinary in nature with members from multiple
 University departments and benefit from a degree of autonomy, undergoing review on a three–
 year cycle by the University Research Committee to ensure continued research success.
 Catalysing the activity of these centres and nucleating new collaborative research programmes
 demands: (i) developing a world-class faculty that is capable of sustaining high-quality externally
 funded programmes in discovery and/or translational research; (ii) winning large external
 strategic awards; (iii) supporting the expansion of clinical scientist led research with hospital
 partners and (iv) establishing the necessary infrastructure, enabling technologies/facilities and
 support/leadership structures.

 Our strategy is also nimble and adapts to address current health needs. We have made
 significant contributions to the diagnosis of COVID-19. Balasubramanian and Sampath
 generated thermostable enzymes used in COVID-19 diagnosis, which have been sent to CDC-
 Africa (Ethiopia), Sfax (Tunisia), EMBL (Germany), Isfahan University (Iran), and IndX program
 (India). Gibson and Straube have developed a new test based on sugar binding of SARS-CoV2
 spike protein and Robb a single molecule imaging-based diagnostic for SARS-Cov2 - both
 currently undergoing technology transfer. The work of Randeva, Young and Grammatopoulos
 in COVID-19 testing and prognosis is described in 1.2.4. (Translational Research Section).

 1.2.4 Core Research Programmes
  Our Discovery Science (20.2 FTE) work involves viral, prokaryotic, and eukaryotic systems
     and in many cases works at the interface of mechanism and disease. One focus is to
     understand the molecular mechanisms and rules that enable cell duplication, movement and
     repair and the self-organisational events that produce and pattern organs and multi-cellular
     organisms. At the heart of this effort are 12 PIs that form the core of the Centre for
     Mechanochemical Cell Biology (CMCB, see 1.2.5). A second focus is Infection biology
     which explores the population structure and evolution of pathogenic bacteria (Achtman,
     Quince), alongside mechanistic work on bacterial invasion (Unnikrishnann, Waterfield),
     Virology (Robb), Parasitology (Dean) and cellular imumunoloy (James). All this work
     benefits from access to cutting-edge high-throughput approaches, including robotics,
     genomics, metagenomics, bioinformatics and imaging to understand the biology of key
     pathogens, host interactions and their communities. Success over the REF period is
     highlighted by 5 Wellcome Investigators, a Henry Dale Fellow, 2 collaborative grants, an
     ERC advanced grant, CRUK (programme grant and fellowship) and a large number of
     project grants from MRC, BBSRC, and Leverhulme Trust. These research programs have
     led to significant discoveries, as evidenced in the outputs as well as one of our impact cases
     and other esteem indicators.

    Our Translational Research (12.9 FTE) activity is focussed on exploiting our discovery
     science base to grow our applied research (and impact) portfolio with our main clinical
     partner, UHCW, while benefiting from the distinctiveness afforded by our cross-campus
     interdisciplinary strengths. These activities are principally focussed in key niche areas:


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    1. Reproductive medicine: This strong research cluster (Five PIs, Brosens, Quenby,
       Blanks, Greaves and Ott working alongside Hartshorne -Scientific Director, UHCW IVF
       clinic, investigate the physiology and diseases associated with the processes of
       reproduction. This is coupled to developing interventions to tackle recurrent miscarriage,
       preterm labour, endometriosis and persistent reproductive failure. Significant impact has
       already been achieved in this area: (i) a novel pre-pregnancy test to identify women at
       risk of higher-order miscarriages and to target treatments to specific underlying defects;
       (ii) novel treatment strategies focussed on enhancing the endometrium prior to
       conception by optimising recruitment of uterine stem cells; (iii) influenced guidelines and
       policy through the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology group; and
       (iv) developed, in collaboration with Glaxo SmithKline, second generation oxytocin
       receptor antagonists, currently in phase three clinical trials, for the treatment of preterm
       labour. The success from this activity has led to the MRC-Tommy’s Biobank, Tommy’s
       National miscarriage Centre, the new Centre for Early Life and a second impact case
       study.

    2. Development of novel drugs, devices, and treatments. To this end, we work closely
       with the departments of Chemistry, Maths, WMG, Computer Science. We have
       developed cancer therapeutics (Dallman, Levi, Young, Perrier, and Sadler in Chemistry
       and Rand in Maths), cryopreservation of biologicals (Gibson) and SARS-CoV2
       diagnostics (Gibson, Robb). Continued success of the spin-out company Neurosolutions
       Ltd which is driving the development of treatment for neurological disorders, including
       pain and neurodegeneration providing a third impact case study. Working in partnership
       with UHCW (Grammatopoulos, Randeva) have spearheaded the COVID-19 testing
       base for Coventry and Warwickshire. A recent Innovate UK award (Young,
       Grammatopoulos with Celentyx Ltd) is developing high throughput screening for agents
       that block SARS-CoV-2 infection.

    3. Establishment of a digital pathology research programme in collaboration with
       Computer Science (Rajpoot) and UHCW, the first NHS hospital to fully digitise its
       pathology services. This work exploits our imaging expertise for the digital analysis of
       histological material and the use of artificial intelligence (AI) to develop algorithms for the
       automation of pathology screening. A product of this work is the PathLAKE (Pathology
       image data Lake for Analytics, Knowledge and Education-led by Snead) Centre of
       Excellence supported by Innovate UK which, working with Philips Healthcare, has
       created a national centre of excellence in AI in pathology, linked to five other digitised
       NHS pathology labs with a total of £29M in grants.

 1.2.5 Centres of Excellence
  Centre for Mechanochemical Cell Biology (CMCB) (led by Cross): Established in 2010,
     the CMCB has grown into a world-leading University Research Centre that is home to
     four Wellcome Investigators (Cross, McAInsh, Balasubramanian, Straube). The first
     phase of CMCB expansion was supported through a university-funded £4M extension to the
     Mechanochemical Cell Biology Building in 2015. The CMCB drives basic scientific
     understanding of the natural molecular and cellular machinery that generates force and
     movement; processes that are frequently disrupted in various diseases. The Centre is also
     home to two research groups jointly appointed with Physics, and other members from
     Physics, Computer Science and Mathematics. The Centre has an outstanding track record in


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     quantitative molecular cell biology and biophysics as well as experimental molecular cell
     biology, all with an increasing focus on disease-associated mechanisms. We have built an
     outstanding interdisciplinary environment regarding both through physical environment for
     experiments and our scientific culture. We have begun expanding the CMCB research focus
     to include tissue-scale mechanobiology through the recruitment of three outstanding
     Assistant (Smutny, Ratheesh, Austrian Institute of Technology; Koester, National Institute
     of Biological Sciences, Bangalore) and Associate (Saunders, Mechanobiology Institute
     Singapore) Professors. This has been facilitated by the Warwick-Wellcome Quantitative
     Biomedicine Programme (see below) and through the Wolfson investment in a Tissue
     mechanobiology and human disease laboratory within IBRB.

    Centre for Early Life (CfEL) (led by Brosens/Quenby): Established in 2020 the CfEL will
     focus on biomedical challenges encompassing conception, pregnancy and infant
     development. Designed to capitalise and expand on existing research strengths including the
     Tommy’s National Miscarriage Research Centre; the Biomedical Research Unit embedded in
     UHCW which serves as a catalyst for both early-phase and large-scale multicentre clinical
     trials; the dedicated NHS Research Implantation Clinic for couples experiencing persistent
     reproductive failure, and the MRC-funded Tommy’s Biobank. The breadth of scientific
     expertise means that the Centre can translate the science of embryo implantation into novel
     tests and treatments that lead to healthy infants with minimal disability. In keeping with our
     interdisciplinary ethos, the Centre is institution-wide including principal investigators from
     WMS, School of Life Sciences (SLS), Institute for Digital Healthcare, Engineering, Chemistry,
     Psychology, Mathematics and Physics. It is envisaged that the CfEL will generate
     translatable outputs in basic science, drug discovery and novel diagnostics as well as
     healthcare policy in the treatment of infants, interacting with our Division of Health Sciences
     and Clinical Trials Unit. Expansion of faculty and our research base is evidenced by
     recruitment of MRC-funded Assistant Professor (Greaves, from MRC centre, Edinburgh)
     award of a joint Wellcome Investigator award (Brosens, Ott) and a Wellcome Collaborative
     Award (McAinsh with Hartshorne (UHCW) and Burroughs (Maths).

    Warwick Cancer Research Centre (WCRC) (led by Young): WCRC has provided a focus
     for multidisciplinary cancer research. It has resulted in new collaborations and research
     funding between departments (e.g. WMS and the Department of Chemistry with funding from
     CRUK, EPSRC and Royal Society), contributed to regional developments in medical
     technology and clinical trials (e.g. PathLake digital pathology project led by Snead and
     interactions with regional clinical trials units), and supported improved engagement with
     hospital trusts. WCRC is being increasingly recognised as a centre of excellence and is
     starting to generate new external funding (CRUK Programme Grant & Pioneer Award
     (Royle), CRUK Interdisciplinary Award (Levi/Dallman/Rand).

 1.2.6 Achievements: External Strategic Awards
  Wellcome-Warwick Quantitative Biomedicine Programme (QBP): Established by
     Balasubramanian in 2014 to build biomedical research through Wellcome Trust’s
     Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF). The initial £600K award (and an equivalent
     match from Warwick) supported two ECRs (one is now a Wellcome/Royal Society Sir Henry
     Dale Fellow) and internal seed grants (one of which led to a Wellcome Investigator Award,
     Straube). This success led to a second expanded award of £1M (and an equivalent match
     from Warwick) in 2016 (led by Balasubramanian & McAinsh) to support recruitment of five
     new QBP Assistant/Associate Professors (three to expand capacity in the CMCB (Koester,


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Smutny & Ratheesh) and two to Infection/Epidemiology (James, BMS) and (Gorsich, Life
     Sciences). QBP also supports a thriving public engagement programme led by a dedicated
     Public Engagement coordinator, organises annual international symposia and provides seed
     grants to develop further quantitative biomedicine projects across the University.

    Wolfson Foundation award - Tissue Mechanobiology and Human Disease Laboratory:
     This £750K award enables the expansion of the CMCB into tissue mechanobiology research
     within the new Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Building (IBRB).

    Microbial Bioinformatics: Following the formation of a microbiology and infection
     programme in 2013 our researchers have established a world-leading microbial
     bioinformatics cluster including the £8.4M MRC-funded Cloud Infrastructure for Microbial
     Bioinformatics (CLIMB, CLIMB2 Big Data) facilities and BBSRC-funded Enterobase genome
     database. The latter (led by Achtman), provides a globally unique resource: ~250,000
     genomes from multiple genera that were assembled from publicly available short read
     archives, creating an invaluable public resource for investigating the history of associations
     between pathogens and their hosts. International government laboratories have used
     Enterobase to supplement outbreak investigations including Public Health England, Public
     Health Agency of Sweden, Centre for Infectious Diseases and Microbiology - Public Health
     (NSW, Australia) as evidence in one of our impact case studies.

    Tommy’s National Centre for Miscarriage Research: Led by Quenby and Brosens (at
     Warwick), this £2.5M award established the Tommy's National Early Centre for Miscarriage
     Research in a partnership with Birmingham, and Imperial. The three sites run specialist
     clinics enabling 24,000 women per year to access treatment and support and participate in
     research studies. The Centre is dedicated to improving the lives of women and
     couples experiencing miscarriage and aims to serve 24,000 local couples every year; to
     advocate for access to recurrent miscarriage care and increase therapeutic options; to
     lead on national and international guidelines.

    Wellcome-Warwick Translational Partnership (W-WTP): The W-WTP was established in
     2019 by a £600K award from Wellcome and £180K from the University to develop a
     translational ecosystem (REF5a-2.7). The long-term vision is to deliver essential resources,
     people and support to maximise the translation of our discovery science into new diagnostic
     tools, treatments and patient benefits using a multidisciplinary highly collaborative approach.
     To achieve this we have established: (i) Translational Fellows programme, aimed at
     existing researchers (PDRAs, ECRs) who have expertise and well-defined plans to drive
     forward translational research. Awarded fellows are developing non-invasive oxygen
     monitoring in neonates, endometrial organoids for drug discovery and cryopreservation for
     CAR-T therapy. (ii) Translation and Innovation Grants to overcome specific barriers and
     provide access to external expertise.

    MRC Proximity-to-Discovery: This fund supports opportunities to increase engagement
     with industrial and/or clinical partners, or to provide our researchers with opportunities to
     develop their skills and confidence to cultivate translational research ideas within MRC
     strategic priorities. This award is managed in conjunction with the University’s innovation
     group which also holds a budget (£310K p.a.) used predominantly for supporting patent
     costs and is a node for the Research England funded Midlands Innovation
     Commercialisation of Research Accelerator (MICRA) and the Midlands Hub for Innovate UK


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     funded Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research (ICURe) programme. Our
     researchers are encouraged and supported to apply for internal funds to facilitate impact
     from research (REF5a-2.7). A number of researchers (Waterfield, Gibson) have received
     HEIF and UKRI IAA impact awards.

    Innovation (1) Waterfield (NanoSyrinx) - nanosyringes for drug delivery supported by
     Warwick Innovations impact development funds, BBSRC pathfinder grant, an iCURE
     (Innovate UK) 3-month fellowship, and secured an initial round of investment from Merck
     Ventures and BioCity; (2) Gibson (CryoLogyx) – awarded £300K from Innovate UK to
     develop innovate cryopreservation agents with applications in the diagnostic, medicines
     discovery and cell-based therapy markets; (3) UHCW is the lead partner on the £15.7m
     PathLAKE Innovate UK with Snead and Rajpoot (Department of Computer Science) leading
     the development, validation and implementation of AI in histopathology in the NHS to
     improve cancer diagnosis; this is further supported by specialist imaging and AI SMEs; (4)
     Imray (UHCW, Honorary Professor) is co-applicant on the 2014 NIHR i4i project led by Dale
     (Life Sciences/Sarissa Biomedical) to develop SMARTChip, the world’s first point-of-care test
     for purines in whole bloodSMARTchip is progressing through clinical trials.

 1.3 Future Development

 WMS has undertaken a renewal of its 10-year strategy and will recruit 16 new posts, of whom 9
 will be UoA A1-facing. The major focus will be on expansion of “Discovery-to-early
 translation” thereby bridging to our well-established Clinical Trails portfolio (returned in UoA
 A2). The recently established Warwick-Wellcome Translational Partnership was specifically
 designed to support this early stage translation and we will work to expand this in due course
 with the University’s Health GRP providing an institution -wide framework. Our approach will
 initially focus on building three translational research themes (Fig. 1):

     1. Translational Mechanobiology: We will expand on our proven success in molecular
        and cellular mechanobiology (see CMCB, section 1.2.5) and our new recruitments in
        tissue-scale mechanobiology (Saunders) to initiate a research programme in clinical
        mechanobiology. Building on our technological expertise in microscopy, image analysis
        and the measurement of forces, we aim to create technologies to probe and manipulate
        biomechanics - a key theme will be to evaluate the association between load and tissue
        damage and how nerves, tendons, and muscle respond to damage at both the cellular
        and tissue level. We will create new opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborative work
        with our Institute of Digital Health’s Health Care Technologies and Biomedical
        Engineering group. A second theme will investigate how cellular and tissue level
        mechanochemical defects manifest into human disease, such as tendonopathies and
        myopathies and ageing processes; this work will be supported by new clinical academic
        appointments.

     2. Reproductive Medicine: Already a major strength with substantial outputs and impacts.
        We will aim to extend work using patient-derived organoids and organ-on-a-chip
        approaches to dissect diseases with a reproductive origin. We see a significant
        opportunity to develop new programmes at the interface of CMCB and CfEL, where the
        role of mechanical processes in reproduction and disease etiology will be explored.

     3. Precision Diagnostics: We will build on our strengths in Infection biology and digital
        pathology with an initial focus on staphylococcal, mycobacterial and viral infections, and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        digital pathology signatures in cancer diagnosis. We will strengthen these areas with new
        clinical academic appointments and use these to enhance the translational development
        of our molecular and cellular pathology programmes. The Centre will work closely with
        the Institute of Precision Diagnostics and Translational Medicine at UHCW which will
        provide the vehicle for the more applied aspects of the research, working with clinicians
        and industry to fast track key areas of innovation (e.g. digital pathology, biomarker
        development). Key industry partners will include Philips Healthcare and Siemens.

 A key objective will be to develop national capacity for training clinical academics in the related
 clinical discipline areas that are less well represented nationally and establish Clinical PhD
 programmes in partnership with UHCW. At the same time, we will use resources to ensure the
 continued growth and sustainability of our thriving Discovery Science programmes.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 2.1.1 Staffing strategy overview
 The Division of Biomedical Sciences has a total of 198.9 FTE staff and students, with a REF-
 eligible research active staff complement of 33.1 FTE. The remaining staff constitute
 postdoctoral researchers/fellows (39), clinical lecturers (16 in WMS), technicians (13),
 administrators (12.1) along with PGR students (95) and teaching fellows (4). To build a positive
 and inclusive culture, all staff are invited to regular staff meetings (on-line for last year), and
 receive a weekly news bulletin to highlight successes and communicate key notices. Given we
 are co-located with SLS, we established a joint “return to research group” to ensure coordinated
 and consistent laboratory working during the COVID19 pandemic.

 Our strategy has been one of sustained growth underpinned by external research grant income
 (see Section 3) and the launch in 2020 of our two new undergraduate UG courses 1. A
 pioneering research-led MSci (Integrated Sciences) and 2. A Health and Medical Sciences BSc,
 which provide opportunities for the recruitment of new junior faculty. Since REF2014 we have
 recruited eight new PIs (25% of total) including three QBP Assistant Professors (co-funded by
 Wellcome), three university-funded assistant professors (Greaves, MRC career development
 award; Dean, former Henry Wellcome fellow and Robb, Dorothy Hodgkin Royal Society Fellow)
 and two Associate Professors (James, former Henry Dale fellow and Saunders, National
 Research Foundation Fellow, Singapore).

 The next step in our strategy is to complete recruitment of three additional PIs who will be
 accommodated in the new £54M research facility, the Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research
 Building (IBRB). Our search will focus on infectious diseases and immunity researchers, who
 will help generate a critical mass in this area. The second step will involve recruitment of 7
 translational researchers. Thus, the recruitment process will target translational clinical
 researchers in our key areas (Early Life, Translational Mechanobiology, Precision Diagnostics,
 Fig. 1) who are attracted to our multidisciplinary environment. In parallel we are seeking to
 attract outstanding early career researchers who we will sponsor to win career development
 fellowships. We offer attractive start-up packages (>£130K), alongside underwriting of access to
 equipment, facilities and staff/students to fully support career progression and success as first
 external awards are sought.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.1.2 Awards/International Recognition
 The excellence of our staff at all levels is demonstrated by awards and international recognition
 as described in more detail in Sections 2.2 and 4, the most prestigious including:

 1 Fellow of The Royal Society (FRS) [Achtman]
 1 Pettenkofer Prize 2018 [Achtman]
 1 Fellow of The Medical Academy of Sciences [Young]
 2 Hooke Medals, British Society of Cell Biology [McAinsh, Royle]
 1 Lister Prize Fellow [Straube]
 2 Wolfson Royal Society Research Merit Awards [Balasubramanian, McAinsh]
 7 Wellcome Investigators [McAinsh/Achtman/Cross/Straube/Balasubramanian/Brosens/Ott]
 8. Quenby and Brosens both named in the top 100 Nation’s Lifesavers.

 2.1.3 Academic Development
 Continued development of all our academics, irrespective of career stages, is a key aim with
 multiple programmes now in place to build a positive research culture (see below and REF5a-
 3.3). We are signatories to DORA (San Francisco Declaration for Research Assessment).

    1. We established an Internal Review Committee (IRC) to ensure thorough internal peer
       review, monitor PI response to review and provides constructive feedback. All grants now
       flow through this system.

    2. Alongside a vibrant external seminar series, we established an internal-facing
       programme in order that PIs can share their research discoveries with colleagues. This
       has proved to be extremely valuable in building collegiality. There are also regular
       subject-specific seminars in Microbiology & Infection and Stem cells & Development that
       are jointly run with the School of Life Sciences. Centre-focused seminar programmes
       provide additional opportunities for research discussion, critical feedback and the
       identification of collaborative opportunities.

    3. Annual review: either the official University Personal Development Review (PDR) or an
       informal one-to-one discussion with Head of Division is now mandatory to ensure that we
       can provide appropriate support for the development all academics. All Assistant
       Professors are also subject to a 5 year probation period with close mentorship - a
       positive outcome leads to promotion (to Associate Professor) and is based on
       performance across four key areas of academic activity: Research & Scholarship,
       Teaching & Learning, Impact, Outreach & Engagement and Collegiality, Leadership &
       Management. Annual meetings are held with Dean/ Head of Division to monitor progress
       and provide support and guidance.

    4. For academics with leadership potential we have encouraged participation in the
       University’s Leadership Programme; in the REF period 7 academics have benefited, 4 of
       whom have gone on to leadership roles (i.e. Millar and then, McAinsh to Head of
       Division; Straube to Deputy Director PGR in WMS).

    5. All new staff have induction meetings with our Research & Impact Services (R&IS) who
       provide guidance on eligibility, remit and budgets for funding schemes (REF5a-1.7).
       Training events and funder visits are organised on a regular basis, such as visits by the
       Wellcome Trust (Sep 2016, Sep 2018), BBSRC (March 2019) and MRC (July 2019) as

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        well as sessions on grant writing, where early career researchers can learn about funding
        schemes including Fellowship schemes and develop their grant writing skills. Further,
        R&IS members advise researchers on an individual basis on planned research grant or
        fellowship applications where required and support the Division of Biomedical Sciences
        in their peer review (see IRC above).

    6. We are proud to hold an Athena SWAN Silver Award with the effectiveness of our
       equality and diversity strategy demonstrated by our excellent gender balance at all levels
       (see section 2.4.1).

 Successful promotions all academic career transitions
 McAinsh - Associate Professor to Professor (2014)
 Straube - to Associate Professor (2014), and Professor (2020)
 Royle - Associate Professor to Reader (2016), and Professor (2019)
 Bastie - to Associate Professor (2016, now teaching focused)
 Sampath - Associate Professor to Professor (2018)
 Unnikrishnan - Assistant Professor to Associate Professor (2018)
 Dallmann - Assistant Professor to Associate Professor (2020)

 2.2 Early career researchers (ECRs)

 Our ECRs are valued members of research groups, taking a full and active role, and are
 essential to our current research success as well as the future of research. We have a specific
 academic development programme for ECRs, who are also encouraged to have a senior
 academic mentor, with this obligatory for probationary staff. Our commitment to ECR
 development is exemplified by both Wellcome-Warwick QBP and TP strategic awards directly
 supporting the recruitment of independent fellows (2), Assistant Professors (4) and Translational
 fellows (3). In total we have 52.9 ECRs that includes postdoctoral researchers, research
 associates, research fellows, senior research fellows, assistant professors, teaching fellows,
 senior teaching fellows, academic clinical fellows and academic clinical lecturers. WMS
 established an Academic Staff Development Network to focus support on these staff. The group
 meets quarterly, hosts multiple events/workshop. We share responsibility for 1) representing
 staff at the WMS Welfare Strategy Group and other relevant committees. 2) Provide signposting
 and information 3) Raise concerns and issues on behalf of staff to the senior management, 4)
 Provide networking opportunities for members.

 Additional support mechanisms have been developed for the following groups:

 2.2.1 Postdoctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs)
 We keenly support our researchers in building successful careers both in academia and
 industry. We ensure that there are opportunities to meet with funders and discuss their plans in
 one-to-one meetings. We also support and encourage the writing of grants for pilot work that can
 lead to fellowships, e.g. supported Dr. Emma Watkins (nee Lucas) in a successful application to
 Medical Life Science Research Fund to acquire preliminary data for a RCUK fellowship
 application.

 Examples of success:
 Vladimirou - PDRF to Independent Group Leader, UCL Cancer Center (2016)
 Auckland – PDRF to Independent Group Leader, Randal Institute, KCL (2021)


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Drummond – PDRF to Full Professor, Kyushu University, Japan (2014)
 Watkins - Promoted to Senior Research Fellow (2019)
 Koester – PDRF to Assistant Professor, Warwick (2018)
 Booth – PDRF to Independent Group Leader, Nottingham (2019)
 Tchoupa – PDRF to Humbolt fellowship (2019)
 Louise-Davies – PDRF to Lectureship, UCL (2017)
 Leazza – PDRF to lecturer, University of Potenza (2019)
 Healey – PDRF to CEO of the spin-out Nanosyrinx
 Palani – PDRF to Assistant Professor, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India (2020)
 Hatano – PDRF to Deputy Director, Chitose Taberumo Corporation, Japan (2020)

 2.2.2 Clinical Lecturers/Fellows
 Within WMS we have hosted Integrated Academic Training posts within a programme that has
 expanded to include 9 specialties and attracts high calibre candidates across all levels of the
 programme. In 2018, Warwick was joint second in the country amongst medical schools whose
 students have been the most successful in applying to join the Academic Foundation
 Programme with 67% of our students who applied receiving an offer. Since 2014, WMS has had
 16 CLs in post of which 14 have gone on to continue their academic careers through multiple
 channels (taking posts such as Associate Professors and other academic positions).
 While building ACF and CLs into our UoA A1-based researchers is at an earlier stage, there are
 already notable successes all with substantive posts:

       Dr Hsu Chong (14/16), now NHS Consultant, Addenbrookes, Cambridge.
       Dr Shreeya Tewary (18/20) - shortlisted for the GSK Star Researcher award for her
        precision medicine early phase trial, now in sub-speciality training, Addenbrookes,
        Cambridge.
       Dr Lauren Lacy (17/21), novel diagnostics for pre-term labour, Seed award from
        Warwick-Wellcome Translational Partnership.
       Dr Hasan Kahal (17) now a Consultant endocrinologist, Bristol.
       Dr Bassel Al-Wattar (17/21) currently sub-specialty training at UCL.

 2.2.3. Assistant Professor/Independent Fellowship holders
 In 2018 we established Advisory committees for all new Assistant Professors and Clinical
 Associate Professors. In this scheme, assistant professors organize a 3-member committee, that
 mentors them with respect to 1. Grant writing 2. Laboratory management 3. PhD student training
 4. Teaching 5. Conflict resolution, and 6. Budget management. The committees meet on a
 yearly basis but have an informal flavour. ECRs are guided to focus on strategic issues, and not
 use time reporting data. They also benefit from informal interactions over the years with their
 committee members. This scheme goes above and beyond the standard University scheme
 which involves a single academic mentor who they meet annually (this individual now acts as the
 chair of the advisory committee). Assistant Professors also benefit from our internal grant review
 system to maximise their research potential and are invited to senior committees to provide input
 and gain experience (Koester is member of WMS Research Committee).

 Examples of success:

 Bowman - QBP fellow, now a Wellcome/Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Fellow.
 Smutny – Assistant Prof. since 2019 - awarded BBSRC new investigator award.
 Ratheesh - Assistant Prof. since 2019 – led successful infrastructure bid to BBSRC ALERT19.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.3 Training and supervision of postgraduate research (PGR) students

 The 95 postgraduate research students in Biomedical Sciences are supported through multiple
 funding streams including University/WMS Scholarships, research grants from CRUK,
 Leverhulme Trust or British Heart Foundation, and via multiple University-wide doctoral training
 Centers (REF5a-3.9).

 Our PGR training is organized around four key programmes:

 2.3.1 MRC Doctoral Training partnership (DTP) in Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research
 This flagship DTP (Directed by Millar) was renewed for a second 5 year period in 2016, ranking
 highly in a UK wide competition. The programme (56 students) delivers a class-leading
 interdisciplinary training programme comprised of a 1 year MSc and a 3 year PhD – students
 following projects with supervisors from distinct disciplines. There is a strong focus on
 quantitative imaging, microbial genomics, bioinformatics, polymer chemistry and chemical
 biology. In the first MSc year students gain core quantitative skills in mathematics, programming,
 statistics, mathematical and molecular modelling, chemistry and frontier techniques in
 biomedical research, such as genome engineering, before embarking on a 3-year PhD jointly
 supervised across departments and disciplines. Such training is particularly suitable for bridging
 the skills gap to the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors as identified by the MRC. To
 recruit an excellent and diverse cohort applicants are shortlisted and interviewed by a diverse
 gender-balanced panel of 4 academics with at least two female and two male members and at
 least one representative from another department. Cohort building is at the heart of this
 programme – ensuring students benefit from peer-to-peer support throughout the training year
 and beyond. In monthly DTP meetings, students present their research to the cohort, receive
 skills training and career advice. All students are mentored by the DTP management team and
 meet an advisory committee once per year.

 2.3.2 MRC Industrial Collaborative Awards in Science and Engineering (iCASE)
 Following national competitions, 12 industry linked iCASE studentships from the MRC and 6
 studentships from the National Productivity Investment Fund (NPIF) were secured. This enabled
 the DTP to expand its scientific remit to include projects in applied biomedical technologies
 including health informatics, digital pathology, point-of-care diagnostics, biomedical engineering,
 biosensors, nano-biotechnology, small animal in vivo and clinical imaging. This takes advantage
 of particular strengths of UoW and hospital partners and the establishment of an industry
 focused Medicines Discovery Catapult for tackling the threat of antimicrobial resistance (AMR).
 A further 3 industry linked studentships from through the National Productivity Investment Fund
 (NPIF), expand the remit to Artificial Intelligence (AI) for the analysis of big data. DTP industry
 partners currently include both large pharmaceutical firms such as AstraZeneca, Boehringer
 Ingleheim, Roche, LifeArc and Sosei Heptares Ltd and small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
 and Warwick spin off companies such as Bicycle Therapeutics PLC, Sarissa Biomedical and
 Neurosolutions Ltd. Industry partners provide bespoke training opportunities to all DTP students
 including drug discovery, intellectual property and patent law.

 2.3.3 Warwick-Singapore A*STAR institute ARAP program
 Launched in 2018, this 4-year programme (Directed by Sampath) enables students to conduct a
 research project with time spent in both an A*STAR institute in Singapore (2 yrs) and WMS or
 WMG (2 yrs). There are already 13 students on this programme and projects are in the field of


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 molecular cell biology or microbiology. The success has now led to renewal of this programme
 for another 4 years with 5 students per year.

 2.3.4 PGR Academy
 Inspired by our MRC DTP, this brings all the School’s Biomedical PhD students from diverse
 funding streams into a single cohort for advanced training, peer-to-peer support, networking,
 career guidance and research symposia (Directed by Straube, Blanks). This initiative will also
 streamline the administration to ensure high quality support for students and a common
 recruitment process to ensure that only the highest quality students join the division. All PGR
 students have two supervisors and are mentored by their divisional academic PGR lead.
 Progress is formally assessed after 9 months and 21 months of full-time study by a review panel.
 Pastoral care is provided by the postgraduate tutor who supports all our students with a range of
 personal problems and mental health issues. In 2021 we established a new PhD programme
 that is supported through the newly founded Institute for Global Pandemic Planning.

 Awards and Recognition
 Cerys Currie – Young Cell Biologist of the Year Award, British Society of Cell Biology, 2018.
 Jonathan Fenn – International Journal of Molecular Sciences Poster Prize, 2018.
 Thomas Rawlings – President’s Presenter Award, Society for Reproductive Investigation, 2019.
 Katie Smart – MRC Festival Open Award, 2019.
 Karen Dhillon – secured a Royal Society Policy internship, 2020.

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 We are proud to have Equality and Diversity embedded in all of our decision-making processes,
 with a 2019 departmental Athena Swan Silver award building on our previous Bronze award.
 Our processes support all our researchers in achieving their full potential and ensure that this is
 recognised and rewarded (see Section 2.1 and 4).

 UoW has been implementing the principles of the Concordat agreement between funders and
 employers of researchers in the UK 2009 (REF5a-3.3). The UoW has recently been awarded the
 HR Excellence in Research Award. Equality and diversity is a key part of our strategy (REF5a-
 3.4). The UoW Single Equality Scheme and associated Equality Objectives explicitly cover all
 research full-time, part-time and fixed term staff. The UoW maintain an institutional Athena
 SWAN Silver Award, achieved in 2013 and has established a University-level committee to
 oversee a forward-thinking research culture agenda (postdoc representative from our staff).

 The Warwick self-assessment team, and the WMS Welfare Strategy Group (WSG, co-Chaired
 by two females, an academic and Chief Operating Officer), embraces the wider departmental
 working, environment and culture of the School. Members derive from all areas of WMS bringing
 together a wealth of differing staff and student welfare experiences. The co-chair of the
 University-wide Athena SWAN Group sits on the group to advise on University and national
 matters. WSG endeavors to take a strategic, pro-active approach to establishing and embedding
 fair working practices across WMS. The WSG initiatives and AS Action plan are progressed and
 implemented by ‘Task and Finish Groups’ with the WSG membership leading groups comprised
 of the wider department and Gibbet Hill community. WMS organises/is involved in a number of
 Health and Wellbeing activities, such as regular Wellbeing Days with a number of activities on
 offer for staff to try out, including yoga sessions, the Gibbet Hill Walking group etc.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Warwick Learning and Development Centre (LDC) has a programme of workshops and on-
 line courses on Diversity and Inclusion, for example Dignity and Respect at Warwick, Disability
 Awareness, Mental Health Awareness, Types of Discrimination and Understanding Unconscious
 Bias.

 Beyond these School and University-wide endeavors we support Ambassadors for Better
 Research Culture, a grass roots initiative (2018) that has held lauded day long events focused
 on Women in Science and Bullying & Harassment. The recent Wellcome findings into how we
 can reimagine how research is conducted have set our agenda for how we can ensure creativity,
 inclusivity and honesty at the heart of what we do.

 2.4.1 Gender Equality
 We are actively supporting women ECRs reach research independence and be positioned to win
 personal fellowships and become successful academics; we have assembled a gender-
 balanced leadership team for BMS and have ensured gender balance on all shortlisting, search
 and interview panels for academic posts. We also ensure the same for PGR students. Currently,
 53% of research staff and 28% of academics are female. In the REF period academic
 promotions are 7:4 (Female:Male) with 2:2 becoming full Professor. Our four recent academic
 appointments have been 2 Female and 2 Male clearly demonstrating how we have created an
 inclusive and positive environment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 Our annual research grant income for UoA1 during the REF period is ~£6M (median) with an
 overall increase of 50% since 2013/14. While the number of FTEs remains similar the income
 per FTE increased from £120K (REF2014) to £181K. During this time UKRI (BBSRC/MRC)
 income has remained stable while UK-based charity income (largely Wellcome and CRUK)
 increased from £842K to £2.5M p.a.. Major funding also comes from European Research
 Council, NIHR and Leverhulme Trust. Below are the major awards >£500K which involve
 contributions from one third of our PIs, of which 20% are Wellcome Investigators (~£10M).

 1. Pallen: MRC CLIMB; 2013/14: £7.7M
 2. Millar: MRC Programme Grant; £1.83M 2014-2019
 3. McAinsh: Wellcome Collaborative Award; 2018/19: £2.6M
 4. Quenby: Tommy’s National Centre for Miscarriage Research; 2015/16: £2.5M;
 5. Balasubramanian: H2020 ERC Advanced Grant; 2014/15: £2.5M
 6. Balasubramanian: Wellcome Senior Investigator Award; 2013/14: £2.4M
 7. Balasubramanian: Wellcome ISSF Warwick QBP 2014/2015: £ 0.6M
 8. Quenby: NIHR HTA The Big Baby trial; 2017/18: £2.27M
 9. Achtman: Wellcome Investigator Award; 2016/17: £2.2M
 10. Quenby: NIHR EME CERM trial; 2018/19: £1M
 11. Royle: CRUK Programme grant; 2018/19: £1.54M;
 12. McAinsh: Wellcome Senior Investigator Award; 2014/15: £1.3M
 13. Brosens and Ott: Wellcome Joint investigator Award; 2018/19: £1.28M
 14. Cross: Wellcome Senior Investigator Award; 2013/14: £1.2M
 15. McAinsh: BBSRC; 2017/18: £1.1M
 16. Achtman: BBSRC EnteroBase; 2013/14: £1M


                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 17. Balasubramanian: Wellcome ISSF Warwick QBP; 2016/17: £1.2M
 18. Straube: Wellcome Investigator Award; 2015/16; £947K
 19. Bowman: Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowship; 2017/18: £922K
 20. McAinsh: Wellcome Multi-User Equipment award; 2017/18: £822K
 21. Royle: CRUK Senior Cancer Research Fellowship (yrs4-6); 2015/16: £707K
 22. De Piccoli: CRUK Career Development Fellowship (yr4-6); 2016/17: 614K
 23. Balasubramanian: BBSRC; 2018/19: £507K
 24. Sampath: BBSRC; 2014/17: £680K

 Our current and future strategies to generate research income revolve around a healthy mix of
 individual PI driven research (responsive mode, investigatorships, and fellowships) and
 collaborative-research with appropriate UK (including within Warwick) and international partners
 with complementary skills to develop impactful research that is more than the sum of the parts.
 We also anticipate that our world-leading groups linked through a research theme will seek
 “research centre” status from UKRI or AMRC charities, including via the establishment of an
 NIHR BRC. Finally, in keeping with our recent strategy of translational medicine, we will work
 with industry where appropriate. The Universities Research and Impact Services (R&IS) has a
 strong presence embedded within WMS and this team provides expert help in crafting research
 proposals helping our current and future research strategies.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Research groups are located in laboratories on the University’s Gibbet Hill (GH) campus or
 University Hospital Coventry & Warwickshire site, with several sharing time on both sites
 providing a continuum of research activity. The existing state-of-the-art infrastructure and
 facilities (see below) are now part of a long-term master plan to expand and renew buildings
 (home to the sister schools of Life Science and Medicine) into a world-class physical and
 intellectual environment for biomedical and translational research.

 A major step is the £54M UoW/Wolfson-funded Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research
 Building (IBRB): (opening April 2021) as a joint endeavour between the SLS and WMS and will
 enable expansion of biomedical research at Warwick providing a home to 300 scientists
 (REF5a-4.2). One floor is a dedicated Tissue Mechanobiology & Human Disease Laboratory. A
 second floor houses our Microbiology & Infection programmes – of which there is a focus on
 AMR and established links with industry, while the third floor is dedicated to neurobiology
 (largely part of School of Life Sciences). IBRB provides expanded microscopy, animal
 procedure, zebrafish holding facilities alongside multiple collaboration spaces, a 400-seater
 lecture theatre and exhibition space.

 3.2.1 Existing Physical Spaces
  Mechanochemical Cell Biology Building (MCBB): Opened in 2012 and supported through
     a £1M award from the Wolfson Foundation, Advantage West Midlands and the University,
     this state-of-the-art laboratory incorporates both primary and secondary wet labs, extensive
     temperature-clamped vibration-free microscope spaces and computing workstations for data
     analysis. Home to twelve research groups.
  Mechanochemical Cell Biology Building extension: Opening in 2015, this £4M
     investment from UoW followed successful growth of the Centre and provides space for
     expanding research groups and three new Assistant Professors.



                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Biomedical Research Building: This laboratory space is shared with SLS and home to nine
     of our research groups including our growing translational research programmes.
    Clinical Sciences Research Laboratories (CSRL): This laboratory block is positioned
     adjacent to UHCW and is currently home to eight research groups. These laboratories
     provide a focus for our translational research activities and provide regular opportunities for
     engagement with NHS staff. CSRL will facilitate our future developments (section 1.3) in
     providing space for our main translational themes along with key infrastructure (e.g. human
     tissue bank, access to digital pathology).

 3.2.2 Facilities
  Computational and Advanced Microscopy Development Unit is home to state-of-the-art
     light microscopy including Wellcome lattice light sheet (LLSM) facility (Wellcome Equipment
     Grant) and two-photon microscope (BBSRC ALERT19). An LLSM visitor programme enables
     access for other UK scientists. Instrument maintenance, development, user training and
     oversight is provided by two full time imaging specialists. Data storage is fully supported
     through a University-funded Petabyte server with a full time Systems Administrator.
  Cell Sorting facilities have been established to provide essential capacity for genome
     editing with a user base from both Medical School and Life Sciences; with the location at
     CSRL labs key to facilitate new clinical-facing research using human tissue.
  Next Generation Sequencing technologies including MiSeq/Next-Seq/Hi-Seq, Single cell
     sequencing (Drop-Seq) and ATAC-Seq.
  MRC-funded Cloud Infrastructure for Microbial Bioinformatics (MRC CLIMB, CLIMB2
     Big Data plus the BBSRC-funded Enterobase). Composed of over 7,500 CPU cores of
     processing power make this the largest single system dedicated to Microbial Bioinformatics
     research, anywhere in the world.
  MRC-funded Titan Krios cryo-electron microscopy facility established to provide a
     Midlands hub (with Leicester, Nottingham).
  MRC/Tommy’s Reproductive Health Biobank. (led from WMS with Institute of Digital
     Health, Edinburgh, KCL, Manchester, Imperial) – Provides a platform for personalised
     medicine by facilitating data linkage (clinical phenotyping via genomics/proteomics), between
     the human samples and multiple disparate research and NHS databases containing couple's
     clinical history. The development of a searchable database of samples and metadata is
     linked with Tommy's Net, the existing data linkage system created for the Tommy's National
     Centre for Miscarriage Research.
  Research Technology Platforms (RTP) (REF5a-4.3). Our research community (and also
     external partners from academia and industry) have access to a series of world-class platform
     technologies that have been established by the University, (i) Proteomics (Orbitrap Fusion,
     Quantiva triple-quad and Xevo TQ) expanded through BBSRC ALERT19, (ii) Advanced
     Bioimaging (Electron microscopy focus) established with BBSRC ALERT14 funding, (iii)
     Bioinformatics – downstream analysis of genomic, proteomic and metabolomic datasets and
     (iv) Scientific Computing and (v) Biomedical Services Unit that provides facilities for animal
     models, including a Zebrafish [Wellcome Trust £583K]

 Key facilities embedded in UHCW including Human Metabolism Research Unit, Centre for
 Reproductive Medicine and NIHR Clinical Research facility.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 The success of our mission for WMS to be a leading medical school in the UK, internationally
 renowned for the excellence and significance of our research is built on effective collaborations
 achieved through partnership with clinicians, the wider biomedical research community, policy
 makers, service providers, commercial organisations, patients, carers and the public.

 4.1.1 Collaborative Research
 We collaborate extensively with other groups within the University and other HEIs both in the UK
 and overseas as an important way to strengthen our research outputs and impact. Nearly 40%
 of the outputs submitted involve collaborators within the University or from outside of Warwick
 and 25% of our grants are held as collaborative projects. In addition to numerous collaborations
 within the UK, including with almost all Russell Group universities, particularly notable
 international links are outlined in 4.1.4.

 4.1.2 Interdisciplinary Research
 Interdisciplinarity is a key feature of our research. UoW has always maintained a culture of ‘low
 walls’ and this ethos is reflected in the research interactions between the formal Divisions within
 WMS (returned in UoA A2) as well as those with the other departments across campus (REF5a-
 2.9). This approach is enhanced by WMS being part of the Faculty of Science & Medicine,
 further endorsing our major strategic aim to develop STEM at Warwick (REF5a-1.6,2.3,4.2).
 Interdisciplinary research is encouraged through seed funding available for new collaborations
 between different departments within the university through various programmes (i.e. QBP,
 Health GRP, W-WTP) which also engage with clinical research at UHCW. The success of this
 approach is evidenced by:

    1. Four joint appointments with other Science departments:
           Gibson (25% WMS, returned to UoA B8) and Perrier (25% WMS, returned to UoA
               B8).
           Physics – Polin (30% WMS, returned to panel UoA B9) and Kantsler 30% WMS,
               returned to UoA B9).

    2. Multiple cross-departmental grant awards including:
           McAinsh/Burroughs (Maths) - BBSRC/Wellcome awards.
           McAinsh/Bretschneider (Computer Science) - BBSRC award.
           Brosens/Ott (Computer Science, now WMS) - Wellcome collaborative award.
           Straube/Cross/Polin (Physics) - Leverhulme Trust.
           Levi/Rand/Perrier (Maths/Chemistry) - CRUK interdisciplinary award.
           Dallmann/Rand (Maths) - CRUK Interdisciplinary Award (2020)

    3. Led the establishment of multiple interdisciplinary University-wide research centres (see
       section 1.2.5 and REF5a-2.9.4). The majority of PIs are members of these, or others
       including Institute of Digital Healthcare, Warwick Antimicrobial Interdisciplinary Centre,
       Centre for Soft Matter, Warwick Synthetic Biology Centre and the Zeeman Institute –
       Systems Biology & Infectious Disease Research.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.3 University Hospital Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW)
 Our strategy is well aligned with UHCW (Fig. 1), with our partnership overseen by a joint UHCW
 R&D/WMS strategy group. There is already ~£37.5M of collaborative/joint research awards, with
 highlights from UoA1 staff including:

          £3.6M Tommy’s National Miscarriage Centre and MRC/Tommy’s Biobank
          £2.6M Wellcome Collaborative Award – Understanding the origins of aneuploidy in human
           embryos (McAinsh/Hartshorne).
          £10M PathLAKE (Pathology image data Lake for Analytics, Knowledge and Education) -
           consortium aims to meet the Data to Early Diagnosis and Precision Medicine Challenge.
          £7M in NIHR-funded trials involving UoA1 along with colleague returned in UoA2.
          Involvement (Young, Grammatopoulos) in developing the UHCW Centre of Precision
           diagnostics and Translational Medicine.

 4.1.4 Examples of International Partnerships
  A*STAR relationship, Singapore. A*STAR Singapore is the major funding body in Singapore
     with whom we have established a PhD program (ARAP- described in 2.3.3) with ~£2M
     invested from Warwick and an equivalent amount from A*STAR Singapore
  Columbia University, New York (Blanks, National Institutes of Health).
  Monash University (Perrier, Australian Research Council grant)
  Monash University (Brosens, National Health and Medical Research Council, Australia grant)
  Harvard University, Uppsala University, University of Stockholm (Balasubramanian,
     Wellcome Collaborative Grant)
  China – Hong Kong Baptist University and Sun Yat-sen University [HK and Chinese
     agencies]
  Indonesia – Universitas Gadjah Mada [GCRF Accelerator Award]

 4.2 Contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research makes a substantial contribution to the research base, economy and society
 across all four of the strategic priority areas described in Section 1.1. Particularly notable
 contributions in each area are highlighted below.

 4.2.1 Notable contributions to the research base
 PIs participate in organization of national and international meetings, including:

     i.       The British Society for Cell Biology Annual “Dynamic Cell” meetings ('14, ‘18 and ‘20)
              over the last 5 years; UK Microtubule Meeting; Annual Meeting of Microbiology Society
              '17 and ‘18, UK Cellular Microbiology Meeting, Staphylococcus Great Britain and Ireland.
              Our Quantitative Biomedicine Programme (QBP) also runs an annual symposium open
              to all researchers worldwide and invites ~10 external speakers including from North
              America, Asia, and Europe.

     ii.      Members of the division also have/had served on editorial boards of esteemed journals,
              e.g.
                   eLife, Cytoskeleton (Balasubramanian).
                    Seminars in Cell & Developmental Biology (Millar, Straube).
                   Pathogens Journal, J. Invertebrate Pathology (Waterfield).


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
               J. Cell Science Advisory Committee Member, Affiliate for BioRxiv and ASAP
                Ambassador (Royle).
               Founding editor-in-chief, Pathogens (Young)
               J Lipid Res and Prog Lipid Res (Zammit)

                and external grant, institute Review panels and research organisations,

               Wellcome Expert Review Group (Cross, McAinsh).
               BBSRC Committee D, Pool of Experts (Royle).
                MRC Industrial CASE studentship panel (Millar).
               Quinquennial Review of CRUK Paterson Institute (Millar).
                Worldwide Cancer Research panel (McAinsh).
               L’Agence Nationale de la Recherche National (Straube, Royle).
               British Council Biomedical and Medical Science Panel (Young)
               Guts UK Research Awards Committee (Young, Chair 2010-2019)
               Advisory Board, Wellcome Trust (Edinburgh) and MRC (Oxford) PhD
                programmes (McAinsh).
                Meetings Secretary, British Society of Cell Biology (Straube, Royle).
               Board member, Prokaryote Division, Microbiology Society (Unnikrishnan).
               Scientific Committee, North West Cancer Research (Royle).
                Director & Trustee, Company of Biologists (Royle).
               Expert Review Panel CRUK Programme Awards (Royle).
               Yorkshire Cancer Research Scientific Advisory Committee (Young)
               Evaluation committee of CRBM (Straube) and IGDR (McAinsh) institutes, France.
               Wellcome Trust India Alliance (Balasubramanian)

 4.2.2 Collaborations with industry
 Researchers are encouraged to develop successful research collaborations with industrial
 partners, and these include: (i) large pharmaceutical companies - Glaxo SmithKline (Blanks,
 Greaves). Astra Zeneca (Barber); (ii) technology companies such as Philips Healthcare (Levi,
 Snead) and Abingdon Health (Young); and (iii) smaller biotechnology and drug development
 companies – Viracta Therapeutics Inc (Young), Stabilitech Biopharma Ltd.

 Our MRC DTP is also driving a new generation of academic-industry projects through iCASE
 studentships and investment from the National Productivity Investment Fund (NPIF; see section
 2.3.2 for detail). Both institutional funds, the MRC P2D and the Wellcome-Warwick Translational
 Partnership all make it possible to pump prime relationships and projects with stakeholders and
 for industry-based researchers/entrepreneurs to spend time in Warwick.

 Warwick Innovations (the Technology Transfer arm of Warwick – REF5a-2.8) also plays a key
 role in fostering collaborations with the industry as well as establishment of spin out companies.
 Our major spin out, Neurosolutions (Spanswick) goes from strength-to-strength (our third
 impact case study), Sarissa Biomedical (Dale, Life Sciences) is now developing further clinical
 applications in partnership with WMS/UHCW (Imray) and a new generation of spin-outs are
 coming into view i.e. NanoSyrinx (Waterfield) and Cytoswim (Kantsler, WMS/Physics). These
 activities promote a culture facilitating industrial engagement.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.3 Informing Policy
 Our researchers work with international public health organisations and professional societies
 such as the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology, Royal College of
 Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and Royal College of Pathologists to shape research, share
 findings and inform professional training and guidance.

 4.2.4 Open Science
 We advocate the open-access publishing (at least green, preferably gold OA) and the use of
 pre-print servers (BioRxiv, ArXiv) to ensure the widest possible dissemination of our research
 discoveries (REF5a-2.10). Our scientists develop software for image analysis and other tools
 and make them open source, e.g. CMCB GitHub. The Warwick Open Source Microscope
 (WOSM) is our major open source hardware development project. We support sharing of
 scientific imaging data through our OMERO database, managed by CAMDU.

 4.3 Public Engagement

 UoW and WMS have over the last 5 years embarked on a strategic goal of embedding Public
 Engagement for research (PER) within the academic community and research lifecycle. A
 central Public Engagement Team has been created, initially funded by RCUK, and provides
 support via training, activity funding, an engagement network, and international, national and
 local festival/event participation. PER is now part of promotion criteria and both UoW and the
 Wellcome QBP provide seed funding to kick-start projects. Exemplar events as follows:

    1. Community-based events: (i) Science on the Hill: programme of public science
       evenings jointly hosted by the School of Life Sciences and Warwick Medical School (co-
       located on Gibbet Hill), (ii) ‘Ideas Cafes’, Café Scientifique and the U3A invited talks
       which bring a wide range of people together; (iii) Pint of Science – three nights in local
       pub venues across Coventry and Warwickshire and (iv) Photography competition (Cellfie
       Gallery) voted on by the public online and displayed at UHCW as an alternative method
       to engage the public’s interest in our research.

    2. National profile: (i) Our stand at New Scientist Live at the Excel in London promoted
       CMCB research to a huge audience (>39,500 visitors attended over the 4-day event) with
       a series of interactive exhibits and opportunities for the public to engage with our staff
       and students. (ii) Young, Quenby and McAinsh all presented on the main programme of
       the British Science Festival held at the University of Warwick in 2019 to audiences of 50-
       100+ people. A Warwick run Family Day at the end of the festival also had our staff and
       students presenting more hands-on displays of our research aimed at engaging and
       inspiring the younger members of our community. (iii) Quenby, Brosens, have been
       nationally recognised for the impact their research has had on everyday lives
       (#misCOURAGE) and have been named as part of Universities UK’s MadeAtUni
       campaign.




                                                                                           Page 21
