Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: Classics (29)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit context and structure
UoA29 comprises 21.8 FTE academic staff (44% women: 56% men) based in the Department of
Classics and Archaeology. It is one of five Departments in the School of Humanities, which is one of
three Schools in the Faculty of Arts. The research-active academic staff, together with teaching-
focused colleagues and postgraduate and early-career researchers (PGRs, ECRs) create the
environment for cutting-edge research, extensive public engagement and delivery of societal impact.

The Departments of Classics and of Archaeology successfully merged in 2017. This process built
on a history of research and KE collaborations. It harnessed the broad timespan, geographical reach
and interdisciplinary approaches covered by our research expertise into five themes, which promote
the sharing of our ideas and methods across the Department and wider University: (1) empires and
identities; (2) society and mobility; (3) methodologies of interpretation; (4) heritage, from local to
global; (5) environment, bodies and health. These themes are amplified by major international
research projects and four interdisciplinary research centres led by members of the UoA. The
centres foster a lively environment of knowledge exchange and international collaboration: the
Centre for Spartan and Peloponnesian Studies (CSPS), the Centre for Ancient Drama and its
Reception (CADRE), the Centre for Late Antique and Byzantine Studies (CLABS), and the
Underwater Archaeology Research Centre (UARC).

1.2 Achievement of research aims (2013–20)
The unit’s core strategy is to sustain research excellence and diversity by fostering individual
scholarship and building collaborative research and impact. The 6 objectives for the assessment
period have been achieved as follows:

i) Support staff to produce innovative publications by developing individual and collaborative
research. In 2013-20 staff were supported by the mechanisms and infrastructure described in 2.2
and 3.1-3.2 to produce over 100 open access publications that have been uploaded to our University
repository, and developed key research programmes funded by a broad range of awarding bodies,
securing £6.09m in external grants, with income of £2.59m. We have made significant contributions
to the study of the culture of the Greek and Roman worlds through our research publications: Bowden
Life and Death at a Mediterranean Port, Eidinow Envy, Poison and Death, Gallou Death in
Mycenaean Laconia, Jim Sharing with the Gods, Lee Warfare in the Roman World, Lorenz Ancient
Mythological Images and their Interpretation, Mullen Language of Roman Letters, Stewart Greek
Tragedy on the Move. Finglass, Malloch and Thomas extended the Department’s record of
excellence in critical editions and commentaries and we have extended our reputation for Reception
studies with edited volumes on the Reception of Greek Drama (Van Zyl Smit) and Classical
Reception and Children’s Literature (Lovatt).

Examples of major collaborative projects include Mullen’s LatinNow project (€1.5m ERC starting
grant, 2017–23) on life and languages in the Roman western provinces, Jon Henderson’s AHRC
Global Challenges Research Fund network-plus award (£1.8m) Rising from the Depths, which
focuses on transforming perceptions of marine cultural heritage among external partners in East

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Africa and Sykes’ Co-I role on the AHRC Science and Culture large grant concerning animal–human
interactions (£280k) and subsequent AHRC awards with Miller.

The Department also facilitated staff development through visiting positions. Pearce’s Leverhulme
International Fellowship at Bochum (Germany: 2017) allowed him to deepen his expertise in copper
and bronze metallurgy. Julian Henderson was given time to develop his Silk Road Studies
programme including a secondment to take up a Chair in ancient glass studies at Northwestern
University, Xi’an. Loveluck took up a funded Harvard visiting professorship in support of his ongoing
research on lead pollution and climate change and received UoN ODA QR uplift funding (REF5a
4.1c) to further his work and international partnerships.

Cross-departmental collaborations were encouraged by the establishment of research themes and
maintenance of centres (1.1). As an example of collaboration, Mullen’s sociolinguistic expertise
enhanced the accuracy and diversity of the characters represented in Bowden’s virtual reality
demonstrator of Roman Caistor. O’Regan and Loveluck collaborated on research into lead mining
and pollutants, and Pearce and D’Angelo laid the foundations for a joint project on situla art for 2021–
4. Jon Henderson developed his interdisciplinary collaborations through UARC, while CSPS pursued
its longstanding historical and archaeological research on the Peloponnese, leading to substantial
impact (see Gallou ICS).

ii) Expand interdisciplinary and collaborative research, by exploiting our connections with
institutions around the world, and with other disciplines. A number of key successes, including
Mullen’s LatinNow project and Jon Henderson’s Rising from the Depths network, are described in
4.1, while 1.4 discusses how we benefitted from institutional support for interdisciplinary research.
Following a specific strategic initiative to embed our archaeological research in UoN’s Ningbo
Campus (UNNC), Julian Henderson converted his Silk Road project, in collaboration with colleagues
at UNNC and Northwestern University Xi’an, into the Global Centre for Silk Road Studies (UNNC),
where he held a Chair in Silk Road Studies (2017–20). Members of the Department have been
awarded international Fellowships (Eidinow, Jim, Kneebone, Livarda, Lorenz, Pearce), and a Visiting
Professorship at Harvard (Loveluck) facilitated the development of the Colle Gnifetti Alpine Historical
Ice Core project. The breadth of the Department’s collaborative activities extends to Mullen’s network
on code-switching in Roman literature with the Universities of Cambridge and Birkbeck, resulting in
an online database and book (Mullen and Elder 2019); Thomas’s new project on the Iliad scholia
with colleagues from Oxford, Manchester and Indiana; and Woudhuysen’s series of publications with
co-authors at Edinburgh and Lincoln.

iii) Develop knowledge exchange (KE) collaborations with external partners, with a focus on
the career development of PGRs and ECRs. Our rich culture of KE ranges from citizen scholarship
initiatives (e.g. Bowden ICS) to Jon Henderson’s Rising from the Depths network, which focuses on
transforming perceptions of marine cultural heritage among external partners in East Africa (4.1).
Grant income has enabled a new cohort of researchers to embed skills from research-led KE in their
career development. Henderson’s network includes 10 PGRs and 2 postdoctoral ECRs, while King
secured £32,600 from Nottingham Museums and Galleries Service to allow two PGRs (Hannah
Ingram, Craig Dicken) to progress to postdoctoral academic residencies informing development
plans for Nottingham Castle, Wollaton Hall and Newstead Abbey. Technological approaches to
heritage have been central to several KE activities. LatinNow, besides a six-language, six-country
touring exhibition (2019), has trained museum staff across Europe in Reflectance Transformation
Imaging and digital epigraphy standards. Its Postdoctoral Research Associates (PDRAs) have taken

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
leading KE roles and have been mentored to further academic employment (2.2). Bowden’s work on
Roman Caistor supported Harlow’s progression from an AHRC doctoral studentship to an AHRC
Cultural Engagement Fellowship, and then to a PDRA role on an AHRC Next Generation of
Immersive Experiences project working in partnership with Jam Creative Studios and Norfolk
Archaeological Trust.

iv) Increase PGR numbers and funded scholarships, and effectively support students’
development. We recruited 77 PhD (40 funded) and 17 MRes students, compared to 43 PhD
students in the last cycle. 50 doctorates were completed compared to 31 in REF2014. See 2.3.

v) Increase research funding through staff development, and enhanced support from the
Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS). We attracted over £6m, with spend of £2.59m compared to
the £1.89m total reported by the two units in REF2014. See sections 3 and 2.2.

vi) Continue to make leading contributions to our discipline. We contributed through activities
such as service on national subject bodies, an active school-engagement programme to widen
participation, editorial roles for leading journals, peer review of publications and national and
international grant applications, and conference organisation (including the flagship Classical
Association Conference, 2014). See 4.2.

1.3 Facilitating research impact
The infrastructural investment described in 3.2 has enabled the Department to implement a robust
strategy for embedding pathways to societal impact within the activities of its research centres and
major projects. Impact and KE activity within the Department is steered by the Impact Co-ordinator,
and is factored separately from research into the calculation of workloads. The Department has
successfully pursued the following routes to impact, each of which has contributed to our three ICSs:

i) Working with businesses. Eidinow and Lorenz supported regional businesses to enhance their
communications by engaging with mythological story-telling, within the UoN’s £23m Enabling
Innovation programme (2016–19: REF5a 2.2a) funded by the European Regional Development
Fund (ERDF). Lorenz also led a separate ‘Heritage and Digital’ strand of the programme (£220k),
helping regional organisations to adopt digital technologies to engage visitors. This project grew out
of her leadership of the UoN’s Heritage and Digital Research Priority Area (RPA: REF5a 2.1a).
Similarly, Bowden’s AHRC Next Generation of Immersive Experiences project led to a partnership
with a creative technology company, Jam Creative Studios, and Jon Henderson’s UARC projects
were undertaken in partnership with 3Deep Media.

ii) Influencing policymaking. Our research informs contemporary issues such as climate change,
pollution, food security, biodiversity, multiculturalism and migration, and we have engaged
policymakers in our research findings. For example, Sykes and Miller’s work has shaped deer
conservation (Miller ICS), Loveluck’s informed the UK Parliamentary Office of Science and
Technology on persistent chemical pollutants, and Jon Henderson’s has supported the UN in their
goal of safeguarding maritime heritage.

iii) Collaborating with the third sector. We have built broad-based collaborations with the third
sector that include work with Caistor Roman Town Trust and Southwell Archaeological Group, in
order to enable communities of volunteers to engage in archaeological research, protect their



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
heritage and apply for funding (e.g. Heritage Lottery Funding; Bowden ICS), and collaboration with
Changing Faces on the history of attitudes to disfigurement (Bradley: teaching-focused colleague).

iv) Engagement with the heritage and museum sector. Our support has ranged from Loveluck
and Jon Henderson acting as expert advisors for UNESCO-ICOMOS for the development and review
of applications for World Heritage Site status, through to partnerships (e.g. D’Angelo’s with Muratov
of the Metropolitan Museum, New York), and longstanding connections with national and local
groups. For example, Trent & Peak Archaeology (King, Loveluck, Pearce), Nottingham Museums
and Galleries Service (King), Historic England (King, Loveluck) and the National Trust (King).

v) Public engagement. Two key focuses were supporting school education and disseminating
research findings via the media. We have given over 100 talks to bring research to UK
schoolchildren, working with the UoN Widening Participation team and the Sutton Trust summer
school. Fotheringham published research-led, open-access resources for teachers on our website,
and the LatinNow team released resources in five languages to support schools’ events across
several countries. Our Nottingham Classics Out and About (NoCOut) scheme takes student
volunteers into local primary schools, and Gallou leads frequent school activities for CSPS in the UK
and Greece (Gallou ICS). Members of the UoA have played significant roles in educational bodies
(4.2).

The Department’s media engagement is facilitated by UoN’s press office and institutional
membership of The Conversation (REF5a 2.2c). Loveluck’s ice-core research (Antiquity 2018, 2020)
was reported worldwide, including in The Times (front page 2018, leader 2020), Science, and BBC
News (2020), with a potential combined reach of over 1 billion. Jon Henderson’s underwater
research on Pavlopetri, Port Royal and SS Thistlegorm received sustained attention with a potential
reach totalling 533m. BBC News covered O’Regan’s article on the history of bears in Britain (reach
of 37.7m). O’Regan and Bowden have reached broad audiences by writing for The Conversation.
Several members of the Department (e.g. D’Angelo, Miller, Mullen) have consulted on and appeared
in TV documentaries.

By building impact and KE into major projects from the start and nurturing partnerships, the
Department’s approach is sustainable and forward-looking. Recent activities already promise
significant future impact. For example, Loveluck’s ice-core research and O’Regan’s
osteoarchaeological analysis of lead contamination is demonstrating European and local effects of
historic lead mining in Derbyshire, and work with curatorial policymakers (Peak District National Park
Authority), will inform future management of legacy lead pollution. Miller’s collaboration with Emma
Baysal (Trakya University) during her Newton Advanced Fellowship established protocols for isotope
analysis and data management in Turkish archaeology laboratories, which will make local heritage
organisations more self-sufficient and sustainable.

1.4 Interdisciplinary research
The UoN has fostered interdisciplinary research through the Global Research Themes (REF5a
2.1a: RPAs 2014–19 and Interdisciplinary Research Clusters (IRCs), 2019–), and support for cross-
faculty research centres such as the Institute for Medieval Research (directed by King), departmental
research centres and themes (1.1), and large programme grants (e.g. LatinNow and Rising from the
Depths). Our PGR procedures encourage interdisciplinarity: students have been co-supervised with
colleagues from 9 other UoN Departments (2.3).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The RPAs have enabled collaborations across disciplines, for example, Lorenz’s work with
Computer Science as part of her leadership of the Heritage and Digital RPA. The same RPA pump-
primed interdisciplinary research, including Jon Henderson’s project to present the underwater site
of Pavlopetri at Lakeside Arts (£10,000). The British Identities RPA supported O’Regan’s
interdisciplinary article on Dog Hole Cave (£12,170). The Life in Changing Environments RPA
enabled Loveluck with O’Regan, Matthew Jones (Geography) and the British Geological Survey
(BGS) to undertake pilot research on the environmental impact of historic lead pollution in the Peak
District (£23,997).

A new interdisciplinary project from late in the assessment period exemplifies the ongoing impact of
institutional support on our interdisciplinary research culture. O’Regan’s AHRC-funded Box Office
Bears project (awarded £978,019, 2020–2023) is a collaboration with the Department of English and
Creative Writing, University of Roehampton, and School of Archaeology, University of Oxford, and
explores the bioarchaeological evidence for baiting and other human interactions with bears from
the early modern period. It was conceived and the bid written during a period of leave supported by
the Faculty of Arts Pro-Vice-Chancellor’s Fund.

1.5 Research Ethics, Integrity and Open Access
Open Access (OA) to outputs and research data is treated as an integral aspect of research integrity.
The Department follows the UoN Code of Research Conduct and Research Ethics, which endorses
the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and its policy for management of research data, which
is aligned with the Concordat for Open Research Data and goes beyond the baseline REF
requirements (REF5a 2.3–4). Implementation of these policies is overseen by the School Research
Committee, for which research ethics is a standing agenda item. Approval is obtained from its Ethics
Officer prior to any research being undertaken. All staff receive training in GDPR legislation and its
potential impact on research involving human participants. Researchers working abroad comply with
professional standards and international and country-specific regulations.

The Department’s alignment to UoN’s OA policy has been supported by specialist staff and
funding. Support for Gold OA publications has been provided by the University (Miller,
Environmental Archaeology, 2016), Faculty (Bowden, Journal of Community Archaeology and
Heritage, 2020) and School (Loveluck, Antiquity, 2018 and 2020). Proceedings of CSPS conferences
are published online in Gold OA format (one volume in this cycle). Mullen’s LatinNow project has
Gold OA publication costs for three books built into its budget. Outputs by PGRs and PDRAs (e.g.
Cotugno, Houten, Moncunill, Osborne, Willi) have been made available in the UoN depository,
although out of scope for REF2021. Between 1 Jan 2014 and 31 July 2020, 118 outputs published
by staff in the UoA were OA-compliant (93 Green; 25 Gold).

The development of online research resources is another important element in the Department’s
adoption of open research. Support for data management plans is provided by the Arts Digital
Research Manager and Library for all career stages, including PGRs. Through collaboration with the
US company Datagenic, LatinNow has enabled a transformative expansion since 2017 of
https://romaninscriptionsofbritain.org, one of the discipline’s leading OA epigraphic resources, which
has since attracted 80,000 repeat users from around the world. Miller and Sykes made their data
from the AHRC-funded research on deer and chickens publicly available through OA databases
hosted by the UoN.

1.6 Strategic objectives for research and impact (2020–25)

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We will build on the successes above and continue to foster excellent research and impact with 6
strategic objectives:

i) Exploit the increased critical mass and interdisciplinary nature of the Department for
research, KE, impact and leadership of the discipline. We will develop our five research themes
(1.1) in order to nurture interdisciplinary collaborations within the Department such as D’Angelo and
Pearce’s project on situla art, Loveluck and O’Regan on Peak District lead mining, and Bowden,
Mullen and Woudhuysen on identity in the Roman Empire. We will continue to promote the discipline
locally, nationally and internationally.

ii) Support colleagues at all career stages to produce excellent research and impact, both
individually and in collaboration. Building on funding successes such as LatinNow (Mullen),
Rising from the Depths (Jon Henderson) and Box Office Bears (O’Regan), and aided by staff
development processes (2.2) and institutional support, the Department will cultivate a new
generation of research projects that reach across disciplines, institutions and audiences. Key in this
will be the development of existing and new academic partnerships and support for international
mobility. We will maintain our tradition of prestigious individual publications. Significant works already
in preparation include volumes on sociolinguistics and Latinization (Mullen), professionalism in
ancient Greece (Stewart), the fourth-century Roman Empire (Woudhuysen) and Roman Caistor
(Bowden).

iii) Make our research accessible through public engagement, and further develop its
alignment with societal challenges. By utilizing UoN infrastructure we will enhance opportunities
for staff KE training, and communicate the significance of our research through both new and existing
partnerships. Our research themes are designed to identify and promote alignment with topical
issues including UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), UK government’s Grand Challenges,
UKRI strategy, and the GCRF agenda. For example, the strands of ‘environment, bodies and health’
relate to SDGs 3 and 12–15, and Loveluck’s new Georgia Ice Core project will address SDG 13
Climate Action. Lovatt’s projected work on the ‘Power of Sadness’ in ancient epic fits the support for
multidisciplinary research into mental health (AHRC Delivery Plan 2019). The theme ‘Heritage, from
global to local’ aligns with the focus in the AHRC Plan on the economic benefits of arts research for
heritage and tourism, evidenced by the ongoing co-operation between CSPS and the municipality of
Sparti, Greece (Gallou), by LatinNow’s work on European museum collections (Mullen) and by our
developing initiative on medieval Nottingham (Loveluck, King).

iv) Maintain a flourishing community of PGRs and postdoctoral researchers. We will nurture
future leaders in Classics and Archaeology through excellent mentoring (2.3), utilizing the success
of the AHRC-funded doctoral training partnership Midlands4Cities (M4C) (2019–25, REF5a 3.3) and
continuing to attract externally funded ECR opportunities.

v) Continue to embed EDI principles and to share good practice. Staff training, with oversight
from the Department’s EDI group (2.4), will ensure that our practices are responsive to EDI
principles. We will continue to contribute to discipline-level discussions, as seen through Lovatt’s co-
authorship of the Council of University Classical Departments (CUCD) Equality and Diversity Report
2020 (2.4).

vi) Work to be at the forefront of Open Access and Digital Humanities Research. We will align
with UoN and UKRI strategy, and anticipate OA requirements for a wider range of outputs in our

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research planning. We will work to make progress in digital research techniques and resources,
particularly in digital epigraphy, and to collaborate with research communities to facilitate Linked
Open Data.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy
This assessment period has seen a rejuvenation of the Department through 7 ECR appointments
(D’Angelo, Davies, Kneebone, Mullen, Stewart, Thomas, Woudhuysen; 3 women, 4 men). At the
REF census date it comprised 5 professors (3.8 FTE), 6 associate professors (6 FTE) and 12
assistant professors (12 FTE), giving a total of 21.8 FTE (44% women, 56% men; 2 individuals
declaring a disability). The Department attracted 4 Postdoctoral Fellows (PDFs: Baysal, Daujat,
Harlow, Oikonomou), and 8 PDRAs (Cotugno, Dicken, Hans, Houten, Ingram, Moncunill, Stoyanova,
Willi) linked to staff projects, funded by the AHRC, AHRC-GCRF, ERC, Leverhulme Trust and
Newton Advanced Fellowship scheme. 2 permanent teaching-focused colleagues (Bradley,
Buckland) contribute pedagogic research and KE. 3 ECRs on fixed-term teaching-focused contracts
(Myers, Scott, Wilshere) receive guidance on career progression (2.2) and support to disseminate
their research. Research-active emeriti make important contributions to the research centres and
weekly programme of talks from external speakers (e.g. Hodkinson, Cavanagh, Roy to CSPS;
Sommerstein to CADRE).

Our staffing strategy has four central elements:

i) Attract outstanding researchers regardless of background. We are a global department,
representing a range of nationalities (British, Australian, Chinese, German, Greek, Irish, Italian,
South African). Job searches have set broad subject areas to encourage larger and more diverse
applicant pools. The recruitment process is governed by policies aligned with principle 1 of the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and applicants are measured
against explicitly stated job requirements. All staff receive unconscious bias training, and chairs of
appointment committees attend specific interview training. Service on short-listing/interviewing
panels has been spread across all levels of the UoA, all-male panels are avoided, and staff and
PGRs are encouraged to attend job presentations and feed their views into panel deliberations. As
evidence of our success in appointing outstanding ECRs, we can cite the awards of prestigious
prizes since appointment: D’Angelo from the Collegio Ghislieri, Italy, for best rising star in classical
art and archaeology (2019), Mullen a Philip Leverhulme Prize (2018), and Woudhuysen the
Conington Prize from the University of Oxford (2019).

ii) Maintain continuity with existing research strengths by strategic new appointments, for
example D’Angelo on Roman art, Stewart on the Greek theatre and economy, Davies on Sparta
(strengthening CSPS), Miller on zooarchaeology (strengthening bioarchaeology and linked
infrastructure investment), Woudhuysen on late antiquity (maintaining expertise for CLABS).

iii) Diversify expertise into strategic areas. Examples include Jim’s research trajectory towards
comparative religion, Kneebone’s expertise in imperial Greek literature and Mullen’s in
sociolinguistics.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
iv) Enable research-led KE partnerships by hosting non-academic three-year Honorary
Research Fellow-/Professorships. These appointments include Dr Fay Worley of Historic England
and Rachael Hall of the National Trust (working with King), Dr David Knight and Dr Gareth Davies
of Trent & Peak Archaeology (Pearce, King, Loveluck), Professor Jane Evans, Dr Angela Lamb and
Dr Simon Chenery of the British Geological Survey (BGS; Julian Henderson, Loveluck, Miller,
O’Regan), and Dr Cristina Boschetti of the CNRS, Paris (Julian Henderson).

2.2 Staff Development
Guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and enabled by UoN’s
Building a Culture for Success framework (REF5a 3.1), our staff development strategy for
researchers has three main aims:

i) Maximise the opportunities available to undertake substantial research. There is a rota of
research and impact leave, averaging one semester in seven (REF5a 3.1). The Faculty of Arts Pro-
Vice-Chancellor’s Fund offers supplementary funding for an additional semester of leave for those
holding heavy administrative loads and research/impact projects of particular merit: beneficiaries
included Lee (2014), Gallou (2015, 2018), Lovatt (2018), Loveluck (2019), O’Regan (2019) and
Stewart (2020), i.e. 7 awards, 3 to men; 3 to Assistant Professors and 1 to an Associate Professor.
The University’s timetabling office aims to provide research-active staff with one teaching-free day
per week during term. The Department’s Director of Research works with CAS (3.2) to share internal
and external research opportunities and advise staff at all career stages. School-level administrative
support is provided to staff for organising and attending conferences (including an annual allowance
of £1500 per academic for conference travel), and for managing research project finances.

ii) Support staff at every career-stage in setting research and impact goals appropriate for
their career development and wellbeing. Staff, including PDFs and PDRAs, benefitted from
annual Personal Development and Performance Reviews between 2014–2019 and annual Appraisal
and Development Conversations (ADC) from 2020 (REF5a 3.1). These help individuals identify
short- and longer-term aspirations for research, grant-capture, impact, professional development,
wellbeing and teaching. There is a further inter-departmental mentoring programme on which Lovatt
serves. Career development training courses are offered to all R&T staff, including the Faculty of
Arts’ Research Leadership Programme (completed by Gallou, King, O’Regan, Woudhuysen). Annual
promotion applications are open to all academic staff. Research, impact and KE activities have
formed a key part of promotions. In this cycle, 3 men and 5 women were promoted: Lorenz, Lovatt,
Loveluck and Pearce to Professor (2f:2m); Eidinow, Malloch, Mullen and O’Regan to Associate
Professor (3f:1m). Bowden and Gallou have also been promoted to Professor and Associate
Professor respectively, taking effect on 1 August 2020. In Mullen’s case, promotion occurred within
three years of appointment, in recognition of her growing international profile.

iii) Provide particular mentoring and support to new appointees and ECRs. New staff are
eligible for an early first semester of research/impact leave (e.g. Jim, Kneebone, Stewart, Thomas),
an initial teaching reduction, and mentoring by a senior academic on research, impact planning,
teaching and career development. CAS runs regular workshops to familiarise ECRs with the funding
landscape. Project teams foster a supportive academic and pastoral environment for ECRs. For
example, LatinNow’s PDRAs receive tailored career guidance, are encouraged to undertake
leadership roles, and supported to take on targeted, career-enhancing teaching. The effectiveness
of this mentoring is demonstrated by the progression to full-time Assistant Professor of Miller (from
PDRA), Davies and Stewart (from PGRs in the unit, graduating 2013 and 2014). LatinNow team

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
members have been guided to tenure-track (Estarán in Zaragoza, Moncunill in Barcelona) and
further project positions (Cotugno in Verona, Stoyanova in Oxford). Recent appointees have had
success in grant capture (Miller, Mullen), and international visiting fellowships were secured by Jim
(Centre for Hellenic Studies, Washington; $9000) and Kneebone (British School at Athens), both
delayed by COVID.

2.3 Research students
We have achieved significant growth in the numbers of research students who were recruited,
externally funded, and awarded degrees. The PGR cohort consisted of 77 PhD and 17 MRes
students, compared to 43 PhD students in the REF2014 cycle. 50 doctorates were completed by 31
July 2020 (with 48 (46.63 FTE) graduations; 24f:24m), compared to 31 in the previous assessment
period. 31 PhD students based in the Department were funded by the AHRC (8 AHRC BGP1, 22
M3C/M4C DTP, 1 AHRC-CDA), and 9 others received UoN Vice Chancellor’s International and
European studentships. The Department has co-supervised a further 14 M3C and 2 M4C students
based elsewhere within the DTP consortium, plus another based in History and funded by UoN’s
Francis Hill PhD scholarship. EDI is fully embedded in PGR recruitment processes and support. Our
PGR community is mixed in terms of gender (40f:37m), age and nationality, with growing numbers
of East Asian and African students.

The increase in PGR applications reflects the Department’s enhanced reputation for research. A key
factor in converting this into a flourishing PGR community has been our success in securing funding
from the M3C DTP (2014–19) and its successor, M4C (2019–25). Moreover, by committing 1:1
match funding for M3C/M4C studentships, UoN is delivering an ambitious investment policy for
Faculty of Arts disciplines. M4C was ranked first in the AHRC’s DTP2 competition (REF5a 3.3) and
awarded the highest number of studentships in the UK, promising further sustainable increase in
PGRs until 2025. Loveluck was UoN’s founding M3C Site Director in 2013–14, then again from
2016–18, and was on the bid-writing team for the M4C application.

M3C/M4C success is evidence of our exemplary supervision and training procedures, which
embed EDI at all stages. All students have at least two supervisors, including a lead with subject-
specific expertise. The appropriateness of this team and supervisors’ track records of timely student
completion are important elements of the selection criteria for M3C/M4C studentships. The joint-
supervision model has had a significant effect on fostering interdisciplinary PhD topics and cross-
HEI supervision, with benefits for the supervisors’ own methodological practice, e.g. Lovatt’s
approach to Vergilian reception has been reshaped through co-supervising with Royan (English).
PGRs have been co-supervised with colleagues from Geography, Theology and Religious Studies,
History of Art, History, English, Italian, Spanish and Latin American Studies, American Studies, and
Law. Our M3C and M4C PhD students are supervised across multiple institutions, including the
British Geological Survey and the Universities of Birmingham, Leicester and Nottingham Trent.
UoN’s Researcher Academy provides training for supervisors, including a cross-disciplinary seminar
series. PhD students receive 10 supervisions per year (6 for part-time), with progress, action points
and training needs logged at each. Students’ annual progress reports are reviewed by someone
from outside their supervision team; the M3C/M4C Mid-Year Review includes submission of 5000
words of work and a viva, followed by a shorter end-of-year review.

In line with principles 3 and 5 of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
PGRs undertake a development needs analysis and can access an extensive range of academic
training courses from the Researcher Academy, which conforms with national standards set out in

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework and responds to the AHRC’s Research Training
Framework. Students benefit from Arts-focused research skills training organised by the Faculty, can
audit relevant undergraduate modules, and are subsidised for one modern language course per year
at UoN’s Language Centre. M3C/M4C-funded students are supported by training courses across the
DTP consortium. M3C/M4C Cohort Development Fund (CDF) projects have provided skills training
for both M3C/M4C and wider PGR cohorts. For example, Vecchi and Fowler ran GIS training, and
together with Donelan led a Digital Arts and Humanities Summer School, after which Donelan
secured a job as a digital research specialist at the UoN. White’s activities, particularly his leading
role in the Digital Research Festival, led to an M4C Cultural Engagement Award (2020). Our first-
year PGRs organise an annual conference, and in this REF cycle ran one CSPS conference
(Gender and Identity in Peloponnesian Antiquity, June 2017) and published the proceedings of
another (Brouma and Heydon, Conflict in the Peloponnese, 2018). White was lead organiser of a
conference sponsored by M4C (Meaning, Memory and Movement, 2019), while Vecchi and
Saccoccio co-organised an international conference hosted by the UCL Institute of Archaeology
(Ethnicity in the Iron Age Central Mediterranean, 2018). Students gain presentation experience in
their weekly Work in Progress seminar, Oistroi. All PGRs have access to funding, from the School
or M3C/M4C, for conference attendance.

Careers advice is provided by supervisors, the Researcher Academy and University Careers
Service. Experience for careers within and beyond academia include placement opportunities
provided by Postgraduate Placements Nottingham and by M3C/M4C. Our PGR Bode undertook a
postgraduate placement in UoN administration and now manages the M4C placement scheme.
Harlow’s placement at the British Museum, where she was able to share and develop her expertise
on Romano-British artefacts, led to an AHRC Cultural Engagement Fellowship and a position on
Bowden’s AHRC Next Generation of Immersive Experiences project. Wallbank used her research
on coastal medieval Wales to secure a placement with the Royal Commission on Ancient and
Historic Monuments (Wales) and to inform their coastal heritage management projects; and Francis
brought his archaeobotanical expertise to Boots’ 19th-century pharmacological archives.
Opportunities at UoN’s Archaeology Museum, curated by Pickersgill (3.2), are a further key asset for
PGR career development. Notable examples include Alrawaibah, now the first woman to hold a
lectureship in Archaeological Heritage (King Fahd University) in Saudi Arabia, and Leveritt, whose
outreach work with Nottinghamshire schools helped him to secure a teaching career in Classics;
former PGR Wren progressed to Museum Collections Manager, before becoming principal PDF in
the Centre for Global Heritage, Nottingham Trent University.

Other beneficiaries of the environment created for our PGRs in terms of career progression have
included: Stewart, who took up temporary lectureships in Leeds and Warwick before his appointment
at UoN; Davies, who obtained a Humboldt scholarship in Munich before his appointment at UoN;
Usherwood, who proceeded to temporary posts in Durham and St Andrews then a lectureship at
Trinity College, Dublin; and Rollason, who held a lectureship at the University of Leicester. Ma and
Shen were awarded lectureships at the University of Science and Technology, Beijing, and
Northwestern University, Xi’an, China respectively.

2.4 Wellbeing, equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI)

Staff
The Department’s EDI composition at the REF census date is reviewed in 2.1. We embrace the
University’s Equal Opportunities policy, which addresses protected characteristics in contexts such

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as staff recruitment, promotions, and workplace behaviour, and the more wide-ranging EDI Strategic
Delivery Plan, which focuses on caring responsibilities, socio-economic background, temporary
disability and intersectionality (REF5a 3.5). EDI has been embedded in both Faculty and School
governance, with EDI committees created at both levels. The School developed its application for
Athena SWAN Bronze (awarded October 2020). The Department made EDI a standing item on the
agenda of meetings and Away Days, and established its own EDI committee whose strategic aims
include the expansion of BAME representation across the Department, from undergraduate
applicants to staff appointments. Lovatt has made notable contributions to wider EDI discussions,
including a joint UoN-Birmingham study on the ‘leaky pipeline’ of women progressing towards senior
levels of University leadership, and as an original member of the steering committee of the Women's
Classical Committee UK. As Chair of the CUCD she co-led a study of equality and diversity across
UK Classics (2019–20, published November 2020). She also initiated a race theory reading group
with participants from across the M4C consortium (2020).

Wellbeing is now a central aspect of the ADC process, supported by events run by UoN’s Wellbeing
Programme. Mechanisms to support staff with health problems include occupational health
meetings, flexible timing of return, short- and long-term reductions to workload, and other reasonable
adjustments (two instances this cycle). Staff accrue the right to enhanced maternity pay over the first
year of employment, and research leave can be postponed to avoid clashing with maternity leave
(one instance in this cycle). Line-managers are encouraged to support staff in relation to working
patterns that accommodate caring responsibilities, with support to facilitate working from home. The
UoN has directly funded staff time lost on EU-funded projects as a result of the COVID pandemic.

Research students
EDI is embedded at all levels of PGR activity, from recruitment and research funding to supervision
and examination. Students funded by Research Councils or the University are entitled to funded
maternity and parental leave, and all pregnant students and new parents are subject to protections
within UoN’s EDI policy. Student health and wellbeing is safeguarded at all levels, with pastoral
support offered by supervisors, and the Department’s PGR Tutor, in addition to a dedicated Support
and Wellbeing Officer in the School of Humanities. A weekly ‘Postgraduate Café’ allows staff and
students to socialise informally and to share ideas for problem solving. Counselling and mental
health services are provided at University level. Students with specific learning difficulties or
disabilities have access to dedicated Academic and Disability Support Teams, and the Safety Office
ensures correct use of display screen equipment.

REF submission
Comprehensive consideration of EDI principles underpinned the UoA’s REF submission, guided by
the UoN Equal Opportunities policy and REF Code of Practice (REF5a 3.6). Regular internal peer-
review of new outputs by all REF-eligible staff was conducted, with two R&T colleagues selected to
review each item based on expertise and on a fair distribution of the workload among Associate and
Full Professors. As a result, many outputs were reviewed by a man and a woman. Special
circumstances for reduced output submission (medical, ECR status) were considered by UoN
Human Resources. Once notified of the results, the REF coordinator selected the highest-graded
output from each eligible colleague, followed by the highest-graded further publications from across
the UoA. An EDI review found 49:51/ female:male authorship of outputs in the final submission (not
including reserves) and 50:50 for the main contributors to the ICSs.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
The UoA has secured over £6.09m in external grants, fellowships and prizes for projects that
have been conducted or began within this REF cycle. £2.59m has been spent within the cycle. The
awards primarily represent grants to 12 different members of the UoA (5 men, 7 women), and across
all career stages. This income demonstrates the effective infrastructure supporting grant
development (3.2) and the success of our strategies to incentivise applications. The latter include
the ring-fencing of time allocated to FEC grants in addition to the usual workload allocation for
research, and use of a School-level fund to buy grant-holders out of further teaching. In
acknowledgement of the time invested in grant development, a grant application is viewed as an
output of research/impact leave comparable to a significant publication.

Success in capturing income has fostered high-quality impact and publications, some of which
can be seen REF2–3. Projects still in progress are building towards significant future contributions,
e.g., Loveluck’s projects have resulted in a series of high-impact articles with global media coverage,
while the LatinNow team has so far published over 30 outputs which are transforming our
understanding of sociolinguistics in the Roman western empire. Our ongoing strategy for grant
capture links to the fulfilment of our strategic objectives (2013-20):

i) Enable scholars with established reputations to develop as research leaders: This is
evidenced by clusters of grants: two Philip Leverhulme Prizes for ‘outstanding researchers whose
work has attracted international acclaim’ (£200,000) were awarded to Mullen, following the start of
the LatinNow project in 2017 (€1.5m from the ERC, £692,200 spent) and Eidinow, in recognition of
her publications on Greek religion which were the springboard for her AHRC-funded project and
network (2015, 2016) and fellowship in Erfurt (£34,255). Finglass took up his 2012 Philip Leverhulme
Prize in this REF period, following grant and publication successes. Sykes developed her Co-I role
in the AHRC Science and Culture large grant Chickens and People (led by Bournemouth, UoN
income £280,600) to secure two additional AHRC awards to further her and Miller’s research (UoN
£263,437). Bowden’s BA Mid-Career Fellowship (£96,400) and subsequent AHRC grant (£36,400)
both enabled his ongoing research at Roman Caistor.

ii) Attract and develop ECRs: In addition to ECR positions within larger project grants (2.2), the
UoA attracted a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship (Oikonomou, £170,500 working with Julian
Henderson) and a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Daujat, £74,400, funded 50:50 with UoN).
The gender-balance of ECRs was 8 women: 4 men. Funding-in-kind from the National Environmental
Isotope Facility (£114,900, Julian Henderson, O’Regan) and NRCF-Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator
Unit (£7,722, O’Regan) has also enabled PGRs to analyse crucial data for their research.

iii) Study the past in order to tackle major contemporary challenges: Jon Henderson’s Rising
from the Depths network (£1.82m, AHRC-GCRF-supported; £230,000 spent) ties particularly to UN
SDG 14 Life below Water, while Loveluck’s previous and ongoing research on lead pollution using
ice cores (funded by his Harvard visiting professorship, $52,800, and now a UoN ODA QR uplift
funding grant (REF5a 4.1c), £26,052, expenditure COVID-delayed until 2021) addresses SDG 13
Climate Action. Bowden’s AHRC Next Generation of Immersive Experiences project explicitly relates
to the UKRI’s Industrial Strategy challenge of Audiences for the Future and the Data Economy, and
to the AHRC’s strategic support for creative industries.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
iv) Enhance the Department’s reputation and our capacity for excellent research and impact
through international collaboration: In addition to the international dimension of the Rising from
the Depths network and LatinNow (4.1), members of the UoA were awarded a series of funded
fellowships to work with scholars in Europe and the USA: Jim at the Centre for Hellenic Studies,
Washington, $9000, and Kneebone at the British School at Athens (both COVID-postponed);
Eidinow at Erfurt; Loveluck at Harvard; Pearce and Livarda held Leverhulme International Academic
Fellowships (£71,728); Lorenz a Morphomata Fellowship, Cologne University, Germany (£47,348).
Miller’s Newton International Fellowship for Baysal (£63,175) is contributing both to Turkish
archaeology protocols and to Miller’s research on the Mesolithic/Neolithic transition in South-West
Asia.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities to support research and impact
The Department’s strategies and implementation of research and impact are overseen by the Head
of Department (HoD), who works with the Director of Research (DoR), Impact Officer and Director
of PGR. An annual Research Away Day enables collective discussion on individual and group
research and KE plans. The DoR sits on the School Research Committee, which reports to the
Faculty Research and KE Committee, chaired by the APVC for Research and KE, thus aligning
Department, School, Faculty and institutional strategies. Funded research/impact leave, and internal
funding derived from central investment in IRCs, are discussed above (2.2, 1.4). The Faculty’s CAS
advises on aspects of grant application development, including partnership development for
collaborative research, KE and impact. Larger applications benefit from internal review by the
Faculty’s peer review college. A specialist team advises on ERC and Marie Skłodowska-Curie
Fellowship grant writing and interviews. Other cross-Faculty structures supporting interdisciplinary
research include UoN’s Interdisciplinary Centre for Analytical Science (REF5a 4.1d), of which Julian
Henderson sits on the steering committee, and the International Collaboration Fund (REF5a 4.1c),
which enabled Jon Henderson to travel and set up collaboration to underpin his successful Rising
from the Depths AHRC-GCRF bid. Close interdisciplinary collaboration with BGS is achieved via the
UoN-BGS Centre for Environmental Geochemistry, which fosters collaboration on staff projects and
PGR research (members: Julian Henderson, Loveluck, Miller, O’Regan).

The CAS team includes a dedicated Research Impact Officer (Walas), who is also an Honorary
Research Fellow of the Department with expertise in Archaeology. The Arts Digital Research
Manager (Snyder) supports digital outreach and public engagement. KE and impact have been
further supported by the Faculty’s Arts Impact Accelerator and Research and Impact Excellence
grants. These were awarded to Fotheringham, Gallou and King, supporting each of the ICSs, and
Bowden for OA publication. The School’s Research and Impact Incentivisation Fund (2016—)
awarded a total of £36,000 to the Department.

The University has 8 libraries. The Hallward Library, the key repository for arts and social sciences,
has comprehensive holdings of books, journals and digital subscriptions for Classics and
Archaeology and participates in the national Inter-Library Loans service. The budget for acquisitions
to support research and teaching is administered at Faculty level, and staff are encouraged to submit
new purchase lists annually. The Department’s research is further supported by two resources for
artefact research: the University’s Archaeology Museum collection and the Mattingly coin collection.
The Museum developed out of the collections amassed by the Classics and Archaeology
Departments, and houses regionally and nationally important collections from the prehistoric, Roman
and medieval periods, and collections of Classical pottery from the Mediterranean. Both academic
staff and PGRs work with the Museum curator on research, KE and outreach projects (2.3). Over

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
this period projects have involved Bowden, Fotheringham, King, Loveluck, Mullen and O’Regan, and
focused on medieval Nottingham and on Roman material from the region. King leads the Museum’s
Research Committee. Staff serve on its management (Loveluck) and advisory (Fotheringham, King,
Lovatt, Loveluck) boards. The Mattingly coin collection was gifted to the Department during this
cycle, and since its arrival in August 2019 has become a key resource for research and research-
led teaching on the coinage and economy of the Roman world. UoN’s public-facing Lakeside Arts
Centre is a key asset in our KE and public engagement activities. It hosted a Greek tragedy film
season (2016) that attracted over 650 visitors, organised by Fotheringham for CADRE alongside a
conference and lecture series. This was supported by UoN’s Languages, Texts and Society RPA
(£1,000).

Researchers benefit from the Department’s geographical integrity: PGR offices (shared) and staff
offices (single-occupancy) are located in the Humanities Building close to our main research library.
The Humanities Building hosts 6 archaeology laboratories: a large multi-purpose laboratory, plus
five research labs dedicated to isotope analysis preparation, osteoarchaeology, archaeobotany,
materials and imaging. These were refurbished in summer 2016 at a cost of £10,000. Julian
Henderson and Loveluck make use of UoN’s electron microprobe in the new Nanocentre research
facility (REF5a 4.2), for Silk Road and historic pollution research.

Staff and PGRs benefit from networked computing and printing. In addition, the Faculty’s Digital
Transformations Hub (DTH), successor to the Digital Humanities Centre set up by Lorenz, and
located within the School of Humanities, makes specialist IT equipment for 3D-scanning and plotting
available to students, especially PGRs, and provides a comprehensive training offer on adopting
new technologies into research. Mullen is part of the DTH steering committee and the Faculty’s
Digital Research Strategy Board. The DTH lends digital cameras, portable digital projectors and
laptops to staff, PDFs, PDRAs and PGRs to facilitate research, impact, KE and outreach work. It
hosted Mullen’s workshop on Reflectance Transformation Imaging which supported attendees from
Vindolanda to launch new work on their collection, including inspiring the submission of a Canadian
SSHRC Insight and Development project on imaging Roman writing tablets (which began in 2020,
Mullen CoI, PI Alex Meyer, Western University, Ontario).



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, networks, and partnerships, and their beneficiaries
Our multiple research and impact collaborations with external partners regionally, nationally and
internationally are facilitated by the University’s interdisciplinary research infrastructure, and by the
School Research Committee and Faculty support (1.4, 3.2). Collaboration with partners within the
University are facilitated by the RPAs and IRCs, described in 1.4.

Key projects encapsulate the support for and effectiveness of our international research
collaborations. LatinNow (PI Mullen) combines expertise in sociolinguistics, epigraphy and
archaeology to investigate the social history of the north-western Roman provinces. It is directed and
administered from UoN and has core team members based at the UoN, Universities of Barcelona,
Leicester, Oxford, Zaragoza, CNRS Lyon and Los Angeles, facilitated by research support staff
based at School level in Nottingham and by colleagues in museums and other institutions across
Europe.


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Rising from the Depths AHRC-GCRF international network project (PI Jon Henderson) works
with CoIs at the Universities of Bournemouth, Cambridge, Eduard Mondlane, Roehampton, Queens
University Belfast and York, and international collaborators in Kenya, Tanzania and Mozambique.
The team’s collaboration with a wide range of non-academic stakeholders, including community
groups, aid and heritage professionals, NGOs, the United Nations, and government officials works
to change public and government perceptions of marine cultural heritage.

The Colle Gnifetti Alpine Historical Ice Core project is an interdisciplinary collaboration led by the
Climate Change Institute (CCI)-University of Maine, the Initiative for the Science of the Human Past-
Harvard University, with the UoN (Loveluck). UoN’s involvement in this project was facilitated by
Loveluck being supported to take up a Visiting Professorship at Harvard (2015–16). He has led on
high-profile papers for the project on lead pollution and major societal events in Late Antiquity and
the Middle Ages (2018, 2020), featured in media worldwide. The Georgia Ice Core project has been
developed by Loveluck and colleagues at Ilia State University, Georgia (Elashvili), CCI (Mayewski,
Kurbatov) and Victoria University, New Zealand (Tielidze) to extract an ice core from the Greater
Caucasus mountains to explore climate change and historic pollution in the region. This project
(2019–23) developed from a UoN ODA QR uplift funding (REF5a 4.1c) grant (£26,052, 2019), with
CCI contributing $200,000 towards the extraction and analysis of the core. The wider impact of this
ice-core research has already resulted in Colle Gnifetti evidence being used to underpin UK
government policy guidance (above, 1.3ii).

Julian Henderson’s Global Centre for Silk Road Studies reflects a collaboration born of the
international structure of the UoN (REF5a 1). It has grown from established research partnerships
with Chinese colleagues, working on glass from the Silk Road trade routes. Outputs produced with
Ma among others, and the successes of Henderson’s former PGRs becoming Lecturers in China
(Shen, Ma) have enabled him to build networks to create the Global Centre for Silk Road Studies
shared between UoN (UK) and UNNC Ningbo, China. He holds a Chair in ancient glass studies at
Northwestern University, Xi’an.

Bowden’s Caistor Roman town project has been facilitated through successful awards of a British
Academy Mid-Career Research Fellowship and an AHRC Next Generation of Immersive
Experiences project to explore new ways of engaging the public with research in Classics and
Archaeology. Besides input from Mullen, PDF Harlow, and Pat Brundell (UoN, Computer Science),
this collaboration represents co-production of research and impact with a key partner, the Cardiff-
based creative SME Jam Creative Studios.

4.2 Contributions to the discipline
The Department has made major contributions to the discipline of Classics and Archaeology beyond
our research and impact. Key interventions include:

i) Fostering the discipline in an area (East Midlands) where Classics is taught in relatively few
schools. To achieve this we actively support the Lincolnshire Schools Latin Day (Van Zyl Smit), the
Nottinghamshire branch of the Classical Association (Mullen is president, Stewart treasurer), and
the East Midlands Association of Classics Teachers (EMACT), principally through their annual sixth-
form conferences. Lovatt organised the national Classical Association conference (2014). We are
currently working with EMACT and the charity Classics for All to set up an East Midlands Classics
Hub to secure the regional sustainability of the discipline and our ability to engage new student



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
communities. Our teaching-focused colleague Wilshere has established one of the country’s most
active Adult Education programmes in Classical Studies, in Leicester.

ii) Overseeing the direction and sustainability of the discipline, and its cognate fields, by
representation on local and national subject committees. From 2014–17 Lovatt chaired the CUCD
education committee, and now chairs the Council’s main board, and sits on the Council of the Roman
Society. She was one of the original members of the steering committee of the Women's Classical
Committee UK, and participated in the consultative forum run by OCR that reshaped the teaching of
Classics at secondary level (2014–18). Pearce played a key role on the steering group of University
Archaeology UK and its 2015 report ‘Trends in UK Archaeology Admissions and Employability’,
which fed into the British Academy’s 2017 report, ‘Reflections on British Archaeology’. He was
secretary of the European Association of Archaeologists (2014); chairs Trent Valley Geo-
archaeology and is on the steering group of the East Midlands Historic Environment Research
Framework. Kropp sat on the Council for British Research in the Levant until 2016, and Mullen is on
the management committee for the Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents in Oxford.

iii) Contributions to wider research in the Arts at a national level. Sykes and Miller were invited to
lead an AHRC GCRF workshop, held at UoN, to explore how arts and humanities researchers might
contribute to international GCRF priorities, and were authors on the resulting ‘Research Community
Guide to the GCRF’. Loveluck took a leading role in the AHRC M3C DTP as site director for
Nottingham and, later, in the group that developed the M4C application (2.3). The M4C DTP is
providing a major injection of investment in Arts disciplines across the HEIs of the Midlands: its
offering of 46 doctoral studentships each year until 2025, plus 1:1 consortium match, amounts to
644 studentships.

iv) National and international service to the discipline. Members of the Department have been
external examiners of 14 PhD and MRes dissertations in 7 countries, with only 4 of those examined
from UK institutions. We have served as reviewers for the major UK funding bodies operating in our
disciplinary areas (AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme, NERC). 7 colleagues acted as members
of the AHRC Peer Review College (Bowden, Finglass, Jon Henderson, Livarda, Lorenz, O’Regan,
Pearce) offering expertise for academic, international and KE applications; Bowden received
commendations for his outstanding contribution (2017, 2019). Colleagues have acted as
advisors/reviewers for grant applications, postdoctoral fellowships, and prize awards for universities
and national bodies or research councils in Austria (Bowden, Pearce), Belgium (Loveluck, Mullen),
Canada (Bowden, Gallou), Cyprus (Bowden, Gallou), the Czech Republic (Bowden), Germany
(Bowden, Loveluck, Pearce), Hungary (Lovatt), Ireland (Loveluck, Pearce), Italy (Loveluck, Pearce),
the Netherlands (Bowden), Poland (Lee), South Africa (O’Regan) and the USA (Bowden). Such
activity has extended to service for international bodies such as UNESCO-ICOMOS for World
Heritage Site applications (Jon Henderson, Loveluck). Staff have served on the editorial boards of
14 journals in this cycle, including the Journal of Roman Studies (Mullen), Environmental
Archaeology (O’Regan), Journal of World Prehistory (Pearce), Britannia (Bowden), and Cambridge
Classical Journal (Thomas, 2013–17). Bradley (now teaching-focused) edited the Papers of the
British School at Rome until 2015; Julian Henderson acted as a guest editor for the Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences (2019) and for Journal of Archaeological Science Reports (2017).
Members of the Department have refereed articles for over 30 different periodicals and books for
10 major presses, and presented 168 conference papers, keynotes and invited seminars/lectures
across numerous countries in Europe, Asia and the Americas during this REF cycle, in fora ranging
from the five workshops led/co-led by LatinNow to conferences run by UNESCO.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


v) Indicators of the esteem in which the Department is held can be demonstrated through the award
of visiting Fellowships at the Universities of Barcelona, Bochum, Cologne, Erfurt, Oxford, the British
School at Athens, the Centre for Hellenic Studies, the CNRS/Paris 1-Panthéon-Sorbonne, and
visiting Professorships at Harvard and Sassari Universities. Members have also won prizes for
excellence in classical art and archaeology (from the Collegio Ghislieri, Italy), ancient history
(University of Oxford) and classical studies (Philip Leverhulme Prizes). It is an indicator of the long-
standing reputation of the Department that four Philip Leverhulme Prizes have been won in the past
decade.




                                                                                               Page 17
