Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 27, English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Department of English and Creative Writing ([ECW], formerly English and Comparative
Literature), is home to a large family of researchers working in and across literary, cultural, film,
comparative and translation studies, creative writing, linguistics, and critical theory.            It
accommodates the Centre for Caribbean and Diaspora Studies, the Centre for Philosophy and
Critical Thought, the Goldsmiths Writers’ Centre, and the more recently established Decadence
Research Centre and the Centre for Comparative Literature, and embraces a thriving postgraduate
community. The Goldsmiths Prize, which celebrates bold experiments in the novel form, is one of
our research jewels and embodies our collective concern with the critical/creative nexus within
literary culture.

The hallmark of the Department’s research is a rich and productive diversity. From African-American
literature to Continental philosophy and critical theory, from life writing to the Anthropocene, from
classical reception studies to decadence, we publish work which explores the intersections of
society, literature, language, and culture, embracing a variety of approaches to literary studies from
the historical to the theoretical to the visual and conceptual. We publish within and across a broad
range of disciplines, debates, and practices and are proud of our enterprising, interdisciplinary, and
collegial research culture.

Our aim is to bring together literary historians, theorists, critics, and creative writers in productive
partnerships, and our research is widely translated and prizewinning. Dooley won the Cholmondeley
Award in 2016; Spufford’s novel Golden Hill won the Costa, Ondaatje and Desmond Elliott Prizes,
and the NYC Book Award of the New York Society Library; Mars-Jones’ Box Hill won the 2019
Fitzcarraldo Editions Novel Prize; Wilson’s Guilty Thing: Life of De Quincey won the American
National Book Critics Circle Award in 2016; and Canova-Green’s book Faire le roi (published by
Fayard) was nominated by the Le Grand Livre du Mois Book Club as its book of the month in 2018,
to mention just a few. Alongside the more traditional author-based and periodised trajectories of
literary studies, such as Shakespeare and Nineteenth-century Literature, we publish in new and
developing fields, such as cultural translation studies, digital humanities, eco-criticism, and
experimental fiction, bringing a versatile focus to bear on language, literature, theory, culture, and
creativity.

Research Clusters and Centres

The Department’s research is organised through clusters of disciplines and fields, including English
and American Literature, Comparative and World Literature, Caribbean and Diaspora Studies,
Linguistics and Translation, Creative and Life Writing, and Philosophy and Critical Thought. These
are formalised in Research Centres. There are no hard boundaries: colleagues research within and
across a range of disciplines and research clusters and engage in continuous critical and creative
dialogue.

   1) English and American Literature


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department was the first in London to offer a dedicated pathway in the Literature and Culture of
the United States, and our American research cluster offers a vital contribution to the disciplinary
and interdisciplinary fields that are currently shaping the field. Our collective and pioneering research
explores many of the key traditional topics that shaped American literature and culture during the
nineteenth, twentieth, and twenty-first centuries, but also focuses on significant and growing fields,
including visual culture, eco-criticism, hemispheric American Studies, group biography, poetry and
poetics, and aesthetic resistance in contemporary indigenous literature and art. Our mission is to
embrace the more complex perceptions of American literature, society and history that are most
pressing in today’s world.

     2) Comparative and World Literature
Our Department was the first to offer a BA in English and Comparative Literature in London, but the
polyphonic outlook pervades all our degrees, emphasising their diversity. Our research and teaching
focus on literary, artistic, and cultural phenomena that traverse, challenge, or work programmatically
across national and monolingual canons, even when we teach in English or in English translation .
Expertise in literatures in European languages prevails (whether in Europe or in other continents;
and includes ‘small’ literatures such as that of Catalonia) but we extend beyond those geographically
(with pockets of interest in, for example, Hebrew, Arabic, and Tamil) as well as historically, with
research in classical literatures and their modern reception. We study literature in interdisciplinary
relation with the visual arts, film, philosophy, the law, scientific discourses, sport, education, human
rights, etc. We believe in supporting the discipline world-wide, and have strong links with key
professional associations such as the British Comparative Literature Association (BCLA), the
American Comparative Literature Association (ACLA), and the International Comparative Literature
Association (ICLA, of which Boldrini is Vice-President). The launch of the Centre for Comparative
Literature in 2020, jointly with the Department of Theatre and Performance, is only the latest stage
in the evolution of Comparative Literature at Goldsmiths.

    3) Caribbean and Diaspora Studies
The Centre for Caribbean and Diaspora Studies (CCDS), first established in 1983 under the
directorship of Anim-Addo as Centre for Caribbean Studies and re-launched in 2015 with its present
name, hosts an annual ‘Diasporic Dialogues’ international conference series. The Centre has a
strong community focus, and has coordinated our work to introduce Black British Literature to local
schoolchildren. It participates in a number of public events hosted at Goldsmiths, including the
‘Slavery and Social Justice’ series of talks (started with support from College ‘theme’ funding), the
Workshop and Reading Event on ‘State Violence and the Poetic Response’, and the ‘Divinations of
Worlds to Come’ performance and roundtable discussion in collaboration with Nefta Poetry. In
October 2015 the Centre, in collaboration with the local charity The Marsha Phoenix Memorial Trust,
which co-funded Leila Kamali’s Marsha Phoenix Postdoctoral Fellowship, hosted the ‘60 Untold
Stories of Black Britain’ exhibition with National Lottery funds. The exhibition explored and
celebrated the lives of the children of migrants from the Caribbean who came to Britain in the 1950s
and 1960s, and who would become the first Black middle-class professionals to make significant
contributions to their communities and to British society as a whole. In July 2019 the Centre’s Open
Book Club was launched in collaboration with the National Maritime Museum’s Community Outreach
Department, a project that encourages local-community focus on a wide range of reading with
student volunteers from the Centre.

   4) Linguistics and Translation



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As befits the ethos of our Department, we research and teach linguistics from interdisciplinary
perspectives, with foci on morphology, on sociocultural linguistics, intercultural communication,
language and education, multilingualism and the international contexts in which languages exist.
We are interested in how varieties of English can be compared to other languages, how speakers
move across languages, and how identities are formed through linguistic practices, in oral, written,
digital, public and private discourses in a wide range of social and textual settings. We combine
tools from linguistic discourse analysis and sociocultural linguistics with insights from cultural studies,
anthropology, sociology and social psychology. Our Goldsmiths Linguistics Seminar (GoldLingS),
free to attend, features renowned academics, including members of staff and post-graduate students
and meets regularly through the academic year, attracting a steady audience.

In addition to offering an MA in Translation as well as theory and practice-based PhD programmes,
we produce translations and publish academic work on a range of translation topics. Always mindful
of impact on practice and the local community, we run translator-training sessions and short courses
on communication. By exploring the territory between translation and a range of cognate frameworks
drawn from literary and cultural theory, political philosophy and philosophical hermeneutics, our
translation research advances approaches rooted in the understanding of issues of ethics, justice,
identity development, community relations and political recognition. Although we list this area
together with linguistics, our work in translation intersects with comparative literature, critical theory
and creative writing, and includes translations of poetry, theatre and critical theory (Dooley, Maitland,
Morrison, Ng).

     5) Creative and Life Writing
The Department has a PhD programme in Creative Writing and a flagship Writers’ Centre, directed
by Morrison and Wagner, which was established in 2013 to develop and strengthen the College’s
position as a hub of literary excellence and to sustain our creative practice research. The Centre
has allowed us to continue to build on the legacy of the many acclaimed authors (including Doris
Lessing, Harold Pinter, Seamus Heaney, Derek Walcott), critics and linguists who have spoken at
Goldsmiths under the aegis of the Department’s Richard Hoggart Lectures in Literature and Culture,
first established in 2003. With a wide-ranging programme of weekly events in term-time, the Centre
features writers outstanding in their fields, including the neurosurgeon Henry Marsh, the poet Paul
Muldoon, novelists Ali Smith and Howard Jacobson, the children’s writer Michael Rosen and the
memoirist Marion Coutts (the latter two writer-colleagues from the Departments of Education and
Art), but also young writers at the start of their careers, as well as a large number of former students
(now close to a hundred) who have gone on to publish their books after coming through one of
Goldsmiths’ creative writing programmes. In inviting around 40 writers who appear at the Centre
each year, we seek to reflect not only diversity of styles, genres, and approaches to writing, but also
of the speakers’ backgrounds. Supporting our commitment to inclusivity and to the local community,
these events are free of charge and open to members of the public as well as to staff and students.

The Writers’ Centre supports our links to several other organisations (including the New Statesman,
the Ink Academy, Poetry London, which now has its office in the Department, and the Society of
Children’s Book Writers and Illustrators), and it hosts or helps to organise a range of prizes. An
annual life writing prize, open to authors throughout the UK and Ireland, runs in conjunction with the
London writers’ development agency Spread the Word. The Centre hosts the readings and awards
ceremony of the annual £500 Pat Kavanagh Prize, awarded by the literary agency United Agents to
an outstanding student on the MA in creative writing. It provides the judges for the Goldsmiths Young
Writer Prize, offered for 16-18 year-old pupils in schools and colleges in the UK. And, to crown it all,

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
it hosts the prestigious Goldsmiths Prize for Fiction and the various readings and lectures associated
with it, such as the New Statesman-Goldsmiths Prize Annual Lecture on why the novel matters.
Parnell is Literary Director. Drawing together a number of our research preoccupations, including
literary-critical as well as creative approaches to language, the Goldsmiths Prize also projects these
research strengths outwards, as reflected in one of our Impact Case Studies.

    6) Philosophy and Critical Thought
The conceptual, methodological, and interdisciplinary work of the Centre of Philosophy and Critical
Thought (co-directed by Ng and by the Department of Sociology) has a significant international
reach, boasting a number of activities, projects and collaborations, publications, networks, and
funding/support partnerships (e.g., with the Walter Benjamin London Research Network; LGS
Kingston; Central Saint Martins; the Warburg). The Centre hosts a year-long Research Seminar on
various themes for its staff and student affiliates as well as the wider public. The Centre is also an
invited member of the International Consortium for Critical Theory Programs, a Mellon Foundation-
funded initiative based at UC Berkeley. Since January 2018, the Centre has invited 9 distinguished
international speakers and organised 7 workshops, conferences, lectures, and screenings (some in
collaboration with our postgraduate students). In June 2019 the Centre hosted a major international
conference on Baudelaire and Philosophy, funded by the British Society of Aesthetics, followed in
2020 with a conference on the theme of Tragedy and Philosophy. In June 2018 the Centre launched
the Goldsmiths Annual Philosophy Lectures, co-sponsored in 2020 by the Centre for Freudian
Analysis and Research. In line with its founding principle to maintain a high level of impact and
public engagement, all the events of the Centre are free and open to everyone. In 2020 the Centre
started a new book series, published by Seagull Press and distributed by the University of Chicago
Press, that will publish the Goldsmiths Annual Philosophy Lectures as well as selected documents
from its research activities.

    7) Nineteenth-century Literature and the Decadence Research Centre
ECW has a constellation of colleagues working on 'the long eighteenth century' and 'the long
nineteenth century' in literary and cultural studies. A distinctive feature of our research in this area is
the search for, and pursuit of, larger patterns. The identification of one such pattern was the impetus
behind the establishment under Desmarais’ directorship of the Decadence Research Centre
(formerly the Decadence Research Unit, established in 2017). The DRC hosts the new Open Access
journal Volupté and the recently-founded British Association of Decadence Studies (BADS). An
international research hub, it attracts top-flight scholars (Professor David Weir, The Cooper Union;
Professor Frédéric Martel, ZHdK University, Zurich), seeking to tie in their individual research with a
specialist institution, and to this end it organises a yearly schedule of conferences and symposia,
and participates in international networks and organisations like the Aestheticism and Decadence
Network and the Rimbaud and Verlaine Foundation. In 2019, it collaborated with members of the
Aestheticism and Decadence Network at Michigan State University and Newcastle University and
hosted a two-day international conference on the theme of Decadent Archives, and in 2020-22,
through partnership with the Department of Theatre and Performance and Dr Adam Alston who
secured an AHRC Leadership Fellowship for his project, ‘Staging Decadence’, it will collaborate with
Rich Mix Arts Centre in London, and HERE Arts Centre in New York in creating programmes of live
performance, artist residencies, and post-conference Club Nights hosted by the two venues.

Research objectives achieved during the assessment period




                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since 2014 the Department has become more public-facing; it has reached out to academic partners
across the College, and, more extensively, towards partners beyond the HE realm, such as
museums, libraries, cultural publications, even prisons. Individual staff are active members of
Research Centres based in other Departments (e.g., the Centre of the Body and the Centre for
Feminist Research), and actively contribute to regular seminar series at the University of London’s
School of Advanced Study, as well as international conferences and symposia. The Department’s
own Centres are major springboards to this effect, involving academics from other departments,
institutions, and the local community.

We have also been focusing on enhancing our Research Environment and Impact. To this end, we
have increased our collective self-awareness by more methodically sharing work and expertise,
including through Department-wide gatherings to produce a collegially owned Research Strategy
and disseminate achievements and initiatives. For instance, in 2016 we organised the exhibition
‘Print, Voice, Screen, Song’ in the College’s Great Hall to showcase the breadth and depth of the
Department’s research, generate discussions on the interactions between our fields and stimulate
ideas for possible collaborations with other colleagues at Goldsmiths and beyond. A Research
Funding Review Panel and a Research Development Group have been established in the
Department to promote and improve grant applications. We have developed our public outreach
and embraced partnerships beyond the HE sector and have enhanced our postgraduate research
culture in ways that are generative and sustainable.

As a multi-racial, multi-cultural, and multi-lingual Department with a diverse gender and sexual
representation also reflected in our teaching, we have been keen to cultivate this diversity in our
research and training activities. During the assessment period, we have contributed to the recently
established MA in Queer History programme run by the History Department, and started an MA in
Black British Writing with the Department of Theatre and Performance; this is now hosted in our
Department as the MA in Black British Literature. In 2017 we co-hosted with The Complete Works
3 and in partnership with the Poetry School a ‘Diversity in Poetry’ Conference.

Over the last five years, the Department has also developed its own discipline-specific thinking about
research integrity and responsibility. We give more details of this strategic focus in the section on
‘Supporting a culture of research integrity’ below.

Research strategy over the next five years

Our comprehensive Research Strategy entails numerous defined goals, but those assuming higher
priority, within the adaptive provisions of the strategy and alongside the continuation of the work
detailed above, are to:

   1. cultivate our specialities to give ourselves improved internal definition and critical mass, not
      least for bidding to external research funding bodies
   2. grow outwards towards partners beyond the HE realm to stimulate the potential impact of our
      work
   3. sustain and enhance our vibrant postgraduate research culture and developing postdoctoral
      dimension, to produce the early career researchers and creative practitioners who can set
      the agenda for the future

We intend to pursue these goals while strategically continuing to:

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   1. provide an inclusive and supportive research environment in and beyond the Department
   2. build on our public engagement by developing funding bids with external partners in the arts
      and society
   3. take our research to non-academic audiences, thus broadening our outreach and stimulating
      public debate
   4. develop further research funding applications

Impact strategies and activities

Our support for impact goes strategically wide as well as deep. The Department aims to galvanise
research impact wherever our research possesses organic potential to create it. This strategic goal,
running as a thread through our Research Strategy, prevails across all areas of our research and is
proactively cultivated by all of our research Centres. While our summits of research impact, in the
three Impact Case Studies, arise from the domains of literary/cultural criticism and creative practice,
the Department has also dedicated financial and infrastructural support for developing impact from
projects in sociolinguistics and in translation studies, which together lie within our other main sphere
of research, of language and linguistics. One project involved a support charity in London for asylum
seekers (Cogo); the other concerns a new, creative working method for theatre translators in staging
international productions (Maitland).

Among its numerous popular, public events, such as the ‘Voice and Community’ series, the Centre
for Caribbean and Diaspora Studies scored a world premiere of the opera Imoinda: A Story of Love
and Slavery for which CCDS Director Anim-Addo wrote the libretto, creatively based on Aphra
Behn’s Oroonoko. The premiere was part of the 7th London Festival of American Music, in 2019.
As scholar and poet, exemplifying our investment in creativity and critique, Anim-Addo informed the
libretto with her research into Caribbean literary culture, women’s writing, and history.

In the volume of the Centre of Philosophy and Critical Thought’s free, public fortnightly seminars,
annual lecture, conference, and other events, about 80% has a clear socio-political orientation.
Meanwhile, CPCT faces internationally towards more new contacts, such as the Benjamin Archive
in Berlin. Advisory Board member Cohen has struck a resounding major chord across public culture
with his latest book Not Working: Why We Have to Stop (2019), advancing philosophical and
empirical arguments against hyperwork, and for mindful alternatives.

In our public-facing Writers’ Centre, writers, particularly Knight, Mars-Jones, Morrison and Wilson,
regularly contribute reviews and review essays to the Times Literary Supplement, London Review
of Books, the Guardian, and more. While the Goldsmiths Prize stands out, the public interface of
the Centre extends much more broadly, and deeply into literary history. Spufford’s quadruple prize-
winning novel Golden Hill has vivaciously introduced new readers, via sales of 200,000 in the UK
and USA, and translations into ten languages, to the pioneering resources of the English 18th-
century novel, as a 21st-century novel flaunting its own literary-historical debt to those earlier bracing
innovations. Meanwhile, Wilson’s American-prize-winning biography of De Quincey has informed a
broad audience about a later period of literary history, as has Wood’s dual award-winning Mrs
Hemingway, also selected for the Richard and Judy Book Club.

We feel rewarded by effectively sharing our research and creativity as far beyond the seminar room
as possible. Staff are reminded of the significance of impact as they read and refer to our Research


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Strategy in applying for Dedicated Research Time, and in discussion at our staff Research Power
Lunches.

Open research environment

The Department actively supports Green Open Access for all staff outputs via the resources of the
Goldsmiths Research Online repository. We promote publication in Open Access journals, and our
in-house journal of Decadence studies Volupté, edited by Desmarais, was established as Open
Access from its inception.

Supporting a culture of research integrity

Goldsmiths is a signatory to the Universities UK Concordat to support Research Integrity and has
adopted the UK Research and Integrity Office’s Code of Practice for research, and we follow this
Code rigorously. While our Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee (REISC) has the
overarching responsibility to coordinate and promote a research environment based on good
governance, best practice, and support for the development of researchers in all our areas
(achieved, inter alia, by developing tighter procedures and forms and guides), we have also
integrated the reflection on research ethics in the work of creative non-fiction and autofiction PhD
writers; this allows us to advance the field intellectually and academically, too, and a number of our
creative writing students are now producing intellectually sharp material, both in their critical work
and in ethics applications that have informed the work of our REISC and of the College’s Data
Protection Officer. In 2018, the Department hosted a CHASE CDF-funded conference on
Research Ethics in Creative Practice, at which PGR students and practitioners were joined by reps
from the Society of Authors, Pen, QCs dealing with these matters, and figures prominent in the
Hacked Off campaign, to discuss in detail the existing research ethics frameworks and guidelines
and the direction in which these need to be re-thought to properly account for and sustain the
needs of creative writers.

 2. People

A prized strength of the Department is its diverse, inclusive and collegial research community. We
are rigorous in appointing staff with strong publication and research profiles, and deploy a clearly
stated workload allocation model that supports the balance between research, teaching, and
administration, ensuring that every member of staff is eligible for research time, and that individual
circumstances, including temporary, are taken into account.

We recognise the importance of staff diversity in terms of ethnicity, class, sexuality, gender, and
disability, whether formally declared or not. At the REF census date, the Department reported 42
(33.55 FTE) Category A staff on teaching and research contracts, and 7 of our 13 Professors were
female (54% compared to 25% in 2014, reflecting a policy of actively supporting women). Of the 45
staff entered in the submission (including three who left before the census date and one, Platt, based
in another department) 58% are women, and they account for 62% of staff submitting 4 outputs.
16% were from BME backgrounds.

Since 2014, the staff body has grown substantially in number and in research intensity, both through
new appointments and internal promotions. We have made 7 early-career appointments (Laffer,
Lee, Raisin, Sakr, Stevens, Wagner, Wood) and 3 strategic appointments in the fields of World

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Literature with a specialism in Arabic (Sakr), African-American Literature (King), and Translation
Studies (Maitland). 17 staff were internally promoted: 1 re-appointment to a chair (Mars-Jones), 8
promotions to chairs (Canova-Green, Desmarais, Dooley, Kramer, Krause, Scott, Spufford, Tubridy),
2 promotions to reader (Blinder, Sweeney), and 6 to senior lecturer (Barber, Barnsley, Cogo,
McDonald, Underwood, Vakil).

Our colleagues in fractional posts are an asset to the Department and a testimony to its ability both
to attract well-established creative practitioners keen to balance their teaching, research and writing
(Barber, Knight, Lee, Morrison, Raisin, Stevens, Underwood, Wagner, Wilson), and to retain
extremely successful practitioners who wished to reduce their hours but maintain their active
involvement with our research students and our Centres (Mars-Jones, Spufford and, as practising
psychoanalyst, Cohen, who, all three, have been Chairs of the Goldsmiths Prize).

From post-doctoral research assistant to professor, our aim is to support the work of every research-
active member of the Department and encourage collaborative research endeavours between
colleagues within and between departments at Goldsmiths. This has led to some ground-breaking
work in the areas of diaspora (Anim-Addo, King, Kirwan), memory (Crownshaw), classical reception
(Hurst, Simpson), nineteenth century (Baldick, Desmarais, Hurst, Stevens, Wilson), and decadence
(Baldick, Desmarais, Hurst), and to the incorporation of the Centre for Philosophy and Critical
Thought in ECW and the founding of the Centre for Comparative Literature and the Decadence
Research Centre in 2020.

Goldsmiths central services offers support for early career researchers, in line with the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers.

Recognising and rewarding staff for carrying out research/impact and supporting and
enabling staff to achieve impact from their research

The Department’s research culture is enabled by an enlightened policy on research leave, which
permits staff on teaching and research contracts with clearly defined research plans to apply for a
term’s paid leave on ‘Dedicated Research Time’ every seventh term, irrespective of seniority and of
FTE. Performance and development reviews take place for all staff on a regular basis (they are a
prerequisite for all promotion applications), and all new appointments receive an induction
programme and are allocated a mentor for their probationary period. Early-career staff have a
reduced teaching and administrative load in the first two years of their appointment.

In recognition of research and impact, we have an internal research budget from which various
activities are funded, including making research visits, attending national and international
conferences or organising such conferences at Goldsmiths, and meeting publication costs, e.g.,
permissions and reproduction costs for the use of images. Foreign language publications frequently
require subsidies, and the Department supports these to ensure that all staff have equal access to
publishing no matter what the different circumstances and costs of their areas of study. Staff have
equal access to this budget, irrespective of seniority, FTE, or length of contract. There is no
individual or yearly cap, in recognition of the fact that some research is more expensive and that
there are cyclical fluctuations in every researcher’s life. ‘Seedcorn’ funds are made available to
incentivise larger funding applications on a case-by-case basis after consultation between the
Director of Research and HoD, e.g., the 50% Goldsmiths matched funding initiative for large projects
(Anim-Addo, Kirwan). Grant application writing is factored into workloads allocation when justified.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our Centres each receive a regular yearly contribution from the Department of £2,000 (matched by
the Department of Theatre and Performance in the cases of the CCL and the DRC, and by Sociology
in the case of the CPCT) and are encouraged to seek external funding.

II. Research Students

Our seven MPhil/PhD programmes currently have 66 students researching in the domains of literary
or linguistic studies, translation or creative writing. Around a hundred students are studying on the
MA and MRes programmes. This large, lively, multicultural community of postgraduate research
students (PGRs) is the heart of the Department, and we are passionately committed not only to
enhancing their postgraduate experience but also to helping them gain employment after they
graduate. Not including those who take up administrative and Associate Lecturer posts within the
Department and elsewhere at Goldsmiths, examples of recent postgraduate destinations include a
Leverhulme-funded postdoctoral fellowship at University College Dublin, and academic posts in the
UK and abroad (e.g., Birmingham City University; Brasenose College, Oxford; PAAET, Kuwait; Jyoti
Dalal School of Liberal Arts, NMIMS, Mumbai; the American University, Beirut; University of
Amsterdam; Shanghai University of Finance and Economics).

Monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress of successful
completions

Applications from prospective PGRs are assessed first by the Director of Postgraduate Research
and then by individual potential supervisors to ensure suitability for doctoral research and
compatibility between student and supervisor. All doctoral students have a first and second
supervisor, and all three meet together at least once a year. Creative and Life-Writing PGRs have
a critical as well as a creative supervisor. When joint expertise is required, we offer active co-
supervision both internally and externally. Performance is monitored through supervision logs (filled
in for each supervision by both supervisor and PGR) and an annual Postgraduate Review meeting
with the Chair of Research Committee and Director of Postgraduate Research (Simpson, Natarajan),
also attended by the supervisor. The Graduate School has acknowledged these annual personal
meetings as best practice. The Department has a PG Administrator who is charged with the day-to-
day running of the programmes, and pastoral support is offered by postgraduate admissions tutors.
Staff new to PGR supervision are mentored by experienced colleagues, while the Graduate School
offers ongoing training and support for all supervisory staff.

Studentships from major funding bodies

We participate in national and international doctoral training partnerships – CHASE (Consortium for
the Humanities & the Arts South East England). 15 of our applicants have been awarded CHASE
studentships since 2014 – a high number of awards for a single department. In March 2020,
Natarajan won a Collaborative Doctoral Award from CHASE for a PhD studentship to start in 2020
on the topic of the impact of English prose on the development of the modern Tamil novel, in
collaborative partnership with the prestigious Roja Muthiah Research Library (RMRL) in Chennai.

Support for skills development and preparation for future careers

We resolutely believe in supporting our PGRs and early career researchers. We seek to support the
training and development of our PGRs by assisting them financially to attend conferences and

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
prestigious summer schools (we have extended this support to MA and meritorious BA students
also), as well as other training such as writing retreats and language courses. Supported summer
schools have included the T. S. Eliot, Beckett, Joyce and Synapsis Summer Schools. For the
International Samuel Beckett Summer School, we have an ongoing agreement with Trinity College
Dublin, whereby they pay the fees and we contribute to the students’ travel and accommodation.

Other research training initiatives include or have included Mnemonics (an international partnership
which includes several European Countries), Erasmus+ (through which the Department has a
doctoral student exchange agreement with Humboldt University in Berlin), the Freie
Universität Berlin Research Alumni Program, and the International Network for Comparative
Humanities (INCH), which was sponsored by Princeton and Notre Dame, and the European Doctoral
School, through the College’s ongoing collaboration with Copenhagen and Berlin – more recently
extended to other European partners – contributes significantly to the development of our PGRs and
research culture.

We supplement these initiatives with a Graduate Trainee Tutor (GTT) scheme launched in 2015
whereby current PhD students are offered teaching on undergraduate modules, under mentoring,
provided they have upgraded from MPhil to PhD, and are on track for completing on time (this is
confirmed, inter alia, through the Annual Progress Review described above). In a further
development to the GTT scheme we require that participants attend the Academic Practice Module
offered by the Graduate School prior to starting teaching and/or the PGCert in HE Teaching (during
teaching), unless the tutor already has qualifications in HE teaching. Our mentoring structures,
under the leadership of the Director of Associate Teaching Staff, have been strengthened
accordingly.

A further manifestation of our ongoing Research Strategy is the development – in addition to the
College-level provision – of a postdoctoral dimension through the introduction of a Postdoctoral
Research Associate Scheme, which confers the title of PDRA upon all our PhD graduates for their
first full postdoctoral year, along with the opportunity to apply for financial assistance from the
Department to promote the development of research/creative projects. For example, Abigail Parry
was supported by the PDRA scheme and won the Ballymaloe International Poetry Prize in 2016.
Our Postdoctoral Research Assistants provide some help for staff members who require it to
complete or develop projects. We also run a Postdoctoral Associate Tutor scheme which offers
professional development in the form of two years of teaching experience and mentoring, both for
teaching and research, and the possibility of some research funding. We actively support
postdoctoral applications to externally funded schemes such as the British Academy and the
Leverhulme Foundation.

Our weekly Goldsmiths Literature Seminar (GLITS) is organised by postgraduates in the
Department. We pay them for their contribution and a member of staff (Shinn) acts as support and
liaison. The GLITS seminar offers postgraduates a chance to introduce and explain their research
to an academic and non-academic audience, and all papers presented throughout the year are
considered for publication in the annual, peer-reviewed GLITS-e journal.

Equality and diversity




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Diversity is a key feature of our Department, and equality is something we work hard to protect and
maintain. Equality and diversity issues have been considered at every stage of the REF process
(see Goldsmiths’ Code of Practice).

The Department is fully committed to equality and diversity, from recruitment to the support of staff
members. We enable flexible working for those that request it; concentrate teaching days and
support remote working when possible; provide specialist equipment for colleagues that have
musculoskeletal or other disorders, and facilitate phased return to work after illnesses, seeking the
advice of Occupational Health when appropriate; and support phased retirement. All staff are
entitled to apply for Dedicated Research Time, irrespective of seniority or FTE, and research funding
is open to all staff, including fixed-term. Staff on Teaching & Scholarship contracts also have access
to funding to enhance their teaching-orientated scholarship or develop their research in view of a
potential transition to a research contract. During the assessment period staff have had parental
and maternity leave and have taken leave while on long-term funded or visiting fellowships at other
institutions; during these periods, they have continued to have access to research support in the
Department and the College.

All staff are advised to take part in mandatory training in Sexual Violence/Harassment and Race
Awareness. The Department is fully committed to anti-racist and inclusive pedagogy and practice,
and aims to promote and uphold diversity in our research by ensuring representation of BAME and
LGBTQ+ scholars and writers at our meetings.

Supporting the wellbeing of staff and students

We support flexible working for researchers, for example, reducing hours temporarily to
accommodate individual need, and returning to full-time appointment at the end of the period (an
opportunity that has been taken by four colleagues).

All Goldsmiths staff benefit from a Staff Wellbeing Centre that also houses staff counselling and
occupational health (see Goldsmiths institutional environment statement).

Students also benefit from supportive services at College level, including counselling; staff in the
Department also offer support, including through the annual progress reviews, which are meant to
offer assistance as much as to monitor progress. Students who encounter difficulties can interrupt
their studies for up to two years in total over the course of their PhD, during which time contact with
the Department is maintained.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding and strategies for generating research income

We are steadily improving our performance in attracting funding from research councils, foundations,
and charitable trusts, and we are making considerable efforts to encourage staff, both individually
and in clusters, to apply for grants and fellowships. Building up the culture of routinely considering
and planning for applications for external funds, especially involving collaborations to complement
the ‘lone scholar’ model that our Department has historically (and with good success) relied on, is a
key action point in our Research Strategy.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
To this end, the Department has implemented support mechanisms with a view to helping all staff
and early career scholars in particular. Staff involved in planning and drafting research grant
proposals are able to draw on a Research Funding Review Panel (chaired by Desmarais), consisting
of senior members of the Department and aiming to give feedback on research grant proposals
before they reach submission stage. In addition, we have a Research Development Group of
interested, self-selecting colleagues (organised by Ng and Shinn), providing peer review feedback
to one another on evolving research grant proposals. All staff are encouraged to seek information,
advice, and help from College Research Services, especially in relation to collaborative applications
by colleagues in different departments and different universities (e.g., Desmarais: ESSE
Collaborative Workshop Scheme, Venice; European Joint Doctorate (EJD) programme, Burgundy,
Venice), and to attend training sessions, workshops and one-to-one coaching led by consultants with
senior experience of working for funding bodies such as the AHRC and the ESRC.

Since 2014, we have also devised targeted ways to enhance the personal and Departmental
research funding in the absence of, and in order to build up to better potential for, larger external
funding, by devolving Departmental income obtained through various activities such as Summer
Schools, short courses, and an Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership for the support of research-
orientated initiatives. The first steps of what is now the Decadence Research Centre, for example,
were financed through income derived from a Rhodes University Summer School together with funds
raised from an international conference and a series of public talks (‘Jeudis’) hosted by Goldsmiths
for the British Association of Decadence Studies.

As evidence of the positive effects of our strategy, the number of bidding applications to external
bodies has been steadily rising since 2014 and we are heartened by our recent successes in
securing small and medium-sized grants, which we see as significant stepping-stones to more
ambitious grant applications and success. Recent achievements include funding from: AHRC (a
Public Policy Engagement Fellowship, 2015, and a Cultural Engagement Fellowship, 2016, by
Tubridy while Dean of Graduate School and based half in ECW and half in the Department of Visual
Cultures; and an OWRI award, 2017-2019, for ‘Language Acts and Worldmaking’ and a research
grant, 2018, for ‘Translation and Interpretation Work in Multilingual Business Communities: Roles,
Perspectives, Agency’ by Maitland, the latter as Co-I); Arts Council National Lottery, 2019-20 (Scott);
British Council, 2018, matched by the Brazilian Government, for ‘English as a Medium of Instruction
in two state-funded Brazilian higher education institutions from an English as a lingua franca
perspective: policy in practice’ (Cogo); British Society of Aesthetics Small Grant, 2018-2019, for the
conference ‘Baudelaire and Philosophy’ (Ng); Cassal/Staunton Bequest (under UoL School of
Advanced Studies), 2018, for ‘Common Scents – Smells & Social Life in European Literature’
(Krause, together with alumna Dr Katharina Herold, now at Brasenose College, Oxford, and Dr
Godela Weiss-Sussex from the Institute of Modern Languages Research (IMLR)); Centre de
Recherche du Chateau de Versailles, 2018 (Canova-Green); European Society for the Study of
English (ESSE) Collaborative Workshop Scheme, 2020 (Desmarais, together with Professor Elisa
Bizzotto from University of Venice).

Several of our colleagues have obtained personal funding in the form of visiting and research
fellowships, including from the Beinecke Library, Yale University and Reed College, Portland,
Oregon, 2020 (Barnsley); the Lilly Library, Bloomington, Indiana, 2019, the Harry Ransom Center,
Austin, Texas, 2018 (Sweeney); the Cullman Centre Fellowship at the New York Public Library,
2018-19 (Wilson); Maynooth University, awarded 2020, pending due to Covid-19 (Boldrini);



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Doshisha and Kobe Universities: Terra Foundation International Fellowship in Art History (worth
approx. $150,000), 2019-20 (Blinder).

The Department has also attracted funding to support a variety of significant research initiatives.
Two notable examples are: the British Association of American Studies award to Barnsley to
undertake archival work on her edition of Mary Barnard’s Complete Poems, and Oxford University
Press (2018-2022) which buys out time for Cogo as Chief Editor of the ELT Journal. In 2018 Kramer
received a subsidy from the Geschwister Boehringer Ingelheim Stiftung für Geisteswissenschaften,
a German foundation that supports arts and humanities scholarship, for his book, Sport and Literary
Expressionism, and in 2020, Desmarais’ Decadence Research Centre received a private donation
towards the editing of the journal, Volupté. In addition, the International Comparative Literature
Association funds an assistant and a web consultant, line-managed by Boldrini, to support its work.
We have received CHASE funding to organise various events to support doctoral research (Boldrini,
2015 and 2018; Cogo, 2017 for a workshop at the October Gallery in London).

Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

We have improved the ways in which we communicate our research to one another. We have, for
example, a twice-termly Research Power Lunch as an opportunity for staff to present work in
progress and discuss general research issues, and colleagues are invited to participate actively in
the Department’s and College’s developing research strategy.

Our 2016 event ‘Print, Voice, Screen, Song’, helped us demonstrate the range of the Department’s
research to our students, to heighten their understanding of what their tutors do when they are not
lecturing or marking essays and what expertise their teaching is built on; to colleagues in other
departments at Goldsmiths or in our fields but at other institutions, to spark dialogues and
collaborations; and to Alumni and members of the public who were interested. The event was free
– about 250 people attended – and featured short talks alongside the exhibition of work by staff and
students; it included film shorts and videos of performances and of talking heads. It was a successful
experimental model of how research might be publicised and communicated.

The Department has a full calendar of research seminars, symposia, conferences and events.
Each week, we circulate an electronic bulletin detailing weekly news and an events update that
features screenings, readings, exhibitions and shows alongside announcements about new
publications and career opportunities. This communication also publicises calls for papers and
literary competitions and prizes.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Support in place for and effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships,
in other institutions, locally, nationally or internationally and indicators of their success

Our most prominent support is that provided by both Department and College for our creative
association with the New Statesman, which has collaborated with us on the Goldsmiths Prize since
before its inception in 2013. Although the Department is always prime mover and administers the
Prize, this is a valuable collaboration for us. The success of the collaboration is fully attested in the
international literary journalism addressing the Prize, and in the pervasive, ongoing public interest in
it.

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The Department supports, also financially, the development of projects aimed at building momentum
towards larger funding applications for international networks and collaborations, for example on
Caribbean literature (ERC Synergy grant ‘After Reading the Globe: Reading the World in 21 st-
Century Diasporic Literature’, Anim-Addo) and Native American literature (‘Famine Pots and
Transatlantic Exchanges: Celebrating the Choctaw Famine Gift to the Irish’, Kirwan).

Members of staff have taken part in research projects based in and across other institutions. For
example: Cogo is founder and co-convenor of the AILA Research Network on English as a Lingua
Franca. In 2015 Crownshaw – one of the founding members of Mnemonics Network for Memory
Studies, an international network dedicated to research training for doctoral students – co-organised
the Mnemonics colloquium in London, with King’s College and Westminster. Desmarais was a core
member of the Decadence and Translation Network (Glasgow and Oxford, 2018-20). Popova was
invited to take part as a consultant on the international project ‘Mapping the cultural authority of
science across Europe and India’ (2012-2015) and as a participant in the international research
project ‘Cross-linguistic research into derivational networks’ (2017), and Kirwan is one of the
international team based at Hull University involved in the AHRC-funded network ‘Indigenous
Literatures and Languages in the Americas: Translanguaging and Education in Global Contexts’.
Simpson was a member of the advisory board of the AHRC project on 'Classics and Class in Britain
1789-1939' (2013-2015) based at KCL. Sweeney is a founding member of the British Association
of Contemporary Literary Studies (BACLS).

Interactions and engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences to develop
impact from research and how these collaborations have enriched the research environment
and engaged with diverse communities and publics

Our staff are actively engaged in public outreach and community engagement. Reaching out into
different media and institutions, our researchers expand socio-cultural possibilities, and also our own
collective horizon for where research can make impact. Our interactions with wider audiences are
variously digital, cultural, and festival. Here is a snapshot.

Digital
Barber has established a MOOC (Massive Open Online Course), an Introduction to ‘Who Wrote
Shakespeare’, provided by the University of London via Coursera, which has attracted almost 10k
enrolments.

Art, Music, Poetry, and Dance
Natarajan is senior Research consultant on an Arts Council National Lottery Project Grant
(November 2020 - March 2021), aimed at the Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora in the UK and awarded to
a London-based classical dancer/performance artist, Stella Subbiah, as part of the Arts Council's
cultural recovery programme during Covid-19. As a practising artist working at the interface of visual
culture, literature, and politics, Tubridy has exhibited mixed media paintings in the No Format Gallery,
Deptford, in 2017. In 2014, Underwood wrote a libretto for the Jerwood Foundation's Jerwood Opera
Writing Programme and he co-wrote the opera The Commission with composer Elspeth Brooke
which was premiered at Aldeburgh Music's Snape Maltings, before being staged in the Linbury
Theatre of the Royal Opera House, and then at Opera North in Leeds. He co-edits and co-presents
The Faber Poetry Podcast, and poems from his book Happiness have been recorded and included
in the National Poetry Archive, the BBC documentary We Belong Here, the BBC’s Culture Show as

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
well as being set by the composer Freya Waley-Cohen as part of her orchestral song cycle
Happiness, commissioned by the Melos Sinfonia for premiere on the 19th October 2018 at LSO. He
is also an editor of the Goldsmiths Shorts pamphlet series run with Goldsmiths Press, which is
distributed nationally and brings work by recent graduates and alumni together with writers
associated with the College.

Press, Radio, and TV
Canova-Green appeared on the BBC4 programme, ‘The King who invented ballet’ in 2015. Kirwan
has been interviewed on the American and Irish famines, including for Time magazine, VOX, and
CBS News, and he has spoken with LeAnne Howe on the Great Famine Voices platform and at the
Irish Embassy in Washington DC (the Consul General in Texas have invited LeAnne Howe and
Kirwan to participate in a large public engagement event online in December 2020, hosted by Naomi
O’Leary of the Irish Times). Krause’s paper on the Crystal Chain Letters on utopian architectural
fantasies (1919-20) was broadcast on the open radio channel OK Westküste FM in April 2020. Scott
has closely collaborated with: the BBC (TV and radio) notably as consultant and lead contributor on
BBC 1’s ‘Judi Dench: My Passion for Trees’, reaching 8 million viewers; Oxford University Press, on
two short videos; the Hay Levels series, for enriching the A Level English curriculum; Shakespeare
in Italy, a charity promoting Shakespeare’s ‘Italian plays’, with outreach to local councils in
Merseyside, Sussex, Manchester and Peterborough; Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre; the Royal
Geographical Society; the British Council (on a short film with 34,000 views).

Theatre and Film
Cohen has enjoyed close involvement with the Film and Video Umbrella, affiliated with the Jerwood
Trust, supporting film-makers (as indicated in one of our Impact Case Studies) and he has
contributed two articles to the Institute of Art and Ideas (IAI.TV). Maitland’s theatre translations have
benefited two theatre companies, Cuartoymitad Teatro and at the Cervantes Theatre. In 2016,
Morrison collaborated with the composer Gavin Bryars to create a ‘sonic journey’ inspired by, and to
be experienced on, the train journey from Goole to Hull, with travellers invited to download words
and music on their personal device for an artistic evocation of the East Yorkshire landscape, and For
Love or Money, Morrison’s adaptation of Lesage’s play Turcaret, was produced by the theatre
company Northern Broadsides and toured throughout the UK in autumn 2017 to four-star reviews
(‘classic’, Observer, ‘comedy gold’, Guardian). His short play Luggage was produced at the Ink
Theatre Festival in Suffolk in 2018.

Educational
Scott works closely with The Globe theatre, giving public lectures and contributing to their adult
learning initiative. She is chair and judge of the Shakespeare prize for the Independent Schools
Association. Scott’s work with women in the penal and criminal justice system, and beyond, has
involved close engagement with the following institutions, which have benefited from it in sustained
ways, as reflected in one of our Impact Case Studies: HMP Styal, HMP Eastwood, the Venus Centre,
Bootle, Women in Prison, HMP Isis.

Wider activities and impact of research carried out in the unit that is not captured in the
impact case studies

Beyond our Centres, energising examples of research work generating impact and/or public
engagement include Tubridy’s consultancy on a 2018 neuro-diverse production of Beckett’s play Not
I, by Tourretteshero, at Battersea Arts Centre and the Albany Theatre, Deptford, and the

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
documentary Me, My Mouth and I for BBC 2. Her recent research focus on intermediality and
neurodiversity includes working with DYSPLA on their Neurodivergent and Dyslexic Storymaker
Residency 2020; King’s consultancy on the casting of the Loman family as African American in a
production of Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman at the Piccadilly Theatre, London (2019);
Natarajan’s work on William Hazlitt annually informing the public Hazlitt Day School, in 2019
addressing current political journalism; Krause’s diverse research on war, the olfactory, and the oral
presented at museums in the UK and Germany; and Canova-Green’s contributions on 17th-century
French court culture to BBC 4 and French radio. Overall, our national and international research co-
operation with galleries, festivals, museums, theatres, schools, charities, prisons, and the media,
including news outlets such as The Wall Street Journal and Al Jazeera, has grown substantially, and
by design.

To give a sense of the range of keynotes given by our staff: in 2014, Sweeney delivered a keynote
address on ‘Weird Modernism: Alienation and Experimentation in the Writing of Anna Kavan’ to the
British Association of Modernist Studies; Barber has twice delivered the inaugural annual
Christopher Marlowe lecture in 2015 and 2020, and in 2016 she was the keynote speaker for the
British Council at their 'Shakespeare Lives' conference at Yasar University in Izmir, Turkey; in 2015
Ng delivered a Distinguished Friends of Yonsei University Lecture on ‘The Poverty of Art’ at Yonsei’s
Underwood College, Seoul, and in 2019 a keynote lecture on ‘Surrealism and Catastrophe (Harnack,
Auerbach, Benjamin)’ for the Futures of Catastrophe conference at the Institute of Philosophy, KU
Leuven; in 2019 Natarajan delivered the opening keynote on ‘The Essay’ at the University of Malta
and led a study day on Hazlitt and Art in Britain at the Courtauld Institute; and in 2019 Boldrini
delivered a keynote lecture at the 9th International Convention on Ethical Literary Criticism at
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.

We enjoy leading and participating roles in external networks. For example, we are founding
members of and active participants in the following enterprises: the London Intercollegiate Network
for Comparative Studies, a collaboration between London institutions involved in teaching and
research in comparative literary studies; the London-Paris Romanticism Seminar, an international
research forum launched in 2016 under the School of Advanced Study, and linked with the biennial
symposium on British and European Romanticism at the École Normale Supérieure; and the
Classical Reception Studies Network, which Simpson serves on the Executive Committee. At the
Institute of English Studies, we also take an active part in the London 19 th Century
Seminar. Sweeney is a member of the CHASE Feminist Research Network.

Our interdisciplinary research energises the Department’s collective research theme of the
critical/creative nexus related to literary culture and is complementary to the College research
themes. For example, Tubridy has been co-convenor of the London Beckett Seminar at the Institute
of English Studies since 2015, which has hosted eight UK and international guest speakers in a
series of seminars open to academics, researchers, PGRs, ECRs, and the general public. Inherently
interdisciplinary in approach, the seminar supports a vibrant research network for postgraduate
students, early career researchers, and established academics on a national and international level.
Tubridy’s interdisciplinary work explores the intersection between writing, performance, and art, with
a focus on identifying the modalities of influences and exchange between the arts. Maitland’s work
on translation and geopolitics questions how the translation paradigm plays a part in ongoing
negotiations (and confrontations) between hegemonic/majoritarian structures and justice-based
solidarity movements for different forms of minority rights, and between disparate discussions of
reciprocity and interdependence, equality and emancipation, and the politicised spaces in which they

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
operate. Canova-Green is part of the French project based in Arras and funded by the Maison
Européenne des Sciences de l’Homme et de la Société (MESHS), ‘Merveilles de la cour’, and she
is also part of a Franco-German research project on Le Théâtre à Machines entitled PEGASUS
(funding is currently being sought from L’Agence nationale de la recherche (ANR) and the German
Research Foundation (DFG)).

Indicators of wider influence

Four members of staff have held visiting positions at other universities and other institutions (Blinder
at Doshisha and Kobe Universities in Japan; Boldrini at Kuwait University; Ng at Harvard University;
Wilson at New York Public Library); five have been short- and long-listed for prizes and awards
including the Royal Society of Literature’s Encore Award (Barber), the Forward Single Poem Award
(Dooley), the Pen Ackerley Prize (Mars-Jones, Moore-Gilbert), the Folio Prize (Raisin), the Rose
Mary Crawshay Prize (Scott), the International Dylan Thomas Award (Wood); and eight have
received awards for their work (Anim-Addo: Lifetime Achievement Award; Barber: Calvin & Rose G.
Hoffman Prize (three times winner in 2011, 2014, 2018); Spufford: Costa, Ondaatje and Desmond
Elliott Prizes, and the NYC Book Award of the New York Society Library; Stevens: Somerset
Maugham Award, 2019; Underwood: Somerset Maugham Award, 2016; Wagner: Eccles British
Library Writer’s Award, 2014; Wilson: American National Book Critics Circle Award, 2016; Wood:
Jerwood Fiction Uncovered Award, 2014). Three leading academic journals in the field are edited
by members of the Department, including: ELT Journal (Cogo); Journal of American Studies
(Blinder); Volupté: Interdisciplinary Journal of Decadence Studies (Desmarais).

Twelve colleagues (Barber, Boldrini, Crownshaw, King, Kirwan, Maitland, Mars-Jones, Natarajan,
Scott, Sweeney, Tubridy, Vakil) are external examiners at 17 UK universities, covering the subject
areas of English, American Literature, Comparative Literature, Creative Writing, and Translation
Studies. And across the Department members sit on editorial boards of internationally refereed
journals. Desmarais and Cogo are Chief Editors of Volupté and ELT Journal respectively (the most
important world-wide journals in their fields), and Maitland is Managing Editor of JoSTrans. Four
(Boldrini x1, Desmarais x3, Kirwan x1, Ng x1) edit book series for a range of publishers including
Bloomsbury, Cambridge UP, Legenda, MHRA, OUP, Manchester UP, Dublin UP, Seagull Press,
Michigan State UP, and Stanford UP. Canova-Green is one of the co-editors of the Brepols Festival
Studies series and is also one of the co-directors of the Society for European Festival Research.

Boldrini was academic co-director of the Erasmus+ Strategic Partnership Mediterranean
Imaginaries: Literature, Arts, Culture; she is Vice-President of the International Comparative
Literature Association; she is an elected member of the Academia Europaea (for which she served
on the committee for Literary and Theatrical Studies until 2020); and since September 2020 she has
been the Chair of the Review Panel on Arts and Literature of the Academy of Finland. Desmarais is
an elected member of the Academia Europaea, the European Society for Translation Studies, and
an Honorary Member of the Italian Oscar Wilde Society. Maitland is elected member of the Executive
Council of the International Association for Translation and Intercultural Studies and Managing Editor
of the Journal of Specialised Translation. Ng is co-chair of the Walter Benjamin London Research
Network, and serves on the editorial board of the series Walter Benjamin Studies for Bloomsbury
Philosophy, and the scientific board of the series Critical Theory for Inschibboleth edizioni. Scott is
editorial advisor and pedagogic advisor for the New Oxford Shakespeare, which produced entirely
new scholarly editions of all the plays for Oxford in 2016. Underwood was a judge for the National
Poetry Competition in 2016, and he was also a resident poet at Sherwood Forest as part of the

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Places of Poetry’ project linking poets with a number of National Heritage sites. He is commissioned
by wide-circulation publications, including Tate etc. and the RA Magazine, and he regularly gives
readings, appearing at O Miami festival in Miami, and Crossing Border in Den Haag, Holland, as well
as launches for Poetry London at King's Place, and The Poetry Review at Keats’s House. In 2020,
he also appeared on the US Poetry Foundation podcast. Wagner was Literary Editor of The Times
for 17 years and is now contributing literary editor for Harper’s Bazaar, a contributing writer for the
New Statesman, as well as writing for the Financial Times, the Economist and the New York Times.
She has been twice a judge of the Man Booker Prize.

The work of our creative writing colleagues permeates collective cultural spaces and is studied
across the country in schools and colleges. For example, not only was Dooley’s poem ‘Still Life with
Sea Pinks and High Tide’ selected as one of five Poems on the Underground in 2019 and read at
the United Nations Climate Change Conference in 2015, but her ‘Letters from Yorkshire’ is studied
at GCSE level. Morrison’s critical writing on the novel and Barber’s poem ‘Material’, published in
Faber’s Poems of the Decade, are studied as part of the A-Level Edexcel English Literature syllabus.

In sum, the Department of English and Creative Writing at Goldsmiths is a thriving, dynamic
research community as committed to shaping practices and debates in the creative and critical
domains in which we work as it is attentive to communicating this work and to fostering new
generations driven by the same values of openness, rigorous inquisitiveness and imaginative
thinking.




                                                                                              Page 18
