Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Education (UoA23)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 This REF submission continues a longstanding history of educational research at the University
 of Northampton (UoN) and its antecedent teacher-training institutions. Research, evidence-based
 practice, and innovative, research-led pedagogies have always been foundational to the University’s
 research, learning and teaching strategies in education. Sustaining high quality educational
 research with significant national and international impacts is a key aim of Education’s and
 University’s strategic plans. Major research specialisms in Education relate to Special Education
 Needs (SEN) and inclusion, participatory research/practice with children and young people, and
 educational innovation and leadership.

 Since REF2014 there has been significant institutional restructuring, with changes to leadership,
 staffing and workloads. However, this restructuring has ultimately constituted a considerably more
 coherent education department and strategic vision for research. In REF2014 Education was
 spread across five research centres and three faculties with different institutional barriers
 hampering progress towards a cohesive unit. Through the restructuring, the educational research
 team is now consolidated into one research centre with a clear discipline-specific strategic
 direction co-developed with one faculty leadership team. Educational research at the UoN now
 coheres around the Centre for Education and Research (CER), which provides a focal point for all
 educational research in the Faculty of Health, Education & Humanities and the wider University.
 In the current REF period, CER has had three thematic priorities, with a co-director responsible
 for each:

  1.     Special Education Needs (SEN) and inclusion (led by Preece). Research and practice in
   relation to inclusive education, social justice and SEN has been a key, longstanding specialism at
   the UoN. Five colleagues have developed new research on this theme in the current REF period.
   In this thematic area the work of CER has been important in: (i) gathering new evidence about the
   experiences of children and young people with diverse SEN and autistic spectrum conditions in a
   wide range of institutional, geographical settings; (ii) developing opportunities for evidence-based
   teacher-, practitioner- or parent/carer- development in diverse global contexts, often in settings
   where no training, guidance or evidence about SEN or autism has previously existed; and (iii)
   critically retheorizing all manner of normative societal labels, assumptions and exclusions relating
   to SEN and autism.

  2.     Participatory research/practice with children and young people (led by Murray).
   Participatory and interdisciplinary research with (rather than on or for) children and young people
   has been a major focus for us. In the current REF period, seven colleagues – working at the
   intersection of Education, Childhood and Youth Studies, Human Geography and Sociology –
   have developed new research on this theme. In this thematic area the work of CER has been
   important in: (i) developing new methods to engage children and young people as researchers;
   (ii) gathering new evidence about the experiences and participation of children and young people
   in diverse spaces of (formal and informal) education and care; and (iii) developing new
   theorisations of and with children and young people’s learning, play and identities.

  3.    Educational innovation and leadership (led by Devecchi). During the current REF period,
   the UoN’s institutional strategic plans have challenged researchers to explore and foster
   educational ‘changemaking’ and social impact. In this context, a distinctive body of research has
   explored and evaluated diverse modes of pedagogic practice and educational leadership in terms
   of their capacity to constitute transformational impacts. In the current REF period, five colleagues
   – working at intersections of teacher education, organisational management, information


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   technologies and theories of learning and teaching – have undertaken new research on this
   theme. In this thematic area the work of CER has been important in: (i) providing rich, evidence-
   based case studies of innovative learning, teaching and educational leadership practices in
   diverse (early years, primary, secondary, higher or informal) educational settings and on different
   scales (from the individual classroom, to the university campus, to national educational policies);
   (ii) evidencing the potential of new technologies and digital media to affirmatively ‘disrupt’
   traditional forms of pedagogy and educational leadership; and (iii) critically theorising established
   models of learning and teaching through consideration of innovative forms of ‘active blended
   learning’ and ‘flexible’ learning spaces.
 All research active colleagues and Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) in Education are affiliated
 with CER and have contributed to, and worked within, at least one of these three thematic areas.
 The three centre co-directors hold regular operational meetings and maintain routine contact with
 all colleagues affiliated to Centre themes, as discussed in Section 2 of this statement. CER is
 accountable to, and is regulated and quality assured by, the Faculty of Health, Education &
 Society’s Research & Enterprise Committee, which sets annual key performance indicators and
 a framework for the Centre’s strategic direction. In 2019/20, CER colleagues and PGRs co-
 developed a new ‘REACH’ ethos for research centre operations (Recognising individual and team
 success, Engaging colleagues’ expertise, Acknowledging good practice, Contributing to
 processes, Harnessing collaboration), and a centre implementation plan providing a rich offer of
 discipline-specific events, training, mentoring, peer support, impact-development and researcher-
 development opportunities for colleagues at all career stages, as outlined in Section 2.

 1.2 Unit research and impact strategy

 There is considerable evidence of positive step changes in educational research culture, strategy,
 capacity, funding and impacts within the unit. We performed well against objectives that were laid
 out in our REF2014 submission as well as our University Strategy in 2015:

    1. Provide resources and support academic staff wishing to embark on research activity,
       emphasising the importance of research objectives within annual staff Performance and
       Development Reviews (PDRs)
    2. Extend and internationalise participation in established networks and expand our reach in
       educational research
    3. Strategically increase and augment doctoral supervisory capacity within the unit
    4. Enhance the research bidding activity and increase the number of research outputs
       published
 In relation to 1, focused investment in researcher development (totalling approximately
 GBP154,000 in the current REF cycle) has supported six colleagues (Aidonopoulou, Caldwell,
 Calver, Karlidag-Dennis, Richardson, Underwood) to complete their PhD/EdD in the current
 REF period, and there have been a further six appointments of new research-active colleagues
 with PhD/EdDs into Education (more than doubling in size from 7 FT colleagues in REF2014 to
 16 FT colleagues in REF2021). Moreover, six colleagues who were entered as early-career
 researchers in REF2014 have now developed, via the University Associate Professor programme
 and focused investment in Centre co-lead posts, into Centre and Faculty research leadership roles,
 and/or have been Principal- and Co- Investigators on large international RCUK- or EU- funded
 research projects in the current REF period. An institutional commitment to invest in ‘Teaching &
 Research’ contracts has provided all Education colleagues with additional time allocated to
 research and scholarship activities. Within the framework of the Faculty of Health, Education and
 Society a suite of research objectives has been developed, with all colleagues on ‘Teaching &
 Research’ contracts having research-focused objectives via their PDR and a wider goal of
 supporting more teaching-focused colleagues to become research active. The multidisciplinary
 Faculty structure provides a stronger, consolidated infrastructure for our peer review process,
 research support, governance, impact enhancement and public engagement. As part of our move
 to the new Waterside campus, academic workspaces were built to facilitate collegiate dialogue


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Faculty research and enterprise planning has significantly increased opportunities for
 interdisciplinary research discussions, project development, and researcher development.

 In relation to 2, our Faculty research strategy recognises that Education’s success depends upon
 high quality collaborations with multidisciplinary colleagues at other Higher Education Institutes
 (HEIs) and multiprofessional practitioners in diverse regional, national and global contexts. In the
 current REF period, staff development and research seedcorn funding has enabled colleagues to
 extend – and particularly internationalise – our networks of research collaborators and beneficiaries.
 In the current REF period, all our major research funding successes – e.g. from ESRC, Newton Fund,
 EU Erasmus+ and UNICEF – have arisen from this support for colleagues’ work to develop leadership
 and co-investigator roles within diverse, international, interdisciplinary networks. Strategic
 investments in Visiting Professors/Research Fellow roles have also supported this process of
 network-building in each of the Education’s thematic areas.

 In relation to 3, We have achieved a major step change in doctoral supervisory capacity since
 REF2014. All colleagues are now engaged in doctoral supervision, with 10 members having been
 supported to complete compulsory elements of our institutional Postgraduate Certificate in
 Research Degree Supervision, and subsequently become doctoral supervisors for the first time,
 in the current REF period. This growth in supervisory capacity has enabled the Education
 department to significantly grow its international community of doctoral researchers, as evidenced
 in section 2.2. PGRs – and those on MSc courses in SEN/Inclusion and Childhood and Youth – form
 a large, vibrant and active part of the Education research community. CER’s implementation planning
 is explicitly designed to support the development of a postgraduate community, ensure inclusion and
 promote researcher-development in Education.

 In relation to (iv), strategic investment in staff research time, plus regular internal opportunities for
 colleagues to bid for both University and Faculty funds (University Big Ideas Fund, Innovation
 Fund, URB@N Bursaries and Seedcorn Funding, QR impact support), have enabled development
 of networks, research bidding opportunities and pathways to impact. These opportunities have
 facilitated our research funding success, with GBP803,000 of new external income for educational
 research in the current REF period as of August 2020. There have been major recent funding
 successes in each of Education’s thematic priority areas. For example, in relation to
 SEN/inclusion, Preece was awarded for an EU Erasmus+ grant (total value EUR430,000) for
 research on parent/carer education around autism in the Balkans and South-east Europe,
 Listiakova was awarded BA/Leverhulme Trust funding (total value GBP8,540) to explore
 experiences of families living with autism in remote and coastal regions, and Rose has directed a
 UNICEF research project exploring knowledges, norms and practices towards Bhutanese children
 with disabilities. In relation to participatory research/practice with children and young people,
 Horton won two international, multidisciplinary ESRC/Newton Fund awards (total combined value
 GBP390,504) to develop qualitative, visual, mapping and quantitative participatory tools to engage
 diverse Brazilian children and young people in research about water-energy-food nexus
 education, and Murray is Co-Investigator in an EU Erasmus+ project (total value EUR266,652)
 engaging with young people on issues of online safety. In relation to education innovation and
 leadership, Devecchi was Co-Investigator on an EU Erasmus+ collaboration (total value
 EUR447,510) which explored causes, risk factors and outcomes associated with early school-
 leaving among diverse groups of vulnerable young people.

 The Unit’s strategic ambitions for research mesh with the wider Faculty of Health, Education &
 Society’s strategic vision to enable ‘impactful research and enterprise to advance excellence in
 health, education, social care and social sciences locally, nationally and internationally’. An
 extensive consultative process with colleagues and external stakeholders has shaped this Faculty
 strategy in relation to research environment, identifying four priority areas for strategic and
 operational planning:

     1. Community building and inclusion, in support of ambitious institutional targets for
        interdisciplinary research bidding and outputs, and equalities and inclusion;


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Strategic partnerships, supporting colleagues to extending national and international
       networks of external collaborators and develop new opportunities for social impact, user-
       involvement and public engagement around research activities;
    3. Assuring quality, constituting supportive processes to enable colleagues to enhance
       quality of research outputs, bids, environments and impacts;
    4. Researcher development, sustaining a rich, responsive offer of development opportunities,
       activities and events for researchers at all career stages.
 Activities over the next decade will align with a detailed Faculty implementation plan focused on
 these priority areas, and supported by a collective of four colleagues appointed to specialist cross-
 Faculty roles mapped to the priority areas. In this context, CER has developed an ethos and
 approach to specifically address Educational research and collegiate activities focused on
 community-building and inclusion, communications and partnerships, quality assurance, and
 researcher-development.

 1.3 Supporting open research/access

 In a key development in the current REF cycle, training and guidance in support of open
 research/access is now embedded in researcher-development within Education and the wider
 Faculty. Through CER and Faculty development activities, colleagues are routinely trained and
 adhere to University-level policies in relation to open access, with oversight and input from Faculty
 Research and Enterprise Committee and institutional Library and Learning Services. In addition to
 receiving training and support in open access and copyright, colleagues have received successive
 development activities in research data management planning, paying particular attention to the
 preservation and reproducibility of research. All research outputs are now required to be uploaded
 to the University’s CRIS (Current Research Information System) and colleagues receive support to
 facilitate and enhance open access. Colleagues have been provided with extensive training in the
 selection of the most appropriate places for publication and use of tools such as Sherpa/Romeo to
 check funder requirements and conditions relating to copyright. Where required, colleagues also
 have access to an institutional fund to cover the cost of open access where the green route is either
 not available, or embargo periods are prohibitively long. Local guidance for colleagues now also
 routinely encourages upload of datasets to the institutional CRIS on submission, where it is checked
 for replicability and long-term digital preservation. Guidance for colleagues supports the
 development of FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reasonable) sharing of data, striving
 to be as open as possible within funder and ethical parameters.

 1.4 Supporting a culture of research integrity

 A specialist education research ethics subcommittee – constituted within the wider, multidisciplinary
 Faculty Ethics Committee, governed by the institutional Research Ethics Committee – provides
 discipline-specific support and peer review for educational research at staff, postgraduate and
 undergraduate levels, aligned with British Educational Research Association (BERA) guidance on
 research ethics and integrity. All research projects undergo ethical review through this structure. CER
 researcher-development and training routinely provides guidance and support in relation to research
 ethics and integrity, underpinned by values of the Universities UK (2018) Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity. Our colleagues play lead roles in the development of institutional policy and good
 practice in relation to research ethics and integrity. Horton chairs the institutional Research Ethics
 Committee and is lead author of the central institutional Research Ethics Code and Procedures.
 Preece and Murray lead the education research ethics subcommittee, with lead responsibility for
 developing education-focused guidance, training and good practice and liaising with the University’s
 Data Protection Officer and institutional Research Ethics Committee Chair to ensure policies, training
 and templates support best practice in relation to BERA expectations. All colleagues involved in
 ethical review processes undertake a bespoke Faculty-designed, mandatory modular training
 programme for ethics committee reviewers, ensuring that institutional Research Ethics Committees
 values of quality, consistency, constructiveness, proportionality and timeliness are embedded in our
 culture. A Faculty virtual learning environment relating to research ethics and integrity is regularly
 updated, offering advice and signposting to staff and students who are also supported to engage with

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collegial ethical discussions at research centre meetings, and through the Faculty Research and
 Enterprise Committee. Development of a culture of research integrity is also extended through our
 colleagues’ extensive roles in delivering taught sessions to undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes on educational research ethics and integrity. The education research ethics
 subcommittee has an open-door policy for questions and queries and staff and students are therefore
 also supported.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staffing within the Education unit has remained relatively stable, submitting 15 staff in 2014 compared
 to 16 staff for this REF cycle. Of those submitted to REF2014, 5 are still working with the department
 and 6 were with the university during the last assessment but not submitted, illustrating both our
 significant researcher development and demonstrating our supportive processes for internal
 promotion for research-active colleagues.

 Research expertise and track record has been a key requirement in person specifications for all
 Education roles at Level 7 and above: candidates’ experience of, and capacity to develop, research
 outputs, funding bids and postgraduate supervision are assessed during shortlisting and interviews.
 However, candidates’ experience of teaching, school leadership and multiprofessional practice have
 often (and necessarily, given the strong development of taught undergraduate and postgraduate
 provision in Education at the University) taken primacy during recruitment. So, recognising the
 distinctive needs of a subject community characterised by senior, experienced teaching colleagues
 who have often moved from primary/secondary to HE sectors, Faculty leaders strategically invested
 in academic research skills-development and capacity-building for mid-career/Senior Lecturer
 colleagues during the current REF period.

 This longstanding staffing strategy in Education has been to recruit experienced school leaders,
 teachers and senior multiprofessional practitioners. They develop taught undergraduate and
 postgraduate programmes and are then offered research skills-development as a key objective and
 a condition of their professional development. The remainder of education comprises colleagues
 who have progressed to more research-intensive roles through unit level support, the University’s
 Associate Professor and Professorial development pathways, and a small number of immediately-
 postdoctoral colleagues appointed to Research Assistantships or Lectureships in specific, emergent,
 research-led teaching areas.

 The unit continues to support mid-career/Senior Lecturer colleagues to complete their doctorate or
 undertake development via the UoN Postgraduate Certificate in Research Degree Supervision by
 allocating resources and ring-fencing hours for the work to be undertaken. As evidenced in section
 1.2, this targeted support has constituted a significant step change to increase the level and capacity
 of research active staff.

 For all colleagues, researcher development is principally managed and audited through the
 University’s PDR process, whereby individual objectives and key performance indicators are agreed
 annually with line managers and appraised after six and twelve months. Since 2015, all colleagues
 are allocated at least one specific research-focused objective each year (objectives reflect current
 Faculty/institutional research Key Performance Indicators and typically include targeted activity in
 terms of bidding, publications, impact or sectoral and international network-building). The PDR is
 also the process through which individual research training needs are identified and plans are made
 for dedicated ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours. In addition to line managerial support, the
 Faculty Research Leader is responsible for mentoring colleagues at all career stages, supporting
 the development and delivery of individual research KPIs. The Research Leader meets with all new
 appointments in Education as part of their induction to signpost Research Centre themes, make
 links with contacts with shared interests, and set research-related milestones for the probationary
 period and beyond. CER provides a focus, network and support structure for all research active staff,

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs, and colleagues seeking to develop research skills within Education. CER provides a
 significant offer of networking, dissemination and impact activities as well as researcher-
 development opportunities open to Educational researchers and interdisciplinary colleagues across
 the UoN.

 Within the Faculty of Health, Education & Society, members also have access to an extensive offer
 of interdisciplinary researcher-development training, workshops and seminars delivered through the
 Faculty’s Research and Innovation Development programme. This programme of researcher-
 development events was directly indexed to the four domains of the Vitae (2015) Researcher
 Development Framework but has since been updated to align with the obligations of the Vitae (2019)
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Subsequent reviews of the
 programme in 2020/21 and 2021/22 will deepen this alignment with the Concordat. The Faculty
 development programme is designed to mesh with an extensive range of wider institutional support
 and development opportunities offered by the University’s Research and Innovation Funding
 Support (RIFS) unit, Staff Development unit, Graduate School, and tailored mentoring processes for
 Associate Professors and Professors. Discipline-specific bespoke sessions, and extensions to
 generic development opportunities, are provided through the CER’s programme of activities. CER
 development activities are co-developed by CER colleagues to address discipline-specific needs
 and opportunities.

 The programme of events is reviewed annually through consultation with the Faculty’s
 multidisciplinary research community, and sessions are explicitly tailored for ‘Beginner’, ‘PGR, ‘ECR’
 or ‘Mid-career+’ audiences. The Faculty Research and Innovation Development Programme
 includes more than 20 core focused workshops (e.g. ‘building partnerships for research’, ‘planning
 impact into your research proposal’, ‘researcher well-being’ and ‘navigating peer review’), termly
 seminars and events hosted by each Research Centre, monthly opportunities to ‘shut up and write’,
 a monthly informal ‘lunch and learn’ programme (where ECRs can present and discuss their work,
 often for the first time, in a supportive environment), and termly ‘Café Scientifique’ public
 engagement events (where researchers host public lectures and workshops in a local café).

 The Centre for Education & Research plays a key role in discipline-focused staff development.
 CER’s co-directors support the Faculty Research Leader, Horton, in welcoming, mentoring and
 integrating new and prospective researchers, signposting (sub)discipline-specific research
 events and opportunities, providing colleagues with opportunities to participate in bidding activity
 alongside more experienced research staff, fostering a friendly and inclusive disciplinary research
 culture, and facilitating access to networks of external partners and organisations. Recognising
 the sustained value and success of this research leadership, six members of the Centre for
 Education & Research have been promoted to the role of Associate Professor (Caldwell,
 Devecchi, Horton, Lumsden, Murray, Preece), across several cycles of our institutional
 professorial development programme in the current REF period, with Horton having
 subsequently been promoted to a full Professorship. Associate Professors are supported via a
 substantial institutional staff development programme focused on research leadership with ring-
 fenced hours for research leadership, mentoring from a Professorial colleague from their
 discipline and are fast-tracked to participate in research committees. Recognising that the
 professoriate in Education is relatively small, the unit has made a number of strategic investments
 in Visiting Professors with strong, international reputations in subdisciplines aligned to the three
 centre themes of SEN/inclusion (e.g. Professor Sue Ralph, Professor John Visser),
 participatory research (e.g. Professor Helen Lomax), and educational innovation/leadership
 (e.g. Professor Roy Evans), to provide specialist mentoring support for Education’s Senior
 Lecturers and Associate Professors, as well as earlier career and prospective research
 colleagues. For example, Ralph (as Editor of the Journal of Research in Special Educational
 Needs) provides guidance and peer-review for colleagues’ academic writing, Visser provides
 strategic support on bid-development, particularly relating to large-scale national and
 international projects, and Lomax provides guidance for colleagues developing participative
 projects with EU and international partners. All Visiting Professors/Fellows are engaged in
 postgraduate supervision, and mentoring colleagues during their first supervisions. We are
 currently consulting on a new, additional cohort of Visiting Professors to further strengthen work

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in priority areas, support interdisciplinary and international collaboration, and engage a more
 diverse, global professoriate going forward.

 2.2 Postgraduate researchers

 In the current REF period 71 PGRs in Education (31 completions, 40 ongoing) have been supervised
 by colleagues (for comparison, 17 Education PGRs were recorded in RAE 2008, and 57 were
 recorded in REF 2014). Colleagues jointly supervised a further 27 interdisciplinary PGRs registered
 in other subject areas, but closely aligned with CER thematic priorities. All PGRs are associated with
 one of our key themes and participate extensively in Research Centre activities. PGRs continue to
 make leading edge, and genuinely internationalised, contributions to each of Education’s three
 thematic areas. For example, ongoing PGR studies have advanced understandings of SEN/inclusion
 in contexts as diverse as China, India, Ireland, Nigeria, and Zimbabwe, developed new participatory
 research with children and young people in Egypt, Hungary and Japan, and explored educational
 leadership, management and innovation in Cyprus, Ghana and Somalia.

 In Education, the recent growth in supervisory capacity evidenced above has enabled supervisory
 teams to be increasingly tailored to researchers’ interests and needs. Supervisory teams are
 allocated at the initial application stage and are designed to offer a balance of subject expertise,
 methodological background and supervisory experience. Given the distinctive profile of PGRs in
 Education, our supervisors have specialist expertise in: (i) supporting the progress and developing
 the academic self-confidence of postgraduates returning to academia after careers in primary,
 secondary or early years sectors; and (ii) supporting internationally-based postgraduates who often
 speak/write English as an additional language. Education’s expertise in SEN/Inclusion has also
 enabled supervisory teams to provide a sector-leading degree of inclusive support for postgraduate
 researchers with diverse disabilities and needs.

 All PGRs receive an extensive package of induction and generic researcher-development training
 from the University’s Graduate School, which is complemented by discipline-based induction and
 training delivered through the Centre for Education & Research and the Faculty’s Research and
 Innovation Development Programme (see section 2.1). Support is also available from the
 University’s central Additional Student Support and Inclusion Services Team, Learning Development
 and Educational Linguistics teams (see section 2.3). The Unit and Graduate School have
 undertaken significant work in the current REF period to trial processes of PGR representation and
 engagement through co-produced PGR support and development activities (e.g. FEASST@8 and
 SuCCEED@8 programmes led by Devecchi) which have fostered student-led peer-support, digital
 inclusion and community-development projects, new PGR representative roles and forums, in which
 PGRs have consistently played active and leading roles. In addition, the CER structures and
 processes provide a wide range of opportunities for Education PGRs to engage with development
 opportunities and community-building events linked to each of the Centre’s thematic priorities. The
 Centre’s approach to discipline-based support for PGRs in education provides annually-updated
 opportunities for PGRs to engage in activities linked to:

    1. Learning and teaching – offering and scaffolding opportunities for PGRs to contribute to
       undergraduate teaching and active blended learning, subject to availability
    2. Research seminars and workshops – attendance and active participation in discipline-
       focused events
    3. Education research, evaluation and consultancy – identifying and supporting opportunities
       for PGRs to be involved in different aspects of ongoing projects
    4. Communications, dissemination and external engagement – providing opportunities for
       PGRs to take on ‘press officer’ roles linked to unit research activities or contribute to public
       engagement with key local, national and international stakeholders
    5. Research conference and events – enabling PGRs to make active contributions to an
       annual three-day research conference and other research-based events



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     6. Career development and professional identities – offering discipline-specific careers
        advice and support for job applications
 UoN has scored strongly in Advance HE’s Postgraduate Researcher Experience Survey (PRES)
 (ranked 1st overall in 2020 and 4th overall in 2018). This is reflected in disaggregated data for
 postgraduate researchers in the subject area of Education. Consistently, Education has recorded
 PRES overall satisfaction ratings of 90% and above, ahead of the national (81%) average for the
 same period. Three further trends are evident in these subject-level data. First, between 2015-18
 there were notable increases in Education postgraduate researchers’ satisfaction with supervisors’
 subject expertise and skills (85% to 100%), and the quality of supervisory meetings (85% to 95%),
 feedback (85% to 91%) and support for research skills (81% to 91%) (coinciding with the increase
 in supervisory capacity, training and expertise noted in section 2.1). Second, for Education
 postgraduate researchers based on campus, satisfaction with their working environment
 increased from 85% to 100% (coinciding with major investment in the University’s new campus
 and dedicated, purpose-built multidisciplinary workspace for the postgraduate research
 community (see section 3.1)). Third, for Education postgraduate researchers based in the UK,
 confidence that ‘My institution values and responds to feedback from research degree students’
 increased from 77% to 100% (coinciding with significant work to develop PGR representation,
 engagement and inclusive student voice (see section 2.3). Faculty analysis of PRES data by
 subject area has been helpful in identifying areas for further strategic development within
 Education (e.g. in terms of enhancing teaching opportunities for postgraduate researchers and
 supporting needs of postgraduate international and offsite learners).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 There is a strong tradition of critical and inclusive practice, and research in support of inclusive
 spaces in HE, within education and so we are especially committed to excellence in terms of equity
 and inclusion in research environments. CER particularly emphasises the necessity of linking
 inclusion and research excellence through its central overarching aim: ‘to nurture and promote social
 justice, equity and inclusion within Education and related disciplines through a culture of high-quality
 research that is accessible to all’. In practice, colleagues advance this aim through sustained, routine
 activities including, but not limited to:

     1. Ensuring that all local research policies and strategic plans undergo formal Equality Impact
        Assessment; supporting disciplinary colleagues to extend this practice to diverse aspects
        of educational research, innovation, policy, practice, learning and teaching within the
        institution; and leading collegiate discussion and the enhancement of practice via this
        process
     2. Leading and supporting regularly-refreshed institutional training on equalities and
        diversities in the workplace, and convening workshops and development on equalities and
        inclusion within diverse educational settings;
     3. Constituting a disciplinary ethics committee to offer specialist guidance and development
        regarding equality and inclusion issues in educational and pedagogic staff, postgraduate
        research and undergraduate research
     4. Working with the Faculty lead on community-building and inclusion (see section 1.2) to co-
        develop discipline-specific opportunities for colleagues to continue to create a community
        of collaboration around inclusion issues and research at local, national and international
        levels
     5. Enhancing annual Centre reporting processes to evidence the ways in which Education
        research demonstrates positive impacts in terms issues of equality, inclusion, and social
        mobility
     6. Continuing to develop discipline-specific training and mentoring processes to develop
        positive social change through innovative and impactful research activities and outputs
        considering protected characteristics, sociodemographic factors and intersectional
        identities in educational research, spaces and practices.
 In addition, many colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led institutional support


                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and advocacy groups such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group and Staff Disability Network.
 Colleagues have also benefited from the University’s ‘Navigator’ (men and transmasculine) and
 ‘Springboard+’ (women, trans and non-binary) staff development programmes for colleagues in
 academic or professional service roles which provide an opportunity for staff to undertake personal
 and professional development and support for leadership, goal-setting and strategic visioning skills.

 CER has undertaken leading work within the institution to develop sustained development work on
 diverse aspects of equalities, identities and inclusion. For example, since 2019, CER has convened
 a range of workshops and development opportunities around the theme of ‘Women Researching’ to
 showcase role models of educational research by diverse women, highlight leading edge research
 on gendered identities in education, and facilitate critical, action-orientated reflections on gendered
 inequalities in HE and educational research.

 Despite all of these very positive activities, the unit recognises the importance of continuing to
 deepen the contribution of the education’s sector-leading research on educational inclusivity in
 Faculty and Centre strategies for research. For this reason, equality, inclusion and wellbeing are key
 strands in Education’s and Faculty’s strategic commitments for 2020-25.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Despite a challenging external funding environment colleagues have been successful as Principal-
 and Co- Investigators on a wide range of large-scale, externally-funded, collaborative research
 projects. In the current REF period, educational research has brought GBP877,437 of new external
 research income direct to the UoN, typically within larger multi-institutional collaborations. This is
 a significant achievement for a modestly-sized UoA with many relatively inexperienced researchers.
 This research income differs from the last REF period in five key ways:

    1. A larger proportion of our research income has taken the form of large-scale, multi-year grants
       competitively awarded to multidisciplinary consortia co-/led by Education colleagues. In the
       current REF period, Centre and individual objectives have specifically focused upon
       extending research networks, so it is heartening to see a succession of successful bids for
       major RCUK/Newton Fund and EU funding with interdisciplinary networks. For example,
       Horton’s Successive ESRC/Newton Fund awards built upon and developed
       interdisciplinary collaborations with Human Geographers and engineering scientists to
       advance understandings of young people’s environmental education, via innovative cross-
       disciplinary theorisations of materialities of water-energy-food.

    2. The research income has become increasingly internationalised. Colleagues have
       increasingly been successful in networking with international consortia for large-scale EU
       and RCUK/Newton Fund awards for educational research in Europe and the Global South
       (e.g. Murray’s work with multidisciplinary colleagues in Belgium, Denmark and Greece on
       the Erasmus+ CyGen (Cyber Safe Generation: Digital Education by Design) project, and
       Devecchi’s Erasmus+ collaboration with colleagues in Italy, Romania, Portugal, France and
       Croatia to engage young people at risk of leaving school early). Education has been
       successful in tendering for substantive research and consultancy projects from diverse
       international funders including Autism Education, British Council, Caritas International,
       European Agency for Special Needs and Inclusive Education, Gan Shalom Berkeley, the
       Government of Ireland National Council for Special Education, Norwegian Ministry of
       International Development, SAHARA Disability Services, Santander, Save the Children,
       Sierra Leone’s Ministry of Education, Sightsavers International, UNICEF, and the University
       of Bialystok. This increasingly international reach is also reflected in the growing number of
       international roles, keynotes and esteem indicators reported by colleagues.

    3. A greater proportion of our research income is specifically ring-fenced for planned impact
       activities, reflecting both the heightened expectations of EU and RCUK funders, and the

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        growing skills and experiences of colleagues in developing pathways to impact. For
        example, a significant component of Preece’s Erasmus+ collaboration on autism in the
        Balkans and South-east Europe, and Listiakova’s BA/Leverhulme project with families
        living with autism in remote and coastal regions, has been to develop parent education
        and policy impact activities to enhance the educational and life experience of diverse,
        hard-to-reach groups in regions with very limited prior provision.

    4. Alongside the prestigious large-scale funding foregrounded in this Environment statement
       we also want to celebrate the fact that more funding successes have come from early career
       researchers bidding for the first time. The bottom-line value of these research and evaluation
       awards may be relatively small, but we do not underestimate the importance of these first-
       time successes in developing education’s research capacity. This includes colleagues who
       were entered as early career researchers in REF2014 who have now developed into Centre
       and Faculty research leaders and Principal- and Co- Investigators on international RCUK-
       and EU- funded projects.

    5. The funding successes in the current REF have led directly to a larger body of peer-reviewed
       outputs. Increasingly, too, these publications have taken the form of substantial,
       critical/theoretical interdisciplinary contributions, as in research monographs, and the
       significant body of conceptual and empirical work emerging from our EU Erasmus+ and
       BA/Leverhulme projects on SEN/inclusion.


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University has recently invested heavily in its facilities, having completed the move to the
 purpose-built Waterside Campus in 2018 at a total cost of GBP330,000,000. The campus has
 been heralded as the cutting edge of university infrastructure, winning the 2019 Royal Institute for
 Chartered Surveyors’ coveted ‘Design Through Innovation’ award. While it is not possible to
 attribute a precise portion of this investment to Education, the department has benefitted from the
 new working environment with state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, new office space and a new
 library. This investment in institutional infrastructure and facilities has been important in the
 following ways:

    1. Colleagues now work within new flexible academic workspaces, which have been purpose-
       built to foster collegiate dialogue and community-building. Whereas researchers previously
       occupied a rather ‘silo’-like ‘Education’ office, they now share spaces with colleagues within
       the multidisciplinary Faculty of Health, Education & Society. Already there is evidence of
       dialogue, bid-development and strategic collaborations between the Centre for Education &
       Research and colleagues doing cognate work on health, wellbeing, social care, nursing and
       youthwork, supporting an interdisciplinary turn within the discipline and the co-development
       of a shared strategic Faculty vision for our research. The unit is also predicated upon
       innovative digital technologies and flexible learning spaces: the significant potential of this
       sector-leading investment in learning environments is still developing via research on
       educational innovation. While the new campus has evidently been positive for onsite
       Education PGRs we recognize the need to have a strategic focus on enhancing the
       experience of our growing community of offsite and international PGR colleagues and thus
       education has a specific operational priority to support involvement of offsite and
       international PGR colleagues in interdisciplinary community-building initiatives.

    2. Education is now supported by a larger, consolidated and interdisciplinary Faculty
       infrastructure for researcher development and research support, peer review, governance,
       integrity, impact enhancement and public engagement, enabling scaled-up strategic support
       for researcher development, closely linked to wider institutional Research and Innovation
       Funding Support, development and guidance.

    3. The new campus estate has particularly transformed the experience and working

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        environment of Education’s PGR community. Whereas PGRs previously occupied a small,
        separate ‘Education’ office, the new campus provides an impressive, purpose-built, co-
        designed suite for the University’s whole multidisciplinary PGR community. The success of
        this strategic investment in PGR workspace is seen in strong and improving PRES results
        for Education PGRs.

    4. A substantial investment in facilities and resources has been made in equipment for digital
       pedagogies, multisensory play, classroom enrichment and outdoor learning – totalling
       approximately GBP115,000 in the current REF cycle – which has been used in a range of
       staff and PGR projects, participatory practices and public engagement/impact activities.
       Education is also supported by targeted investment in educational library and learning
       resources – including staffing for specialist subject librarians and learning technologists –
       which have underpinned many postgraduate and funded staff research projects in the
       current REF period.

    5. As part of the UoN’s wider transition to flexible and active blended modes of learning and
       teaching, Education has invested significantly in hardware and digital resources to support
       virtual and online collaborations, and this provision is widely used in research, particularly in
       the context of COVID-19 when practically every staff and PGR research project has shifted
       to online/virtual formats. For example, in addition to investment in upgraded online survey
       and interviewing software, we have benefitted from significant Faculty investment in Virtual
       Reality and simulation hardware and resources: the appointment of a full-time Faculty
       VR/Simulation lead, and GBP20,000 investment in additional computing resources has
       enabled a range of innovative educational research, learning and placement activities to take
       place in virtual reality spaces. A number of innovative research and evaluation projects linked
       to this new provision are underway, and education is thus well placed to develop a specialist
       profile in relation to virtual/digital reality simulation in education, social care, inclusive
       education and early years settings.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Over the REF period the unit has contributed to the vitality and sustainability of the Education
 discipline by forming high quality collaborations with multidisciplinary colleagues at other HEIs and
 multiprofessional practitioners in diverse regional, national and global contexts allowing us to
 sustain the research activities and income highlighted in sections 1.1 and 3.1. A key objective for
 us in the current REF period has been to extend – and particularly internationalise – our networks
 of research collaborators and beneficiaries. This can be seen in our major research funding
 successes with all of the awards – e.g. ESRC, Newton Fund, EU Erasmus+ and UNICEF – arising
 from careful, sustained work by colleagues to developed leadership and co-investigator roles
 within diverse, international, and interdisciplinary networks.

 In the current REF period all Educational research themes have had international, multi-partner
 funding successes. For example, in relation to SEN/Inclusion, Preece’s two three-year EU
 Erasmus+ projects have developed through ongoing collaborations with colleagues at the
 Universities of Cracow, Cyprus and Zagreb, the pan-European advocacy group Autism-Europe,
 and NGOs in Croatia, Cyprus, England, Macedonia and Poland. Likewise, Rose’s research
 commissions for UNICEF and a range of national governments have been possible because of
 longstanding collaborations with HEI and NGO colleagues working on issues of inclusion in
 Bhutan, Cambodia, Georgia, Ireland, India, Norway, Oman and Sierra Leone. In relation to
 participatory research with children and young people, Horton’s two ESRC/Newton Fund projects
 developed via more than a decade of interdisciplinary collaborative engagement with Human
 Geographers at University of Birmingham and Engineering Scientists at São Paulo State
 University, while Murray’s EU Erasmus+ project extended collaborative partnerships with
 colleagues at University of Huddersfield, UC Leuven-Limburg, VIA University College Denmark,

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and a consortium of primary and secondary schools in participating countries. In relation to
 educational leadership and innovation, Devecchi’s EU Erasmus+ work has fostered engagement
 with Instituto Universitário de Lisboa and NGOs in Croatia, France, Italy, Hungary and Romania.

 The effectiveness of these collaborations is evidenced by the fact that, in most of these cases,
 successive research funding successes (and a succession of peer-reviewed outputs) have
 resulted from these networks. Through these collaborations, staff have developed enhanced skills
 of interdisciplinarity, knowledge exchange with international partners, and impact-development
 with NGOs and policy-makers in diverse contexts. These experiences have also enabled
 researchers to mentor early-career colleagues in fostering collaborations, interdisciplinarity
 conversations, and research impacts. While education has thus seen a step change in the extent
 and internationalization of its research and impact collaborations since REF2014, we retain strong
 links with local, regional and national UK-based schools, charities and youthwork organisations
 which continue to inform and shape many colleagues’ work. Colleagues continue to work on
 interdisciplinary research and evaluation with these longstanding partners, often in collaboration
 with co-investigators from other UoN research centres (notably the Centre for Health Sciences &
 Services, and the Institute for Social Innovation and Impact).

 4.2 Contributions to research base, economy and society

 Education’s growing research capacity and expanding portfolio of networks, collaborations and
 partnerships have contributed to an increase in our external engagement, impacts and wider
 contributions. Not only have more colleagues been involved in wider research-related activities,
 but the nature and focus of these contributions has also shifted: whereas the REF2014 submission
 had a quite narrow emphasis on schools curricula and classroom pedagogies, the current REF
 period has seen many Education colleagues engaging in research in a more diverse range of
 everyday and organisational contexts, and with a notably wider range of multidisciplinary partners,
 to produce markedly more conceptually innovative, leading edge work.

 Engagement with researcher beneficiaries and diverse audiences has been a key element of
 colleagues’ work in the current REF cycle, particularly emphasized and supported in the Faculty
 Research and Enterprise Strategy and Research and Innovation Development programme.
 Through the kinds of collaborations and networks noted in section 4.1, colleagues have engaged
 in a wide range of multi-format/media engagements with research beneficiaries in relation to each
 of the three Educational themes. For example, in relation to SEN/Inclusion, Preece has worked with
 national charities such as Autism Concern and the Terry Arnold Memorial Trust, the pan-European
 advocacy group Autism-Europe, families and educators to co-develop a wide range of multi-lingual
 resources which have supported development of inclusive, research-led educational practices to
 international contexts where there has been literally no extant practice, policy or infrastructure in
 support of children and young people with autism, and where SEN has been profoundly
 stigmatised. In relation to participatory research with children, Murray’s innovative work in this field
 has also been recognized and extended through expert advisory roles on the National Children’s
 Bureau’s Policy Advisory Group, the Department for Education’s working groups on Level 2 criteria
 for Early Childhood and career pathways for the early years sector, and the National Gallery’s ‘Take
 One Picture’ children’s exhibition. Similarly, Lumsden’s research on early years practice has been
 extended through expert roles with the Professional Association of Child Development and UNICEF
 in Turkey, Save the Children’s Early Childhood Education and Care group, and the Institute for
 Apprenticeships and Technical Education. In the current REF period, Lumsden has also been
 appointed academic advisor for Department for Education on the Level Two Early Years qualifications
 and career pathways, and the Department of Health and Social Care’s Health Inequalities Review in
 the Early Years. Through all these lines of work, all Education colleagues also contribute research-
 led teaching, training and evaluative work with the Faculty of Health, Education & Society’s
 extensive networks of partner schools, youthwork organisations and HEIs regionally and
 internationally. Our thematic priorities show clear continuities with longstanding areas of
 educational research at the UoN (as in RAE2008 and REF2014), yet within each theme there is
 strong evidence of innovative, interdisciplinary practice which has renewed colleagues’ work and


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 made notable contributions to sustaining the discipline by critically reframing key debates in
 educational research (e.g. around normative concepts of inclusion, participation, and leadership).

 Through these lines of work, all colleagues contribute to research-led teaching, training and
 evaluative work with the Faculty of Health, Education & Society’s extensive networks of partner
 schools, youthwork organisations and HEIs regionally and internationally. Our thematic priorities
 show clear continuities with longstanding areas of educational research at the UoN (as in
 REF2014), yet within each theme there is strong evidence of innovative, interdisciplinary practice
 which has made notable contributions to sustaining the discipline by critically reframing key
 debates in educational research (e.g. around normative concepts of inclusion, participation, and
 leadership).

 Growing numbers of colleagues have been promoted to internationally-recognised disciplinary
 leadership roles. For example, a number of colleagues have served terms as Editors or Editorial
 Board members for international, interdisciplinary peer-reviewed journals, including International
 Journal of Early Years Education and Early Child Development and Care (Murray), Child Abuse
 Review (Lumsden), Children’s Geographies and Social & Cultural Geography (Horton), Journal
 of Special Education and Rehabilitation and Annales Universitatis Paedagogicae Cracoviensis:
 Studia Psychologica (Preece), Emotional and Behavioural Difficulties, Journal of Research in
 Special Educational Needs, REACH: Irish Journal of Special Education, Baltic Journal of Special
 Education, Australasian Journal of Special and Inclusive Education (Rose), Asian Journal of
 Inclusive Education (Farrow, Rose), Support for Learning, International Journal of Adolescence
 and Youth, the British Journal of Special Education (Garner), and the Polish Journal of Education
 Research (Underwood). A large group of colleagues have also been regularly invited to act as
 peer-reviewers for a very diverse cross-section of international academic journals during the
 current REF period. Other recent interdisciplinary editorial leadership roles in education have
 included Murray editing a new research-focused International Handbook of Young Children’s
 Rights (Routledge, 2019), and Horton’s work as co-editor of a major 30-book series of research
 monographs on Spaces of Childhood & Youth (Routledge, 2017-2027) and a 12-volume reference
 work on Geographies of Children, Youth & Families (Springer, 2017).

 A number of colleagues have had leadership and founding roles in multidisciplinary associations
 and learned societies, such as Murray’s leadership roles in the ‘Early Career Researchers’ and
 ‘Young Children’s Perspectives’ Special Interest Groups of the European Early Childhood
 Educational Research Association, Horton’s founding role in the Royal Geographical Society /
 Institute of British Geographers Research Group on Children, Youth and Families, and Farrow’s
 leading roles in the UK Disability Equity Research Network and UNESCO-UNEVOC International
 Centre for Technical and Vocational Education. Similarly, a number of researchers have been
 invited to perform expert and advisory roles in the current REF period for a wide range of national
 and international multidisciplinary, multiprofessional funding bodies, such as EU Horizon2020, EU
 Marie-Curie (Devecchi, Horton), ESRC (Devecchi), Newton Fund, British Council, National
 Science Centre Poland, Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek-Vlaanderen (Preece), National
 Children’s Bureau, Organisation Mondiale pour l’Éducation Pré-Scolaire, Training, Advancement
 and Co-operation in Teaching Young Children (Murray), Nuffield Foundation, Irish National
 Council for Special Education, Government of India National Institute for Persons with Multiple
 Disabilities, Hong Kong Research Council, Singapore Research Council, Malaysian Social
 Sciences Research Council, and Cyprus Research Council (Rose). The disciplinary esteem of an
 increasing proportion of colleagues has been recognised via multiple invited keynote speeches at
 international multidisciplinary conferences in, for example, UK (Lumsden, Horton, Preece,
 Underwood), Brazil (Horton, Preece), India (Rose, Horton, Preece), Italy, China (Rose), Japan,
 Poland (Underwood), Cyprus, Croatia, Macedonia, and the Netherlands (Preece).




                                                                                            Page 13
