Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Oxford


 Unit of Assessment: 8 – CHEMISTRY


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 All data refer to the REF period unless otherwise stated. (Bold bracketed numbers) refer to
 sections.

 1.1     Context and structure

 1.1.1    Our vision
 “Research in Oxford Chemistry focuses on fundamental science aimed at making major long-
 term impacts. We provide an environment that enables research by hiring, nurturing, and
 retaining talented researchers, many recognized as international leaders, across a broad
 spectrum of chemical sciences. Enabled by inspiring students and staff, and excellent research
 facilities, we undertake world-leading research crossing traditional boundaries, which engages
 with other disciplines, both within Oxford and across a range of external sectors. Our
 commitment to realising economic and societal impact from fundamental research is evident
 from our many industrial and clinical collaborations and our commercialisation activities.”

 1.1.2    Research structure
 UoA8 comprises 88 Category A researchers, 86 with research based in Oxford Chemistry, one
 of 10 departments of the Mathematical, Physical, and Life Sciences (MPLS) Division. The
 Department is subdivided into three Sections, Inorganic, Organic (including Chemical Biology),
 and Physical & Theoretical Chemistry, each with an elected Head.

 In 2015 we restructured to promote our aims of excellence in teaching and research, with
 appointments of Associate Heads in Teaching and Research (AHoD(T) and AHoD(R)). The
 AHoD(R) chairs a new Chemistry Research Committee (CRC), which enables research
 synergies (internal and external to Chemistry), identifies funding opportunities, and encourages
 and supports individuals in new breakthrough initiatives. The AHoD(R) engages with other
 Oxford departments through the MPLS Divisional Research Forum.

 The Chemistry Management Board (CMB), which includes the AHoD(R) and AHoD(T), provides
 academic leadership, and is advised on strategy by the Chemistry Departmental Committee.

 1.1.3    Research themes
 Our eight research themes, introduced in the last REF, help coordinate activity, facilitate
 collaboration, and focus research on large-scale challenges. The themes reflect both our
 traditional strengths and new fields of major societal importance. Our collaborative network
 promotes multidisciplinary research (1.4 and 4.5.1), as reflected in the themes sketched below
 (Figure 1).




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Figure 1: Schematic of the research themes and their principal interconnections

 (Note that permanent academic staff (PAS), independent early career fellows (ECFs – typically on
 5-year fellowships), and academic appointments can be in multiple themes. Category A staff
 numbers are as at July 2020, whilst appointments refer to the REF period.)

 T1. Catalysis (29 PAS, including 2 new appointments): Developing and understanding new
     catalytic processes to make societally-important products, materials, and chemicals more
     efficiently and with more precision.

 T2. Synthesis (32 PAS, including 1 new appointment, and 3 ECFs): Producing new chemical
     compounds by reaction from simpler materials, through the invention of new reactions,
     catalysts, and techniques.

 T3. Chemistry at the interface with biology and medicine (39 PAS, including 3 new
     appointments, and 3 ECFs): Applying chemical methods to observe, quantify, exploit, and
     re-programme the mechanisms of life.

 T4. Energy and sustainable chemistry (18 PAS, including 1 new appointment): Using
     chemistry to inform scientific strategies and underpin clean and green sustainable
     technologies that improve our environment and mitigate climate change.

 T5. Kinetics, dynamics, and mechanism (32 PAS, including 2 new appointments, and 3
     ECFs): Developing and using advanced analysis methods to understand chemical
     transformations at the molecular level.

 T6. Advanced functional materials and interfaces (31 PAS, including 3 new appointments,
     and 3 ECFs): Discovering, understanding, and developing new advanced functional
     materials in order to provide solutions in critical areas such as energy, healthcare,
     electronics, and catalysis.

 T7. Innovative measurement and photon science (37 PAS, including 3 new appointments,
     and 5 ECFs): Quantifying structure and dynamics from the atomic to the mesoscopic scale.

 T8. Theory and modelling in the chemical sciences (27 PAS, including 3 new appointments,
     and 2 ECFs): Applying theory and computer modelling in the chemical sciences to elucidate
     problems at the interfaces with physics, materials science, and biology.



                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.2     Research objectives and strategy

 1.2.1    Review of the REF period
 We have focused on the research objectives defined in our REF2014 submission (in bold), briefly
 reviewed below.
 1. To further our research profile by appointing, training, supporting, and retaining the
    best people (faculty, research, and technical staff) to carry out world-leading research.
    We have appointed eight PAS, including creating one new post, supported 14 ECFs, and
    provided leadership in the Technician Commitment initiative. We have supported colleagues
    for promotion, merit pay awards (2.3.5), and prizes/accolades (4.6). We have undergone major
    cultural change through our equality, diversity, and inclusion (ED&I) initiatives, enabling more
    diverse recruitment at all career stages (2.2 and 2.5).
2. To develop our eight research themes.
   We have refined our research themes and appointed theme coordinators, who have
   identified areas for strategic appointments and who are a focus for external enquiries, e.g.,
   from industry and government. The themes are promoted through collaborative funding (3.1),
   graduate training (2.4), researcher co-location, leadership appointments, and publicity.
   Strength across the themes is illustrated by the quality and scientific breadth of our ~3,800
   publications in the period (including nearly 200 papers in the Science and Nature family
   journals), which have received >80,000 citations.
3. To develop our strong relationships with other MPLS departments, and with biological
   and medical sciences.
   2,540 (66%) of our papers have co-authors from outside the Department, demonstrating our
   collaborative and interdisciplinary research (4.1 and 4.5.1). Of these, >13% involve
   collaborations with other Oxford departments. Collaborations are promoted through our
   continued joint academic appointments, joint grants, and multidisciplinary centres for doctoral
   training (CDTs), e.g., the Wellcome Trust Chemistry in Cells (WTCIC) CDT (2.4).
4. To build and sustain long term strategic and effective engagement with industry and
   other external partners (e.g., Diamond Light Source, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory,
   and Harwell Science and Innovation Campus), capitalising on the success of existing
   collaborations.
   We have strengthened our collaborations with industry (e.g., with Siam Cement Group (SCG),
   Union Chimique Belge (UCB), and Siemens), and with other external partners (e.g., the
   Harwell Campus, and the National Physical Laboratory (NPL)) (see 4.1 and 4.5.1). As a result,
   >270 (7%) publications are joint with industry and a further 7% are with staff from UK research
   facilities.
5. To ensure that research facilities and core instrumentation match our ambition to
   remain a world-leading centre for innovative Chemistry.
   Research equipment has been purchased totalling nearly £18M (3.3), and we have invested
   a further £2.5M in facilities. In 2018, we opened a new £25M Chemistry Teaching Laboratory
   (CTL), which includes dedicated synthetic and analytical suites used for graduate training.
   The latter alone represents an additional £2M investment in state-of-the-art instrumentation.
6. To attract world-class postgraduates and PDRAs by providing a leading research
   environment, high-quality training, and scholarships.
   We have seen a ~45% increase in postgraduate research (PGR) applications, due to
   development of our PGR programmes (2.4), including CDTs (the WTCIC, and our EPSRC

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    CDTs, namely Synthesis for Biology and Medicine (SBM), Oxford Inorganic Chemistry for
    Future Manufacturing (OxICFM), and Theory and Modelling in the Chemical Sciences
    (TMCS)), and enhanced training facilities (e.g., the CTL). The generation of increased industry
    funding has enabled significant postdoctoral research assistant (PDRA) recruitment (2.2).
7. To advance translation of our work through spinouts, licensing, patents, consultancy,
   and multi-company industrial collaboration, taking full advantage of our strong track
   record.
   The translation of our research is evidenced by numerous industrial collaborations and
   successful spinouts (see 4.2 and 4.3). We have generated 11 spinouts (cf. three in the
   previous REF); in 2019/20 our 21 active spinouts collectively employed >700 people and had
   a turnover of ~£57M.

 1.2.2   Future research objectives
 We will focus on the following key goals and objectives during the next REF period:

 O1. Refill statutory chair/research leader positions with outstanding candidates from across the
     world to enhance academic leadership across the breadth of our research themes.
     With 48% of our faculty aged 50+ (2.2) we anticipate a significant number of retirements
     over the next REF period. Appointments will be supported by development activities, which
     have already led to the endowment of the Chair of Physical Chemistry.
 O2. Enhance our research themes by creating four new permanent academic posts and
     refilling ~20 existing posts (equating to around three per research theme), with a
     particular focus on outstanding researchers active in interdisciplinary, strategic, global
     challenge areas such as materials, energy, sustainability, infectious and ageing-related
     diseases, and climate change.
 O3. Advance interdisciplinary initiatives, such as the INEOS-Oxford Institute, the Oxford Kavli
     Institute for NanoScience Discovery (Kavli INSD), which lies at the heart of a new
     multidisciplinary laboratory, the national UKRI Catalysis Hub, the Rosalind Franklin Institute
     (RFI), and the Faraday Institution (FI). We will forge stronger links with Harwell and
     Diamond through joint appointments, secondments, and collaborations.
 O4. Strengthen links to industry, through our doctoral training initiatives, by organizing
     workshops, providing co-located space for partners from industry, and promoting
     engagement through industrial guest lecturers, advisory board representation, industrial
     secondments, and materials transfer with commercial research laboratories.
 O5. Increase the proportion of departmentally-funded PGRs by supporting ~50 new PGR
     studentships through engagement with funding agencies, key stakeholders and industry,
     and through a combined major University/College fundraising initiative. This will enable a
     more strategic approach to graduate recruitment.
 O6. Enhance research facilities to enable high-level academic appointments, including
     developing and bringing forward plans for a new interdisciplinary chemical sciences
     laboratory to facilitate co-location with partners from other cognate disciplines and industry.

 O7. Develop our instrument and workshop Small Research Facilities (SRFs), investing in
     equipment and supporting our technicians.
 O8. Enhance the impact of our research through coordinated public engagement activities.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research support staff – including two full-time Chemistry Research Facilitators, a Research
 Information and Support Officer, a Development Manager, and our Alumni Relations and
 Communications Manager – will enable delivery of these objectives.

 1.3     Impact

 1.3.1    Enabling impact
 We have an outstanding track record in translating fundamental research to effect major change
 beyond the confines of the discipline: e.g., ground-breaking work on the lithium-ion battery, rapid
 DNA sequencing, and a pioneering glucose sensor all emerged from curiosity-driven research.

 To enable and facilitate impact arising from our research we have:
 •     Commercialized our research through spinouts, patents, and commercial deals (4.3), with help
       from our Research Facilitators, and close links with Oxford University Innovation (OUI – the
       University’s technology transfer office) and the MPLS Industrial Research Partnerships (IRP)
       team (4.1 and 4.2);
 •     Engaged with external partners to highlight and increase the relevance of our research, e.g.,
       through industry engagement in graduate training, including EU International Training
       Networks (ITNs), CDTs, CASE and iCASE (2.4);
 •     Collaborated extensively with industry, for example, on research and development (R&D) of
       novel instrumentation and methods, and in drug discovery;
 •     Promoted a culture of impact, by encouraging nominations for impact awards, both internal
       and external to the University (2.3.5), showcasing impact and links with industry through our
       Industry Newsletter and our podcasts and videos, such as the Solutions for our Future (ITN
       Productions) and Technician Commitment;
 •     Promoted entrepreneurship through our diverse impact and IP training programmes (2.4),
       including hosting visiting lectureships and professorships (4.2);
 •     Enhanced impact through Public Engagement with Research (PER) and educational outreach
       activities (4.4);
 •     Reflected the importance of impact in recruitment and retention policies (2.3.5).


 1.3.2    Shaping impact plans for the future
 We shape and adapt our plans to ensure we continue to support the vitality and sustainability of
 our impact. Our response to the COVID-19 pandemic provides a good example of how we can
 adapt to a changing external landscape (4.5).

 In the next REF period, we will further embed impact through the following activities:

 I1. Enhancing commercialization of our fundamental research, through our strong links with
     OUI, support for academics with secondment and sabbatical arrangements, and our training
     for young entrepreneurs;
 I2. Building stronger and larger relations with industry, supported by our Research Facilitators,
     through co-location of researchers, R&D, workshops, etc. (see Objective O4);




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 I3. Supporting the symbiotic relationship between our fundamental research, and the
     translation of that activity to generate societal and commercial impact, in the latter case
     through interactions with our spinout companies and industrial partners;
 I4. Enhancing interactions with industry and promoting impact through graduate training;
 I5. Promoting a culture of both societal and commercial impact by recognizing and celebrating
     success, and rewarding staff as part of our professional development strategy (2.3);
 I6. Enhancing our Research Facilitation Team by focusing resource on impact and PER, e.g.,
     through a PER ‘expert in residence’, embedded in the Department through academic
     engagement and by inclusion on CRC;
 I7. Developing our communications strategy, building on the ongoing redevelopment of our
     website and supported by our Alumni Relations and Communications Manager.


 1.3.3    Impact Case selection for REF2021
 Our Impact Cases (ICs) provide exemplars of how we have translated fundamental research into
 real world benefit. Our strategy to promote commercialization led to the IC on Oxford Nanopore
 Technologies (ONT) [04Bayley], which developed the portable MinION DNA sequencing device
 used on the Zika and Ebola viruses, and more recently in high-throughput testing for COVID-19
 (LamPORE); impact is enhanced through ongoing, symbiotic links between the company and
 research group. ICs concerning our spinouts Refeyn (Mass Photometry) [06Kukura] and OMass
 Therapeutics [03Robinson] both arose from fundamental research and industry collaboration in
 mass spectrometry (MS) and instrument development (theme T7).

 Commercialization of research through the creation of intellectual property (IP) and licensing
 agreements, an area that we have strongly supported (4.3), enabled the development of the
 Electrochemical sensors IC [02Compton], with products now being marketed.

 The Oxygenases [05Schofield] and SCG-Oxford Centre of Excellence in Chemistry (CoE)
 [07OHare] ICs reflect our strategy for forming strong links with industry, forged by hosting
 researchers from industry in our laboratories (e.g., from UCB and SCG), and industry
 engagement with our CDTs.

 Our final selected IC, Quantum Mechanical Calculations: Supporting the Destruction of Chemical
 Nerve Agents, again reflects fundamental research, namely in theme T8, in which graduate
 training plays an essential role. This IC [01Clary] overlaps with the TMCS CDT, which has links
 with several external partners, including Dstl Porton Down.

 1.4     Interdisciplinary research

 Section 4.5.1 details support for, and exemplifies, our interdisciplinary research. Our focus is to
 promote collaboration through interdisciplinary research networks, seminars, joint appointments,
 and leadership roles on special initiatives. Interdisciplinary research often arises from individual
 collaborations, supported by our theme leads and dedicated Research Facilitators, who provide
 advice on funding and other opportunities, such as external collaborations. We work closely with
 the MPLS IRP team, whose remit is to develop links between industry and multiple academic
 departments (also see 4.1).




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.5 Open research

 We are engaged with University and national initiatives to promote open research. We appointed a
 dedicated Research Information and Support Officer in 2018. Through a combination of training,
 monitoring, and 1:1 advice, the role supports all aspects of Open Access publishing and Open
 Data, including compliance with institutional and funder policies and use of the University’s online
 repository for both publications and data. We actively promote the Green Route to OA, encourage
 the use of Oxford-linked ORCIDs as a unique author identifier, and help ensure compliance with
 the deposition of electronic theses for all doctorates.

 We also support several key initiatives within Chemistry. Our SBM CDT operates an Open IP and
 OA policy designed to ensure free exchange of information and expertise between all partners
 and the wider research community, and the CDT’s course material is freely available to
 download (typically with ~900 downloads per month). We also host open-source software for
 molecular dynamics simulation; and provide OA data and software for crystallographic
 refinement and analysis, and interpretation.

 1.6 Research integrity

 We support a culture of research integrity across the Department. All researchers are required to
 follow the University’s Academic Integrity in Research: Code of Practice and Procedure.

 Research integrity education begins with an induction programme for all new researchers
 (including 4th Year MChem and PGR students), covering plagiarism, and data security and
 storage. Subsequently, we encourage participation in the MPLS Division’s Research integrity
 training, which introduces good practice in research, outlines how researchers can meet their
 responsibilities, and sets out the key principles and practices of good research conduct. Strict
 compliance with relevant ethics procedures is upheld for research involving human samples
 (monitored by the Biological Safety Officer).



 2. People

 2.1   Overview

 We host around 1,000 researchers, ranging from permanent academic staff (PAS) to 4th Year
 MChem students undertaking full-time research (Table 1). In between are those on fully-
 independent (typically five-year) fellowships (ECFs), early career researchers (ECRs), and PGR
 students. ECRs include those holding individual fellowships of 2-3 years duration, including
 Marie Curie Fellows (68 during the REF), but who are not yet fully independent. PAS comprise
 statutory chairs, associate professors (APs), and research-only professors (RPs). We host many
 visiting researchers, including PGRs, senior academics, and scientists from industry.

 We employ around 35 technical and research support staff, key amongst whom are those
 working in one of the five instrumentation and three workshop SRFs (3.3). Oxford was a
 founding signatory of the Technician Commitment (2017), a Science Council initiative to support
 research technicians, and Chemistry provided the first institutional lead (Mackenzie).




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


             PAS              ECFs              ECRs               PGRs               UGs


          Permanent        Early Career      Early Career        Graduate             4th Year
        academic staff         Fellows      Researchers          research      MChem students
       (chairs, research   (independent      (PDRAs and          students         (undertaking
          professors,           5-year        holders of          (largely     full-time research
           associate         fellowships    individual 2/3-       doctoral           projects)
          professors)                      year fellowships)     students)

              70                10                200               450                180

                                 Visiting researchers             100

                       Table 1: Typical numbers of research staff and students.

 2.2      Recruitment and staffing strategy

 Our strategy is to hire and retain the best staff possible, and to support individuals at key career
 transition points.

 During the REF period there has been a small growth in PAS (~4%), but larger growth (17%) in
 ECRs and ECFs, driven in the former case by an increase in external funding, and in the latter
 by strategic investment in a dedicated Research Facilitator and better communication of the
 application process (2.3.2).

 We made eight AP appointments during the period: four replaced staff who retired or moved to
 other HEIs (e.g., Weller to a Chair at York; Wallace to a research-leader position at King’s
 College London); three vacancies resulted from promotion of existing postholders to RP
 positions; and one new post was created. Three of these AP appointments were female, and
 three were to academics based outside the UK (ETH Zurich (1), Stuttgart MPIs (2)). Potential
 areas for recruitment are now discussed widely in the Department, with decisions about
 appointments driven by research priorities as well as teaching need (see 3.2 for examples). We
 have used RP appointments to provide individuals with the freedom to focus on research.

 All our Category A staff are on permanent contracts except a small number on fixed-term, part-
 time contracts (three in July 2020) and our ECFs (seven). We rely on external short-term
 funding, so the majority of our ECRs are on fixed-term contracts. Where we expect funding to
 continue for the foreseeable future, and there is a clear sustainable business case, an open-
 ended contract is used.

 PAS turnover in the period was relatively low, in part reflecting the quality of our environment.
 Most AP appointments were of academics at a relatively early career stage, allowing us both to
 attract new talent and maintain a balanced demographic profile. However, with 48% of our PAS
 aged 50+, we anticipate a larger number of retirements during the next REF, including four
 statutory chairs. This offers a significant opportunity for strategic academic recruitment to ensure
 continued research leadership and shape our research portfolio (see Objectives O1 and O2),
 with our new cross-Departmental approach to appointments laying the foundation for successful
 appointments.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3     Staff development

 2.3.1    Overview
 The national Researcher Development Concordat is implemented via Oxford’s Code of Practice
 for the Employment and Career Development of Research Staff. Initiatives developed under
 Athena SWAN (AS) (2.5.1) have also helped to embed good practice.

 APs and ECFs are line-managed by the Section Heads, who play an important mentoring role.
 APs have a 5-year probationary period, during which an advisor is appointed and they receive
 two formal reviews. Deadlines for these reviews have been relaxed during the COVID-19
 pandemic. The review after two years provides an opportunity to identify actions and support
 needed for successful completion of probation. ECFs are given similar levels of support. All
 probationary APs have successfully completed their reviews in the REF period.

 All PAS have an annual appraisal, whilst ECFs and ECRs have an annual Career Development
 Review, a scheme tailored to their needs. Chemistry has pioneered an online system to facilitate
 the review process. Alongside the support provided by research groups, we are also introducing
 more systematic mentoring for ECRs.

 Staff are supported to take advantage of the wide range of development activities provided by
 the University. MPLS provides training designed for PGRs and ECRs, including on
 entrepreneurship and writing research/fellowship proposals. ECRs can also participate in
 departmentally-provided courses for PGR students (2.4).

 We promote external initiatives such as the Royal Society (RS) Pairing Scheme, Week in
 Westminster (Farley, ECR 2018). We provide ECRs with opportunities to gain experience in
 teaching and in educational outreach (4.4), to raise their awareness of public engagement and
 support transferable skills development.

 We hold an annual Chemistry Careers Conference for ECRs and PGRs, typically with around 40
 participants. Covering careers within and outside academia, the programme includes sessions
 on CVs, job applications, and modern recruitment methods. We also fund ECR attendance at
 external events such as the RSC Curie-Joliot Career Conference, which focuses on breaking
 down barriers for under-represented groups in academia.

 2.3.2    Support for and integration of those at early career stages
 We strongly support early-career academics: new APs usually have teaching remission (typically
 up to 50% teaching remission for two or three years) to enable them to establish their research.
 We provide start-up funds of >£150k (e.g., for equipment, ECR resource, and consumables). We
 support applications to the University’s John Fell Fund (JFF) for new equipment, pump-priming
 activity, or match-funding for external grant applications. Newly-appointed academics have
 received six awards from this fund in the period, totalling £520k, and our ECFs have obtained a
 further £230k. In addition to the direct funding support, the JFF offers valuable training in grant
 writing and project management.

 We are committed to attracting and developing outstanding young ECFs, particularly those who
 complement or strengthen our themes (e.g., Kukura (T3), Foroozandeh (T7)). In 2016 we
 established new advertising and recruitment procedures, and employed a Research Facilitator
 explicitly to help ECFs, ECRs, and PGRs at key career stages. They provide advice on

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellowship applications and wider career development support; and hold weekly drop-in sessions
 (typically supporting over 60 staff and students each year). During the REF period, there have
 been 14 ECFs, seven of whom were in post on the census date. Four of the remainder were
 appointed to Oxford PAS posts, and three to similar posts elsewhere.

 Integration of ECRs into our research culture has been enabled by establishing a Postdoc
 Forum (2015) and a Postdoc Committee (2019), and through appointing an ECR academic
 champion (2017). These activities, together with ECR representation on committees, ensure
 ECR opinion is considered in developing Departmental policy. During the first COVID-19
 lockdown, the Head of Department held dedicated open (virtual) sessions for PGRs and for
 ECRs, each with over 100 participants.

 We encourage ECR-led activities, e.g., seminar series, poster competitions, and networking
 events, for which we provide financial and logistical support. The Women in Oxford Chemistry
 group was launched in 2019 with such support.

 2.3.3   Research, impact leave/sabbatical leave arrangements
 PAS with teaching responsibilities (APs and chairs) are entitled to one term of sabbatical leave
 for every six terms worked, to enable a break from teaching or administrative duties to focus on
 research. 46 PAS have taken sabbatical leave in the period.

 Workload allocation models enable us to adjust duties when PAS take on leadership roles, such
 as large-scale research projects or CDT directorships. Those undertaking significant
 administrative duties have reduced teaching loads to enable them to continue research. Overall,
 around 20 PAS have been supported in this way. For other staff, impact leave is arranged on an
 ad hoc basis with their line-manager.

 2.3.4   Facilitating exchanges
 PAS can use their sabbatical leave to spend time at other institutions or in industry, and we have
 used EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding to support long-term visits of this
 nature. For example, in 2015 O’Hare spent his sabbatical year with SCG Chemicals in Bangkok,
 Thailand, leading to the creation of the SCG-Oxford CoE (4.1.2). We support secondments: in
 2019/20, Kukura was 50% seconded to his spinout company, Refeyn, to provide consultancy at
 a critical juncture; and currently, Mohammed is 80% seconded to the RFI.

 We have secured around £190k of EPSRC IAA funding for Partnership Awards, designed to
 encourage engagement with end-users of research. Such funding has supported development of
 an electrochemical bacteria sensor (Compton) and translation of sulfoximine catalysis to the
 pharmaceutical sector (Willis).

 We also have a vibrant visitor programme enabling interactions with industry (4.2).


 2.3.5   Recognition and reward
 We recognize and reward PAS through two University mechanisms. In the REF period, 27 of our
 APs have been awarded full professor title through an annual Recognition of Distinction (RoD)
 scheme. We have mentored female APs to encourage them to apply, which has been a large
 contributor to us moving to 15% female full professors by 2019 (up from 6% in 2013). Since



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2016, those with full title are also eligible to apply for Professorial Merit Pay through a biennial
 University-wide scheme, with 12 recipients in Chemistry.

 Grade 9 and 10 research staff are eligible for award of AP title through an annual University
 recognition scheme, with several instrument scientists awarded title in the period (3.3.5).

 Both research and impact are taken into account when considering academic appointments and
 promotions: commercial or public engagement activities are assessed alongside the applicant’s
 research portfolio. High-profile promotions of entrepreneurial scientists illustrate the importance
 of these factors (e.g., Schofield, O’Hare to RPs).

 We publicise the successes of our researchers, both internally (e.g., via our weekly newsletter)
 and externally (e.g., in social media, our Periodic magazine and Industry Newsletter, and special
 videos), including showcasing their successful start-ups. We ensure colleagues are nominated
 for appropriate prizes (4.6). We have received five MPLS Impact Awards (O’Hare, Vincent,
 Brown (2015), Booth (2018), Kukura and Benesch (2020)). A positive work environment is
 further enhanced by celebrating historical success of former staff, e.g., the 2019 Nobel Prize for
 Goodenough (former Inorganic Chemistry chair) and Whittingham (former student), and the
 American Chemical Society (ACS) Chemical Breakthrough Award (2015) for Dorothy Crowfoot
 Hodgkin’s work determining the structure of penicillin.

 2.3.6    Supporting and enabling staff to maximize impact
 In addition to leave arrangements (2.3.3), within the standard University contract all academic
 and research staff (including ECRs) can undertake up to 30 days consultancy for external
 organisations. 63 such staff have held consultancies in the REF period, facilitating collaborations
 between academia and business (4.1 and 4.2).

 In addition, staff are enabled to maximize impact by:
 •     Enhancing their entrepreneurship through hosting Innovation Champions (five ECRs and ECFs
       trained by OUI to advise and mentor colleagues), providing IP and Science communication
       skills training, supporting the Student Entrepreneurs’ Programme (StEP, allowing students to
       develop innovative business ideas), and hosting a RS Entrepreneur in Residence (Dr Alan
       Roth);
 •     Adjusting workloads through buyouts, to participate in external boards to enable impact, e.g.,
       industry boards, government, and charities (e.g., Wellcome, CRUK).


 2.4     Research students

 2.4.1    Overview
 Graduate students are vital to our research and their training is a key contribution to the health of
 the discipline and to the wider economy. We run four main programmes leading to a DPhil (PhD)
 in Chemical Biology, Inorganic, Organic, or Physical & Theoretical Chemistry. During the REF,
 we have led three EPSRC-funded CDTs and the WTCIC CDT. We also participate in around six
 cross-departmental UKRI-funded CDTs.

 2.4.2    Recruitment
 Our annual DPhil intake is ~100 students, including ~30 on CDT programmes (~6 of which are
 on cross-departmental CDTs). 51% of our PGRs are non-UK residents (18% EU, 33% other

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overseas). Applications have increased by over 45% (Table 2), largely reflecting the popularity of
 our CDTs. We hold three open days to help attract a diverse range of applicants. Interviews are
 held for candidates applying for scholarships and CDT places. Most successful applicants have
 a first-class UG degree (or equivalent).

              2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
                297     389     389     342     351     411     441
                          Table 2: Chemistry PGR application numbers.

 We provide an inclusive culture taking account of all protected characteristics, where necessary
 making adjustments tailored to individual needs. For those with a physical or learning disability
 we hold detailed discussions about any adjustments required. We support the University UNIQ+
 scheme (a summer graduate access research internship programme), hosting one project in
 2019 and mentoring seven students in the online 2020 programme. The WTCIC CDT is currently
 operating a blind recruitment process, which will be assessed for wider roll-out.

 2.4.3   Studentship funding
 Figure 2 provides a typical snapshot of PGR funding for the cohort starting in 2016/17 (with 106
 starters). Whilst research councils (UKRI) provide 24% of the external funding, there is a variety
 of funding sources, and a significant proportion of students are either self-funded or funded
 through University scholarships. Around 5% of studentships are CASE awards, with a further
 25% of our EPSRC DTA studentships having partial industrial support. In the REF period, we
 have also been awarded 19 EPSRC iCASE DTA studentships allocated strategically by the
 MPLS Division to encourage industrial collaborations.

                               University             C SE
                               or college              5             EC ERC
                                  1

                                                                               External
                                                                              scholarship




                                                                                  ndustry
                                                                                   1




                         UKR
                         2




                                                             Self funded
                                                                 2



         Figure 2: Summary of PGR student funding sources for cohort starting in 2016/17.


 We have hosted three competitively awarded EPSRC CDTs in the REF period, which have
 attracted considerable funding from industry: e.g., the SBM CDT secured industrial support
 (>£4.5M) to enable an Open IP research collaboration to be established with 11 global
 companies. The CDT is funded by EPSRC until 2022, but with a new cohort from 2019/20
 funded through a combination of industrial (~£2M), philanthropic, Departmental, and University

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support. Strong industrial support has also been realized for the new OxICFM CDT, with eight
 industrial partners. In addition, our EU ITNs have industrial links: we have coordinated four ITNs
 during the REF period and participated in 12 others.

 Supported by our Development Manager since 2017, we have launched a campaign to fund
 PGRs through philanthropy and other means (see Objective O5). With the availability of funding
 the greatest barrier to entry, this will enable us to attract and support a more diverse pool of
 talented students.

 2.4.4   Monitoring and support mechanisms
 Programmes are overseen by one of three Chemistry Directors of Graduate Studies, who
 monitor supervision arrangements, review termly reports, troubleshoot any concerns, and
 organize examinations. Students receive considerable formal and informal supervision and are
 expected to have regular one-to-one meetings with their supervisory team. WTCIC CDT and
 cross-departmental CDT students typically have co-supervisors from outside Chemistry. First-
 time supervisors receive mentoring support from an experienced co-supervisor. We also run
 workshops for new supervisors.

 PGRs are formally assessed around the end of their first and their third years of research, for
 which they submit written reports and give presentations. These provide an opportunity to review
 progress and obtain advice on the steps required for successful completion.

 In Chemistry, the rate of completion within four years is around 85%, and ~95% of DPhil
 students complete their degree, mostly within five years. Typically, just under 100 DPhil degrees
 are awarded annually (Table 3).

    2013/14     2014/15     2015/16   2016/17    2017/18     2018/19    2019/20    Grand Total
      91.3        106         97.8      97.5       88.3        99.7        97.5          678.1
                          Table 3: UoA8 doctoral (DPhil) degrees awarded.

 2.4.5   Skills development and future careers
 We aim to engender in our PGRs the skills and qualities required to become outstanding
 researchers, to educate them with a broad understanding of the subject and its relevance to the
 major global challenges, and to equip them for successful careers both inside and outside
 academia.

 PGRs have access to a wide variety of training, helping them to develop research and
 transferable skills. We provide a choice of introductory courses, including in nuclear magnetic
 resonance (NMR), MS, and X-ray crystallography, and in IT, mechanical workshop, and
 glassblowing skills. CDT and masters’ level courses are also available to all PGRs (where
 capacity permits). The MPLS Division provides training courses which have had >1,600
 Chemistry attendees over the REF period, including on scientific writing (213 attendees), thesis
 and report writing (83), scientific entrepreneurship (44), and presentation skills (176).

 PGRs can also develop teaching skills through practical demonstrating on the UG course, and
 delivering UG classes in mathematics, physics, and quantum chemistry. Training is given for
 each of these activities.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR training needs are reviewed termly as part of the reporting process. Students are expected
 to keep a portfolio of training received, which is reviewed at the formal assessment milestones.

 We hold a wealth of regular seminars which PGRs are encouraged to attend. Research themes
 and groups also organise their own meetings, e.g., in Chemical Biology and Soft Matter, which
 students sometimes organize themselves. As part of the formal assessment process, Sections
 organise PGR student symposia, in which 3rd year students give a short talk.

 Towards the end of their programme, PGRs are encouraged to talk to the University Careers
 Service, which has a designated Chemistry contact. DPhil graduates go into a wide variety of
 careers. Typically, nearly 40% stay in academia, becoming ECRs, with a further 20% pursuing
 research careers in industry or other non-university environments. Just over 10% of PGRs follow
 careers in management, with the remaining 30% pursuing careers including medicine (5%),
 teaching (4%), and IT (2%).

 2.5     Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (ED&I)

 2.5.1    Overview
 ED&I issues are now central to Departmental life and are a standing item on all committee
 agendas. We have a Chemistry E&D Committee, which has broad membership and is chaired
 by a member of CMB. It has led initiatives that enabled us to achieve an AS Silver award in 2015
 (renewal submission due November 2020).

 Our 2020 ED&I Action Plan includes a focus on ethnicity and race. We have recently appointed
 an ED&I Fellow who has a particular interest in race-equality issues, and we encourage
 participation in University networks, including BME, Disability, and LGBT+. Since the last REF,
 BME representation in the researcher population has increased from 16% (July 2013) to 22%
 (July 2020). Additionally, we have placed increasing focus on neurodiversity, e.g., publicising
 activities around Neurodiversity Celebration Week.

 The University has well-developed policies and procedures covering all aspects of human
 resources. Recently revised academic recruitment procedures explicitly aim to increase the
 diversity of those shortlisted for and offered jobs. The proportion of women in PAS posts (chairs,
 full professors, and APs) has risen from 9% in 2013 to 16% in 2019. During the REF period,
 36% of our ECFs were women, and the percentage of female ECRs increased from 31% in 2016
 to 35% in 2019. Female PGR applications rose from 37% in 2016 to 42% in 2019, with the
 percentage of female starters rising in line with this.

 An important emphasis has been on improving Departmental culture, with consideration given to
 work/life balance and to supporting returners after breaks. Whilst there is more to be done, our
 annual survey data indicate real progress (e.g., 90% of respondents would now recommend the
 Department to a friend, c.f. 58% in 2012). There is greater visibility of the existing diversity within
 Chemistry, including through staff profiles featured on the website. We actively promote the
 achievements of women, such as Women in Science awards (4.6). Our female academics are
 increasingly taking on leadership roles, including co-directing CDTs, serving on CMB, or leading
 spinout companies (three out of the 11 Chemistry spinouts founded in the period).




                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.5.2   Consideration of ED&I issues
 In areas such as promotion, reward, and recruitment, we give explicit consideration to ED&I. All
 recruitment panel members undertake ED&I and implicit bias training, and a gender balance is
 also sought for all recruitment/promotion panels. Most leadership positions (e.g., Heads of
 Section and Department) are by election, with a preliminary process to encourage candidates to
 come forward, particularly from underrepresented groups. Decisions about access to internal
 and, where necessary, external funding are generally taken by CMB, with ED&I issues explicitly
 discussed.

 CMB is made up of ex officio members, and at one time all academic members were male. To
 address this, after consultation with a group of our senior women, a female academic “without
 portfolio” was added to the committee. From October 2020 the HoD(R) role will be held by a
 female academic, further improving the gender balance on CMB.

 2.5.3   Leave and flexible working
 Entitlement to sabbatical leave (2.3.3) is consistent for all eligible PAS. Staff are reminded
 regularly of their entitlement and applications for sabbatical leave are very rarely declined.

 Flexible working is encouraged, and many staff change their working patterns, either formally or
 informally, as their caring and other responsibilities change (e.g., in 2019, 12 academic and
 research staff were working part-time). We have clear support mechanisms for all those
 returning to work, e.g., from parental leave (2.5.4). The recent experience of the COVID-19
 lockdown has led us to explore how remote working can be supported, and this will be carried
 forward into more normal times.

 The support described above is available to all staff regardless of their contract. We have shown
 our commitment to promoting part-time flexible working by a joint campaign with Somerville
 College, raising around £380k to support an ECF designed for individuals returning from a
 career break and/or needing flexible working arrangements. The first such Fellow will start in
 January 2021.

 2.5.4   Support and wellbeing
 Individuals returning from leave arising from ill-health, disability, or caring responsibilities are
 offered tailored support. Workload is often reduced in the first year after return, and part-
 time/flexible working offered. We sponsor four University nursery places. A PGR maternity-pay
 policy was introduced in 2018, with Chemistry covering the cost if grant-providers do not.

 Individuals are encouraged to apply to the University’s Returning Carers Fund. All nine
 ECR/academic women who returned from maternity leave during the REF period have received
 grants from the fund (totalling £42k), including paying for additional researcher support,
 equipment, administrative support, and additional childcare to enable conference attendance.

 We publicise the support available for staff and students with protected characteristics and,
 working together with the University’s Disability Advisory Service (DAS), take a case-by-case
 approach to ensure that support is tailored to the individual. In consultation with the DAS,
 adjustments have been made to research laboratories and, on occasion, personal support
 provided.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wellbeing is an increasingly important focus for us, particularly with respect to mental health.
 Responses to staff and student surveys suggest that the measures implemented have been
 beneficial (e.g., 90% of staff say they are satisfied in their job). A comprehensive guide to the
 support available is included on our intranet and has been highlighted on its front page during
 the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Since 2014, we have used the national Anti-Bullying Week to highlight the issue and run a series
 of events such as Think Differently - Choose Respect (2018) and Change Starts Here (2019).
 Those with concerns about bullying or harassment can seek advice and support from one of five
 Departmental Harassment Advisors. Our achievements have been recognised by MPLS ED&I
 Awards, including Best Initiative for our Anti-Bullying Week activities.

 2.5.5    ED&I and the REF process
  n line with Oxford’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, our primary criterion for output selection was
 research quality, based on an academic-led peer review process.

 Eligible staff nominated up to six outputs, which were read and scored by at least two reviewers,
 with a sample of scores calibrated by external reviewers. A diverse and balanced output
 selection review panel was established, comprising CMB and five other academics. Explicit
 consideration was given to diversity in the reviewing team, and in decisions made on output
 selection, such as the gender balance of selected outputs (~20% female) versus that of
 submitted staff (18% female).


 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1     Research funding

 3.1.1    Overview
 At the census date our research grant portfolio was over £120M, with an average annual
 research grant income during the period of £28.5M (up 57% compared to REF 2014 - Table 4).
 Average annual industry funding increased very significantly (by over 300% to >£5M), reflecting
 our impact strategy. Annual income from UKRI remained broadly constant over the period, whilst
 EU income increased significantly (by nearly 250% to an average of >£7M), with 19 major ERC
 grants commencing (three Starting Grants, six Consolidator, six Advanced, one Synergy, and
 three Proof of Concept Grants). Sources of funding are now significantly more diverse than in REF
 2014.


                     UoA8                             REF 2014        REF 2021

                     Average annual income             £18.2M           £28.5M

                          Table 4: UoA8 average annual research income.

 Significant industrial sponsors have included SCG (£12.3M), UCB BioPharma SPRL (£1.7M), UCB
 Celltech (£0.8M), and Novo Nordisk A/S (£0.7M).

 Our spinouts have invested significantly in our research, including OxSTEM (£4M), ONT (£1.9M),
 and Osler Diagnostics (£1.7M), reflecting the synergy between our fundamental research and its
 translation through the company (1.3.2).

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.1.2   Major grants and links to quality output or impact
 Table 5 lists our top ten competitively awarded (non-industry, non-CDT) grants in the period. The
 selection includes a range of funders (EU, UKRI, charities), and both single investigator and
 collaborative grants (e.g., EPSRC Programme and EU Synergy grants).

                                                                                       Amount
         Oxford PI      Start date      Funder               Grant type
                                                                                       (£k)
         Conway         01/10/2019      EPSRC                Programme                 5,019
         Hore           01/04/2019      EU                   Synergy                   3,370
         Vincent        01/01/2016      EPSRC                Standard                  2,941
         Goodwin        01/10/2018      EU                   Advanced                  2,587
         Brouard        07/04/2020      EPSRC                Programme                 2,544
         Robinson       13/02/2015      Wellcome Trust       Senior Investigator       2,366
         Hore           01/12/2013      EU                   Advanced                  2,212
         Gouverneur     01/07/2019      EU                   Advanced                  2,000
         Bayley         01/08/2019      EU                   Advanced                  1,942
         Fletcher       01/05/2016      EU                   Consolidator              1,873
             Table 5: Chemistry major (non-industry) grants awarded in the REF period.

 Exemplifying links with quality outputs and impact, Hore’s funding supported fundamental research
 into the mechanism of bird migration resulting in highly-cited work in Nature and elsewhere, whilst
 Robinson’s supported research underpinning the OMass C. Vincent’s EPSRC grant supported
 fundamental research into new routes to drive enzyme-catalysed chemical synthesis using
 hydrogen.

 3.1.3   Strategy for generating income
 Our strategy seeks to enhance funding by:
 •   Supporting applications for major funding by providing relief from teaching and administrative
     responsibilities, through buyouts and secondments;
 •   Raising awareness of opportunities via our dedicated Chemistry Research Facilitation and
     Grants (Finance) teams, provide advice and feedback on draft proposals, and practice with
     interviews;
 •   Through CRC and CMB, focusing attention on high-level funding initiatives, such as
     EPSRC/BBSRC equipment initiatives, and making prioritization decisions on bids;
 •   Supporting greater use of University-administered funding to provide follow-on funding for
     technology development and for secondments or partnerships (2.3.4). During the REF period,
     we have received 30 awards totalling £1.4M from IAA funds (EPSRC, BBSRC, and Global
     Challenges Research), and we have secured nearly £4M from University funds, including
     £2.2M from the JFF and ~£600k from the Oxford Martin School, adding significant impact to
     grants obtained from external sources;
 •   Through the work of our dedicated Research Facilitator, supporting those applying for ECF
     funding (2.3.2);
 •   Promoting income diversification (e.g., through increased EU and industry funding), by
     highlighting opportunities, providing support for initiatives, and publicising our links with
     industry in our industry-facing webpages and regular Industry Newsletter;


                                                                                                     Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •     Enhancing our philanthropic activities through the support of our Chemistry Development
       Manager, who has catalysed a six-fold increase in annual philanthropic income, with over £2M
       being received since 2017 (funding equipment, studentships, and the endowment of a
       statutory chair). Philanthropy will be a focus of activity during the next REF (see O1 and O5).


 3.2     Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The AHoD(R) and CRC provide a strategic focus for considering new funding initiatives (e.g., for
 equipment), promoting support for researchers, particularly at early career stages (2.3.2), and
 developing initiatives to support the SRFs (3.3.2). The theme coordinators also help identify
 funding opportunities. As a result, we have invested significantly in the underrepresented area of
 Materials Chemistry (two academic appointments, one a newly-created post), and strengthened
 capability in Theoretical & Computational Chemistry (making academic appointments in
 Computational Organic Chemistry, Computational Inorganic Materials, and Electronic Structure
 Theory).

 Co-location of researchers to reflect our research themes is increasingly a priority. Such
 clustering of activity is illustrated by the co-location of researchers involved in the EPSRC
 Programme Grant, REDOX (PI: Conway), and in the new interdisciplinary Kavli INSD (Director:
 Robinson; see 4.5.1).

 Our Chemistry Research Facilitation and Grants teams also provide support for research and
 impact. They work closely with Divisional teams to develop interactions with funding agencies and
 industry.

 3.3     Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research

 3.3.1    Buildings
 Research is currently located in three main buildings, with 65% of staff housed in our modern
 Chemistry Research Laboratory (CRL). Over the next REF, a key objective is to develop and
 bring forward proposals for a new research laboratory to replace the other two ageing laboratory
 buildings (see Objective O6).

 During the period, we invested over £2.5M in laboratory refurbishments. This includes newly-
 purposed space for biological NMR (Baldwin), new MS facilities (Robinson), an interferometric
 scattering microscopy (iSCAT) facility (Kukura), a new diffractometer (Goodwin), an ultracold
 chemistry laboratory (Heazlewood), a soft condensed matter laboratory (Krishnan), a mass
 selective ion deposition laboratory (Rauschenbach), inorganic synthesis facilities (Williams,
 Edwards), and new imaging MS and femtosecond dynamics laboratories (Burt, Brouard,
 Mackenzie, Vallance). A new facility for high performance computing has also been created.


 3.3.2    Instrument and workshop facilities
 Our instrument and workshop SRFs provide vital elements of research infrastructure. The
 instrument SRFs include dedicated facilities for MS, NMR, electron spin resonance (ESR),
 chemical crystallography and magnetometry, and surface analysis; whilst the workshop SRFs
 include the glassblowing, mechanical, and electronics facilities.

 A key objective has been to increase the level of SRF costs recovered from external grants with
 a view to improving their long-term financial sustainability. This has increased more than three-

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fold during the REF period to ~£600k in 2019/20. Paid work for external users (totalling >£800k
 over the period) has also been undertaken by the SRFs where capacity has allowed (3.3.8).

 3.3.3   Specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 In addition to the SRFs, we host a radiochemistry laboratory (Gouverneur), which provides
 labeled radiopharmaceuticals for Positron Emission Tomography scanning research. We also
 host some of the most sophisticated MS facilities worldwide, including a new mass photometry
 facility (Kukura). We have substantial Chemical Biology facilities, which have supported the
 fundamental research leading to two of our ICs.

 3.3.4   Equipment investment
 During the REF period, we have invested nearly £18M in equipment. This includes >£4.6M spent
 on cutting-edge instrumentation costing >£50k, essential for the SRFs, funded primarily from
 UKRI and EU sources (£2.2M), Wellcome (£1M), and institutional co-investment (£1.3M). A
 significant fraction was for core and advanced NMR, magnetometry, diffractometry, and MS
 equipment, in the latter case to establish high-sensitivity IC-MS methods (£1.6M), and to
 enhance bioscience research (£1.2M). Our researchers and SRF leads work closely with
 instrument manufacturers not only to get good value, but also to develop novel instrumentation,
 as reflected in four of our ICs.

 Through the work of the Development team, we have received ~£350k in donations for research
 equipment, including £120k to support ECFs and new APs.

 3.3.5   Technical and support staff
 Having a strong team supporting our core activities is critical, and recruitment and retention of
 staff is essential. Of our 35 technical staff, the instrument SRFs have seven senior staff (Grade 8
 or above, including five SRF managers), and seven technical staff (Grade 7 or below). Four
 senior instrument SRF staff have received AP or full professor title in the REF period (Cooper,
 McCullagh, Claridge, Mohammed).

 Seven technicians are employed in each of our mechanical and electronics workshops. We
 recently employed an apprentice in the latter and plan to recruit one also in the mechanical
 workshop. The work of our technical staff is recognised both internally and externally. Two
 workshop staff received Honorary MAs in the period. Our glassblower (Adams) was profiled
 nationally in both Chemistry World and The Guardian, raising awareness of issues around
 training, recruiting, and retaining qualified scientific glassblowers. She was also invited to the
 House of Lords in 2017 to an event highlighting the importance of science technicians.


 3.3.6   IT support
 Our IT is maintained by eight staff. In addition to providing day-to-day support, they also lead on
 special initiatives, such as introducing electronic lab books and electronic sign-on for the SRFs.
 The team leads in providing data storage and automated backups, and also supports our high-
 performance computing (HPC) facilities, including clusters, workstations, and software. The
 clusters, used particularly by our theoreticians, provide for both serial and parallel computing, as
 well as massive memory systems, and are housed in a new purpose-built cooled server room
 (costing £180k). This service complements the HPC provided by the University, such as the
 Advanced Research Computing service.


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3.7    ED&I related to access to funding and infrastructure
 In support of ED&I initiatives (2.5), the Facilitation team mentors ECRs in applying for independent
 fellowships: the gender balance of our ECFs on the census date (over 40% female) suggests that
 this investment in support has been effective. We have a buyout scheme for PAS requiring time to
 apply for major grants, including those requiring extra support, e.g., due to caring responsibilities.
 Typically, around 20 colleagues have buyout arrangements at any one time. We have also strived
 to ensure that our main decision-making committees (e.g., on space allocation) have a diverse
 representation in terms of career stage, gender, etc..

 3.3.8    Use of infrastructure, facilities, and expertise for impact
 Our interactions with industry are often initiated though the external work undertaken within our
 SRFs (3.3.2). For example, links with UCB Celltech were catalysed through the work undertaken
 in the EPR facility, leading to three publications and around £800k in total funding. ECRs from
 UCB have also been co-located with researchers in the CRL. Interactions with SCG (one of our
 ICs) have also been enhanced through the access we provide to our SRFs, and the laboratory
 space made available to SCG on a commercial basis at the University Begbroke Science Park.

 Access to novel instrumentation is often an initial driver for impact activities, as exemplified by
 the Mass Photometry IC, in which early access to prototype instrumentation was provided in the
 Kukura group, leading to the spinout of the company Refeyn.

 3.3.9    Shared infrastructure
 We make significant use of shared UKRI-supported facilities, such as Diamond, ISIS, and the
 Lasers for Science Facility, with associated average annual UKRI income-in-kind of >£1.8M in the
 REF period. For example, the UKRI Catalysis Hub (Williams, Davis, Aldridge, Vincent), which
 brings together 27 UK HEIs and industry, involves shared labs (Research Complex at Harwell)
 and beamtime. We also make use of UKRI co-funded facilities located outside the UK, including
 the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility and the Institute Laue Langevin.

 Staff from other UK HEIs often make use of our unique facilities, including in MS, ESR, and NMR.
 Developing links with the RFI and FI (4.1.2) offers further opportunities for sharing infrastructure,
 with the former particularly in MS and MS imaging.

 3.3.10 Major benefits-in-kind
 During the REF, companies have supplied in-kind equipment support equivalent to over £1.1M,
 e.g., from OMass (£150k to support MS as a platform for drug discovery), and the SR Thermo
 Fisher commercial venture (£715k Orbitrap MS as part of a collaboration to develop
 metabolomics technologies). There have also been significant donations of equipment in the
 CTL analytical suite (£160k).

 3.4     Non-UKRI infrastructure and facilities

 We make considerable use of non-UKRI funded facilities, totalling well over ~125 days, including
 FLASH (DESY, Hamburg), SACLA (Free Electron Laser (FEL), Japan), SLAC National
 Accelerator Laboratory (Stanford University, USA), the FHI FEL Facility (Max Planck, Germany),
 ANSTO (Australia), KOALA (Laue neutron diffractometer), SNS ORNL, and FERMI (FEL
 Radiation for Multidisciplinary Investigations, Italy).



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1     Collaborations

 4.1.1    Support for collaboration
 Collaborations are supported by joint appointments, secondments, and sabbatical leave (2.3.3
 and 2.3.4). We have three joint academic appointments with other Oxford departments,
 Oncology (Brown), Pharmacology (Russell), and Biochemistry (Mohammed), and externally with
 the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source (David). Joint appointment (B Davis) and secondment
 (Mohammed) arrangements with the RFI further enhance interactions with the Harwell Campus.

 Collaborations are facilitated by networking activities established with Departmental or
 institutional seed funding: these bring together researchers from multiple departments, and
 sometimes external partners. We lead or participate in the ChemBioPlants hub, Comp Chem
 Kitchen (4.2), and the Oxford Energy and Oxford Photonics networks. The latter forged a
 collaboration between Chemistry (Vallance) and Materials (J Smith) resulting in the formation of
 the spinout Oxford HighQ, winner of the Institute of Physics Business Start-Up Award (2020).

 We support collaboration by hosting ~100 visitors at any one time, including those on external
 schemes such as Newton International Fellowships (11 during the REF). Student visitors on the
 Erasmus scheme and other exchange programmes provide a vibrant community of international
 researchers.

 Our collaborations with industry are supported by the SRFs providing analytical services (3.3.8),
 partnering in doctoral training (2.4), and facilitating joint research initiatives, licencing
 agreements, and consultancies. We also encourage and support applications for BBSRC and
 EPSRC IAA and other translational funds (3.1.3). We showcase our industrial partnerships
 through an electronic Industry Newsletter, published twice yearly and circulated to nearly 200
 subscribers.

 Three PAS participate in the multidisciplinary Oxford Suzhou Centre for Advanced Research
 (OSCAR), based in Suzhou, China. This aims to enhance collaboration with Chinese industry
 and research institutions. Our OSCAR chemists have recently patented a surface modification
 technology which imparts antibacterial, antiviral, and antifungal activity. The first Chinese spinout
 company, OSCoat, is being created to commercialise application to personal protective
 equipment and commercial collaboration is planned for the scale-up phase.


 4.1.2    Effectiveness of research collaborations
 In the REF period, 2,540 (66%) of our papers included co-authors from outside Chemistry and
 43% had international co-authors. The vibrancy of our collaborations with the wider University is
 demonstrated by our joint publications (480; 13%) and joint funding (totalling nearly £48M), with
 links to the Medical Sciences (£35M) and MPLS (£12M) departments being particularly strong.

 We are involved in several collaborative EPSRC programme grants. Conway leads a grant in
 REDOX chemistry (with partners from Oxford Oncology, CRUK/MRC, and KCL). Oxford
 chemists have also been co-investigators on four programme grants led by another Oxford
 department (e.g., Materials, Physics) or another HEI (including by Bristol (£2.4M to Oxford) and
 by Heriot Watt (£2.5M to Oxford), both with Brouard, Vallance, and Mackenzie).


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We contribute to several multi-institutional initiatives. In addition to the UKRI Catalysis Hub
 (3.3.9), we also have close ties with the FI on battery research: Williams is involved with
 SOLBAT (led by Bruce, Oxford Materials); Clarke, Hayward and Goodwin are co-investigators
 on FutureCat (led by Sheffield, with around £1.4M to Oxford); David, through his joint
 appointment with STFC, is involved in NexGENNA. We are partners in research themes of the
 RFI, including Next Generation Chemistry (B Davis, Mohammed), and Biological MS (Benesch,
 Brouard, Burt, McCullagh, Rauschenbach, Robinson, Vallance).

 The effectiveness of our industrial collaborations is illustrated by our PGR training programmes
 (2.4), with which companies actively engage and benefit from the research our students
 undertake. Our industry partners are also keen to recruit our qualified PGRs once they complete:
 e.g., over half of those SBM CDT students who have thus far completed (42 in total) have taken
 up positions in the pharmaceutical industry.

 Specific examples of our successful collaborations with industry include:
 •     Siemens & Tsang, developing new catalysts for a green ammonia process powered by
       renewable energy, and establishing the world’s first such pilot plant (with colleagues at STFC
       and Cardiff, supported by the MPLS IRP Team);
 •     SCG & O’Hare, supporting the SCG-Oxford CoE, which has generated ~70 publications
       during the REF, over £15.7M investment by SCG in the UK, licensing to SCG of four Oxford-
       developed technologies, granting of 37 patents, and the award of the RSC Industry-
       Academia Collaboration Award (2019);
 •     Unilever & Williams, collaborating on testing new polymers, i.e. making, testing and
       understanding the performance benefits of sustainable and degradable polymers in
       formulations and products;
 •     UCB BioPharma & Schofield, Dixon, Willis, Smith and Paton, a collaboration arising from
       links with the SMB CDT which led to the discovery of new late-stage functionalisation
       methods to modify drug-like molecules, e.g., Linezolid, an antibiotic used to treat bacterial
       pneumonia;
 •     Waters Corporation & Benesch, developing next-generation labelling methods for MS
       instrumentation to elucidate the structure of proteins and their interactions, particularly with
       respect to biotherapeutics and drug-discovery.


 4.2     Interaction and engagement with research users, beneficiaries, or audiences

 We promote interaction and engagement with research users through PGR training (2.4), research
 conferences, industry-sponsored symposia/prize events, and academic involvement on company
 boards and advisory roles. We hold research grants and contracts with industry and provide
 analytical services to our partners. We also support sabbatical leave and secondment
 arrangements to enable such collaborations (2.3.3 and 2.3.4).

 We regularly host visiting professorships, including Vipul Patel (Head of Flexible Discovery Unit,
 GSK), Ian Churcher (GSK), Malcolm MacCoss (facilitating links with UCB), Allen Orville (UK XFEL
 Hub leader, Diamond), Henrik Mouritsen, (Universitat Oldenburg, collaborator on Synergy Grant),
 Jeffery Penfold (ISIS:STFC collaboration), Vernon Gibson (President’s Envoy, mperial College



                                                                                                  Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 London), Tadhg Begley (Texas A&M University; Newton Abraham visiting professor), and the
 annual Hinshelwood visiting lectureship (e.g., Joanna Aizenberg, Harvard (2016/17)).

 51 of our 88 Category A staff were directly involved with commercial activities and consultancy.
 Over 20% of our annual research income is generated from industrially sponsored research and
 these interactions have led to >270 joint papers (7%) with industrial co-authors in the REF
 period. In addition, we engage with research users and beneficiaries by:
 •     Advising industry, e.g., Schofield (Member, Syngenta scientific advisory board), Goicoechea
       (consultant to BASF), Dixon and Smith (scientific advisory board for Avra, India), and Compton
       (Senova advisory board);
 •     Enhancing the performance of our spinouts through new research (see 1.3.2, activity I3),
       e.g., reinvestment of over £2M by ONT in Bayley’s research to advance DN sequencing;
 •     Hosting 29 industrial funded studentships from 19 different companies totalling £5.4M,
       providing both research support and potential future employees (2.4);
 •     Co-organizing and hosting a series of public computational chemistry meetings, Comp Chem
       Kitchen, encouraging engagement with industry which has resulted in new partnerships and
       iCASE studentships (with Vertex and Evotec).


 4.3     Wider activities and contributions to the economy and society

 We created 11 spinout companies in the period (cf. three in the last REF period). As of July
 2020, University investments in the 21 active spinouts from Chemistry were valued at £20.1M.
 Investments in ONT (1.3.3) alone were valued in Jan 2020 at £12M, with ONT itself valued at
 £1.7Bn. In the REF period, our active spinouts (including those incorporated before the REF
 period) have secured well over £650M in follow-on funding; and during 2019/20 they employed
 >700 people and generated a combined turnover of ~£57M.

 Further evidence of our wider activities and contributions to the economy include:
 •     Filing 453 patent applications (205 granted to date), with a further 335 PCT and Priority
       filings, a significant increase in total on the previous REF;
 •     Completing 170 consultancies, 75 commercial deals (generating around £150k per annum),
       and a further 44 assignments (of IP and other entities);
 •     Supporting industry through R&D, with >180 industrially funded projects involving >60
       different companies, with REF period research income totalling £37M.

 Our fundamental research frequently impacts on wider society, particularly in the medical arena,
 from Bayley's development of the first synthetic retina to Farrer's work on less invasive
 treatments for paediatric brain cancer. Other examples include:
 •     J Davis – developing diagnostics and protocols to assay disease biomarkers, leading to the
       spinout company Osler (2016) producing a universal healthcare diagnostic;
 •     Wong – developing new environmentally sustainable methods of producing grapefruit
       flavouring, brought to market in 2018 by spinout Oxford Biotrans, and being used by two top
       flavour and fragrance companies;
 •     Edwards – 2017 spinout Oxford Sustainable Fuels transforming plastic waste into
       transportation fuels, providing a viable route to utilise waste previously left for incineration or
       landfill.

                                                                                                   Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have also influenced society by advising external bodies, for example:
 •     Influencing Government, e.g., Schofield (Scientific review of DSTL and MoD through the
       Defence Scientific Expert Committee), Williams (partner, World Economic Forum, Global
       Plastic Action Partnership; participant in HM Treasury's Plastics Call for Evidence);
 •     Serving as expert witnesses, e.g., Donohoe, Brown, Adlington, Schofield (patent revocations
       and disputes), and ldridge (advisor to the UK Government’s Environment gency on
       chemical contamination);
 •     Presenting to policy makers, e.g., Vincent and Reeve (exhibited at the EPSRC Science for a
       Successful Nation Showcase), and Williams (co-authored three RS policy briefings, including
       Synthetic carbon-based fuels for transport; led the CS3 Symposium and white paper on
       Science to Enable Sustainable Plastics; attended the RS Lord Prior Discussion on The UK
       Industrial Strategy; and presented to Parliament on the Plastic Waste Challenge, engaging
       with ~50 attendees including MPs, industry, and NGOs).


 4.4     Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 We engage with the wider community through social media. Our Twitter feed has ~18,000
 followers, and frequently engages with science journalists, researchers, and the general public.
 We host a popular Facebook page with over 5,000 followers, and our website typically receives
 7,000-12,000 visitors per day.

 Our Alumni Relations and Communications Manager and Educational Outreach Officer promote
 our research to external audiences and support PER activities. We publish an annual magazine,
 Periodic, circulated to around 8,000 alumni and publicly available through our website, which
 highlights our research. Amongst other activities, our Educational Outreach Officer promotes our
 research to those of school age (e.g., the Electrochemical Sensors IC), typically making around
 30 schools visits per year, and hosting visits of both teachers and pupils to our laboratories.

 We support PER through training, and by providing opportunities to participate in PER events at
 local and national levels. A PER committee with an academic lead (Cooper), reporting to CRC,
 develops our PER strategy, and supports initiatives such as awarding two £2K bursaries
 annually (to fund projects to develop activities) and establishing a science communication
 training event for students to produce PER infographics. We work closely with the MPLS Division
 through its PER facilitator, with over 80 Chemistry staff/students attending MPLS training sessions.

 We have contributed to multiple PER initiatives including:
 •     Held exhibitions at the Oxford University Museum of Natural History, e.g., Bacterial World
       (Flashman) and Biosense (Schofield), which were seen by 175,000 and 245,000 visitors,
       respectively; and Museum of the History of Science, e.g., Back from the Dead (Schofield);
 •     Participated in public engagement events, e.g., Oxford Open Doors (annually) with themes
       including Chemistry for a Sustainable Future, Cardiac Chemistry, and Chemistry for Cancer
       Research, in total attracting nearly 400 participants; Crystallography Ideas Cafe at
       Cheltenham Science Festival (2015), involving a panel discussion with 30 members of the
       public; and Curiosity Carnival (Reeve), part of European Researchers’ Night (201 );
 •     Engaged with the media, e.g., BBC radio’s The Life Scientific and Woman’s Hour (Robinson,
       2014);


                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •     PER seed-funded projects, e.g., Reeve (concerning HydRegen) was awarded an MPLS-BSA
       Media Fellowship to spend a week at The Mirror;
 •     Production of video animations (e.g., Shedding Light on the Situation (Heazlewood) and
       What can Chemists learn from Nature? (Vincent)) and podcasts (e.g., Robert Robinson's
       Chemical Box, Learning from Nature (Vincent), How do you turn plastic in to fuel? (Edwards),
       How garlicky is your garlic? (Compton), and The Fastest Camera in the World (Vallance and
       Brouard)) via the Oxford Sparks online science engagement portal;
 •     Involvement in International Year of Crystallography (2014), e.g., the Crystals at the Garden
       exhibition at the Oxford Botanic Garden, involving eight Oxford Chemistry research groups,
       which was subsequently included in a public exhibition in Toronto during an international
       crystallography congress.

 Many such activities involve or are led by female chemists, who thereby act as excellent role
 models for women considering studying or working in science.

 4.5     Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by training MChem and PGR students and
 ECRs. We help shape national policy, e.g., through roles in the RSC, including the presidencies of
 the RSC (Robinson), and its divisions (Conway, Vallance, Brown, B Davis), and the Heads of
 Chemistry UK (Softley, Brouard) and its standing committee (Brouard). We participate in advisory
 boards and on UKRI colleges and prioritization panels (EPSRC, STFC, ERC). Colleagues are
 frequently asked to give invited lectures and seminars, and actively participate in journal reviewing
 and editing (4.6).

 4.5.1    Support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research
 We support interdisciplinary research through our collaborations across the University and with
 external partners. These are enabled by our involvement in multidisciplinary networking initiatives
 and joint appointments (4.1), and cross-departmental/divisional CDTs (2.4).

 Links with other Oxford departments are strengthened by roles on advisory boards (e.g.,
 Robinson as scientific advisory board member for Oxford Biochemistry), joint academic
 appointments, and jointly-funded projects. Collaborations with colleagues in the Medical Sciences
 Division alone have generated over 350 papers (9%) during the REF period. We have strong
 links with the Target Discovery Institute through Huber and Brennan (both returned within UoA8),
 who are PAS in the Nuffield Department of Medicine. They are frequent collaborators with
 Chemistry (e.g., Kawamura, Flashman, Schofield, Dixon, M Smith, and Conway) in a range of
 fields including hypoxia, epigenetics, and cancer research.

 In the period, we published more than 650 papers (17%) with members of other national and
 international facilities and institutes, including over 250 with UK research facilities such as ISIS and
 Diamond. Our industrial partnerships provide additional impetus for cross-disciplinary research.

 Further support for and examples of interdisciplinary research include:
 •     Training PGRs through our CDTs and other programmes (2.4), e.g., the WTCIC CDT (joint
       with Oxford Pharmacology, the Francis Crick Institute, the RFI, GSK, Janssen and Merck,
       Sharp & Dohme UK), the OxICFM CDT (with over 40 academics from across MPLS, eight



                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       industrial partners, two national facilities, and 17 international institutions), and our EU ITNs
       (e.g., DiSTRUC, with partners in Physics and elsewhere);
 •     Collaborative work involving multi-disciplinary teams, e.g., Williams and Imperial College
       London teams working with Shell to deliver catalysts transforming CO2 to dense energy
       carriers, like methanol;
 •     Jointly-funded projects and collaborations, e.g., Flashman (with Plant Sciences), Kawamura
       (Oncology), Schofield (Medical Sciences Division, XFEL Hub at Diamond), Conway (King’s
       College London), and Brouard, Vallance and Mackenzie (Bristol and, separately, Heriot Watt);
 •     Leadership of interdisciplinary initiatives such as Robinson’s directorship of the new Kavli
       INSD; involvement in the FI (Clarke, Hayward, Goodwin, Williams, David), and the RFI (B
       Davis, Mohammed);
 •     Nominations for awards and prizes (4.6), e.g., Schofield (RSC Interdisciplinary Prize for work
       on the activity and resistance to antibiotics).


 4.5.2     Responsiveness to national/international priorities
 We have responded to national/international priorities, including addressing the recent challenge
 of the COVID-19 pandemic, e.g.:
 •     Circular economy, a growth departmental activity in the REF period, e.g., Williams (sustainable
       routes to new polymers), Edwards (plastic waste to fuels);
 •     Energy security/sustainability, e.g., Tsang (catalysts to generate new energy vectors), David,
       Clarke, Hayward, Goodwin, Williams (novel battery technology), Compton (Oxford Martin
       Programme on Monitoring Ocean Ecosystems);
 •     Strong economy/manufacturing, e.g., EPSRC OxICFM CDT – providing doctoral training to
       increase capacity and capability in future manufacturing and materials (2.4);
 •     Food security, e.g., Flashman (plant oxygen-sensing enzymes and the molecular response to
       flooding, supported by €1.9M ERC Consolidator grant); B Davis (with Rothamsted Research, a
       chemical yield enhancer based on a natural sugar);
 •     COVID-19 response activity, including grants totalling over £1.1M (from UKRI, University and
       other sources) supporting six research groups during the first wave of the pandemic.
       Colleagues also served on NHS COVID-19 working groups (Brown - Manufacturing Industry
       Coalition and the Molecular Diagnostics Consortium) and collaborated in clinical trials
       (McCullagh, with partners in Oxford and Edinburgh).


 4.6     Wider influence, contributions, and recognition

 4.6.1     Wider contributions to the research base
 We contribute to the research base through training highly skilled PGRs, ECRs, and visitors.
 They contribute directly to research whilst in the Department, and many continue to do so after
 they leave (4.1.2).

 We further contribute to the research base by:
 •     Disseminating research through publication (>3,800 papers during the period, receiving on
       average 20+ citations per paper), and presenting plenary lectures, invited talks, and research



                                                                                                    Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     seminars, with over 1,000 invited lectures, and over 50 visiting professorships and lectureships
     in the REF period;
 •   Engaging in peer review activities for journals;
 •   Serving on UKRI colleges and panels, e.g., more than 25 academics serve on the EPSRC
     College and regularly participate on prioritization panels;
 •   Participating on grants committees, e.g., Perkin (RS panel member for Newton International
     Fellowships); Compton (ERC Starting, Consolidator and Advanced Grant panels); and
     Timmel (Foreign member of German Research Foundation Priority Programme – EPR).

 We make wider contributions to research by influencing research policy, e.g.:
 •   Serving on UKRI strategic advisory teams and panels, including Williams (EPSRC
     Manufacturing the Future SAT), Brouard (STFC EPSAP), and Brown (BBSRC Exploring new
     ways of working SAP);
 •   Supporting the RSC, e.g., President (Robinson), Divisional Presidents (Vallance, Conway,
     Brown, B Davis), and Council membership (Brown);
 •   Supporting external institutions and facilities, e.g., Clary (chair, review committee of the Max
     Planck Institute, Heidelberg), Compton (scientific advisory board, Centre for
     Spectroelectrochemistry, Leibniz Institute, Dresden), and Kukura (international advisory
     board, J. Heyrovsky Institute, Prague);
 •   Supporting learned societies, e.g., Robinson (council member, Royal Society), Hore
     (chairman, International Spin Chemistry Committee), and Benesch (chair, Molecular
     Biophysics subgroup of the Biophysical Society, Los Angeles);
 •   Advising/supporting major research collaborations, such as the UKRI Catalysis Hub, e.g.,
     Williams (Steering Group and Management Group Member) and Weller (Steering Group);
 •   Supporting other societies and charities, including Robinson (chair, L’Oreal Women in
     Science Programme; advisory board, Royal National Children’s SpringBoard Foundation; and
     board of directors, the Vallee Foundation), Goodwin (advisory panel, Leverhulme Trust),
     Schofield (advisor to Cancer Research Technology; CRUK Multidisciplinary Committee
     member), and Moloney and Schofield (scientific advisory board, Antibiotic Research UK).


 4.6.2   Recognition by the research base
 Our staff have received numerous accolades for their achievements in the REF period, including
 an impressive 38 awards and prizes from the RSC – including the Tilden Prize (twice), the
 Norman Heatley Award (twice), the Interdisciplinary Prize (twice), the Corday-Morgan Prize
 (twice), and the Harrison-Meldola Memorial Prize (twice). Six colleagues were elected as
 Fellows of the Royal Society. Dame Carol Robinson, FRS, was elected President of the RSC for
 2018-20, and [Sir] David Clary, FRS, was knighted in 2016 for services to international science.
 We are typically ranked as one of the top departments worldwide (6th in 2018, 2019, and 2020
 QS Chemistry Rankings).


 Below we give examples of how staff have been acknowledged for their wider influence during
 the REF period, and their contributions to and recognition by the research base:
 •   Around 25 journal editorships/associate editorships, including Clarke (associate editor,
     Journal of Solid State Chemistry), Clary (editor, Chemical Physics Letters), Manolopoulos
     (deputy editor, Journal of Chemical Physics), Brown (editor-in-chief, RSC Book Series on

                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Chemical Biology), Conway (associate editor, Journal of Medicinal Chemistry) and B Davis
     (senior editor, ACS Central Science);
 •   Editorial Board membership of over 70 journals, including Hore, Timmel, and Mackenzie
     (editorial board, Molecular Physics), Robinson (international advisory board, Angewandte
     Chemie), Compton (editorial board, Science) and McCullagh (editorial board, Nature
     Scientific Reports);
 •   Award of Fellowships, including six FRS (Gouverneur, David, B Davis, H Anderson,
     Schofield, and McCulloch (taking the total to 12 current staff)), Clary (elected Einstein
     Professor of Chinese Academy of Sciences), B Davis (fellow, Academy of Medical Sciences),
     and Robinson (foreign associate, US National Academy of Sciences).
 •   Award of prizes: including 38 RSC prizes, three RS medals or awards, inaugural awards of
     the Blavatnik Chemistry Laureate (2018 and 2019) and a Blavatnik Chemistry finalist (2018),
     two ACS awards, two BBSRC Innovator awards (including Brown, Commercial Innovator
     2016), one European Academy of Sciences medal, and one Leverhulme Prize;
 •   Receipt of Women in Science awards, e.g., Robinson (IUPAC Distinguished Women in
     Chemistry or Chemical Engineering, 2019), Farrer (L’Oréal–UNESCO Women in Science
     Fellowship, 201 ), Robinson (L’Oréal–UNESCO Women in Science European Laureate,
     2015);
 •   Award of honorary degrees, e.g., Robinson (six honorary degrees/doctorates including from
     Aarhus, Ben-Gurion, and Southern Denmark), Davies (Salamanca), Beer (Murcia), and
     Compton (Xiangtan);
 •   Award of honorary fellowships/membership, e.g., Edwards (American Academy of Arts and
     Sciences), Robinson (RSC, and the British Biophysical Society), and Bayley (British
     Biophysical Society);
 •   Award of visiting professorships, around 25 in total, including at New South Wales, Australia
     (Goodwin), Sapienza, Rome (Kukura), Indian Institute of Technology (Schofield), JILA/NIST
     Boulder (Mackenzie), and Kyoto and Perugia (Dixon);
 •   PGR students and ECRs have received >100 prizes for poster and oral conference
     presentations, etc., including the Springer Thesis Prize (2).




                                                                                           Page 28
