Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Brighton
Unit of Assessment: UoA12 – Engineering
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and structure
Driven by our vision to be recognised as a foremost academic partner for internationally leading
companies from the transport, energy and construction sectors, UoA12 has more than doubled its
staff, income, outputs and postgraduate researchers (PGRs) since 2014. By addressing the
mobility and clean growth Grand Challenges through rigorous science and applied innovation, we
have improved the energy efficiency of vehicles and buildings and delivered cleaner air in cities.
Our distinctive approach is to closely integrate in-house theoretical physics and numerical
simulation with advanced experiments.

Since 2014 we have strategically recruited high-calibre scientists, moved our laboratories into a
new £14m building, invested £3m in our instruments and infrastructure, and restructured our
research community to nurture interdisciplinary collaborations. These investments have
underpinned significant growth in quality and volume of research, enabled our teams to join major
international consortia and secure leadership roles that define research priorities across the
transport sector.

The research of our 29 staff (including 5 Professors, 6 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)) and
PGRs (40 FTE completed + 36 current) spans two thematic areas:
  •   Applied Thermal Fluids: multiphase flows; heat and mass transfer; optical diagnostic
      techniques; reacting flows; theoretical models and numerical simulation
  •   Structures and Construction: materials; structural dynamics; soil-structure interaction;
      earthquake engineering; energy efficiency; construction and project management
UoA12 has evolved significantly since 2014, with the boundaries of our research growing beyond
its automotive engineering roots: the Vetronics Research Centre moved to Coventry University,
and in 2015 the Centre for Automotive Engineering was relaunched as the Advanced Engineering
Centre (AEC) to emphasise the broadening of our capabilities and growth of our research base.
Our researchers belong to two Schools: CEM (Computing, Engineering and Mathematics, 20 FTE)
and SET (School of Environment and Technology, 9 FTE), which will merge in August 2021 to
bring together overlapping research structures and expertise.

Most UoA12 staff are affiliated to the AEC (26 out of 29 FTE), which is led by Marengo and
renowned for fundamental and applied research. Following a 25-year growth focused on building a
critical mass of expertise in heat transfer and fluid dynamics, the AEC has been collaborating with
Structures and Construction researchers who contribute to two newly-formed groups: Sustainability
and Resilience Engineering (SuRE) led by Cacciola and established in 2016 to develop
knowledge on the behaviour of new materials and structures; and Construction Engineering &
Management (ConEM) led by Alam and formed in 2015 to improve energy and resource efficiency
in construction. The AEC also has a history of supporting a niche experimental nuclear physics
team led by Bruce, who is networked with a larger consortium through sustained funding from
STFC consolidated grants with the University of Surrey since 2011.

1.2. Research and impact strategy
While our core mission has remained to deliver real-world energy-efficient technologies, since
2014 we have expanded our focus beyond vehicles and into thermal management, insulation
materials, energy recovery and storage. To achieve this, we significantly broadened our research
capability and capacity (from 8.5 to 29 FTE), whilst also increasing the quality of our research, as
evidenced by our Research Council income increasing more than fivefold compared to REF2014 to
exceed £4.2m.




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2.1. Delivering our strategic aims since REF2014
Our overarching ambition since 2014 has been to continue dominating a specialised research
market with high potential for academic, economic and societal gains. Our leadership role in novel
low-carbon internal combustion systems has been further consolidated through the award of
agenda-setting positions at the Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) and the UnICEG (Universities’
Internal Combustion Engines Group), described in Section 4.

The vitality of our research
environment has enabled us to                   E            E
make strategic appointments of
research leaders (Marengo) and
talented ECRs (Georgoulas,
Magaletti, Rybdylova,
Vogiatzaki, Zaripov) to rejuvenate
our Unit (17% are Professors
compared to 33% in REF2014) and
more than doubling our income
within the census period (from £6m
to £13.3m). This acceleration
stems from large investments in
support and funding for our teams
and infrastructure, including a new
                                               otal        ournal        E        PG s
Advanced Engineering Building in
                                           income ( m) articles   E submitted   completed
2018 that forms our innovation hub
for collaboration between                  Figure 1. Comparison of REF2014 and REF2021
researchers, students and
business partners.

This rapid growth (Figure 1) has enabled our teams to significantly exceed the ambitious goals
they had set for this census period. We attribute this success to the nurturing and retention of
talented researchers, and a vibrant environment that promotes academic excellence.

Evaluating our performance against the research goals set in REF2014:

RG1 Design efficient and clean combustion systems: We led the £3m EPSRC-funded Ultra
Efficient Engines and Fuels consortium (EP/M009424/1), in collaboration with 10 industrial and
academic partners. Morgan’s research on the split cycle combustion engine delivered a world
leading 60% brake thermal efficiency. This proof of concept we co-delivered with global
engineering consultant Ricardo plc generated a new spin-out company (Dolphin N2) in 2018, and
£6m of further funding from Innovate UK and APC (STEPCO2). The global Fiat Powertrain
Technologies group acquired Dolphin N2 in 2019 to take the engine concept to commercialisation.
This major progress towards next-generation powertrain systems is detailed in our Impact Case
Study [ICS_Ricardo]. We delivered cleaner biofuels (Saeed), and partnered with the global oil
company bp to identify mechanisms that lead to fuel films on injector nozzles as potential
foundations for the growth of deposits (Crua). By removing harmful deposits, bp fuels now help
engines maintain optimal performance and increase fuel economy across the light and heavy-duty
transport sectors [ICS_bp].

RG2 Nurture close collaborations with industry and government to manage and exploit
impact: The AEC was selected as one of six national Spokes for the APC, a £1bn venture founded
in 2013 between UK Government and the automotive industry to develop low emission powertrain
technologies, reinforcing our position as a recognised leader in propulsion. As the Spoke for
Thermal Propulsion System Thermal Efficiency, we encourage and nurture cross-sector
collaborations to keep the UK at the forefront of low-carbon high-efficiency engine research and
development. We have strengthened our capability to build industrial partnerships by recruiting
high-calibre researchers from Ricardo (Atkins) and Highview Power (Morgan); developed new
standards with BSI to support remanufacturing in the UK and China (Wang); and co-established a

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research impact accelerator hub with Ricardo. This Impact Factory investigates long-term
disruptive technologies, hosting icardo’s Global echnical Lead (Professor Andrew Atkins) within
our laboratories.

RG3 Increase interdisciplinary research: We collaborate with biomedical and clinical scientists
from UoA3, applying expertise in fluid dynamics and energy efficiency to produce new knowledge
in the cross-themes of pharmaceutical sprays (Rybdylova’s UK I ellowship; PhD co-supervised
by Crua, Marengo; Royal Society grant - Rybdylova, Sazhin), 3D bioprinting (UKRI I3 award -
Marengo), biofluid dynamics (PhD co-supervised by Vogiatzaki and Brighton and Sussex Medical
School (BSMS) on tuberculosis and pulmonary airflow; PhD co-supervised by Crua on flow
optimisation in bioartificial organs), plasma-assisted chemical vapour deposition (KTP –
Rybdylova), manufacture of medical devices (KTP – Wang, Covill) and manufacturing data
analytics (Innovate UK grant – Wang).

RG4 Develop the leaders of tomorrow: Through targeted support and mentoring our ECRs
have secured prestigious fellowships and leadership roles, such as UKRI Future Leaders Fellow
Rybdylova, EPSRC-UKRI Innovation Fellow Vogiatzaki, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow
Magaletti, and Director of APC Spoke Atkins. Mid-career staff have been promoted to Professors
(Crua, Morgan) in recognition of their leadership of research consortia and influence on national
and international agendas.

RG5 Invest in infrastructure to enhance academic-industrial collaboration: We built a new
£14m Advanced Engineering Building in 2018, funded by the Coast to Capital Local Enterprise
Partnership and the Wolfson Foundation, in close partnership with our strategic partner Ricardo.
This building hosts 15 of our research laboratories along with dedicated machining workshops,
rapid prototyping and metrology instruments. It acts as an engineering hub to promote three-way
communication across industry, research and education, and hosts staff from Ricardo, which
provided engine test beds and equipment, and invested £940k in cash to develop our laboratories
over the census period.

1.2.2. Delivering our strategic impact aims since REF2014
Our strategy for achieving economic and societal impact centres on maintaining and building long-
term collaborations and strategic alliances with industrial partners and governmental bodies. In
2014 our impact goals were to:

IG1     Disseminate and publicise the impact of our research: New Research Leads engage
with the University Impact Manager and the central Research Services team to capture and
support impact across UoA12 and identify new areas for impact generation. The dissemination of
impact is led by AEC Deputy Director Atkins, former Head of Technology Strategy at Ricardo with
extensive industrial experience (13 years Ricardo; 4 years Jaguar Land Rover). This has increased
participation with industry and public-facing events, such as prize-winning contributions to the
Future Powertrain Conference by some of our PGRs, TV news features, and brought academics,
industry figures and environmentalists together (eg 2016 workshop co-organised with the APC and
EPSRC to discuss the future of combustion engines).

IG2     Increase engagement and generate links with new partners: We collaborate with more
than 160 groups from 50 countries, all evidenced by 400+ co-authored journal articles and >100
projects since 2014, in partnership with global corporations (eg EDF, Siemens, GA Drilling, Quaker
Houghton, Tullow Oil) and leading regional technology innovators (eg Bloc Digital, Ceres Power,
Highview Power). Since         we have taken a leadership role at the APC, created an ‘Impact
  actory’, launched an Engineering Doctorate programme, and led projects through Clean Growth
UK – the £3.5m University of Brighton (UoB)-led national innovation consortium of 1,800+ SMEs
(see REF5a). This has resulted in new collaborations such as with London EV Company (£44m
APC-funded programme to deliver zero-emission vehicles); Jaguar Land Rover, Daimler and
Bosch (€ . m Horizon          collaborative project to develop new gasoline engines); ED to
develop new seismic protections for nuclear plants; Tata Motors to research new heat pipe


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
technology to control the thermal loading of batteries in electric vehicles; Highview Power to
accelerate the commercialisation of liquid air energy storage [ICS_HighviewPower].

1.3. Research and impact strategy to 2026
Our ambition is to strengthen and expand our international influence in highly specialised research
areas that have strong potential for academic, economic and societal gains. Over the next five
years our strategic goals will be to:

SG1 Build interdisciplinarity: We will exploit complementary expertise in fluid dynamics,
materials, heat transfer, optics and mathematical modelling in growth areas: biofluid dynamics,
superinsulation materials, structural resilience, and digital manufacturing (KPI: to double
interdisciplinary collaborations, outputs and income).

SG2 Grow industry partnerships: We will use Brighton’s new innovation hubs from our
ongoing £85m campus redevelopment (see 3.2 and REF5a) as a platform to increase industry
collaborations (KPI: +50%), targeting and prioritising areas of strategic growth identified in SG1.
Structures and Construction will deepen relationships with key partners across industry and
academia to create a centre of excellence for digital construction.

SG3 Ensure vitality and sustainability by nurturing future leaders: We will increase our
PGR community (KPI: +30%) through targeted investments and training grant/network
applications, and exploit activities in SG2 to increase the number of PGR secondments to leading
industry and international laboratories. We will target investments and mentoring towards early and
mid-career staff to increase funded fellowships (KPI: +50%).

SG4 Strengthen our global reputation in highly specialised areas: We will invest Quality-
related Research (QR) funds in networking with international research leaders from prestigious
laboratories (KPI: double incoming/outgoing research exchanges). Applied Thermal Fluids will
grow UKRI grant income (KPI: +50%), focusing on areas with high potential for impact: energy
storage/recovery, cryogenics, and green manufacturing. We will seek opportunities to combine and
share facilities and expertise with other institutions in our two thematic areas through international
funding schemes.

1.4. Research ethics and integrity
Ethics and integrity are integrated within our processes to ensure that all researchers engage with
University-wide policies and ethics management systems (described in REF5a). Best practices for
research ethics are communicated through school-led training workshops for staff and PGRs,
which cover all research from undergraduate student projects to major research programmes.
Training in research integrity is compulsory for all PGRs, and part of the induction process for new
academic staff.

Our researchers have embraced open access (79% of all articles produced during this REF cycle
are open access), and UoA12 staff have produced more than 12% of all datasets deposited on
Brighton’s Open esearch Data repository. Data from our nuclear physics experiments are stored
at each host laboratory and are open to all members of the collaboration to analyse, thus
encouraging results and interpretations to be cross-checked before publication. We aim to go
beyond normal expectations for open science in our fields. For example, in 2014 we were the first
UK academics to join and contribute to the Engine Combustion Network (ECN) open initiative
founded by Sandia National Laboratories, where datasets, research methods and data processing
codes are shared freely online. We participate in ECN’s international meetings and collaborative
publications (eg Crua, Rybdylova, Sazhin, Vogiatzaki) where the issues of reproducibility of
measurements and simulations are openly discussed to actively eliminate errors in the ECN
members’ research methods. Participating in such open initiatives has significantly increased the
quality of our sprays and combustion research over the return period by enabling our PGRs and
academics to ‘debug’ their methods alongside world leaders in the field.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

Our ambition is to provide an inspiring and inclusive environment for staff and PGRs (Table 1),
where they can rapidly generate and transform novel ideas into applied solutions in close
partnership with industry leaders from the transport, energy and construction sectors.

    Table 1. Overview of UoA12 career grades, experience, and characteristics for this REF cycle

                                                     Headcount             % Cat. A
     Career grades
     Professors                                            5                  17%
     Emeritus Professors (Cat. B)                          1                   -
     Mid-career academics1                                16                  55%
     Early career academics2                               8                  28%
     Experience
     Principal Investigators                              15                  52%
     Co-Investigators                                     17                  59%
     Early-Career Researchers (REF                         6                  21%
     definition)
     PGRs (Completed, Active3, External4)             48, 36, 22
     Characteristics
     Gender balance (Female, Male)                                          28%, 72%
     Ethnicity (BAME, White)                                                28%, 72%
     Permanent employment contracts                        28                 97%
     Staff recruited                                       13                 45%
     Staff promoted                                        20                 69%
     1
       Readers, Principal Lecturers, Principal Research Fellows
     2
       Senior Lecturers, Lecturers, Research Fellows
     3
       PGRs active at submission
     4
       Completions at other universities with co-supervision by UoA12 staff

2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
Our recruitment plans during this assessment period (13 staff, at a steady rate of 2 FTE/year, 46%
women) have been targeted at: planning the succession of the AEC’s leadership, supporting our
impact strategy, improving our gender profile, and expanding our research capability.

Our succession plans delivered a smooth transition for the leadership of the AEC: Marengo
was appointed in 2014 and became Director of the AEC following the retirement of Heikal in 2019
(who now contributes as Emeritus Professor). The leadership of UoA12 is strengthened by 3
Professors (Crua, Morgan, Sazhin, combining 60+ years of research within UoA12) and 4
Readers (Begg, Cacciola, Piroozfar, Vogiatzaki).

We have supported our impact strategy by increasing capacity for building industrial
partnerships, with Atkins (former Head of Technology Strategy at Ricardo) joining our team with
Morgan (former Senior Manager, Ricardo, and Chief Technical Officer, Highview Power). We have
expanded our ability to respond to commercial research demands by funding dedicated technicians
using the AEC’s own investment account. We use this account to invest in projects with long-term
potential for impact through internal competitive schemes and to support, for example, bridging
PGR/ECR contracts, work with SMEs on spray cooling (Begg), expanding research capability in
energy harvesting and nano-refrigerants (Fenercioglu-Aydin, Panesar), and growing partnerships
with international universities (Georgoulas, Sazhin, Wang).

We have expanded capacity and capability by increasing staff numbers in experimental thermal
fluids (Atkins, Marengo) and computational fluid dynamics (Georgoulas, Magaletti, Vogiatzaki,
Zaripov, Zubkov), while building upon optical and numerical capabilities to expand into
aeronautics (Fenercioglu Aydin, Kwiek) and remanufacturing (Wang). We have grown capacity
                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in structure and materials (Tombari, Tsioulou) and the energy and environmental performance of
buildings (Alam).

University-wide processes promote fairness within UoA12: the University adheres to the
Concordat to Support the Development of esearchers, and in May                retained its ‘H
Excellence in esearch’ award following the eight-year review. The institutional workload allocation
model offers all staff 0.2 FTE pro rata for research and/or scholarly activity. Our researchers
benefit from long-term contracts by default, with only one Category-A staff being on a fixed-term
contract (employed on an Individual Fellowship).

Investment in the development of staff is evidenced by career progressions: 20 staff (69% of
UoA12) were promoted 23 times, including 7 to Senior Lecturers, 10 Principal Lecturers, 3
Readers, and 2 Professors. Contribution to research leadership is a key promotion criterion, with
impact engagement and delivery being essential for Professorship. The support we offer staff to
achieve this includes incoming/outgoing secondments with industry and academia, for example:
Morgan and Crua were seconded (1 day/ week) at Ricardo to plan joint research; Visiting
Professor Atkins participates in impact activities and planning (1 day/week); Heikal was seconded
for years to develop U P’s (Malaysia) research and impact strategy with Petronas.

2.2. Developing the research leaders of the future
By fostering a vibrant and supportive environment we have been able to attract new talented
academics and retain experienced staff (55% were employed before 2014). Examples of support
and successes include:

Crua, mentored by Heikal since joining Brighton as an undergraduate (1997), completed a PhD
(1999 – 2002) supervised by Heikal, Sazhin and Morgan (then employed at Ricardo) before being
recruited as postdoctoral Research Fellow (PDRF). Supported through a research-focused career
pathway under the mentorship of Visiting Professor Monaghan ( icardo’s echnology Director
1990 – 2000), he established new partnerships (eg bp in 2006, Sandia National Laboratories in
2014), securing £4.7m through industry contracts and 11 UKRI grants. Promoted to Reader (2014)
and Professor (2016) he is Research Lead for Engineering, Deputy Director of the AEC, has led
this REF submission to UoA12, and mentors researchers at all career stages.

Rybdylova (Principal Lecturer), UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, with a PhD from the Moscow
State University where she was awarded a Young Scientists Award, and mentored by Sazhin
since joining Brighton as a PDRF (2013), Rybdylova simulated droplet entrainment in flows with
vortex ring structures for projects led by Sazhin (EP/K005758/1, EP/M002608/1). After becoming a
permanent member of staff, she secured an EPSRC First Grant (EP/R012024/1), and centrally
funded investments that laid the foundations for her UKRI Fellowship (2020, MR/T043326/1) to
direct research on droplet flows relevant to the spread of COVID-19 and the mixing of fuels.

Vogiatzaki (Reader), EPSRC-UKRI Innovation Fellow, mentored by Crua since joining Brighton
as a Senior Lecturer (2016), she secured an EPSRC First Grant (EP/P012744/1) the same year
and further funding to rapidly build a team of 9 researchers. Vogiatzaki received targeted support
to construct grant proposals, meet new industry collaborators and prepare for panel interviews.
These support mechanisms helped secure her EPSRC-UKRI Innovation Fellowship
(EP/S001824/1), which aims to create new fundamental knowledge and advanced numerical tools
for liquefied gases and their integration in future energy systems, in collaboration with Ricardo and
Libertine FPE.

Mentoring and supporting researchers at all stages of their careers: All new staff are allocated
a research mentor, given workload relief to establish their research (0.1 FTE for 2 years), and
assigned a yearly appraisal review to reflect on achievements and set goals. All PDRFs are
mentored to develop their research specialism and become principal investigators. UoA12
introduced additional mentorship processes for long- and short-term support of our ECRs,
including targeted help with the development of grant proposals (eg Georgoulas, Wang),
responses to funder reviews and mock interview training. ECRs are routinely supported by senior
staff to win central funds, for example the University’s ‘ ising Stars’ EC funding was awarded to:
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rybdylova (then secured EP/R012024/1), Vogiatzaki (then secured EP/P012744/1), and, more
recently, Georgoulas and Tombari (to develop their first UKRI proposals as principal
investigators). Industry leaders (eg Visiting Professors Atkins, Jackson, Monaghan) contribute to
mentoring mid-career and senior staff to broaden horizons and grow their collaboration networks.

Using QR funds strategically, we promote PDRFs to permanent staff: 28% of returned staff
previously held a PDRF position within UoA12 (eg Begg, Miché, Panesar, Zubkov). We achieve
this by ensuring PGRs and PDRFs contribute to undergraduate teaching, which helps them secure
permanent lectureships at Brighton and other universities (eg Coventry, Surrey, Egypt-Japan
University of Science and Technology). We prioritise QR funds for ECRs and staff returning to
research (eg 10% additional research time to Begg, Covill, Wang, Zubkov), supporting staff with
sabbatical leave and pump-priming funds to underpin grant proposals and high-quality outputs,
including: Georgoulas (to build an optical flow boiling facility for an EPSRC proposal), Panesar (to
build an Organic Rankine Cycle experiment for leading energy recovery research), Lampropoulos
(thermal conductivity analyser for construction materials), Cacciola (laser vibrometer for AHRC-
funded seismic protection research), Rafiq and Alam (vacuum sealing chamber for an EPSRC
proposal).

ECRs and PGRs contribute to leadership both across the University and this Unit: Vogiatzaki
represents EC s at her school’s esearch and Enterprise Committee; Rybdylova contributed to
the construction of this submission as a full member of UoA ’s E Leadership eam; PG
Gander represents research students on the AEC Steering Board.

2.3. Postgraduate research students
Our staff’s success at securing EPS C projects, combined with . m strategic investment in
UoA ’s PG studentships, has led to significant increases in Doctoral Training Grants over this
REF cycle (Table 2). We received EPSRC DTP formula allocation, 4 EPSRC Industrial CASE
awards (£320k bp, Delphi, Ricardo), and 4 STFC-funded quota and project studentships. Industry-
funded studentships are also increasing through 4 direct contracts and 5 EngD (described in 3.2).
We have worked with the Iraqi Cultural Attaché in London and the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research as a partner in the Iraqi PhD Scholarship Scheme, hosting 17 PGRs.

     Table 2. Overview of funding type by PGR headcount (‘Active’ PGRs at submission date)
                                                               Completed     Active      Total
       Doctoral Training Grants (EPSRC, ESRC, STFC)                 1           11          12
       Industry (EngD, contracts)                                   2            7           9
       Middle East and North Africa (MENA)                         15            2          17
       governments
       Self-funded PGRs                                            10            8          18
       UK/EU grants (STFC, H2020)                                   4            0           4
       University strategic investment                             16            8          24

We provide interdisciplinary PGR training with the University of Oxford and UCL through a £4.7m
joint EPS C D P ‘Science and Engineering in Arts, Heritage, and Archaeology’ (SEAHA). As
members of the University Alliance our researchers have secured studentships within the Doctoral
Training Alliance Energy programme to research green maritime shipping (Panesar) and
fundamental thermal fluids (Georgoulas).

In addition to our own 48 completions (40 FTE) and 36 active PGRs, in this REF cycle UoA12 staff
have co-supervised 22 PGR completions at other universities including Stuttgart, UTP (Malaysia),
Bergamo (Italy), Imperial College and UCL. These external supervisions promote an international
outlook in our supervisors, expand the collaboration networks of our own PGRs, bring back good
practice to UoA12 and contribute to research across the world.

PGR recruitment, administration and core training are conducted centrally through the Brighton
Doctoral College (described in REF5a). We use our QR allocation to extend studentships and fund
                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conference travel to help PGRs present their research and integrate with the international
community. We complement central training for research methodology and impact delivery through
our industry partners and government links to further the student experience, skills, and
knowledge. For example, Ricardo hosts 5 EngD researchers on a weekly basis, STFC PGRs
participate in national graduate schools and attend a summer school. PGRs are members of our
research centres and groups, participating in internal and external meetings. We train PGRs for
academic success by mentoring them to apply for competitive internal and external funding
schemes (eg PGR Gander securing a UKRI-Mitacs Globalink grant, one of only two awarded to
post-1992 universities).

Our approach to training and development has prepared PGRs for success both in academia (eg
Professors at Alexandria University; Egypt-Japan University of Science and Technology; University
of Western Cape) and industry (eg Innovation Manager at the PSA Group; Global Technical Expert
at Ricardo; Formula 1 Trackside Engineer at Scuderia Ferrari; ExoMars and Solar Orbiter Engineer
at Airbus Defence and Space). Our close working relationships with technology innovators help
PGRs secure their first employment (eg 3 PGRs at Highview Power; 2 at Ricardo/Dolphin N2)
while supporting our partners in recruiting highly trained engineers.

2.4. Ensuring equality, diversity and inclusion
We form an inclusive multinational community of staff/PGRs with regular visits (>32/year) to/from
international research laboratories such as UTP (Malaysia), Tsinghua University (China), ISAT,
INSA, CORIA (France), and University of Bergamo (Italy). Moreover, the proportion of staff from
BAME/ethnic minority backgrounds is in proportion to the UK population, but significantly better
than the average UK Engineering workforce (Table 3).

   Table 3. Equality and diversity characteristics for UoA12 compared to UK Engineering
    Characteristic     UoA12 UK Eng.              Source
    Women staff         28%   10%                 WISE 2019 Workforce Statistics
    Ethnic minorities   28%    8%                 Engineering UK 2018: The state of engineering
    Permanent contract  97%   51%                 UCU Precarious work in higher education

Our processes embed charter principles to ensure fairness and work-life balance in our community
(UoA12 Schools hold bronze Athena SWAN awards; UoB holds a bronze Race Equality award).
We promote the University’s employment protocols with all UoA staff having completed training
on ‘unconscious bias’, ‘equality and diversity’, GDP , and ‘managing diversity’ for line managers.
Our core hours policy supports staff with parental/caring responsibilities to participate fully in all
activities and meetings. We prioritise QR funds for staff returning to research after parental leave
(eg Tsioulou who subsequently published journal articles and secured a Royal Society grant).

UoA ’s inclusive culture contributed to significantly reducing ethnicity and gender gaps. We
attribute some of this success to women holding visible leadership roles across the institution (eg
VC, Pro-VC for esearch) and in UoA ’s environment via the Head of esearch and Enterprise
(Bruce), Mentoring Lead (Belz until 2020), Deputy Director of the AEC and Director of APC Spoke
(Atkins), and being celebrated as female role models (Bruce, Vogiatzaki at University-wide
celebration of International Women’s Day). We contribute to building gender balance and setting
high EDI standards across the UK engineering community, such as Atkins co-authoring a policy
report on decarbonising transport where gender balance and inclusiveness were embedded from
the outset.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our recruitment plans to improve
UoA ’s gender distribution have                        Bids submitted by women PIs
resulted in a positive impact on the
                                                       Bids awarded to women PIs
gender profile of our Principal
Investigators since 2016 – 17 (Figure 2).
Our success rate at securing external
funding is equal across genders
(average: 43%, women: 42%).

This REF submission was constructed
by a diverse Leadership Team, with a
representative gender balance, drawn
from all main disciplines in the
submission. The Output Review panel
and UoA Leadership Team completed
REF-specific training on ‘equality and
diversity’ and ‘information security           Figure 2. Gender profiles for Principal Investigators
awareness’. UoA held a mock output
selection to identify potential EDI biases, and subsequently inform the final output selection. An
equality impact assessment demonstrated that our selection and attribution of outputs were
proportional to gender and ethnicity profiles.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research portfolio and strategies
In REF2014 our research income was dependent upon a small number of senior staff securing
Research Council and EU grants. Since REF2014, a broader range of Principal Investigators (52%
of UoA12) across the full career spectrum have secured over £13.3m (~£459k per FTE) in
competitive research income from a wider range of funding bodies. Our focus on high quality
research in close partnership with industry is reflected in UoA ’s portfolio ( able ). Over the
census period, the academics from UoA12 have generated an average of approximately ~£2m per
year, maintaining at least £1.2m per year over the REF cycle.

         Table 4. Research projects and their funding streams over the census period
          Funding stream                                                         Projects
          UK grants (eg UKRI, Royal Society, British Council)                        45
          Industry (eg Ricardo, bp, Delphi, PETRONAS, Johnson Matthey)               35
          EU grants (eg H2020, European Space Agency, Interreg)                      13
          In-kind contributions (eg UK Space Agency, STFC, CERN)                     10

EPSRC funding from UoA12 alone places Brighton as a top performing post-1992 university
(total grant awarded during census), demonstrating our ability to lead partnerships and deliver
impactful research for our industry collaborators. Our increased EPSRC grant portfolio was
instrumental in securing DTP formula allocation (UoA12 generated 99% of Brighton’s EPS C
funding at the time of DTP allocation). We have increased the number of staff who receive
continuous long-term EPSRC funding as Principal Investigators (eg Sazhin continuous PI on
EPSRC grants 2007-19; Crua 2013 – 23; Morgan 2015 – 22; Vogiatzaki 2016-23). Our plans for
the coming years are to continue growing this strategically important funding stream by further
expanding the mentoring activities of early- and mid-career researchers. These targeted activities
include close support with writing competitive grant proposals, engaging new staff with our long-
term collaboration networks (eg APC, ECN) to promote the development of new cross-sector
partnerships, and strategic QR investments into fundamental research areas.

In addition to the UKRI Fellowships described in 2.2, examples of competitive awards include:
   • ULTRA (£770k, EPSRC, 2015), Brighton-led £3m consortium delivered new combustion
      engines that can achieve up to 33% reduction in fuel consumption at near zero emissions, in
                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      collaboration with Delphi, Ricardo, bp, Imperial College, Brunel University, University of
      Oxford, and UCL. This research was instrumental to the Dolphin N2 spin-out and acquisition
      by the Fiat group [ICS_Ricardo].
  •   Design Service Capability Fund (£2.1m, UK Government, 2013-16) for classified research
      funded by the Ministry of Defence.
  •   PaREGEn (£437k, Horizon          ,       ), € . m collaborative programme with       partners
      including Daimler, Siemens, Bosch, Jaguar Land Rover, Aachen University and ETH Zurich.
      PaREGEn delivered a demonstrator vehicle with a new generation of gasoline direct injection
      engines achieving a 15% reduction in CO2 emissions.
  •   HyHP (£722k, EPSRC, 2017), developed a novel wickless heat transfer device capable of
      operating both on the ground and in space, in collaboration with Kayser Space, Libertine
      FPE and Sustainable Engine Systems. This technology will be deployed on the International
      Space Station in 2023.

Our external funding portfolio is supplemented by central investments (£540k from QR and capital
funds, excluding PGR studentships), which we used to develop new research areas and expand
exchanges with industry, for example: Covill to build on his KTP with OSET Bikes and produce an
interactive test rig to showcase at public events; Marengo to develop a modelling platform for
simulating energy consumption and comfort in buildings, which led to the FREDS spin out in 2019;
Wang to set up an online remanufacturing platform which led to a £320k Innovate UK project to
develop an electronic marketplace for remanufactured products.

3.2. Intellectual infrastructure for research and impact
  hrough the University’s      review of its research, we delivered strategic change in the internal
organisation of our Unit. New leadership and management roles were established to support our
teams, including Research Leads for Engineering and for Impact, Mentoring Lead, and four Deputy
Directors for the AEC. These roles focus on supporting our staff to construct funding proposals and
build new partnerships with industry. In addition to these structural changes, we lead and
contribute to research impact through innovative mechanisms such as:

Impact Factory: co-founded in 2017 with Ricardo using funds from HEIF and the Royal Academy
of Engineering, this impact accelerator is based in our Advanced Engineering Building laboratories
to promote high impact collaboration between students, business and academics. The Impact
Factory has generated research grants (£627k), while supporting undergraduates and PGRs in
understanding their roles in industry, particularly in developing innovative solutions for complex
problems. This initiative is championed by Morgan and Visiting Professor Atkins (Global
Technology Lead at Ricardo), who brings significant intellectual property (33 patents) in the areas
of energy generation, transmission, medical engineering, energy conversion and transport.

Clean Growth UK / Green Growth Platform: Since launching in 2014 with £3m funding from
HEFCE, the Green Growth Platform (GGP), that is led by UoB, has attracted a membership of over
1,800 businesses, helped business raise over £2m in R&D funding, created over 248 green
economy jobs and helped develop over 70 new products and services. In 2018, the GGP was
awarded £3.5m from Research England to link with two other university-led business-innovation
hubs and create the national Clean Growth UK network. Through this innovative collaboration
platform, academics from UoA12 have generated 15 industrial projects with a total value of £2m.
These include: Covill who supported OSET Bikes, leading manufacturer of electric trials and
motocross motorcycles, to develop new electronic interfaces for the high-performance bikes
(£224k); Wang worked with ATC Ltd, one of the UK's largest contract medical device
manufacturers of orthopaedics, to enhance productivity by linking simulations, automatic machining
code generation and inspection to CAD models to significantly reduce machine setting times,
facilitating rapid reaction to patient needs (£217k); Marengo and Miché who work with European
Thermodynamics Ltd to bring to market novel heat pipes and optimise the thermal management of
electronic or mechanical systems, including electric vehicles (£192k).



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Engineering Doctorate (EngD): This industry-sponsored programme prepares talented engineers
and scientists for advanced careers in engineering and provides an intellectual challenge at PhD
level through four-year full-time doctoral training. Our 5 EngD students spend up to 75% of their
time at the sponsoring company with an industrial supervisor, and the remaining time at the
University to attend taught modules covering research methods, business, and specialist technical
subjects relevant to their research. A recent demonstration of the ability of this programme to
prepare scientists for industrial challenges is Dr Rota, who completed his EngD in January 2020 in
collaboration with Ricardo, then worked with us as a PDRF on cryogenic energy storage (funded
by Highview Power) and moved to Dolphin N2 as a Development Engineer in August 2020 to
contribute to our split-cycle engine research [ICS_Ricardo].

Brighton Research Innovation Technology Exchange (BRITE): This business innovation
programme facilitates collaboration between academics and industry innovators. Recently
launched through a £10.5m partnership between Plus X business incubator and the University,
BRITE supplements our impact facilities and gives new opportunities for staff and PGRs to expand
research and development collaborations with start-ups, scale-ups and SMEs.

3.3. Infrastructure and facilities for research
To achieve the ambition outlined in REF2014, our research environment was significantly
upgraded over the assessment period. We have invested a total of £14.7m in a new building and
research equipment. Our staff and PGR offices provide a modern academic and learning
environment through a £26m refurbishment in 2015, which won an Architects’ Journal Retrofit
Award. Research is supported by 5 FTE of highly skilled technical staff, 1 FTE per annum being
supported by QR funds.

Advanced Engineering Building (AEB): The AEB is our brand new 2,770m2 three-storey building
(opened in 2018) which serves as a hub for engineering knowledge exchange across our research,
teaching and enterprise activities. This £14m build was funded by the Coast to Capital Local
Enterprise Partnership and the Higher Education Funding Council. Research in the AEB has been
supported by Ricardo (£940k) to upgrade our test cells instrumentation and engine emissions
measurements, the Wolfson Foundation (£500k) for a new fully automated multi-cylinder engine
test cell capable of running transient vehicle cycles, HE CE’s esearch Capital Investment und
for a high-speed infrared camera (£147k) and relocating an engine test cell to the AEB (£42k). The
AEB hosts our Applied Thermal Fluids laboratories, two manufacturing workshops, rapid
prototyping facilities, lecturing and meeting spaces.

Engine research laboratories comprise a new multi-cylinder engine with automated running
capability and full emissions measurement, 2 single-cylinder engines and 3 optically-accessible
engines to support fundamental combustion research. We host 6 optical flow laboratories
(including cryogenics, flow boiling, pulsating heat pipes) that have produced and applied new
optical diagnostic techniques such as ultra-high-speed (200MHz) Time-Resolved Laser-Induced
Incandescence for soot formation, high-speed (10kHz) Laser-Induced Grating Spectroscopy for
high-precision gas thermometry, time-resolved 1D Phase Rainbow Refractometry for droplet
evaporation rate and temperature, high-speed (10kHz) Laser-Induced Fluorescence and
Phosphorescence for full field gas thermometry, and 200MHz long-distance microscopy to
characterise non-spherical droplet shapes and velocities inside engines. For these we use 7 laser
systems, 4 high-speed video cameras (including one infrared for thermal imaging), 3 gated CCD
cameras, 3 gated intensifiers, LDA/PDA system for dense spray analysis, and heavy-duty
programmable 3D traverses. All our work is underpinned by computational fluid dynamics, which
run on a dedicated high-performance cluster, supported with QR funds.

The high-speed spin test facility is the first and most advanced flywheel test facility in the world,
capable of spinning flywheels and e-machines at up to 80,000 rev/min in vacuum while providing
optical access. Jointly developed with Ricardo as part of the Innovate UK ‘ lySafe’ consortium, it
enables high-speed laser illumination and imaging to investigate the behaviour of carbon fibre
reinforced polymer flywheels when they fail at high-speed, releasing up to 1MJ of energy. Each
destructive test costs ~£12k in replacement parts, optics and instrumentation. This world-leading

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
facility, which was widely reported in the specialised press, helps understand the rate of energy
release during flywheel failure. This enabled the project partners (Ricardo, GKN, Torotrak, PUNCH
Flybrid) to design safety containment systems that are compact, lightweight, and low cost, while
effective in providing flywheel safety for applications in the off-highway, power generation, and
automotive sectors.

Structures and Construction laboratories support research on geotechnical simulation of
seismic activity, superinsulation materials for buildings, novel cement-free concretes, and the
development of monopiled gravity base structures. Our suite of five laboratories includes a
concrete 3D printer, laser vibrometer for dynamic modelling and testing, shaker table, thermal
imaging cameras, point-cloud laser scanner, survey drones, five different AR/VR technologies, and
geotechnical centrifuge which enabled Tullow Oil to model seismic faults on well casings (Stone).
The laboratories are being upgraded with a world-unique 36m3 thermal environmental chamber
(£215k from UKRI capital funds) to design anti-vibration technology for ageing structures exposed
to extreme temperatures (4,500kg payload vibrated up to 300Hz under -30 to +60°C).

During this REF period our specialist laboratories have hosted and supported >120 incoming
researchers from >50 international institutions, typically for 3-12 months, including 15 industry
visitors (eg Ricardo, Dolphin N2), >30 academic staff and >80 research students from institutes
based in countries including China, France, Italy, Malaysia and Russia.

3.4. Accessing world-leading infrastructure and facilities
Our researchers access world-class facilities that both complement Brighton’s infrastructure and
build a global perspective to our PGRs and academics. Some of the unique research facilities we
use are highlighted below.

Airbus A310 Zero-G and International Space Station: Marengo’s thermal management
research supported by EPSRC (EP/P013112/1) led to a new concept for hybrid pulsating heat
pipes that enables efficient thermal control under terrestrial and microgravity conditions. The
European Space Agency and the UK Space Agency have supported our technology development
through grants, as well as continued access to parabolic flights since 2013 (£1.2m total in-kind
value). These experiments demonstrated that our hybrid pulsating heat pipe concept could
successfully and efficiently transfer heat in short-term microgravity. This technological
breakthrough enabled the Brighton team to secure time on board the International Space Station in
2023 that will prepare it for implementation for satellite and space exploration.

Working across global state-of-the-art laboratories: ECR Li visited MI ’s Gas urbine
Laboratory (USA) to work with Professor Ghoniem and model the mechanisms that drive the
transitional process of transcritical atomisation. 1st year PGR student Gander secured a joint UKRI-
Mitacs grant (NE/T014431/1) to be seconded to the University of British Columbia and collaborate
with experts in engine combustion diagnostics. Crua has worked at Sandia National Laboratories
(USA) for a combined total of 6 months since 2014 as part of the Engine Combustion Network to
investigate the microscale transition of fluids from liquid to supercritical state.

bp’s Centre for High-Performance Computing: This industry-leading supercomputer is equipped
with over 16 petaflops of processing speed, making it one of the world's largest supercomputers for
commercial research. Our fuel spray researchers (Crua, Sazhin, Vogiatzaki) have received
access to bp’s supercomputer in Houston to perform high-resolution direct numerical simulations of
heat and mass transfer, unveiling some of the complex physics involved in the heating and
evaporation of fuel droplets and sprays. This research contributed to supporting bp’s fuel
development, as detailed in an Impact Case Study [ICS_bp].
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Fostering a vibrant and diverse research community
Our staff have demonstrated national and international academic leadership, including Heikal
(Emeritus Professor, Ricardo Professor of Automotive Engineering) who was elected Fellow of the
Royal Academy of Engineering, Fellow of the IMechE, and served as a member of the REF2014
                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Assessment Panel B12. Bruce and Sazhin have been Fellows of the Institute of Physics since
      and 99 , respectively. Our researchers are members of the EPS C’s Peer eview College
(Atkins, Cacciola, Crua, Georgoulas, Marengo, Vogiatzaki). Bruce was a member (2007 –
2015) and chair (2012 – 2015) of the STFC nuclear physics funding panel. She has recently been
elected as the chair of the European Physical Society’s Nuclear Physics Division and will serve a
2-year term starting in 2022. Our members have given 32 invited keynotes and plenaries, hold 15
editorships and editorial board memberships. These international recognitions have enabled us to
actively engage with the global research community, and provide new opportunities for our PGRs
and academics, such as:

Setting research priorities with international leaders: We contribute to setting the UK’s agenda
for engine research through Morgan’s role as joint secretary of the Universities’ Internal
Combustion Engines Group (UnICEG) and Atkins’ leadership of APC Spoke. We host Magaletti
(Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellow) whose leading expertise in the modelling of flow boiling
and cavitation contributes to our simulation team. We have hosted 14 visiting scholars to promote
academic excellence and set research directions, including: Professor Osiptsov (Laboratory Head
at Moscow State University, Russia) worked with Sazhin on new mathematical models for
multiphase flows; Professor Danaila (University of Rouen, France) and Dr Kaplanski (Tallinn
Technical University, Estonia) visited Sazhin to create new mathematical models for vortex rings;
Professor Payri (CMT Valencia, Spain) visited Crua to develop optical diagnostics for engines; Dr
Santisi D’Avila (University of Nice, rance) visited Cacciola to build novel simulation techniques for
earthquake-induced ground motion; Professor Zaripov and Dr Gilfanov (Kazan Federal University,
Russia) developed new mathematical models for medical sprays with Sazhin; Dr Kyriakides
(Cyprus University of Technology) developed innovative one-part green concretes with Tsioulou
and Lampropoulos supported by Royal Society funding and patented by Zicon Ltd.

Establishing long-term partnerships: We have formalised our cooperation with partners in China
(Fudan University), Japan (Tokyo University of Agricultural Technology), Italy (University of
Bergamo) and Malaysia (Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS) to exchange PGRs and staff. These
have enabled Dr Firmansiah (UTP, Malaysia) to visit Heikal and work on new combustion systems
for PETRONAS; Professor Cossali and Dr Tonini (Bergamo, Italy) to work with Sazhin on new
mathematical models for droplet heating and evaporation; Heikal, Crua, Sazhin to spend more
than 30 months at Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS to research new fuel emulsions; Crua,
Rybdylova, Sazhin, Vogiatzaki to collaborate with the Engine Combustion Network to perform
ground-breaking research on the mixing of fuel sprays under extreme pressures and temperatures
(which was awarded the triennial ICLASS Tanasawa award in 2015); and Bruce to work alongside
the University of Surrey’s nuclear physics group at international experimental facilities such as
CERN (£268k in-kind value). Sazhin led the ‘Sprays in Engineering Applications’ Special Interest
Group for the EPS C’s UK luids Network as a platform for the exchange of ideas between
researchers working across 12 UK universities.

4.2. Understanding and responding to industrial priorities
By embedding industry leaders within our teams, we have access to the latest market intelligence
and can influence international research agendas. or example, the AEC’s Steering Committee
includes senior industry figures, such as Visiting Professor Jackson who brings nearly 40 years of
experience and insight from his senior executive roles in the automotive industry (eg Chair of the
RAC Foundation, advisory board member of the European Green Vehicles Initiative, founder board
member of the European Automotive Research Partners Association (EARPA), member of the
EPS C’s Strategic Advisory Network, non-executive Director of the APC, deputy chair of the UK
Automotive echnology Council). Close dialogue with icardo Innovations’ team has enabled early
recognition of market trends and technological challenges (eg the development of new engine
cycles, described in [ICS_Ricardo]).

We develop and maximise interactions with key end-users and audiences through other routes
besides our formal Steering Committees and impact facilities (described in 3.4), including:



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC): Following an assessment process undertaken by
independent industry experts, the AEC was selected to host the APC’s Spoke for Thermal
Propulsion System Thermal Efficiency. Through this role we supported the APC to develop the
Automotive Council’s       and      roadmaps, with our researchers being at the heart of the
process helping to shape the technology roadmaps before and after the stakeholder workshops.
As an APC Spoke, we also worked on improving the accuracy and granularity of the modelling
work of the Energy System Catapult, to identify cost-effective transition pathways to low carbon
energy systems. These simulations then inform the Climate Change Committee to model energy
system decarbonisation.

Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs): We secured 15 KTP projects funded by Innovate UK
and SMEs, ranking in the top 10 across the UK for KTP funding in Energy Generation. Our
collaborations include: Morgan worked with Libertine FPE to develop free piston power generation
technology; Crua supported Rivertrace Ltd to design a new range of sensors to measure water
contamination in the marine and offshore market; Miché developed a validated test-rig for cooling
system leak repair additives with Kalimex. Our collaboration with Highview Power grew from a KTP
project to an Impact Case Study [ICS_HighviewPower], transferring thermal fluid modelling
expertise which supported the development of scalable liquid air energy storage solutions.

Co-supervision of PGRs: We steer the direction of PGRs alongside industrial partners through
our EngD programme, and through directly funded studentships including the joint supervision of 4
EPSRC Industrial CASE awards (eg bp, Delphi), 4 industry-funded studentships (eg bp, Ricardo
UK) and SEAHA studentships with external heritage (Diocese of Chichester) and industry
(Soenecs) partners. By co-supervising external PGRs at international institutions we further
contribute to the discipline across the world and bring new expertise to Brighton.

Collaboration networks and industry-focused workshops: Our researchers are active
members of multi-sector international organisations, including EA PA, IMechE’s Powertrain
Systems and Fuels Group (previously chaired by Heikal), the Engine Combustion Network
(includes GM, Bosch, Delphi), and UnICEG (co-organised by Morgan). Our teams have hosted
industry-focused workshops and specialist training courses involving industrial delegates and guest
speakers from companies such as Caterpillar, Ceres Power, CNH, E4tech, Shell and Toyota.

4.3. Interdisciplinary collaborations
Having identified a strategic area for expansion into biomedical fluid dynamics, we developed new
capabilities through internally funded research collaborations and are now able to secure major
grants. Examples of this multidisciplinary expansion include:

3DMed – 3D bio-printing with York University (Canada): One of 8 projects supported by the
UKRI International Investment Initiative (I3) Fund in 2020, 3DMed (£455k) builds upon an
established strategic collaboration between Marengo’s team and York University (Canada). he
project combines engineering and biomedicine to develop novel research skills in additive
biomedical manufacturing technologies. 3DMed develops methodological expertise in droplet
architecture that will revolutionise bio-printing of individually tailored medicines through
personalised pills, cell therapy, tissue engineering, and biochips for in vitro drug testing/dosage.

Pulmonary fluid dynamics: With BSMS (medical imaging expert Professor Cercignani,
microbiologist Dr Waddell), and Professor Parker (Manchester University, Head of the Quantitative
Biomedical Imaging Lab) we identify signatures of pulmonary lesions caused by tuberculosis, to
correlate the disease with pulmonary airflow characteristics in a non-invasive sensor that could
transform the diagnosis of tuberculosis (PhD co-supervised by Vogiatzaki).

Bioartificial organs: Working with biomaterial experts Sandeman and Savina (UoA3) we research
and optimise the microscale flow through cryogel cell scaffolds used for bioartificial liver devices
(PhD co-supervised by Crua). Using optical measurements, we improved internal flow patterns
and generated significant improvements in cell colonisation.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
New electrochemical biosensors: Covill works with bioanalytical chemist Patel (UoA3) to design
and validate drug-eluting in vivo biosensors, which contributed towards EPSRC grants
(EP/N027345/1; EP/V028391/1) and adoption by the NIHR Med-Tech Cooperative.

4.4. Contributions to policy and public engagement
We featured throughout the 2017 British Science Festival (co-hosted by UoB, attracting 18,490
attendees), showcasing our latest engine research and heat transfer technology. Our researchers
also engage with international public and decision makers, including:

Remanufacturing with China: Wang, selected as one of 30 inspiring women by the KTN/The
Manufacturer magazine, has been working with the BEIS manufacturing policy team, the
Department for International Trade (DIT), and as a BSI Committee Member to support UK
remanufacturing and promote links between the UK government and industry in China. Since
2016, Wang has led 4 UK-China workshops attended by senior government policymakers from the
UK (eg BEIS, DIT, UKRI) and China (eg Yu Hu Gao, director of Energy Conservation and Waste
Reduction department, Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (MIIT)). These supported a
G ‘Value etention Policies’ workshop (Montreal, 2018) with advice on international standards (eg
BSI standard BS-8887) and the state of remanufacturing in China. A 2017 workshop on Green
Manufacturing Innovation contributed to a policy outcome report and initiated closer collaboration
between BEIS and MIIT for industry and research. In partnership with the University of Sussex,
these activities are funded until 2025 by a multilateral programme between the British Council and
China’s Ministry of Education, with research exchanges and multi-stakeholder events with
universities across China (Jinan, Hefei, Zhejiang) and Singapore.

Producing expert evidence for decision makers: Our position as APC Thermal Efficiency Spoke
has placed us as a national influencer of policy makers. Morgan’s recent workshop ‘ IP ICE?’,
organised at the Royal Institution, provided a forum to review the future of internal combustion
engines with a broad range of stakeholders. Our researchers contribute expert knowledge on
energy and transport to develop policy, for example Atkins led the Cross Sector Energy and
Propulsion Roadmaps for the Transport Energy Network, co-authored Decarbonising Road Freight
for the Energy Systems Catapult, and contributed to the Sustainable Synthetic Fuels for Transport
policy briefing for the Royal Society; Morgan contributed to a DfT stakeholder consultation for their
Future of Transport programme; Lampropoulos chaired a working group (2017 – 2018) on
Earthquake Resistant Structures for the International Association for Bridge and Structural
Engineering, and is currently chair of two of their Task Groups; Piroozfar authored UoB's written
evidence to the House of Lords’ Science and echnology Committee, which was used by the
House for the Building for change report.

Supporting the global MATLAB community: de Sercey was selected by MathWorks, the
leading developer of mathematical computing software for engineers and scientists, to be one of
eleven international Community Advisors for his outstanding contribution to MATLAB. His role on
the Community Advisory Board involves working with MathWorks to advance the MATLAB
community and to propose enhancements and new features. de Sercey, the only Community
Advisor in Europe, is invited by MathWorks to travel and participate in their confidential Advisory
Board, thus informing the development of MATLAB based on the needs of our researchers and
their collaboration networks.

International space agencies: Marengo contributed to the UK Space Agency’s review of its
support for developing commercial microgravity opportunities in the UK, and the ‘Investing in UK
Aerospace orum’ led by the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Aerospace, Innovate UK and
UKspace. PGR Pietrasanta was invited to talk at NASA’s SLPS A luid Physics Workshop at the
Glenn Research Center. Miché delivered ESA’s Gravity-Related Research Summer School, and
helped our team of MEng researchers win the European-wide ‘ ly Your hesis’ competition to test
nanosatellite thermal management technology in a Zero-G aircraft.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.5. Contributions to society
Our research impacts societies across the globe by improving air quality through better engines
and fuels, safeguarding cultural heritage and protecting populations, while developing next
generation energy efficient technologies and fundamental knowledge. Examples include:

Addressing UN Sustainable Development Goals: In 2018, Bruce obtained UKRI-GCRF funding
to initiate a series of annual workshops on Advanced Nuclear Science and Technology Techniques
(ANSTT) at iThemba LABS (Cape Town, South Africa) that then assembled a UK-African and
inter-Africa network focussing on applications in the areas of nuclear medicine and environmental
radiation, thus addressing five Sustainable Development Goals.

Management of risk and safety during the Hajj: Gidado’s team secured unprecedented access
to the Holy Mosque in Makkah during the annual Hajj pilgrimage. Their report to the Custodians of
the Holy Mosques (King Crown Prince and Government Ministers) provided expert advice for
monitoring the flow of over 2m pilgrims per year and implementing new technological measures to
help reduce the risk of heatstroke and exhaustion.

Earthquake defence technology: Cacciola’s EPS C-funded (EP/K004867/1) Vibrating Barrier
developed in collaboration with EDF/LAMSID to protect nuclear power plants against seismic
damage, featured in high profile press (eg Forbes, World Economic Forum) and led to a motion for
a European Parliament resolution on the importance of protecting cities from earthquake damage
(B8-0964/2015). Cacciola and Tombari are adapting the technology for World Heritage Sites
(SEAHA studentship) and secured AHRC funding (£207k, AH/R007934/1) in collaboration with
Cairo University and City University London to help protect Egyptian pyramids and the Cairo
citadel without the need to alter ancient structures.




                                                                                          Page 16
