Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 6 - Agriculture, Veterinary & Food Science

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The Natural Resources Institute (NRI) (nri.org) is a vibrant interdisciplinary research unit, which
 puts addressing the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at its core. It delivers significant
 improvements to food and agricultural systems, mainly in low- and middle-income countries
 (LMICs). With critical mass focused on research excellence and its translation into impact, NRI’s
 research environment is underpinned by a global and diverse partnership network (>500
 organisations in 60 countries).

 The excellence of NRI’s research was recognised with a Research England ‘Expanding
 Excellence in England’ (E3) Award (£7.5m) in 2019. The impact achieved by NRI’s activities
 has been recognised by two Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Further and Higher Education
 (QAP): 2015 Cassava for Food Security and 2019 Innovative, Sustainable Pest Control, adding
 to an award in 2001 for work on Food Security in Africa.

 NRI’s research spans UoA6 (47.03 full time equivalents (FTE)) and UoA22 (23.30 FTE) reflecting
 broad interdisciplinarity. The UoA’s specialised Research Groups contribute to challenge-led,
 interdisciplinary Development Programmes. NRI’s environment supports career progression and
 development from postgraduate researcher to senior professor. It nurtures research leadership,
 reflected in high staff retention (>90% of staff submitted REF2014 retained for REF2021, excluding
 retirements), a high proportion of submitted staff promoted during the REF period, including seven
 to professor, and a low proportion of staff on fixed term appointments (10%). Diversity of staff
 within the unit has increased, with %female staff increasing from 24% to 41% and %Black, Asian
 and Minority Ethnic (BAME) increasing from 4% to 33%.

 Achievement of Strategic Aims
 In this period, NRI implemented its strategy ‘Knowledge to Feed the World’, underlining its
 ambitious mission: ‘To discover, apply and share knowledge in support of global food security,
 sustainable development and poverty reduction’. Key elements of the strategy taken from the
 REF2014 submission and subsequent outcomes are summarised below and in Table 1.
     • Grow external research income. Research income has increased 140% in the REF cycle
         (from £19.3m in REF2014 to £46.3m) against a target of 35%, including a six-fold increase
         in Research Council funding.
     • Develop Research Groups and Development Programmes. NRI has significantly
         evolved its matrix of Research Groups and Development Programmes (described below),
         the bedrock of the unit’s growth, vitality and sustainability.
     • Grow UK/European focused work. We achieved our ambition to expand the amount of
         research and enterprise in UK and Europe (new projects £2.44m) whilst retaining a focus
         on LMIC food and agriculture systems. This has culminated in two major UKRI awards
         (2020): Strength in Places Project “Growing Kent and Medway” (£17.9m led by NIAB-
         EMR (NRI budget £2.8m) and the NRI-led UK Food Systems Centre for Doctoral
         Training (CDT) (£5.0m).
     • Win larger projects to ensure effectiveness of operations. In addition to the E3 Award,
         Strength in Places and UK Food Systems CDT projects, other significant projects include:
         the African Cassava Whitefly Project (Phase 2) (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
         (BMGF), £8.53m); Cassava Adding Value for Africa (CAVA) (Phase 2) (BMGF, £13.07m);
         Sustainability-Intensification Trade-offs in Coffee Agroforestry (BBSRC, £1.37m); Natural
         Pest Regulation on Orphan Crop Legumes (BBSRC, £0.99m); Gains from Losses of Root
         and Tuber Crops (EU, £2.37m); Cassava Growth Markets (EU, £2.33m); D-Factory (EU,
         €7.20m); African Post-Harvest Loss Information Systems (BMGF, £2.42m); Enabling
         Research Tools for Cassava and Yam Virologists and Breeders (BMGF, £1.8m);


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        DualCassava (Africa Union, £0.7m); Human Decoy Mosquito Trap (MRC, £0.56m) and
        UK-China Agritech (BBSRC-Newton, 0.42m).
    •   Develop a research portfolio funded by industry, Horticulture Development
        Company (HDC) and Technology Strategy Board (TSB). Since 2014, UoA6 staff have
        engaged in 29 Innovate UK (previously TSB) and Agriculture and Horticulture
        Development Board (previously HDC) projects (£1.38m).
    •   Maintain focus on high quality peer reviewed output whilst expanding other forms
        of dissemination, including public engagement. Peer reviewed journal output (UoA6)
        has increased by 128%, with Q1 publications (by SJR) increasing by 142%, increasing
        volume and quality. NRI communications team increased from 1 to 2.5 FTE enhancing
        research dissemination (74 press articles in 2019/2020; unique website views doubled
        since 2018) and social media (30-fold increase since 2014). Examples of public
        engagement are in Box 1.

 Table 1: Summary performance metrics.
            Performance target area                 REF2014           REF2021          %Increase
  Staff submitted                                     23.5              47.03            100%
  Total research income/year (average over           £3.86m            £6.61m             71%
  period)
  Research Council average income/year               £0.12m            £0.74m             524%
  PhD completions                                      15                36               140%
  Published outputs in period (submitted staff)       298               680               128%
                                                                  (11,398 citations)
  Field weighted citation impact                       1.63             2.13
  Publications in Q1 Journal Quartile by SJR           226              549               142%

 Wider research environment
 NRI has a total staff of 112.53 FTE (47.03 FTE UoA6; 23.3 FTE UoA22; 13.6 FTE focused on
 teaching or enterprise and 28.2 FTE professional services staff providing technical or
 administrative project delivery support). A high proportion (84%) of academic staff have significant
 responsibility for research (SRR).

 NRI is part of the Faculty of Engineering and Science and collaborates extensively with colleagues
 in the University. Staff/Postgraduate research (PGR) students benefit from a campus-based
 research hub that provides services from the University’s Research and Enterprise Training
 Institute (RETI) and University researcher support services.

 NRI’s Professional Services team support project delivery using an ISO9001 accredited research
 management system ensuring compliance with funder requirements and University
 financial/procedural regulations. A robust due diligence process for sub-contractors addresses key
 issues including safeguarding, money laundering, modern slavery, anti-terrorism, fraud, data
 protection, conflict of interest, use of animals, use of human tissue, bribery, insurance, research
 ethics, health and safety. Independent committees considered research ethics at Faculty and
 University levels. Research degrees are overseen by a tightly governed Faculty Research
 Degrees Committee reporting to the University Research and Enterprise Committee.

 Staff contribute to a growing research-led teaching portfolio (e.g. new MSc Programmes in Global
 Environmental Change and Food Innovation, and BSc Climate Change), with student projects
 aligned to core research activities.

 Staff and PGR students participate in both ‘Research Groups’ and impact-focused ‘Development
 Programmes’ addressing major development challenges (Figure 1). Staff and PGR students
 primarily align to one Research Group, and often have secondary affiliations, but contribute to
 multiple Development Programmes. Research Groups and Development Programmes are
 actively managed to ensure success.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Delivering Research Excellence through Research Groups
 NRI’s Research Groups (RGs) (Table 2) support research, using common specialised facilities,
 methods and approaches. Combined with the Development Programmes these are the main part
 of the NRI Research Environment (Figure 1). NRI’s Research Groups have evolved from those in
 REF2014 reflecting the growth of the unit and the research agenda. The Postharvest and Value
 Addition Group became the Food Systems Group, significantly strengthened with the E3 Award
 with skills in food safety, food innovation and food systems for improved nutrition. Aquatic
 Biotechnology and Biology Group is new, following growth and investment under the leadership
 of Harvey, attracting £1.4m in retained external income.




 Figure 1. UoA6 embedded in the Natural Resources Institute research and impact
 environment.


 Table 2. Research Groups and their development since 2014
      RG REF2014                Staff FTE               RG REF2021                 Staff FTE
                                REF2014                                            REF2021
  Pest behaviour                   3.9            Pest behaviour                      7.9
  Chemical ecology &               3.6            Chemical ecology &                  6.1
  plant biochemistry                              plant biochemistry
  Eco-system services               2.2           Ecosystem services                   8.6
  Agriculture                       6.4           Plant health, molecular              6.0
  biosecurity, molecular                          virology & entomology
  biology & entomology
  Postharvest and value             7.4           Food systems                       13.63
  addition
                                                  Aquatic biotechnology &              4.8
                                                  biology
  Total                            23.5           Total                              47.03

 Pest Behaviour Group (PBG) (lead Hopkins with Arnold, Belmain, Cheke, Dobson, Emami,
 Gibson, Hawkes, Reynolds, and Vale), investigates the behaviour and ecology of vertebrate and
 invertebrate pests and disease vectors of crops, livestock and people, pollinator ecology and other
 beneficial insects. PBG has made significant contributions to understanding the migration and

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 landscape scale movements, feeding, mating and oviposition of tropical and European pests and
 vectors. Examples include:
    •   an innovative mosquito trap (Gibson/Hawkes) replicating the traditional human landing
        catch with superior results and without exposure to the risks of being bitten by vector
        insects (doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-17632-3; Patent: EP3324734B1; BBC TV);
    •   evidence that the presence of domestic predators discourages pest rodent activity
        (Belmain). When two different types of predator are both present, they create a landscape
        of fear for foraging rodents (doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0171593);
    •   evidence that the microbiota from mosquitoes mirrors the environment in which
        mosquitoes live, demonstrating they have different populations, improving understanding
        of the spread of disease (Hopkins) (doi.org/10.1038/srep22806).

 Chemical Ecology & Plant Biochemistry Group (PEPBG) (lead Stevenson with Bray, Hall,
 Fernandez-Grandon, Harte and Woolley), identifies, synthesises, and formulates natural
 products from plants and animals that mediate the biology and behaviour of beneficial insects and
 pests on crops, forests, livestock and people. Pheromones and other semiochemicals are used in
 traps for monitoring and controlling pests; host attractants of disease vectors in plants and animals;
 and compounds that mediate interactions between plants and insects and optimise pollination and
 natural pest regulation. Examples include:
    •   discovering that trees and shrubs in complex forest communities have adapted to avoid
        pest attack by producing odours so similar to neighbouring trees that they are difficult to
        distinguish as a food source (Stevenson) (doi.org/10.1126/science.aba2965);
    •   identifying the compounds that attract pollinating midges to cocoa flowers and are essential
        for production of cocoa pods (Arnold/Bray/Hall/Stevenson) (doi.org/10.1007/s10886-
        019-01118-9);
    •   developing and testing a synthetic pheromone lure for sand fly vector of the neglected
        tropical      disease      visceral      leishmaniasis        across      Brazil     (Bray)
        (doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0002723).

 Ecosystem Services Group (ESG) (lead Haggar, with Büchi, Cerretelli, Chancellor, Coast,
 Lara-Estrada, Paradelo-Perez, Rodenburg and Yang) research the functioning and
 management of UK and tropical agro-ecosystems, including climate adaptation and mitigation in
 agricultural systems; economic and environmental trade-offs in sustainable agriculture;
 sustainable soil fertility; the role of conservation practices in supporting biodiversity. Examples
 include:
    •   Haggar studied coffee growers in Nicaragua, finding that all producers with sustainability
        certifications have better farm environmental performance than non-certified farms for
        some indicators (doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolind.2017.04.023).
    •   Büchi found agricultural intensification reduces microbial network complexity and the
        abundance of keystone taxa in roots (https://doi.org/10.1038/s41396-019-0383-2).
    •   Rodenburg mapped the genetic variation in host resistance and tolerance across rice
        genotypes to the parasitic weed Striga, addressing this massive source of crop losses
        (doi.org/10.1111/nph.14451).

 Plant Health, Molecular Virology & Entomology (PHMVE) (co-lead Seal/Gowda with
 Armitage, Bouvaine, Colvin, Silva, and Thompson) investigates the molecular characterisation
 of fungi, tropical plant viruses and insect pests and gene expression through sequencing and
 bioinformatics technologies. PHMVE develops disease control technologies, supports
 international breeding programmes, and investigates virus diseases of cassava and yams.
 PHMVE is pivotal in research and capacity development in international networks, such as BBSRC
 CONNECTED, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Examples include:
    •   Colvin applied his experience of the spread of plant disease to demonstrate how facemask
        use could radically reduce the spread of COVID-19 during the pandemic
        (doi.org/10.1098/rspa.2020.0376) (top 5% of all research outputs by Altmetric).


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Colvin/Seal revealed five new sub-Saharan Bemisia tabaci whitefly species, findings that
        support control of one of the world’s devastating crop pests and plant-virus disease vectors
        (doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-20956-3).

 Food Systems Group (FSG) (lead Westby with Acharya, Bechoff, Bettridge, Brown, de
 Bruyn, Colgan, Dominguez-Salas, Nikolaou, Parmar, Precoppe, Grace, Stathers, Tomlins
 and Wesana) addresses food systems from production to consumption, focusing on LMICs. FSG
 enhances financial and nutritional crop value, storage and preservation, food processing, food
 safety and quality improving the livelihoods and nutritional status of vulnerable populations. The
 Produce Quality Centre (lead Colgan) is integral to FSG with specialised facilities enabling leading
 work on the quality, storage, and shelf life of fresh produce. FSG also studies the use and impact
 of single-use plastic films for fresh produce preservation, making significant progress on replacing
 plastic film content with natural cassava starch at an industrial scale in India (Newton Bhabha
 Fund). Examples include:
    •   Brown, using 580,000 observations of children from 53 countries, demonstrated how
        precipitation extremes since 1990 are associated with inferior child nutrition
        (https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1905228116).
    •   Research on gene expression in apples with bitter pit disorder, a storage quality issue with
        significant commercial cost, identified candidate genes offering a potential solution
        (Colgan) (https://gala.gre.ac.uk/id/eprint/19927/).
    •   Stathers led the team which systematically synthesised the evidence on interventions for
        crop postharvest loss reduction in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia informing SDG2
        investment decision-making, revealing the huge knowledge gap on the socio-economic
        and     environmental     impacts of postharvest loss reduction               interventions
        (doi.org/10.1038/s41893-020-00622-1).

 Aquatic Biotechnology & Biology (ABBG) (lead Harvey with Milledge, Miest, Sui, Xu), studies
 the sustainable use of water resources under changing climatic conditions to improve the health
 of aquatic animal species, particularly marine and freshwater fish, their immunocompetence,
 health and welfare in aquaculture systems. ABBG work on micro- and macro-algae for food
 security and plant proteins, bioactive compounds, antioxidants, pigments, and biofuels. Examples
 include:
    •   Characterising the microalga Dunaliella salina in the Harvey-led €10m FP7 CO2
        microalgae D-Factory, with patents WO/2019/097219, (Production of Dunaliella,
        Harvey/Xu, 2019); WO/2018/141978 (Algal Strains, Harvey/Xu, 2018) describing
        production     of    rare    β-carotene   isomers       and     colourless     carotenoids
        (doi.org/10.3390/antiox8050123);
    •   Miest found that rising temperature negatively affected hatch and early growth of the
        European Eel, indicating that ocean warming will further challenge this threatened species
        (doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0182726).

 Delivering research impact
 NRI’s approach to delivering research impact has seven important elements:
    •   Challenge-orientated interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange themes
        articulated through Development Programmes.
    •   Interdisciplinarity is considered essential to addressing complex food and agricultural
        system challenges. NRI staff come from >35 disciplines (staff mainly submitted to UoA6
        and 22, but also 8, 12 and 17) and collaborate through interdisciplinary research activities
        with colleagues in NRI and partner organisations. Examples include:
            o Conceptual          paper      on    sustainable      agricultural     intensification
                (https://doi.org/10.1080/14735903.2020.1818483); Haggar, Rodenburg, Nelson
                (UoA22), Lamboll (UoA22).
            o Lessons          on      scaling   cassava       value       chain      development
                (https://doi.org/10.3362/2046-1887.2015.004) (Lamboll (UoA22), Nelson (UoA22)/
                Martin (UoA22), Graffham, Westby).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
               o    Determinants of postharvest losses (including nutritional) in value chains
                    (https://doi.org/10.1007/s12571-019-00949-4) Shee (UoA22), Stathers, Bechoff,
                    Bennett (UoA22).
    •       Partnerships, described below in detail, are critical to achieving impact. Each NRI
            Development Programme collaborates with a broad spectrum of partners to support
            research uptake. As an indication of the scale of partnerships, NRI signed 720 sub-
            contracting agreements since 2014.
    •       Investment of additional resources is often key to achieving impact. In addition to research
            revenues of £58.0m (UoAs 6 and 22), NRI staff have competitively won £19.4m for
            knowledge exchange activities to support translating research into societal impact.
    •       Research promotion and dissemination beyond peer-reviewed outputs is important for
            contributing to research uptake and influencing policy (Box 1). See examples of influencing
            policy and practice in Section 4.
    •       Protection of IP. Most of NRI’s research work is pre-competitive and/or international
            public goods, however there are instances where the protection of IP and licencing
            technologies support research uptake. Examples of IP protection include:
            WO2017085477A1 (Bee nutrition, Stevenson, 2017); EP3324734B1 (Insect Trap,
            Gibson/Hawkes, 2017); GB2541175b (Organic particles containing viral bodies,
            Grzywacz (retired), 2016); WO/2019/097219, (Production of Dunaliella, Harvey/Xu, 2019);
            WO/2018/141978 (Algal Strains, Harvey/Xu, 2018); WO2020098950A1, (Dry onion
            preparation, Acharya, 2018); US20200253204A1 (Mosquito attractant formulation,
            Emami, 2020); WO2019098923A1 (Plant irrigation system, Emami, 2018).

  Box 1: Communication and engagement
  Effective communication is an important component of the unit’s research and impact strategy.
  NRI’s social media following (LinkedIn, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram) has increased from ca.
  400 in 2014 to >11,000 by 2020. In addition to peer reviewed journal outputs, books, and book
  chapters, staff’s research has been reported or informed comment in the national/international
  media. Examples include:
        • Expert     comment      –    locust  plague    in   East     Africa    (e.g.   Nature
          (https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-020-00725-x) (Cheke).
      • Sex and Drugs and Pest Control: TedX talk. London, 2015 (Stevenson).
      • The Great British Urine Test (Channel 5) (Hopkins).
      • BBC 3-part report on Zika transmission in Brazil (Bray, Fernandez-Grandon, Gibson,
          Hawkes, Hopkins).
      • BBC Living with Malaria (2017) (Gibson, Hawkes).
      • BBC Earth Deadly Disasters - Mosquitoes (Hopkins).
      • Expert comment – killing off disease causing pests – Scientific American, 2019 (Vale).
      • Expert Comment – BBC News: Elimination of mosquitoes (Hawkes).
      • Expert Comment – bird cruelty “BBC Inside Out – London”, October 2016 (Cheke).
      • Expert Comment following publication – use of facemasks (2020) (Newsweek, Daily
          Mail, and others) (Colvin).
  There has been increased coverage of staff work in the press (e.g. 74 articles in 2019/2020).
  Staff have widely contributed to public engagement. Examples include: leading on a national
  ‘Pint of Science’ event (2020) (Arnold/Harte); Send a Cow “Big Debate” hosted by Jonathan
  Dimbleby (Panelist: Westby); Royal Society ‘Science Matters’ series of public debates in 2016
  hosted by Prof Brian Cox (Stevenson) and the Royal Institution Christmas Lecture 2017
  (Gibson).

 Development Programmes
 NRI’s ten Development Programmes facilitate the organisation and communication of NRI’s
 research and development work around specific international development challenges (Table 3).
 Reflecting their interdisciplinary nature and impact orientation, contributions are made by UoA6,
 UoA22 and enterprise-focused staff. Individuals contribute to multiple Programmes.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 3: Development Programmes and development challenges/opportunities
 addressed.
    Development          Leader                Development challenge/opportunity
     Programme
  Root and tuber       Tomlins    Tropical root crops (cassava, yams and sweetpotato) are
  crops in                        important food security crops and innovations can improve
  development                     livelihoods of poor people (SDGs 1,2,8).
  Innovative pest      Hopkins    Pests bring dangerous human and animal diseases, destroy
  and vector           /Hawkes    crops, threaten food supplies, and damage livelihoods.
  management                      Finding sustainable, innovative pest management solutions
                                  protects people and the environment (SDGs 2, 3).
  Sustainable          Rodenburg Agricultural systems can enhance productivity for food and
  agricultural                    nutrition security (SDGs 2, 6, 12, 13) in the face of climate
  intensification                 change, without detriment to the environment, biodiversity
                                  or to social and gender equity
  Food loss and        Bennett**  To reduce food losses and waste to contribute to improved
  waste reduction                 resource use, food security, nutrition, and health, reduced
                                  environmental impact and employment (SDGs12, 3).
  Food systems for     de Bruyn   To create sustainable, ethical, and efficient food systems
  improved nutrition              supporting human health through strategies to address
                                  diverse nutritional challenges (SDG 2) and support
                                  nutritionally vulnerable population groups.
  Climate change,      Morton**/  Addressing climate change impacts on food security and
  agriculture, and     Yang       sustainable natural resource use, with a primary focus on
  natural resources               climate action, food security, forests and water, local
                                  institutions, and conflict (SDGs 2, 5, 13, 15).
  Capacity             Chancellor Human and organisational capacity constrains agricultural
  Strengthening for               development in LMICs. Support is required to strengthen
  Agricultural                    capacities, skills, partnerships, and policy influence in
  Development and                 research, education, and extension (SDGs 4, 17).
  Food Security
  Gender and social    Martin**/     To reduce inequalities and achieve gender justice in
  difference           Forsythe      sustainable development. Gender and other social
                                     differences influence economic, social, and political
                                     opportunities of individuals and communities and affect
                                     wellbeing (SDG 5, 10).
  Sustainable trade,   Nelson**      To identify strategies through which enterprise, trade and
  responsible                        consumption can be more responsible and sustainable, to
  business                           have a positive impact on workers in supply chains,
                                     communities, and global environments (SDG8).
  Land, rural          Quan**        To strengthen governance of rural development processes,
  institutions,                      through institutional arrangements and partnerships, land
  governance, and                    and resource governance, conflict resolution, delivery of
  finance                            support services and inclusive opportunities (SDG1, 8, 15).
 ** staff submitted under UoA22.
 Development Programmes are showing significant impact:
 Root and tuber crops in development. BMGF has invested significantly in NRI research on
 cassava, sweetpotato and yams (7 projects, ca. £29m). Work on cassava was awarded the
 Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015, including: (a) control of whitefly, a major vector of cassava
 mosaic and cassava brown streak diseases (Colvin/Seal/Bouvaine); (b) development and
 dissemination of virus resistant varieties (Gowda); (c) development of value chains improving the
 lives of small-holder farmers (Westby/Tomlins/Precoppe) and (d) overcoming food losses
 (Tomlins/Bennett). The work forms the basis of two impact case studies in this submission, and
 was awarded the Guardian Award for Research Impact (2015), the Times Higher Award for

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Partnership of the Year (2014) and the Rockefeller Foundation Cassava Innovation
 Challenge (2017) for an innovative solution extending cassava shelf life (Bennett/Tomlins).

 Innovative pest and vector management. NRI’s reputation is founded on the research
 excellence and impact of its research on innovative pest and vector management affecting plant,
 animal, and human health. This was recognised by the award of a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in
 2019, highlighting work in four key areas: (a) control of blackfly which transmits onchocerciasis
 (Cheke) (a case study in this submission); (b) control of horticultural crop pests based on chemical
 ecology (Hall/Stevenson/Harte/Fernandez-Grandon) (also an impact case study); (c) an
 innovative mosquito trap (Gibson/Hawkes) that replaces the human landing catch with superior
 results and without exposure to the risks associated with vector insect bites, and work on the
 spatial movement of mosquitoes (Hopkins); and (d) innovations in rodent control (Belmain).

 Sustainable agricultural intensification. This expanding portfolio has funding from the Foreign
 Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO); the Global Grand Challenges Fund (GCRF);
 Royal Society and EU. Haggar/Rodenburg played a leading role in the £8.0m Sustainable
 Agricultural Intensification Research and Learning in Africa (SAIRLA) project (FCDO; 2015-
 2020), successfully piloting the innovative establishment of the National Learning Alliances
 in five countries and their use of social learning to underpin active engagement of decision
 makers with the programme’s research.

 Food loss, waste reduction and value addition. NRI has developed a Centre for Food Loss and
 Waste Reduction (FLoW) linking research excellence and practical solutions. Stathers leads
 postharvest loss measurement through the BMGF funded African Postharvest Loss Information
 System (APHLIS+) and led the scoping review of interventions for crop postharvest loss reduction
 in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (doi.org/10.1038/s41893-020-00622-1). Grace and
 Dominguez-Salas have provided insights into the complex relationships between food quality,
 nutrition, environment and food safety (doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(16)32124-9) and the crucial
 role that livestock plays in infant nutrition (doi.org/10.1093/af/vfz033).

 Food systems for improved nutrition - a recently expanded programme under the E3 Award
 with the appointments of de Bruyn, Dominguez-Salas, Bettridge, Brown and Nikolaou.
 Research on consumer acceptability and carotenoid retention of orange-fleshed sweetpotato
 (Westby/Tomlins/ Bechoff) has supported this new source of provitamin A, reaching 6.2 million
 households (estimated 29 million people) by 2019 (Okello, 2019).

 Capacity strengthening for agricultural development and food security. Strengthening
 capacity for agricultural development and food security is central to transformative change in food
 and agricultural systems to which NRI is committed. Key initiatives include contributions to the
 FAO led “Tropical Agriculture Platform” (Chancellor) and the EU-funded CDAIS project (Dobson)
 strengthening agricultural innovation systems in six countries (two led by NRI) enhancing
 efficiency and sustainability in meeting the demands of farmers, agri-business and consumers.

 Climate change, agriculture and natural resources. This programme has two Coordinating
 Lead Authors (chapters on agricultural production and food security (Porter) and rural areas
 (Morton (UoA22)), Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
 (IPCC) (2014). It has benefitted from new staff (E3 Award), enhancing competence in climate
 modelling (Yang), crop drought resistance (Coast), climate-related agroforestry (Lara-Estrada),
 soil climate interactions (Paradelo-Perez), plus 6FTE in UoA22; authorship of the award winning
 Climate Change, Global Food Security and the U.S. Food System (Brown) and two authors of
 The Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change: responding to Converging Crises
 (Grace/Dominguez-Salas).

 Gender and social difference. Although, the main researchers are submitted to UoA22, the work
 of this programme encompasses the whole of NRI’s work. The team made a significant
 contribution to the gender and equality focus within the CAVA project led by Westby, which had


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 demonstrable benefits for women (Westby & Adebayo 2019). This contributed to the award of the
 QAP (2015) and the Guardian University Award for Research Impact.

 Land, rural institutions, governance and finance and Sustainable trade, responsible
 business. Researchers are mainly submitted to UoA22, where they contribute three impact case
 studies.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 NRI’s Strategy (‘Knowledge for a Sustainable World’) is under development alongside the new
 University of Greenwich Strategy, which will be finalised in 2021. The new University of Greenwich
 strategy is tag-lined ‘Education without boundaries’, aligning with NRI’s vision to be a world-
 leading centre of research excellence on food and agricultural systems and partner of choice in
 creation and application of knowledge.

 Key elements of the UoA’s research and impact strategy are:
    •    Address the ambitious research priorities and development challenges detailed below,
         specifically on climate change, sustainable trade, and responsible business.
    •    Grow a world-leading portfolio of UK-focused research building on the newly awarded
         Growing Kent and Medway Strength in Places Programme and the UK Food Systems
         CDT.
    •    Maintain a focus on securing larger grants for operational efficiency, whilst retaining a
         complementary portfolio of small/medium sized projects.
    •    Grow research revenues at a rate of at least 5%/annum, consolidating the recent growth
         in staff numbers to ensure sustainability of the research environment.
    •    Adopt systems approaches and interdisciplinarity to ensure impact.
    •    Broaden the diversity of staff in leadership positions to reflect the greater diversity of NRI
         that has been achieved in this period.
    •    Adapt how research is undertaken to minimise the unit’s carbon footprint.
 Research Group Priorities and Development Programme priorities are detailed in Tables 4 and
 5.
 Table 4. Research Group Priorities
        Group                                   Priorities (2021-2026)
  Pest             •   Improve prevention and control strategies for rodent-borne diseases
  Behaviour            yielding high public health impact through advocacy and technical
                       development of Integrated Pest Management programs for rodents and
                       their ectoparasites.
                   •   Integrate knowledge generated on the ecology and movement patterns of
                       disease vectors to support Integrated Vector Management programmes for
                       key vectors of human and animal disease.
                   •   Fully integrate pollinators and other beneficial insects into Integrated Pest
                       & Pollinator Management programmes across production systems
  Chemical         •   Manage agricultural pests and human and animal disease vectors,
  Ecology      &       exploiting naturally-occurring animal, fungal and plant produced chemicals
  Plant Biology        to deliver ecosystem services supporting sustainable food and animal
                       production.
                   •   Using a multidisciplinary approach encompassing animal behaviour, insect
                       electrophysiology, chemical analysis and synthesis, molecular diagnostics,
                       and bioinformatics, to elucidate the molecular and sensory mechanisms
                       through which naturally occurring chemicals regulate interactions between
                       organisms.
                   •   Build on the commercial success of the group’s development of effective
                       and marketable, sustainable agriculture and pest management products.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Ecosystem      •      Determine the processes and identify responses to abiotic and biotic factors
  Services              limiting crop productivity (e.g. soil fertility, climate variability, weeds, pests,
                        pollinators, and parasites).
                 •      Identify the attributes and processes that contribute to sustainable
                        production in agricultural systems such as soil improving cropping systems,
                        agroforestry, perennial crops (e.g. vineyards orchards) and home gardens
                        (e.g. enset).
                 •      Quantify the environmental performance (including resource use intensity
                        and ecosystem services provision) of agricultural production systems and
                        trade-offs with socioeconomic benefits at farm, landscape, national and
                        global scales.
  Plant Health, •       Develop tools enhancing control of the emergence and spread of plant viral
  Molecular             disease epidemics. Understand the molecular mechanisms of plant virus
  Virology   &          transmission by insect pests and the influence of climate change on plant-
  Entomology            virus-vector interactions.
                 •      Study devastating viral pathogen communities in different agroecological
                        landscapes, supporting regional surveillance systems in support of
                        biosecurity and control of pests and diseases.
                 •      Develop sustainable solutions for invasive pest species, such as whiteflies,
                        including transgenic studies and conventional research to identify natural
                        resistance, breed cassava for whitefly resistance into farmer-preferred
                        varieties and develop effective plant health systems.
  Food           •      Reduce food loss and waste, including innovations to extend shelf-life of
  Systems               perishable fresh produce including the development of sustainable food
                        packaging, and to reduce environmental impacts
                 •      Food security and nutrition to tackle the double burden of malnutrition and
                        food safety including home-grown school feeding programmes.
  Aquatic       •       Utilise algae for CO2 sequestration and resource recovery from waste
  Biotechnology         streams.
  & Biology     •       Downstream bioprocessing of algal resources for human and animal
                        nutrition, food security and green chemicals.
                 •      Ecosystems research to ensure the safety and sustainability of aquatic
                        exploitation of farmed and wild algae and aquatic animals and impact of
                        climate change on aquatic systems.

 Through its Development Programmes, NRI has set an ambitious agenda to make significant
 contributions to the SDGs (Table 5).

 Table 5. Priorities for NRI’s Development Programmes to 2030.
     Development                                         Priorities (2030)
      Programme
  Root and tuber          •   Co-develop innovations to overcome root crop pests and diseases to
  crops in                    farming systems in sub-Saharan Africa.
  development             •   Develop traditional food processing systems for growing and
                              urbanising populations whilst ensuring the sustainable livelihoods for
                              those who depend on them.
  Innovative pest and     •   Apply newly developed techniques to enhance trapping systems for
  vector                      blood feeding insects, particularly improved trap technology and the
  management                  application of insect behaviour to better understand insect spatial
                              ecology.
                          •   Improve prevention and control strategies for the rodent-borne
                              diseases with high public health impact through advocacy and


                                                                                                    Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                              technical development of Integrated Pest Management programs for
                              rodents and their ectoparasites.
  Sustainable             •   Develop resource-efficient farming systems to increase productivity
  agricultural                and environmental resilience, reduce crop losses and negative
  intensification (SAI)       environmental impacts, enhance ecosystem functionality and
                              resilience to climate change.
                          •   Share knowledge through capacity development and training.
  Food loss and           •   Develop and apply interventions for loss measurement, alternative
  waste reduction             packaging, enhanced food safety and adaptive innovation.
                          •   Understand the trade-offs and synergies between options for
                              reducing losses and optimise use/reduce waste – recognising risks
                              that upgrading ‘wastes’ may exclude opportunities for the vulnerable.
  Food systems for        •   Develop conceptual frameworks that underpin food systems and
  improved nutrition          nutrition-oriented research and their effectiveness in informing
                              programme design, implementation, and evaluation.
                          •   Harness research findings to inform effective policies and
                              programmes for nutrition and health.
  Climate change,         •   Undertake research that contributes to climate adaptation/resilience
  agriculture, and            and understanding the relationships between: climate change and
  natural resources           food security/ natural resource use; climate change/climate variability
                              and conflict; and climate change and food systems, gender, and
                              social inequality.
  Capacity                •   Develop collaborative doctoral training with African partners building
  Strengthening               on UK Food Systems CDT
  Gender and social       •   Research on gender norms, agency and power related to inequalities,
  difference                  gender and agriculture, food sovereignty and diversity in food
                              systems for nutrition.
  Sustainable trade,      •   Analysis of regenerative enterprise and economy opportunities that
  responsible                 promote renewal, reuse, regrowth and restoration.
  business
  Land, rural             •   Strengthening land tenure rights and reducing land conflicts without
  institutions,               excluding small farmers from new economic opportunities.
  governance, and
  finance

 Taking forward the strategic goals and aims
 Implementing the ‘key elements of the research and impact strategy’ described above are
 essential for advancing the strategic goals and aims. New projects (the E3 Award, Food
 Systems CDT and Strength in Places - Growing Kent and Medway) give NRI the springboard to
 achieve the strategic goals at international, national, and local levels, respectively. The new
 University strategy indicates significant investment in research infrastructure supporting an
 enabling environment for world-leading research. The University strategy focuses on creating
 opportunities for individuals and society, building partnerships, and delivering impact, which are
 core principles to ensure NRI’s success.
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 NRI aims to grow research quality and volume by increasing the portfolio of research projects, by
 applying a balanced recruitment process, bringing in staff at different stages of their research
 career as the volume of research grows, and by renewing the population of researchers at all
 career levels. NRI’s staff profile in REF2014/REF2021 is shown in Table 6. New appointments
 (27.23 FTE) have doubled staff numbers related to: (a) growth of external research and enterprise
 revenues; and (b) investment from the E3 Award.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Table 6. UoA6 staff profile by grade.
                      FTE              FTE            FTE AC4          FTE AC5         Total (FTE)
                   AC2/Fellow       AC3/Senior       (Associate       (Professor)
                                      Fellow         Professor)
  REF2014               8                1               7                7.5             23.5
  REF2021              16.4             12              5.2              13.43            47.03

 The E3 Award facilitated recruitment of 22.43 FTE across NRI (13.03 FTE in UoA6), giving NRI
 the opportunity to strategically review its overall staffing. The investment focused on four
 development programmes: (a) climate change, natural resources, and agriculture; (b) food
 systems for improved nutrition; (c) sustainable agricultural intensification; and (d) food loss and
 waste reduction. In UoA6, E3 investment funded 1.43 FTE Professors, 2.0 FTE Associate
 Professors and 9.6 FTE Senior Fellows/Fellows. Emphasis of recruitment at Senior Fellow/Fellow
 level met needs identified in the pre-investment profile to ensure a diverse range of disciplines
 and underpin NRI’s commitment to interdisciplinarity and sustainability.

 UoA6 benefits from a strong cadre of Professorial Staff, world leaders in their fields, who ensure
 research quality and drive resource mobilisation. At this level, the UoA has 13.2 FTE, 27.7% of
 staff as compared with 7.7 FTE (32%) in REF2014. Growth was through promotion (Belmain,
 Gibson, Hopkins, Haggar, Dobson, Gowda, Seal) or new appointments (Grace, Brown).

 NRI has an exceptional rate of staff retention. Of the 23.5 FTE submitted to REF2014, 76% are
 submitted to REF2021, 16% have retired, 8% (2 FTE) have moved to non-research roles or left
 for another institution. Of the staff submitted in REF2014, 66% of those under professorial level
 were promoted. NRI has reduced the percentage of staff on period appointments (to 10%), with
 virtually all new appointments on open-end contracts. Period appointments are mainly used where
 staff are appointed for specific projects, but NRI treats these staff as ECRs and aims to retain
 them (see Equality and Diversity Section below).

 Responsibility for staff development (including research leadership) and quality control of
 research activities and outputs, rests with the Heads of NRI’s Departments, under the overall
 leadership of the Institute’s Director (Westby). The Research Group and Development
 Programme structures allow unhindered collaboration across the Institute. Staff development is
 managed through annual staff appraisals that provide the framework for personal development.
 Staff nominate a Career Pathway (Research, Enterprise, or Teaching) in their annual appraisal
 that informs staff development plans. This submission comprises staff on the Research Career
 Pathway (84% of NRI academic staff) with SRR in line with University’s REF2021 Code of
 Practice.

 Staff can tailor their personal development in line with Vitae Framework for Staff Development,
 drawing courses from the University’s Research and Enterprise Training Institute (RETI),
 university level or local level mentoring programmes or other opportunities agreed in the staff
 appraisal. RETI nurtures research and enterprise activities by creating a proactive, supportive
 environment for the career development of researchers. RETI works in partnership with staff and
 PGR students to support excellence. RETI aids researchers to develop, personally and
 professionally and to meet their research goals through tailored training, coaching, and mentoring.
 This approach is flexible, providing options for mentoring, formal training courses, participation in
 conferences and workshops through to externally funded fellowships (e.g. de Bruyn undertook a
 FCDO/BMGF/IMMANA fellowship), undertaking MSc programmes and in some cases registering
 for PhD degrees (all staff are PhD holders). Opportunities are sought to provide leadership
 experience (e.g. UoA22’s Po and Turner are co-managers for the CDT led by Westby).

 NRI places considerable importance on the next generation of its researchers and hence takes an
 inclusive view of the definition of an Early Career Researcher (ECR), letting staff self-nominate.
 With this definition of ECR, the submission has 20 FTE (50% female). ECRs benefit from an Early

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career Researcher Network (organised at faculty level), established in this period to support
 ECR development as a cohort, with skills development, promotion of interdisciplinarity and a
 collegiate research environment. The ECR Network’s agenda is set by the ECRs and focuses on
 maximising their career potential supported by senior staff, RETI and Research Services Support.

 Research students
 In this period, 36 students completed their PhDs (15, REF2014) with 70% completing within four
 years. Staff have co-supervised 23 PhD completions at other institutions, contributing to the
 development of capacity in LMICs, highlighting the extent of international partnerships. The
 University funded 32 PhD Studentships in the period (20 completed) and PGR population has
 grown to 38.5 FTE by 2020.

 NRI has an established track record of PGR supervision. It was invited to the successful BBSRC
 London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme (LIDo) in 2019 for its successful bid for DTP3
 funding and participated in the University Alliance Biosciences Doctoral Training Programme (4
 students). NRI leads the UKRI UK Food Systems CDT that will train 62 doctoral students.

 PGR students are supervised by a team of three supervisors, with minimum combined experience
 of supervising at least three students to completion. Students are integrated in Research Groups
 and are represented in multiple fora including Research Group Leaders’ Meetings,
 Faculty/University Research and Enterprise Committees. They also have the support of NRI’s
 Director of Postgraduate Studies. The administration and quality control of research degrees are
 overseen by the Faculty Research Degrees Committee and training is organised through RETI.
 RETI runs and internally audits a transferable skills programme. Students working outside the UK
 are supported with frequent communications and a locally-appointed additional supervisor.

 Students are allocated a dedicated workspace and their own networked computer, laptop (to
 support field/international research) and specialised software. NRI runs a one-on-one statistics
 support service to provide individual assistance, and provides training in statistical analyses and
 use of the statistical package R.

 Students benefit from a student-led society (Natural Resources Institute Postgraduate Society
 (NRIPS)), which provides a support network, social events, student-organised training activities
 and a seminar series. NRIPS organises an annual PhD Research Symposium where first- and
 third-year students give oral presentations, and second-year students produce a poster. Final year
 students also present at the NRI research seminar series and most attend at least one national or
 international conference. NRI students compete in the 3-minute-thesis competition organised by
 RETI, winning the ‘People’s Choice’ at Faculty and University-levels in 2020.

 Students participate in targeted discussion and training groups in subjects including entomology,
 insect behaviour, chemistry, and molecular biology. These provide a space for presentation of
 research plans and findings to a group of researchers familiar with the research topics. Students
 are encouraged to form peer support groups, where more experienced students actively support
 and mentor those more recently recruited.

 Students are encouraged to present their work externally and have been awarded prizes: Christina
 Conroy (Supervisor, Bray) from the Royal Entomological Society, the Society of Chemical Industry
 and the Worshipful Company of Fruiterers; Claudia Carvalho (Supervisor, Colgan) from the SCI
 Agrisciences Group and the 4th International Horticulture Research Conference; and Maria
 Carcamo (Supervisor, Colgan) from the Worshipful Company of Fruiterers and Biotechnology YES
 2018: Unleash Your Ingenuity Award.

 Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 The University of Greenwich is committed to promoting equality and diversity, and to providing an
 inclusive and supportive environment. This is central to NRI’s commitment to excellence in all that
 we do. NRI’s commitment to EDI is reflected in how we: (a) ensure that everyone is treated fairly
 and with respect; (b) recognise that students and staff have different needs; (c) ensure that no-

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one experiences less favourable treatment or discrimination because of their age; any disability
 they may have; their ethnicity, colour or national origin; their gender; their gender identity or gender
 reassignment; their sexual orientation, their marital or civil partnership status; being pregnant or
 having recently had a baby; their religion or beliefs. The University has clear EDI Policies and
 Strategies guiding practice across the organisation. The University has the following
 accreditations/charters: HR Excellence in Research, Disability Confident, Stonewall Workplace
 Equality Index, Stonewall Diversity Champions (and work to submit to the Workplace Equality
 Index for 2021-23 is underway, where the university has held a top 100 employers position within
 the index on three occasions during the last REF period), Mentally Healthy Universities (this is a
 call to action for employers to adopt the recommendations of the government’s independent
 review to support mental health (UUK - Step change)) and Time to Change Pledge. Within the
 University there are the following diversity groups and networks: LGBT+ Staff and Allies
 Community, Disability Staff Network, Disability Named Contact and BAME Staff Network;
 Women’s’ Network, Women’s’ Professoriate Group, Diversity Interests Group. EDI Training is
 mandatory (with refreshers every three years) for all staff, and “Managing Diversity” is essential
 for staff with management responsibilities. In addition, unconscious bias training has been rolled
 out for NRI staff in the period.

 In line with the University wide trend, a higher proportion of UoA6 staff with significant responsibility
 for research (SRR) were BAME (32.7%) than those in the same subject area without SRR (21.4%).
 The percentage male and female (58.9, 41.1% respectively) with SRR in UoA6 was consistent
 with staff with SRR in the University (59.5%, 40.5%). The level of disability in the university SRR
 population (4.8%) was higher than in the ‘without’ SRR population (0%). Looking back at
 REF2014, a number of challenges faced in UoA6 have been addressed (Table 7).

 Table 7. Progress in diversity indicators in UoA6 since REF2014.
                                               REF2014                            REF2021
  % male, %female                              76%, 24%                         58.9%, 41.1%
  % BME staff                                     4%                                32.7%
  Female Professors                              0 FTE                            4.43 FTE
  Female Associate Professors                   2.0 FTE                            2.8 FTE
  % female of staff promoted                                                     50% (8/16)
  BAME Professors                                   0                               1 FTE

 Steps taken by NRI include:
    • investing in training PhD students, e.g. internal scholarships to create a pipeline of talent
        (4.2 FTE in UoA6 have Greenwich PhDs, of which 1.4 FTE are now Professors).
    • recruiting and nurturing ECRs with a view to becoming permanent members of staff. 6 FTE
        in this submission were recruited as Post-Doctoral Research Associates for specific
        projects and are now permanent members of staff.
    • taking a range of additional measures in recruitment e.g. advertising job vacancies
        internationally to attract the best available talent globally; advertising vacancies in a wide
        range of media, having longer short lists to encourage diversity and use of remote
        interviewing to enable participation. The impact of these measures is seen in the new E3
        cohort where across NRI, 60% of new appointments under the E3 were recruited from
        outside the UK; 50% were female and 50% BAME; and
    • encouraging female staff to take advantage of the Aurora programme (5 in REF period).

 The new female professorial 4.43 FTE have been achieved through new appointments (1.43 FTE),
 promotion (2.0 FTE) and a focus on research activity (1.0 FTE).

 NRI has an excellent track record in terms of diversity of its PGR student population. As of 31 July
 2020, the UoA6 PGR community was 38.5 FTE, with 56% female and 45% male with BME
 students representing 55% of the population. Across NRI, the whole PGR population is 53.5, with
 54% female 46% male and 63% BAME. NRI encourages diversity of the student population by


                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 advertising roles widely to attract the most diverse pool of applicants that can translate through
 into the selected students.

 In the coming period, NRI aspires to continue to increase diversity in leadership positions. The
 University is committed to undertake Athena Swan accreditation and Tech Talent Charters.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research at NRI is coordinated by the Director of Research and Enterprise (Bennett, UoA22). It
 takes place within the context of the University’s Strategic Plan, from which the NRI Strategic Plan
 (Knowledge for a Sustainable World) is derived. UoA6 research cuts across NRI’s three
 operational Departments. These departments are the primary operational units for mentoring staff,
 maintaining professional standards, and overseeing staff development. Research and consultancy
 funding are coordinated across Research Groups and Development Programmes. Heads of
 Department, the Director of Research and Enterprise and other senior staff provide both active
 intellectual support for research bidding and quality control under systems validated by
 ISO9001:2000 to ensure quality, financial viability, and responsibility for delivery of outputs. For
 larger bids, and bids with both research and consultancy elements, NRI’s Commercial Director,
 Commercial Manager and Business Development Manager also provide support. Information is
 disseminated throughout the Institute via the Intranet and Departmental meetings, and weekly
 research seminars are held on a time-tabled basis with presentations by staff members, research
 students, and visiting researchers.

 Table 8: Natural Resources Institute research and knowledge exchange funding in the
 REF period.
                Income source                                     Funding (£million)
  UoA6 Research Revenues                                                46.30
  UoA22 Research Revenues                                               11.72
  Knowledge Exchange Revenues supporting
                                                                         19.39
  research impact
  QR funding (UKRI)                                                      3.32
  HEIF funding (UKRI)                                                    1.10
  UoA6 University PhD Scholarships                                       1.82
  UoA22 University PhD Scholarships                                      0.11
  Total                                                                  83.76

 In order to make significant contributions to the SDGs, NRI’s UoA6 research activity (£46.3m) sits
 within the wider context of research funded under UoA22 (£11.7m) and NRI’s externally funded
 knowledge exchange projects (£19.4m) that support translation of research into impact (Table 8).
 QR funding (£3.3m) is allocated to Research Groups against peer-reviewed plans to pump-prime
 new initiatives, maintain key research facilities and support the PGR student experience. HEIF
 funds allocated to NRI (£1.1m) are used to catalyse knowledge exchange activities in line with
 university strategies.

 Table 9: Research Revenues in REF2014 and REF2021 (£million)
             Income source                   REF201     REF20      REF202        REF20   %change
                                                 4        14           1           21    mean/yr
                                               (5 yr    mean/        (7 yr       mean/    2014 v
                                              Total)      yr        Total)         yr      2021
  UKRI Research Councils                       0.59      0.12        5.16         0.74    526%
  UK-based charities                           0.02      0.00        0.18         0.03    422%
  UK central government bodies                 2.81      0.56        2.09         0.30     -47%



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  UK industry, commerce and public           0.95      0.19       0.69       0.10       -49%
  corporations
  EU government bodies                       2.35      0.47       5.51       0.79       67%
  EU industry, commerce and public           0.03      0.01       0.03       0.00
  corporations
  EU (excluding UK) other                   0.15       0.03       1.61       0.23       661%
  Non-EU-based charities/Industry and       11.41      2.28       30.05      4.29       88%
  other
  Other sources/UK other sources            0.99       0.20       1.00       0.14
  Total                                     19.31      3.86       46.30      6.61       71%


 Total research revenues for UoA6 (£46.3m) have more than doubled since REF2014 (£19.3m)
 (Table 9), representing a 71% increase when calculated on a revenue per annum basis. The
 principal sources of income were BEIS Research Councils (11.0%); UK Government (5.0%); EU
 Government (12.0%); and non-EU based charities and other (65%) and other sources (7%).
 BMGF income is reported under both non-EU charity competitive and non-EU other. Overall, 20%
 of revenues come from UK sources, 15% from EU and 65% from other countries representing an
 excellent return on UK investment.

 When averaged over the REF periods, BEIS Research Council funding per annum has increased
 by 526% (Table 9). It represented 2% of 2013/2014 revenues compared with 34% in 2019/20.
 Significant projects include: E3 Award from Research England (Food and Nutrition Security
 Initiative) (£7.5m, Westby); Sustainability-Intensification Trade-offs in Coffee Agroforestry
 (BBSRC, £1.37m, Haggar); Natural Pest Regulation on Orphan Crop Legumes in Africa (BBSRC,
 £0.99m, Stevenson); Human Decoy Mosquito Trap (MRC, £0.56m, Gibson); Intelligent Control
 of Fresh Produce Storage (BBSRC, £0.43m, Colgan); Environmentally Benign Combination
 Biopesticides (BBSRC, £0.42m Stevenson); Deterrent: Spotted-Wing Drosophila (BBSRC,
 0.32m, Bray). Royal Society projects include High-Throughput Sequencing Indexing to
 Strengthen the Yam Seed Systems (Seal, £0.21m) and Striga Smart Sorghum Solutions for
 Smallholders in East Africa (Rodenburg, £0.22m).

 UK-based charitable income is small, but increased by 422% as a result of a project on climate
 resilience funded the Association of Commonwealth Universities.

 UK Government projects include those funded by FCDO, TSB/Innovate UK; DEFRA Darwin Fund
 and AHDB (non-departmental public body under DEFRA). FCDO research funding has
 decreased, whilst FCDO knowledge transfer and evaluation funding as increased (included in the
 knowledge transfer line in Table 8). Projects include: AHDB-funded research (£0.89m);
 Sustainable Agricultural Intensification Research and Learning in Africa (FCDO, Haggar, £0.59m);
 Agroforests in Guatemala (DEFRA/Darwin, Haggar £0.28m); Nutritional Postharvest Loss
 Estimation Methodology (FCDO/BMGF, £0.25m, Bechoff).

 Whilst direct industry funding has decreased, AHDB and Innovate UK collaborative funding has
 increased and is reported in other lines of Table 9. Industry-funded knowledge transfer work has
 increased and forms part of the knowledge transfer line in Table 8.

 EU Government funding has increased by 67% when averaged over REF cycles. EU-funded
 projects include: D-Factory (€7.20m, Harvey); GRATITUDE - Gains from losses of root and tuber
 crops (Tomlins, £2.37m); Cassava Growth Markets (Tomlins, £2.33m); Optimisation of
 Pesticidal-Plants (£0.88m, Stevenson); Sustainable Technology to Overcome Pest Rodents in
 Africa (£0.83m, Belmain); Limiting the Impact of Cassava Brown Streak Disease (£0.51m,
 Gowda); EC Food Fortification Research Portfolio (£0.91m, Tomlins).

 Within the EU ‘other’ category, showing a 661% increase, is the highly prestigious grant awarded
 to Gibson (£198k) from the Human Frontier Science Program (HFSP) from which 28 awardees

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have gone on to receive the Nobel Prize. Also included are projects funded through Agrinatura-
 EEIG.

 Non-EU charitable/non-EU other are combined in Table 9 and have increased by 88%.
 Charitable funding is from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) (>90%); McKnight
 Foundation and Rockefeller Foundation. Significant BMGF projects include: African Cassava
 Whitefly Project (Phase I) (£10.03 m), (Phase II) (£8.53m, Colvin); Cassava Adding Value for
 Africa Phase II (£13.07m, Westby); African Postharvest Loss Information Systems Project
 (£2.42m, Stathers); Enabling Research Tools for Cassava and Yam Virologists and Breeders
 (£1.8m, Seal); Yam Toolkits Project (£0.93m, Seal). McKnight Foundation includes work on
 pesticidal plants (£344k, Belmain) and sweetpotato germplasm (£159k, Stevenson) and
 Rockefeller Foundation Cassava Innovation Challenge (£388k, Bennett/Tomlins).

 Other non-EU funding is from a wide range of funding sources, including CGIAR centres and
 international donors. These include: Health and Safety at Cassava Processing Centres (CIAT,
 £255k, Precoppe); Fish AgriFood Systems (WorldFish, £392k, de Bruyn); Gari processing with
 biofortified cassava (HarvestPlus, £185k, Bechoff); Collaborative research with RTB-CRP (CIP,
 £181k, Tomlins).

 Facilities
 The Medway Campus provides a suite of outstanding facilities that support UoA6 research
 priorities. Plant growth facilities include three large state of the art tropical glasshouses (1 new
 2020, cost £906k), a smaller temperate glasshouse and a set of 16 raised beds (new 2020). This
 new investment significantly increases NRI’s capability for climate change-related research. This
 is complemented by 6 growth cabinets suitable for plant growth or culturing pathogens and insects,
 and by the DEFRA licenced quarantine facilities and insectaries (upgraded 2015, cost £262k).
 These extensive facilities give NRI a competitive advantage in conducting work on tropical pests
 in a temperate country, e.g. NRI’s extensive research on whitefly. Research on plant material and
 soils has been enhanced by a new agronomy laboratory (2020, cost £326k). Molecular
 laboratories provide infrastructure for extraction, amplification and purification of nucleic acids for
 sequencing in collaboration with international partners. Bioinformatics capacity, strengthened with
 the appointments of Armitage and Emami, benefit from the University’s 57-node High
 Performance Computer cluster with dedicated high memory/GPU nodes complemented by two
 additional high specification computers dedicated to NRI, with resources suitable for the assembly
 and analysis of complex genomes (512GB/786GB RAM, new 2020, £46k).

 Chemical and behavioural ecology research is facilitated by a suite of equipment for the collection
 and analysis of natural products: three entrainment kits for volatile capture; a specialist wind tunnel
 for pheromone lure performance testing; a Liquid Chromatography coupled Mass Spectrometer
 (new 2020, cost £95k) for non-volatile chemical identification; Liquid Chromatography coupled
 Ultraviolet Detector/Refractive Index (HPLC-UV/RI) for non-volatile chemical analysis; five Gas
 Chromatography coupled Flame Ionisation Detectors (GC-FIDs) for volatile compound analysis;
 Infrared Spectrometer (IR); three GC-MS setups with autosampler and integral software for
 operation, data collection and data processing, linked to a new client-server chromatography data
 system and seven instrument connection licences to network all existing gas chromatographs
 (new 2020, £102k); GC-EAD electrophysiological facilities measure the perception of compounds
 by recording from insect antenna and linking the response to the GC output. Behavioural studies
 of insects utilise a range of Y-tubes and olfactometers, including 3D tracking wind-tunnel facilities
 (upgraded 2017, cost £32k; upgraded 2020, cost £85k).

 New during the period is the £1m ‘Valgorize algal pilot facility’, a food grade-facility fitted with a
 400L tubular photobioreactor, 150L tubular column photobioreactor unit, 6 Algem
 photobioreactors, 1 HT24 photobioreactor, two algal growth units of 0.5m 2 and one of 3.5m2 mini-
 raceways, plus all associated equipment to harvest and process the algal biomass. This is used
 to scale up production of algae under red lights to produce a powder with an ideal taste profile,
 balanced amino acid composition and optimal content of 9-cis beta-carotene, a new food
 supplement.

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Food research is supported with laboratories for food microbiology, food chemistry, two food
 innovation laboratories (1 new 2020, £379k), food preparation and post-harvest produce quality,
 and molecular biology. In 2017, NRI took over the research storage facilities of the Produce
 Quality Centre (PQC) at East Malling, and invested £180k in facility refurbishment, and £90k in
 equipment, representing a significant infrastructure increase. With support from Innovate UK and
 industry, NRI has worked with UK agritech companies to develop state of the art storage
 research equipment. The PQC has the UK’s most extensive controlled atmosphere (CA)
 research storage facility, comprising ten adaptable controlled temperature rooms from -2°C to
 30°C, with >50 chambers each capable of independent atmospheric control, and state of the art
 equipment for monitoring environmental conditions and produce quality attributes.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Strategic fit of NRI’s work globally
 NRI’s research is aligned with the priorities in the strategy of the GCRF, under the objective
 ‘equitable access to sustainable development’ and the theme of ‘secure and resilient food systems
 supported by sustainable marine resources and agriculture’, with contributions to other themes. It
 is also in alignment with the priorities of the FCDO which in a recent research review identified the
 importance of ‘large-scale research investment into sustainable agriculture, to improve nutrition
 and food security and increase resilience to climate change in developing countries’. Research on
 food systems and their relationship to food and nutrition security is also a European Union priority.
 The African Union’s Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme recognises the
 importance of agriculture for food and nutrition security. The E3 Award has upgraded NRI’s ability
 to address these issues.

 Strategic fit of NRI’s work nationally
 The Strategic Priorities Fund Food Systems Programme indicates the challenge of ensuring that
 UK food systems are both environmentally sustainable and support a healthy population. The
 need to address local economic development in the UK’s most deprived areas is a serious
 challenge recognised by Government. The award of the Strengthen in Places ‘Growing Kent and
 Medway’ and Food Systems CDT have positioned NRI to address these key priorities.

 Research collaborations, Partnerships and Networks
 NRI’s long-term deep engagement in developing- and emerging-country agriculture is unique in
 English higher education. Virtually all UoA6 projects involve collaboration, since 2014 numbering
 >500 other organisations. Within NRI’s Management Team, Chancellor takes specific
 responsibility for partnerships reflecting their importance to NRI’s research and impact. NRI has
 signed 720 sub-contracts with partners since 2014. According to Scopus, 78% of the UoA’s 680
 outputs are published with authors outside the UK.

 The international nature of NRI’s work is indicated in Figure 2 using days spent in specific countries
 as an indicator. NRI’s work is focused on sub-Saharan Africa, with significant activity in south Asia,
 specifically India, and growing collaborations in China. The map also shows collaboration with
 partners in research intensive countries (e.g. EU, USA, and Australia).




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. Map to illustrate the international nature of NRI’s work. Shading indicates the number
 of days spent in each country since 2014 by NRI researchers.

 In sub-Saharan Africa, staff have research collaborations or undertake policy or advisory work for
 the major regional organisations that include: Africa Union (AU), the African Union Development
 Agency (NEPAD); Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa; Forum for Agricultural Research in
 Africa (FARA); Regional Universities Forum for Capacity Building in Agriculture (RUFORUM);
 Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa
 (ASARECA); and the African Forum for Agricultural Advisory Services. Additionally, NRI
 collaborates with a wide range of universities, national agricultural research organisations,
 national government departments and non-government organisations (the CAVA project
 (Westby) worked with >100 organisations between 2014 and 2019).

 As part of the Research England’s E3 Award, NRI formed a partnership as part of its Food and
 Nutrition Security Initiative. Partners include: African universities that are World Bank Centres of
 Excellence (Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Nigeria (Agricultural Development and
 Sustainable Environment); Haramaya University, Ethiopia (Climate Smart Agriculture); University
 of Eldoret, Kenya (Food Processing); Benue State University, Nigeria (Food Losses); Sokoine
 University, Tanzania (Rodent Pest Management/McKnight Agroecology Hub); Nelson Mandela
 African Institution of Science and Technology, Tanzania (Agroecology); Bayero University, Nigeria
 (Drylands Agriculture); Lilongwe University of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Malawi
 (Aquaculture and Fisheries/ McKnight Agroecology Hub); CGIAR Centre/Programmes (Worldfish,
 HarvestPlus, CGIAR Research Program on Roots, Tubers and Bananas and ILRI), ICIPE, Kenya
 and leading UK agricultural research centres (Rothamsted Research and NIAB-EMR). This has
 already led to four jointly funded appointments, PhD studentships and significant new funding (e.g.
 UK Food Systems CDT).

 Research partnerships have grown with organisations in USA (e.g. on whitefly, horticulture and
 warehouse receipts with Cornell, Iowa State University, University of California, Riverside and
 Perdue University), China (on IPM, rodent control and cassava with, for example, Chinese
 Academy of Agricultural Sciences and Hunan University of Agricultural Sciences) and Brazil
 (Zika/Dengue transmission and cassava and with FIOCRUZ, including a Memorandum of
 Understanding with EMBRAPA).

 NRI’s membership of Agrinatura, the European Alliance for Agricultural Knowledge for
 Development, with 35 members from 16 countries (> 2,000FTEs including CIRAD, Wageningen
 and Swedish Agricultural University), is particularly significant. NRI seconds the Director, hosts

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the secretariat and Chancellor is Vice President. Agrinatura has a strong research, advisory and
 support partnership with DG Development, facilitating knowledge creation and uptake.

 As a reflection of planned strategic focus on UK-focused research, there has been a strengthening
 of national partnerships. The UK Food Systems CDT, with nine academic partners, has an open
 ‘Academy’ with >50 associate partners from government, civil society and business. The Strength
 in Places project has open membership but centres on core collaborations with NIAB-EMR,
 University of Kent, Locate in Kent and 8 companies.

 NRI is a founding member and provides the Coordinator for the All Party Parliamentary Group on
 Food and Agriculture for Development. The group provides a mechanism for influencing policy on
 food and agriculture, presenting research findings and interfacing with Government departments.

 NRI interacts with many global research and development organisations. Examples include FAO
 (e.g. supporting the Tropical Agriculture Platform); World Food Programme (long-term advisory
 support on food safety); Global Forum for Rural Advisory Services; CGIAR (multiple collaborations
 and reviews of collaborative research programmes (2020)).

 NRI has many collaborations with industry at different scales. Selected examples include: Mars,
 Sainsburys, SABMiller, Russell-IPM, Berry Gardens, Thanet Earth, Barfoots, BioGents Ag, North-
 Eastern Starch Limited (Thailand), Tropical Starch (Ghana), GrowTech (Kenya).

 Activities supporting the academic community:
    • Director, UKRI UK Food Systems CDT (Westby).
    • President of Agrinatura-EEIG (2011-2014) (Westby).
    • Management Committee, BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme
         (Westby).
    • Co-chair of Independent Panel of Experts for the Innovative Methods and Metrics for
         Agriculture and Nutrition Actions (IMMANA) programme (BMGF/FCDO) 2020 (Westby).
    • Co-Director of the BBSRC NIBB ‘Algae-UK’ (2018 – date) (Harvey).
    • President of International Society for Tropical Root Crops (2012-2018) (Tomlins)
    • Vice-president of the International Parasitic Plant Society (2020-date) (Rodenburg)
    • Committee (2014-2018) Chair (2018-date) of Eukaryotic Division, Microbiology Society.
         (Thompson).
    • Lead expert/ keynote address to joint WHO-FAO committee on ‘Innovative control
         approaches of rodent-borne epidemic diseases and other public health consequences of
         rodents’ proliferation’ 2019 (Belmain)
    • Management Board, GCRF-funded Community Network for African Vector-Borne Plant
         Viruses (CONNECTED) (2018 to date). 1,500 members, 83 countries (Seal/Hopkins).
    • Management Board, GCRF-funded Community Network on Blackflies, Sandflies and Biting
         Midges (GNATWORK: Building capacity for research on vectors of neglected diseases)
         (2017 to date). 384 members, 44 countries (Cheke).
    • Society of Chemical Industries, AgriScience Committee (Hopkins).
    • Chair, Organising Committee. Symposium on The Chemical Ecology of Pollination 2016
         at XXV International Congress of Entomology (Stevenson).
    • Chair, Organising Committee ‘Algae Biorefineries for Europe’ International conference
         2017 (Harvey).
    • RSC-Pan Africa Chemistry Network Advisory Board 2015 – date (Harvey).
    • European Algal Biomass Association Board 2014-date (Harvey).

 Table 10 Examples of leadership in the academic community.
                                                                                         Count
  Fellowship of main learned societies                                                    30
  Conferences organised/chaired                                                           49
  Workshop, mini-symposium, special sessions organised                                    73

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Plenary lectures                                                                       33
  Invited or keynote lectures                                                            102
  Editorship of journal (chief or joint)                                                 27
  Member of journal Advisory Editorial Board                                             16
  National or International Advisory Board Committees (Including UKRI)                   43
  Research Prizes and similar honours                                                    33
  Other…                                                                                 42

 Examples of NRI’s staff/research supporting policy and practice:
    • Two Coordinating Lead Authors (chapters on ‘agricultural production and food security’
       (Porter) and ‘rural areas (Morton (UoA22)’), Fifth Assessment Report of the
       Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2014).
    • Steering Committee Sweetpotato for Profit and Health Initiative, reaching 6.2 million
       households (estimated 29 million people) with orange-fleshed sweetpotato by 2019
       (Westby).
    • Consultancy for FAO (2016) on alternatives to fenthion for bird control, leading to some
       countries, e.g. Botswana, changing policy (Cheke).
    • Member of the highly cited Lancet Countdown for Health and Climate Change (Grace).
    • Member of Global Burden of Disease Collaborator Network contributing to two Lancet
       articles (730 citations) and a New England Journal of Medicine paper (2000 citations)
       (Wesana).
    • Invited Team Lead/ Lead Author of Ceres2030 Evidence Synthesis to inform investment
       decision-making for SDG2 (2020) (Evidence Synthesis: Interventions for crop postharvest
       loss reduction in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia) (Stathers).
    • Technical advisor to AgResults an innovative multi-million dollar Pay-for-Results approach
       incentivising private sector investment in high-impact agricultural innovations to reduce
       food insecurity. Kenyan On-farm Storage (2015-16) (Stathers).
    • Member of the Asia-Pacific Malaria Elimination Network’s Vector Control Working Group
       (Hawkes).
    • Member of Roll Back Malaria’s Vector Control Working Group (Hawkes).
    • Co-chair, North American Carbon Program (NACP) Implementation Plan (Brown).
    • Member, NACP Science Implementation Plan Writing Committee, 2017-date (Brown).
    • National Academy of Science's Committee on Earth Sciences and Applications from
       Space, 2016 -date (Brown).
    • Special advisor to WHO providing expertise/training on rodent-borne diseases in
       Madagascar 2018 (plague) and Hong Kong 2019 (rat hepatitis) (Belmain).
    • Contribution of an ‘Inspirational Project’ (1/4) to the EU Development of a Roadmap for the
       Blue Bioeconomy in 2019 (Harvey).
    • DEFRA Pollinator Advisory Steering Group (Stevenson).
    • DEFRA Group Evidence Science Advisory Committee (Stevenson).
    • Led discussion workshop on ‘Aquatic food products and new marine value chains’ FOOD
       2030 launch by the EC DG Research & Innovation (Harvey).
    • Prepared evidence review report on algae, both micro-and macro-algae for the Scientific
       Advisory Mechanism (SAM) of the European Commission for Food from the
       Oceans (Harvey).
    • Expert panel for European Commission DG Research & Innovation expert meeting on
       Algae Bio-Refineries (biomass production) (Harvey).
    • Committee Member for Global Nutrition Leadership Programme (Dominguez-Salas).
    • Potato Industry CIPC Stewardship Group (Colgan).

 Awards and prizes awarded in addition to the QAPs already listed include:
   • Knight of French Order of Agricultural Merit (2015) (Porter).
   • Guardian University Award for Research Impact (2015).
   • Times Higher Award for International Partnership of the year (2014).


                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   USDA Abraham Lincoln Honor Award 2016 for Increasing Global Food Security for the
        Climate Change (Brown).
    •   Cassava work recognised in UUK's Best Breakthroughs List (2018).
    •   Rockefeller Foundation Cassava Innovation Challenge (Bennett/Tomlins) award for most
        promising solution, chosen from >1000 submissions (2017).
    •   Life-time Achievement Award for contributions to ‘Radar Entomology’ (International Radar
        Aeroecology Conference, Zhenzhou, China, 2019) (Reynolds).
    •   ‘Hind Rattan’ (translates to ‘Jewel of India’) Award for outstanding contributions to research
        by a non-residential Indian recognising contribution in REF period (Gowda).
    •   Winner, Swiss Malaria Group’s #EndMalaria video competition (2017) with “Living with
        Malaria” (Hawkes).
    •   Outstanding Alumna Award University College Dublin, Ireland 2020 (Grace).




                                                                                              Page 22
