Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Stirling
 Unit of Assessment: C20 Social Work and Social Policy
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1       Overview

 Research in Social Work and Social Policy at the University of Stirling has a sustained history of
 high quality empirical work that is framed to respond to real-world challenges, designed to deliver
 impact and theoretically and methodologically robust. We have enhanced quality of life for
 marginalised and excluded groups and changed policy and practice to promote inclusivity and
 social justice and address contemporary global social challenges. Going forward, we are pursuing
 mission-oriented, translational research in the context of a research ecosystem that includes
 research users, people who use services, policy makers, practitioners and business.

 We are an interdisciplinary team from social sciences including social policy, social work,
 sociology, criminology, social statistics, demography, dementia studies, housing and urban
 studies, working alongside architects, pharmacists, clinicians and colleagues across the University
 and beyond. Our inclusive culture supports researchers at all levels from doctoral study to senior
 roles. We have particular strengths in research on ageing and dementia, child well-being and
 addictions, all of which deliver impact through knowledge exchange facilities such as the Dementia
 Services Development Centre. Our methodological expertise cuts across these topics and our
 applied focus means we place research end-users at the heart of our research, pioneering co-
 production with people living with dementia and addictions and in criminal justice.

 1.2       Organisation and structure

 Within the University structure, Social Work and Social Policy is located within the Faculty of Social
 Sciences alongside Education. University wide themes and programmes facilitate interdisciplinary
 working across the institution. Our work links primarily to the Living Well research theme, with
 connections to the other two University themes. We lead the Ageing and Dementia and Home,
 Housing and Community research programmes, and colleagues also work with other
 programmes, notably Extremes in Science and Society.

 Social Work and Social Policy is organised in four Research Centres and two Research Groups.
 These are collaborative and porous by design. All staff members and research students have a
 primary affiliation with one Centre or Group, and many also participate in one or more others,
 encouraging collaboration. As a result, there is substantial synergy across the whole research
 team.

 The Centres focus thematically on mission-oriented research in:

       •   the global ageing population (Centre for Environment, Dementia and Ageing Research);
       •   equal outcomes for children in a world of inequality (Centre for Child Wellbeing and
           Protection);
       •   the challenge of addictions (Salvation Army Centre for Addictions Services and Research);
       •   high quality and fair criminal justice (Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research).

 The Research Groups provide underpinning methodological and policy expertise across the
 Centres. They are:

       •   Social Surveys and Social Statistics;
       •   Public Services and Governance.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Centre for Environment, Dementia and Ageing Research - CEDAR (Bowes, Dawson (lead),
 Douglas, Forbat, Gibson, Hapca, Hennessy; Lovatt, McCabe, McCall, Philp, Phillips, Reynish,
 Robertson, Rutherford, Ward)

 The Centre (Ageing) conducts interdisciplinary, environmental gerontological research in social,
 built, natural and care environments for older people including those living with dementia. The
 Dementia Services Development Centre (DSDC) is the knowledge exchange vehicle for CEDAR’s
 applied research (Impact Case Study ICS2). We host HAGIS, the Scottish longitudinal study of
 ageing. Our global reach includes research in China, Japan, North America and Scandinavia.
 Older people are front and centre in all research projects. Extensive national and international
 partnerships with industry, third sector organisations, policy and practice ensure impact. IRIDIS is
 a spin-out joint venture company, which innovates in design for dementia.

 Centre for Child Wellbeing and Protection (Callaghan, Dominelli, Emond, Engstrom, Grant,
 Hale, Helm, Lucas, McIntosh, Morrison, Punch, Rigby, Shapira, Whincup, and Wilson).

 Child Wellbeing specialises in research on domestic abuse and violence in childhood, post-
 disaster recovery and family life and child migrants. Our research on looked-after children has
 produced a pioneering longitudinal dataset. Our impacts are to improve the protection of children
 and young people, preventing harm, and improving their outcomes, nationally and internationally
 (ICS1). We work together with children and young people, families, communities and
 organisational partners to build knowledge that can be applied in practice settings. We advise UK
 Government on policy issues and new legislation, notably on domestic violence.

 Salvation Army Centre for Addiction Services and Research (Parkes, Carver, Foster,
 Fotopoulou, Matheson, Miler)

 Addictions launched in 2017 with core funding from the Salvation Army, the first such partnership
 it has supported. The investment has transformed the scale and scope of our research, which
 focuses on addressing addictions in context and on interventions that support recovery. Our
 knowledge exchange work provides practical and workable solutions to critical issues, such as the
 record drug deaths in Scotland, and our research feeds directly into practice for workers in the
 field and front-line peer supporters. Centre members work closely with Government addressing
 the challenge of substance abuse. We host the Scottish Drugs Research Network and collaborate
 internationally in Canada, Iceland and Ireland.

 Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research (Brangan, Graham, Hamilton-Smith, Malloch,
 McIvor, Morran, Munro)

 We co-host the Centre (Justice) with the universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow and Strathclyde.
 Stirling-based research is interdisciplinary, bringing together sociological, criminological and social
 work perspectives. It concerns criminal justice systems and processes; contested concepts within
 crime and justice; organised crime; and sexual abuse and trafficking. Close engagement of policy-
 makers and practitioners within the research of the Centre means our research impacts policy and
 practice both nationally and internationally such as in electronic monitoring (ICS3).

 Public Services and Governance Research Group (Anderson, Matthews, Mackay, McCall,
 McKee, Rolfe, Rummery, Rutherford, Sherwood-Johnson, Simmons).

 Governance researches public service change, reform and leadership and the experiences of
 service users and citizens in a range of social work and social policy areas, providing context for
 and links with the Centres’ research. Outputs contribute novel empirical, methodological and
 theoretical understandings informing responses to challenges such as austerity, housing need,
 ageing populations, citizen participation and related changes in the delivery and governance of
 services, such as in the voluntary sector. Group members collaborate with Centre members and
 work across the University in leading the Home, Housing and Communities programme. A spin-

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 out is High-Speed Universal Broadband for Scotland (HUBS), a social enterprise working to
 address digital exclusion.

 Social Surveys and Social Statistics Research Group (Griffiths, Lambert, Rutherford, Seaman,
 Shapira)

 Statistics brings together researchers conducting analysis of large and complex statistical
 datasets to address a wide range of social phenomena and social problems. Our strategic priority
 is to provide expertise in high quality applied and methodological research related to the analysis
 of statistical datasets (ICS4). We are innovators in delivering novel methods such as
 administrative data-linkage, and we host the internationally adopted Cambridge Social Interaction
 and Stratification Scales (CAMSIS) system of occupational classification.

 Research Governance
 Governance operates at Faculty level, through the Associate Dean for Research and monthly
 meetings of the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC). RKEC reports to the
 Faculty Executive and the University’s Research Committee. All Centre and Group leaders are
 members of RKEC, along with the PGR Directors and Dean of Faculty. Individual Centre and
 Group leaders organise regular meetings to ensure members are collegially supported and kept
 abreast of the changing research environment. Such collegiate support was especially useful
 during the disruptions of 2020 and helped us maintain a thriving research culture.

 1.3       Research Objectives 2014-2020

 Our strategy for the period of assessment has been to drive forward our research addressing the
 challenges of ageing, equal outcomes for children and improved criminal justice. We have
 sustained and enhanced our key strengths in Ageing, and Child Wellbeing, and invested in new
 research in Addictions, an area of growing importance for Social Work and Social Policy. Our
 priorities to deliver this strategy have been:

       •   increasing research income from a diversity of sources;
       •   supporting high quality research and publications;
       •   increasing the international significance of our work;
       •   developing the socio-economic impact from our research.

 A crosscutting theme throughout the strategy has been supporting research students and staff at
 all levels to excel, monitoring equality impact and modifying our practices to address inequity

 Research development
 Ageing research has grown and developed to form CEDAR, and is now a flagship focus for the
 University. Our Child Well-being Centre is delivering new research on children and families and
 influencing national policy. In Addictions, we have secured the Salvation Army investment, and
 are leading initiatives to address drug-related deaths.

 Increasing Research Income: Our research spend has increased by over 60% during the
 assessment period. During 2019-20, we won an annual record total £3.7m in new awards. In 2020-
 21 to date, £5.4m of new awards have been secured. Key developments to achieve this objective
 have been:

       •   leading and collaborating in large national and international collaborative research
           projects, including major UKRI investments in research and knowledge exchange on
           societal challenges, such as the ESRC funded Centre for Population Change (Ageing);
           Improving Adult Care Together (IMPACT – the ESRC/Health Foundation UK Centre for
           Evidence Implementation in Adult Social Care) (Ageing, Governance); UK Collaborative
           Centre for Housing Evidence (CaCHE) (Governance);


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   developing on-going relationships with funders such as the Salvation Army and Life
        Changes Trust, supporting a wide range of research activities in Addictions and Ageing;
    •   promoting and developing international income using funding sources such as Connect+
        (institutional), ESRC network funding to pump-prime research on e.g. quality of life for older
        people in Sub-Saharan Africa and a Japan-UK partnership on design for dementia
        (Ageing);
    •   collaboration with the private and third-sector to lever-in funding for innovation e.g. work
        on designing for dementia in which partners include IKEA and Hitachi, funded under the
        Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (Ageing);
    •   tailoring our support to colleagues depending on career-stage, leading to major awards for
        both early-career and established researchers, such as ESRC New Investigator grants
        (Ageing Lovatt; Justice Brangan);
    •   engaging consultants to provide training in grant writing e.g. research on looked-after
        children (Child Well-being).

 Supporting high quality research and publication in high quality outputs: Our Faculty Peer-
 Review College of senior researchers provides constructive feedback on draft research outputs to
 improve their quality and make peer review processes with publishers more straightforward.
 Feedback from researchers, especially ECRs, is that this has transformed their confidence in the
 quality of their work, and enabled them to produce their best. In annual appraisal (‘Achieving
 Success’), researchers identify key research outputs, discuss barriers to writing and instigate
 individual or collective support (e.g. training, collaborations, research discussions). A key
 investment has been to deliver structured monthly writing retreats, open to researchers at all
 levels. Generous research leave investments have included planned high quality outputs at each
 career stage, such as leave for social work researchers specifically to produce significant outputs.

 Embedding research training and sustainability: Key contributions to research sustainability,
 such as major funding bids, ECR development and important writing projects, are encouraged and
 planned through the annual appraisal processes. We work closely with the University’s Institute
 for Advanced Studies to provide specific training and support for ECRs. We contribute to advanced
 quantitative methods training through Statistics, particularly for ECRs, postgraduate students and
 practitioners throughout the UK and Scotland. We have sustained and enhanced our research
 postgraduate education through securing funded studentships and through our involvement in the
 ESRC Scottish Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) across 10 universities.

 Increasing the international significance of our work: We lead, participate in, and develop
 international networks and collaborative research, producing research outputs with international
 collaborators. Major international research collaborations include:

    •   Ageing, ESRC funded work on Dementia-friendly Neighbourhoods with colleagues in
        Sweden; and work in improving care and death experiences in Australian care homes;
    •   Child Wellbeing, ERASMUS+ funded project developing research-led social work
        curricula; and
    •   Governance, continuing work on homelessness with colleagues across several European
        countries and Cuba.

 We have supported the development of international comparative work which is strongly linked to
 developing wider socio-economic impact, including in Justice, an EU-funded project on ‘electronic
 tagging’ and offender supervision policies (ICS3). Such work is supported by investment in staff
 travel. University funding has additionally supported 15 projects headed by 11 members of staff
 to establish new collaborations with ODA countries.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4    Objectives beyond 2020

 Our strategic vision beyond 2020 is to build on our strengths in mission-oriented, applied research,
 continuing to innovate and respond to developing challenges and missions as they evolve. In the
 context of the Research and Development Roadmap (UK Government 2020) and Plan for Growth
 (2021), our ambition is to conduct forward-looking research that offers innovative solutions to the
 identified socio-economic challenges of changing populations, deprivation and poor life chances,
 and environmental resilience that align closely to our mission. People from all backgrounds will
 participate in and co-produce our research, and we will collaborate with private, public and
 voluntary sectors to identify workable impacts. The building blocks for this research ecosystem
 are in place in the form of our Centres and Groups, our local and global partnerships and the
 University’s interdisciplinary research programmes.

 We are at the heart of the institutional commitment to research that makes a difference, delivering
 sustainable innovations that enhance well-being and social justice globally and locally. This vision
 drives our strategy.

 Ambition and leadership: Our research ambitions are embedded in the landscape of research
 which presents key opportunities for us in emphasising collaborative, interdisciplinary research.
 We will increase the number of large, interdisciplinary UKRI-funded research grants. We will
 develop and lead international collaborations, targeting international and bilateral funding
 schemes, in which we develop our mission to address the sustainable development goals of good
 health and wellbeing, sustainable cities and communities, and peace, justice and strong
 institutions. Our extensive partnering with business and public and third sector bodies places us
 well to take advantage of opportunities in the Research and Development Road Map. The
 Dementia Services Development Centre (DSDC) will continue as a world-leading vehicle for
 translational work in ageing and dementia, using our research to deliver socio-economic impact in
 building design and social care services. The City Region Deal Intergenerational Living Innovation
 Hub will provide a “living laboratory” for innovative multi-disciplinary projects, developing further
 collaborations between our Centres and Groups, wider stakeholders, and external researchers
 and supporting the delivery of impact.

 City Region Deal: The Stirling and Clackmannanshire City Region Deal provides a key platform
 and unique opportunity for transformational research. Direct investment of £46m by the UK and
 Scottish governments is delivering economic and social transformation through major research
 and innovation infrastructure developments. An Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub (£7.2m
 investment) will provide a community-based test-bed for new approaches to societal challenges,
 and Scotland’s International Environment Centre (£22m) focuses on resilience in the natural and
 social environments. These developments are leveraging substantial additional research and
 innovation project funding. We have already received two awards (£1.6m each) under the Healthy
 Ageing Challenge with significant business involvement, which will research (i) designing homes
 for cognitive ageing and (ii) digital and social connectivity for older people.

 Building on strengths: across our Centres and Groups we will continue to drive mission-
 orientated research. Key to this will be enhancing our collaborations across Europe, India, Japan,
 North America and the Global South. We have demonstrated since 2014 our agility in using our
 expertise to respond to new issues. Most recently, this is evidenced by our grant awards since
 March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic (£1.3m). These projects are driven by our
 mission to respond to real-world challenges and deliver impact informed by excellent research.
 Going forward, our strengths in Ageing, Child Well-being, Addictions and Justice remain core,
 and we continue to enhance these. For example, our pioneering expertise in Green Social Work
 and community resilience will support work in all these areas.

 Methodological advances: research development will be underpinned by methodological
 advances, led by co-production with participants, including people living with dementia, children
 and other key stakeholders across sectors. Co-production approaches are core to our ambitions.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We will also enhance our investments in statistical analysis, particularly the use of linked
 administrative data. We will build this multi-method expertise into newly funded, large-scale
 interdisciplinary research projects that are of use and benefit to research users. Examples include
 advancing Healthy Ageing in Scotland (HAGIS - ESRC) and the Permanently Progressing work
 on looked-after children (Nuffield/donor).

 1.5      Approach to impact

 Impact is core to our mission, as we address the societal challenges of ageing, equal outcomes
 for children, addictions and fairness in criminal justice. Our impact strategy has been to deliver
 change in policy and practice in these areas through collaboration with the public and third sectors,
 and to expand this to encompass wider engagement with social enterprises and business. We
 indicate below how each submitted case study has benefitted from our approach to impact.
 Elements of our approach that establish pathways to impact are:

       1. Embedding impact activity and evaluation in research-design across Social Work and
          Social Policy;
       2. Using external funding to support impact activities;
       3. Promoting engagement to deliver impact;
       4. Investing in practice-near research to ensure our research is embedded in policy
          networks and practice contexts.

 To embed impact activity, we engage stakeholders directly and meaningfully at every research
 stage using participatory, co-productive and action research approaches. Examples include Unity,
 a group of people who use social work services, which is recognised across the Social Work sector
 as a model of good practice; close working by Justice with Scottish Government (ICS3); and the
 partnership with the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator and Scottish Council for Voluntary
 Organisations (SCVO) developed by Statistics (ICS4). Our research supports meaningful
 participation of groups and individuals historically excluded from research such as people living
 with dementia, people with addictions and people experiencing homelessness. Through this, we
 foster close relationships with stakeholders that ensure the applicability and uptake of our work.
 Notably, Ageing have used a qualitatively-led multi-methods approach to collaborate with lay
 researchers to anchor understanding of quality of life within the lived experience of older people.
 Ageing/Governance created a ‘serious game’ to facilitate knowledge exchange between
 research, policy and practice concerning housing in later life. We benefit from the University’s
 investment in industry partnership building and its public engagement strategy, including through
 City Region Deal projects.

 External funding that supports impact activities is leveraged through building partnerships with
 organisations that use and communicate our research, such as Alzheimer Scotland (Ageing); the
 Life Changes Trust (Ageing); and the Aberlour Trust (Child Wellbeing). Important individual
 awards have been Statistics’ project with the Scottish Council for Voluntary Organisations to
 develop data literacy in the voluntary sector through webinars and the creation of new datasets;
 and Addictions’ use of Salvation Army investment to take the latest research on addictions,
 substance misuse and recovery directly to practitioners. Child Wellbeing/Governance (ICS1)
 secured ESRC follow-on funding to enhance relationships between children and practitioners in
 care settings by focusing on food practices.

 Promoting engagement by embedding an ethos of impact and protecting time for impact
 activities is integral to our strategy. Staff identify priorities for impact, building appropriate networks
 and partners and developing a wide range of pathways and impact activities. Engagement
 includes: direct community engagement; social media presence; embedding research into
 practitioner education; building research capacity within communities of research beneficiaries;
 and engagement with policy communities through formal and informal networking and formal
 engagement as experts. Examples include recent engagement with the UK Parliament during the
 committee stage of the Domestic Abuse Bill (Child Wellbeing); delivering training and CPD events

                                                                                                     Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 for example on equalities and diversity in housing (Governance); adult support and protection
 (Governance); and child protection (Child Wellbeing). In Ageing, DSDC is a core element of
 impact infrastructure (ICS2). The University has invested in gold membership of the Campaign for
 Social Science Strategic Leadership Forum, which provides access to ministers and key
 influencers, for example discussing the Ageing Grand Challenge with Jo Johnson.

 Our investment in practice-near research supports our approach of embedding impact and
 translating our research into policy and practice. In Ageing, we have fostered knowledge
 partnerships with research beneficiaries to critique existing ‘service-led’ paradigms in policy and
 practice and demonstrate alternative models of engagement between providers and service users.
 A recent evidence-synthesis of care at home for people with dementia for the Scottish Care
 Inspectorate led to training for Inspectors to enhance practice in health and social care inspection.
 Our research-led advanced training and teaching in social work is a pathway to socio-economic
 impact. Child Wellbeing research has informed practice in child protection, working with families
 and using child translators. Similarly, Governance research on adult support and protection has
 developed new models of understanding risk and protecting human rights in an under-research
 area of social work practice and is embedded in post-qualifying professional development.

 Going forward, we are the Scottish academic partner in the ESRC/Health Foundation £15m
 funded evidence implementation centre for adult social care (IMPACT). This considerable
 investment provides a national strategic role in translating our research in adult care across our
 Centres and Groups into practice, building on our contribution to the ESRC Sustainable Care
 Research Programme with Sheffield and Birmingham universities.

 1.6    Interdisciplinary research

 Our interdisciplinary research strategy focuses on the global challenges aligned to our Centres
 and Groups. We have invested in interdisciplinary expertise across Social Work and Social Policy
 and in an interdisciplinary lead (Hennessy). We have also invested in a broader interdisciplinary
 group of staff, including Reynish and Philp who are medical doctors (Ageing), and Matheson, a
 pharmacist (Addictions). All three work within Social Work and Social Policy as Faculty
 members. Interdisciplinarity has also extended to our impact activities, with investment in
 architects in DSDC to support research and consultancy work in bringing our research on ageing,
 dementia and environments directly into the built environment (ICS2).

 Our funding strategy targets larger funders. The cross-cutting relationships within and between
 our Centres and Groups, and the University research programme environment provide essential
 contextual support and our leadership of University level programmes demonstrates we are
 driving interdisciplinarity across the institution. Successes are illustrated in these examples:
 Ageing works closely with palliative care teams in research on care for people with long-term
 illnesses and end-of-life care (Forbat). Child Well-being has pioneered interdisciplinary working
 between social work, earth sciences and health sciences on interventions in disaster zones and
 in response to the climate crisis, work that links to the University’s extreme events programme
 (Dominelli). Governance collaborates with public health researchers bringing housing research
 into understanding the links between housing provision and health outcomes (Anderson, Rolfe).

 Notably, we also bring together social science, arts and humanities to innovate methodologically
 and engage participants in coproducing research. Examples of this include in Ageing, work on
 the Digital Economy through the EPSRC CHERISH-DE project (Phillips) and on the arts and
 dementia (McCall and Robertson); in Child Well-being, on innovative arts-based methods
 (Wilson); in Governance, on understanding complaints working with linguists (Simmons) and
 sustained collaboration with the AHRC’s Connected Communities programme working with
 digital designers (Matthews). We have also worked with computer scientists and information
 technologists to innovate on ‘big data’ analysis, for example Statistics on the voluntary sector
 (Rutherford); Governance on administrative data (Matthews).


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.7       Open research environment

 Research in Social Work and Social Policy at Stirling enhances the University’s commitment to
 open access, in terms of both publications and datasets. We fully support open access
 publication and draw on University/project funding to support this where appropriate. In Statistics
 ESRC investments in administrative data processing and analysis have helped develop
 innovative methods for analysing and opening-up sensitive administrative data, including
 opening-up access to data on the voluntary sector in Scotland, and training voluntary sector
 organisations to use data effectively to understand and enhance their services. Child well-being
 has progressed understanding of approaches to secondary analysis of open qualitative datasets.
 Innovative coproduced research on quality of life in older age (Ageing) and with vulnerable,
 marginalised communities (Governance) has helped created rich data with research participants
 that is in the open domain.

 1.8       Research integrity

 Our culture promotes high levels of research integrity. Discussions of ethics are critical to our work
 with vulnerable groups. This expertise means we have unique experience in ethical research
 practice such as obtaining informed consent with vulnerable participants. Contributions to applied
 projects that use secure secondary survey and administrative data have ensured that three staff
 (Statistics: Griffiths, Rutherford and Shapira) have rare and sought-after experience in protocols
 and processes for secure data handling.

 We benefit from the advice and scrutiny of the General University Ethics Panel (GUEP),
 described in the institutional statement. Where appropriate, ethical scrutiny is also sought from
 external bodies including the NHS Research Ethics Service. GUEP ensures compliance with
 ethical codes and GDPR, within a context of flexibility and support for methodologies such as
 ethnography and coproduced research. We also benefit from University investment in secure
 data storage which ensures research data is protected and GDPR-compliant.

 Section 2. People

 2.1       Overview

 Central to our work to create a research culture with vitality has been developing an environment
 in which all staff are appropriately supported to excel, in keeping with the University strategy. Key
 aspects of this approach include: research leave; supporting larger grant applications from major
 funders; ensuring 40% of staff time is devoted to research; refreshing the appraisal process to
 focus on research contributions and individual research strategies; grant-writing training; peer
 review and mentoring for ECRs; and developing extra training and support for doctoral supervisors
 and PGRs. In responding to COVID-19 we have worked within the wider constraints to ensure
 ongoing strategic support for research.

 2.2       Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our staffing strategy focuses on:

       •   Investing in capacity in our areas of key strength through new appointments at all levels;
       •   Supporting and developing the skills and capacity of our existing staff to ensure excellent
           research standards;
       •   Providing all staff with the skills, training and infrastructure to improve the reach and
           significance of research impact;
       •   Ensuring that staff have equal opportunities in their development and access to training
           and support.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our staffing strategy and development opportunities have focused on our research priorities. The
 University has supported our strategy through investment in a range of posts:
    • Chairs: Child Wellbeing and Protection (and Director of CCWP) (Callaghan); Social Work
        (Dominelli); Ageing (Forbat (Associate Professor), Hennessy, Phillips); Dementia Studies
        (Reynish); Global Ageing (Philp); Substance Use (Matheson).
    • Early career lectureships: Social Work (Engstrom, Lucas, Sherwood-Johnson) Sociology
        and Ageing (Lovatt), Substance Use (Carver) Demography (Seaman) and Criminology
        (Brangan, Fotopoulou).

 We have developed talented early and mid-career researchers through promotions (6 women, 4
 men):

    •   Senior Lecturers: Hamilton-Smith (Criminology), Graham (Criminology), Griffiths
        (Sociology), Matthews (Social Policy), McCall (Housing), and Shapira (Sociology);
    •   Senior Research Fellow: Dawson (Ageing);
    •   Associate Professor: Emond (Social Work);
    •   Professor: Malloch (Criminology) and Rutherford (Social Statistics).

 We have proactively supported high achieving doctoral students to pursue and secure post-
 doctoral funding from the DTP, winning two Fellowships in 2020 of six nationally.

 Developing research expertise is achieved through a programme of dedicated research training
 sessions supported by the Faculty and University. The Faculty supports an annual seminar series,
 to which we contribute, and a regular ‘Research Bites’ programme, which responds to specific
 research needs such as: developing funding bids in response to specific calls; operational training
 in research systems; methodological expertise and the development of new methods and skills;
 and impact, engagement and knowledge exchange. University-wide researcher development for
 staff and postgraduate students has been enhanced by the establishment of the Institute for
 Advanced Studies.

 Nine staff (seven women) have benefited from accredited leadership training since 2014
 (Anderson; Callaghan, Engstrom, Griffiths, Malloch, Matthews, McCabe, Punch, Robertson) while
 Senior Research Fellow Dawson completed the Aurora leadership training programme. Lovatt,
 Graham and Engstrom are alumni of the University of Stirling Crucible; Gibson is an EPSRC Digital
 Crucible alumnus and also took part in the NIHR Leadership for Senior Trainees programmes.

 To enhance our research, all staff with a research component to their contracts, including
 researchers on fixed-term contracts, have an annual appraisal meeting with a research leader
 and/or project PI. This process has increased emphasis on developmental conversations ensuring
 staff receive opportunities to discuss their research careers over the short-to-medium term
 focusing on ambitious research proposals, high quality outputs and developing advanced skills.
 Appraisers receive training to ensure the process is as effective as possible. Within appraisal
 meetings, staff are invited to discuss advancement plans and to develop their research strategy
 and outputs with this in mind. Since 2014, the Faculty has developed a mentoring network which
 staff can access via their appraisal meeting. Following our EDI action plan, all staff are asked
 about whether/how any protected characteristic might be impacting their success and how the
 Faculty might best respond.

 Research leave policy is set by the University and implemented at Faculty level. Staff on
 permanent teaching and research contracts can apply for six months’ leave after six semesters of
 teaching and for 12 months’ leave after 12 semesters. Research leave is used strategically, with
 applications developing out of appraisal meetings, and plans targeting research funding and high
 quality outputs. Over the REF period, 19 staff have benefited from research leave. Staff returning
 from maternity or adoption leave also receive University funding to cover teaching for six months



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 on their return to work. Two staff have received this support during the assessment period (one
 twice).

 All ECRs who join the Faculty are paired with a senior colleague mentor for their probationary
 period (usually three years). ECRs have a lighter teaching workload to maximise their research
 potential. Within their appraisal meetings, reviewers ensure they have an achievable research
 strategy to develop into independent researchers, capable of securing funding for and then
 managing larger-scale projects; since 2014, Carver, McCall, Sherwood-Johnson and Lovatt have
 all become PIs on their own projects.

 On census date, we support 17 research assistants and fellows (not all of whom are REF eligible).
 They are fully engaged in the appraisal process to support their development. They are assisted
 to access all training and development opportunities such as being members of the General
 University Ethics Panel. Staff are encouraged to write these researchers into funding bids, where
 they have the necessary skills, to ensure continuity of employment. Specific development
 opportunities are identified for named researchers, such as training in advanced methods, and
 researchers are involved in writing outputs and given authorship recognition. These staff belong
 to our Contract Researchers Forum, which links to RKEC to ensure their interests are represented.
 Within our Athena SWAN action plan we are working further to enhance opportunities for this
 group of staff in accordance with the Concordat.

 2.3    Research students

 We have a large, multidisciplinary community of full and part-time doctoral students. Student
 numbers have doubled since REF2014 (when we had 67 students), and we now supervise 136
 students, 32% of whom hold ESRC studentships. Over the assessment period, we have awarded
 63.17 doctoral degrees (three times the 21 to 2014), one of which was a Professional Doctorate.
 From 2014 we have developed a contemporary PhD strategy, including: a cohort model to
 encourage collegial support; help to achieve completion within 36 months (full-time students);
 appropriate teaching experience with training; opportunities for research and wider activities
 beyond the PhD; and support for early publication. The Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS)
 provides institutional development support for postgraduate research (PGR) students.

 We are committed to our PGR students as valued contributors to our research environment and
 full contributing members of our Centres and Groups. They engage in activities both on campus
 (e.g. Centres/Groups, skills training weeks and campus conferences) and at a distance
 (supervision, skills assessments, and online learning). To promote inclusion, activities are
 accessible face-to-face or via synchronous video-conferencing, allowing part-time and distance-
 learning students to participate and benefit.

 To ensure a breadth of applicants we: encourage staff to have up-to-date, inclusive profiles on the
 web; actively identify strong undergraduate and Masters’ students, including those from non-
 traditional backgrounds, and support them to make applications to the ESRC DTP; and support
 international applicants. Much of this activity is one-to-one, ensuring that applicants have strong,
 well-developed research proposals and CVs. We also hold online postgraduate research
 information sessions to support a broader pool of applicants. Funded studentships are always
 advertised on a part-time and full-time basis and we include an inclusion statement.

 Staff complete training regularly on the supervisory lifecycle from recruitment to completion.
 Training supports staff to reflect upon and adapt practice in a culturally responsive manner in the
 provision of doctoral supervision. Our PGR Directors (Forbat and Malloch) link regularly with
 supervisors to discuss changes to regulations and issues in supervision, and share experiences
 in a supportive environment. Experienced doctoral supervisors are paired with less experienced
 supervisors wherever possible and chosen to provide a congruent disciplinary and methodological
 mix.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All PGRs have at least two supervisors who work as a team with the student. Regularity of
 meetings is agreed between the student and the supervisors. Records of meetings are kept by
 students on the University’s ‘Research Compass’ system, along with a skills-assessment based
 on the Vitae framework. Key progression points are the end of first year and end of second year
 (or part-time equivalent) with an independent expert review of documents submitted by the
 student. PGRs are also allocated a Personal Tutor who can provide further pastoral support and
 raise any concerns with supervisory arrangements. Students participate in the University-wide
 programme of developmental activities co-ordinated by IAS. PGRs are supported to present their
 work at the annual Faculty Doctoral Conference, internal PGR seminars, and international
 conferences. They are encouraged to engage actively with professional academic associations,
 to organise events (e.g. a BSA event on the sociology of youth, a BSG event on carers), and to
 develop their work for publication.

 We are an active partner in the Scottish ESRC DTP (and former DTC), participating in pathways
 in Health, Families, Relationships and Demographic Change, Social Work and Social Policy,
 Socio-Legal Studies and Criminology, and Sociology. Six colleagues have held varied leadership
 roles within the DTP. We run an ESRC-compliant Masters in Research Methods. Our DTP
 involvement allows all our postgraduate researchers to access additional advanced training and
 resources. We contribute to Scotland-wide DTP doctoral training, for example in advanced
 quantitative methods, visual methods, and interdisciplinary research. We have a strong track-
 record of developing collaborative ESRC-funded doctoral projects to build relationships and
 deliver impact through our research, with partners including Skills Development Scotland; Office
 of the Scottish Charity Regulator; National Galleries of Scotland; Wheatley Housing Group; the
 Improvement Service for Local Government in Scotland; and Shelter Scotland. We also supervise
 cross-institutionally with other DTP institutions.

 PGRs are formally represented within Faculty governance. The Graduate Officer represents PGRs
 and is responsible for promoting Faculty events such as the Postgraduate Research Seminar
 Series and the university-wide Three-Minute Thesis competition. The Postgraduate Research
 Conference Lead organises an annual doctoral conference and the International Students Lead
 addresses issues for overseas students.

 2.4    Equality and diversity (E&D)

 In the context of the University’s E&D policies and practices, the Faculty established an Equality
 and Diversity (E&D) Action Plan in April 2017, and in 2020 applied successfully for an Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award. Our E&D Committee leads implementation of the Action Plan and E&D is
 a standing item on Faculty Committees. Activity completed to date has focused on advancing
 gender equality. Future activity will be intersectional to ensure a supportive and inclusive research
 environment for all. Key actions of our E&D plan are, working with the wider University: addressing
 structural barriers to promotion and advancement from doctoral students through to Chairs;
 supporting continuing professional development for fixed-term research staff (most of whom are
 women); widening accessibility of training materials to doctoral students studying part time; and
 embedding equality discussions into all committees with decision-making power. We recognise
 the potential disadvantages related to the gender imbalance in the staff group. As part of the E&D
 Action Plan, we promote inclusion through several means, including our refreshed mentoring
 scheme, Contract Researchers Forum and measures to support continuity of employment. These
 also support our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. We have taken advantage of accredited leadership, management and coaching
 training, much of which is ILM accredited, to support these activities.

 Among staff who share other protected characteristics, we have for example used occupational
 health support to ensure staff who are disabled are well integrated and reasonable adjustments
 are in place. Staff have accessed HR support to address ethnicity issues, including right to work.
 The University flexible-working policy has enabled 10 staff to hold part-time contracts and one has
 an agreed full-time flexible working pattern. These staff are fully engaged in Faculty development

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 opportunities, with efforts made to ensure events are timed to enable wide attendance. Our
 ongoing commitment to equalities also includes the consideration of broader patterns of gender
 division, for example greater numbers of male researchers in statistical research and of women in
 social work and qualitative research. We are committed to longer-term work to address these
 broader challenges.

 Embedded E&D is reflected in our approach to output selection. Our strategy is that all staff should
 be supported to develop excellent research and that their high-quality outputs are submitted to the
 REF. ECRs were made aware of expectations regarding research quality and mentored and
 resourced to achieve these. Within the framework set by the University, we have ensured that
 outputs ranked highly by internal and external assessors are submitted. Assessment processes
 were transparent, with regular communication with staff as to the process and staff informed of
 the results as soon as possible. The process was Equality Impact Assessed and found to be fair.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1    Overview and strategy

 Over the period since 2014 our total research spend was £8.9, an increase of £3.6m over the
 previous REF period. This spend included £1.8m from UKRI and associated funders; £2.1m from
 charities; £4m from government bodies and the balance from other sources. We currently hold
 awards to the value of £4.5m, including £1m specifically related to COVID-19. Most are
 competitively awarded, with some specific commissioning that recognises our specialist expertise,
 such as a philanthropic donation for longitudinal study of looked-after children (Whincup) and a
 crowd funding campaign for work on Bridge for young people (Punch).

 Our funding strategy is guided by our research priorities previously described, rests on our
 partnerships across sectors, actively engages with the University’s themes and programmes and
 targets large, national and international projects. We plan our grant-raising activity and target
 specific calls, diversifying our target funders to reduce risk. Recently for example the UKRI ISCF
 Healthy Ageing Challenge funding and COVID related calls from the Chief Scientist and UKRI
 have proved fruitful sources to allow us to take forward our ambitions in Ageing (housing and
 connectivity for ageing), Addictions (harm reduction strategies) and Governance (procurement
 in public services).

 A number of strategic actions are important to our funding success. These include the investment
 in leadership roles that broaden our networks in core areas (e.g. Forbat, Philp, Phillips and
 Hennessy in Ageing). We work collaboratively across disciplines to contribute to larger scale
 multi-centre work at mid-career and Professorial level e.g. Ageing work on neighbourhoods
 (Ward), Child Wellbeing on family violence (Callaghan). We have supported early career
 researchers, both postdoctoral researchers and lecturers, to enable them to become independent
 principal investigators and develop strong reputations in their discipline (e.g. Addictions, Carver).
 Most recently, the success of this approach was seen in ECRs being awarded grants as PIs for
 COVID-19 response awards, or their inclusion as CoIs. Travel funding, including GCRF pump-
 priming funding, has allowed a diverse range of researchers, at all career stages, to travel
 internationally and establish networks to develop research proposals.

 3.2    External investment and awards

 The key areas for external investment have been the four Centres that have received University
 support. Funding sources reflect our strategic focus on diversification and building on strengths to
 support sustainability.

 Our research in Ageing has received significant University investment over the assessment
 period. This brings together distinctive research strengths across the institution in dementia and

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ageing, sport and physical exercise, health behaviour, health economics and social marketing.
 The new City Region Deal investment in the Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub (£7.2m) will
 support application of our research and impact development in a live setting.

 Research council funding in Ageing has included partnered work with other institutions such as
 Neighbourhoods and Dementia (£436k ESRC to Stirling – total project funding £2m) and our Co-
 I role in the Centre for Population Change (£417k ESRC/£6.7m). Significant interdisciplinary
 grants, benefitting from our staff investment, include our £136k NIHR funded project on outcomes
 of people with cognitive impairment and/or dementia admitted to the general hospital (Reynish)
 and £598k NIHR funded research on improving end of life care in care homes (Forbat).
 Collaborative work with Statistics and across the University (with Economics) has generated the
 HAGIS funding, with a recent ESRC award of £570k for a new phase of work on fear of COVID
 (Douglas). ECR successes include Lovatt’s New Investigator project Reimagining the Future in
 Older Age (£234k, ESRC).

 A major partner and charitable funder for Ageing has been the Life Changes Trust (LCT), funding
 five projects on improving quality of life for people living with dementia, culminating in a £500k
 award for an evaluation of their work (McCabe). LCT funding recognised the centrality of inclusive,
 participatory methodologies in our research. The Abbeyfield Society funded our work on
 volunteering in dementia care because it closely reflected the Society’s aim of inclusivity (McCall).

 Collaborations with industrial and public sector partners have also delivered innovative research
 such as an Innovate UK study on using IT to integrate health and social care, partnered with SME
 Talking Mats Ltd who have developed a tool supporting people with communication difficulties to
 express their views; and the award of an Innovation Voucher from the Scottish Funding Council,
 partnered with SME Bettergen to develop a punchball for use by people with dementia. Ageing
 attracted European Regional Development Fund investment for work on social care in remote
 Northern Europe, in partnership with municipalities across the region, and has been awarded two
 large grants by ESRC (£1.6m each) under the Healthy Ageing Challenge to work in partnership
 with businesses for research in design for cognitive ageing and connectivity in older age.

 The international reputation and applied focus of our research on Ageing is recognised in awards
 to develop international research. We lead the ESRC/AHRC Designing for Ageing and Dementia
 International Research Network with partners in Japan (Bowes). Phillips was a partner in the
 Swedish-led UserAge FORTE funded programme. Working across Ageing and Governance, we
 received funding from the Norwegian National Association for Public Health (Nasjonalforeningen
 for folkehelsen) to transfer a model to encourage volunteering among people living with dementia
 into the Norwegian context (McCall).

 Child Wellbeing generates income which funds flagship projects as the sustainable core of its
 work. These include a £1.6m award from ESRC for Developing the evidence base for social care
 responses to children/families affected by domestic abuse in 2019 (Callaghan). The international
 reputation in research on looked-after children led to Permanently Progressing (Whincup), the
 longitudinal study of looked-after children, receiving two phases of substantial investment from a
 private donor, with matched funding from the British Association of Adoption and Fostering and
 (from 2020) the Nuffield Foundation (£863k in total).

 Child Well-being also follows the diversification and interdisciplinarity strategies, generating
 funding from a range of sources including UKRI, local and national government and NGOs.
 Examples include funding (in collaboration with Justice) to deliver Social Work research-led
 support for children who are victims of trafficking or who are unaccompanied asylum-seekers
 awarded by Scottish Government (Rigby 16k), Barnardos (Rigby £10k) and the Scottish Refugee
 Council (Lucas 17k). Here, smaller grants were linked and staff collaborated to ensure coherence
 and continuity of this research.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 External partnering is increasingly significant for Child well-being. Members are involved in the
 development of the Intergenerational Living Innovation Hub and Dominelli is contributing to the
 International Environment Centre (£22m from the City Region Deal) to bring social work and social
 policy research directly into practical responses to climate change. International research in Child
 well-being has included ERASMUS funding to develop research-led curricula for social work in
 Central and Eastern Europe (Rigby, Engstrom and Emond).

 Addictions’ partnership with the Salvation Army has secured core funding of £731k since 2017.
 The funding provides a platform for developing new research supported by other funders that links
 directly to practice applications. Major research awards since its inception have included £376k
 from the NIHR Harm reduction intervention for severe drug and/or alcohol dependence among
 people who are homeless (Parkes) and a recent award from the CORRA Foundation of £300k
 researching the Scottish Drug Checking service on behalf of the Scottish Drug Death Taskforce
 (Matheson).

 Our ability to respond to real world needs was recognised in the award of three projects in the
 Scottish Chief Scientist Office COVID-19 emergency response call for research on: people with
 drug addiction problems (Matheson); people experiencing homelessness alongside alcohol
 addiction problems (Parkes) and people who work with people experiencing homelessness
 (Carver).

 Partnering and networking are central to funding strategies here. Addictions has hosted the
 Drugs Research Network Scotland (DRNS) since 2017 with £638k core funding from the Scottish
 Funding Council. This cross institutional network has generated further significant research
 opportunities, including new funded projects on Benzodiazepine prescribing, overdose prevention
 and drug consumption rooms.

 Justice is supported by funding from the SCCJR partner universities: Stirling, Edinburgh, Glasgow
 and Strathclyde. Through a collaboration agreement with Justice Analytical Services, Scottish
 Government and Police Scotland, Justice researchers undertake research and provide policy
 advice in response to requests issued. This has led to over £150k of commissioned research.
 Recent examples include research on organised crime (£114k Hamilton-Smith)) and on problem-
 solving justice (£8k Graham, Malloch). International expertise was recognised with investment as
 part of the major Horizon 2020 project Creativity and Effectiveness in the Use of Electronic
 Monitoring as an Alternative to Imprisonment in EU Member States which has subsequently had
 significant impact on Scottish law and criminal justice practice (ICS3). ECR success in Justice is
 demonstrated in Brangan’s recent ESRC New Investigator Grant on mass decarceration ((£233k).

 Key areas of methodological expertise in Statistics have catalysed external research investment.
 These have included Rutherford’s expertise in administrative data linkage in collaborative projects
 with colleagues in Ageing on researching outcomes for hospital patients with dementia (£136k),
 and with colleagues in Child Wellbeing on Permanently Progressing (£863k). The National
 Institutes for Health invested in HAGIS (Rutherford, £260k with Economics), and the Nuffield
 Foundation in research about the impact of curriculum policy change on educational outcomes in
 Scotland (Shapira, £272k with Education). Members of the group also worked with Governance
 on an equalities-themed analysis of the 2011 Scottish Census, funded by the Equality and Human
 Rights Commission in Scotland (£18k).

 The contribution of Governance across the research groups is demonstrated by the £188k
 research award related to projects with colleagues in Ageing on housing and social care, and
 developing active citizenship among older people (McCall, Rummery). Halley Stewart funded work
 (£40k) on vulnerability in older people’s everyday life contributes Social Work perspectives on this
 key issue (Sherwood-Johnson and Mackay). Outward engagement by members of Governance
 includes participation in the Centre on Constitutional Change (Rummery), building on investment
 by the ESRC in the previous REF submission period and in CaCHE (the housing evidence centre,
 McKee), a £6m ESRC investment. The focus on excluded groups by researchers in Governance

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 has led to £177k investment from Disability Research on Independent Living and Learning for
 research on the experiences of disabled people accessing housing and personalised care
 (Rummery, Anderson). We have secured sustained investment of over £120k from charities and
 housing providers in research to understand challenges for veterans in accessing housing
 (Anderson, Rolfe).

 3.3    Investment in impact

 Impact champions (Dominelli and Ward) provide leadership in this area, and impact activity is
 promoted through training at University level and strategic support.

 DSDC is a unique vehicle for impact in Ageing, located in a purpose-built facility (the Iris Murdoch
 Building). Investment here has included employing trainers to deliver accredited (City and Guilds,
 RCN) CPD courses. The Centre is recognised as an authoritative source of evidence-based policy
 advice by policy makers internationally through, for example, the Canadian Dementia Knowledge
 Translation Network. Employing architects has enhanced the impact from our interdisciplinary
 research on dementia and design, and allowed for benefits to the lives of people globally (ICS2).
 DSDC also offers UK and international environment design consultancy.

 Within our approach to securing funding and investing in infrastructure, we use partnerships to
 provide pathways to impact, as earlier described. These include the partnerships with key
 organisations that use and communicate our research, such as Alzheimer Scotland (Ward
 Ageing, Governance), the Life Changes Trust (Ageing); and the Aberlour Trust (Child
 Wellbeing). We host Scottish Government funded knowledge exchange work, including: the
 Drugs Research Network Scotland (£540k) to support knowledge exchange work on reducing
 substance misuse and addiction, and minimising harm; and the Scottish Government’s National
 Adult Protection Coordinator (£260k) to provide a knowledge exchange and professional
 development function for social work in Scotland.

 We have raised funding to support impact. Examples include Statistics project with the Scottish
 Council for Voluntary Organisations to develop data literacy in the voluntary sector through a
 series of webinars and the creation of new datasets; and Addictions’ Salvation Army partnership.
 Child Wellbeing and Governance secured ongoing funding, including an ESRC PhD
 studentship, to extend their impact on changing the perceptions of food in residential care for
 young people to enhance relationships between children and practitioners (ICS1). The new
 ESRC/Mental Health Foundation funded adult social care implementation centre (IMPACT) will
 enhance our funded impact work.

 3.4     Operational and scholarly infrastructure

 Faculty and University professional staff provide support for funding applications and research
 projects. We benefit from University investment in IT systems, data management and governance,
 and scholarly communications infrastructure. This has included Microsoft Azure and Office 365; a
 comprehensive research management system (WorkTribe); and continued support for the
 University online open access depository for research data and outputs. Bespoke support, such
 as software for statistical and qualitative research, is also provided centrally. The Institute of
 Advanced Studies provides institutional support for postgraduate and early career researchers.
 Research and Innovation Services provide scaled support for the development of research
 proposals, and for enterprise activities that have facilitated our projects with industrial partners,
 and importantly with the City Region Deal.

 3.5     Investment in facilities

 The University has invested substantially in facilities as detailed in the institutional statement, from
 which we benefit. For example, the Campus Central development will provide important space for
 nurturing interdisciplinary research. At Faculty level, in the Iris Murdoch Building, which houses

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 DSDC, we have developed partnerships with companies to use the building to demonstrate care
 environments. We have invested in refurbishing offices on the campus to provide new working
 space for the growing number of staff, including bespoke office space for Child Wellbeing and
 Addictions. The City Region Deal will result in a substantial investment in the Intergenerational
 Living Innovation Hub, as a new living laboratory.

 3.6    Investment in collaborative infrastructure

 Our commitment to research collaboration is evidenced by the growth and sustainability of key
 networks many of which have attracted external funding. Much of this activity is also international
 in scope, with examples of important interdisciplinary collaborations including: the UK-Japan
 design for dementia and ageing network (Ageing, Bowes); our leadership in the International
 Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Global Social Initiative on Ageing University (Phillips,
 Deputy Director; Ageing); EU project on alternatives to custody (Justice, Graham); and a
 European network on Offender Supervision in Europe (EU-COST Action). GCRF funding has
 enabled engagements with researchers and research users in ODA countries, including Armenia,
 China, India, Kenya and South Africa.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 4.1    Overview

 Our structure of Centres and Groups and our research and impact strategies facilitate broad
 collaboration internally and externally. We work closely with a wide range of research users across
 the public, private and third sectors in the design, implementation and dissemination of research
 and these relationships enable significant contributions to the research base, economy and
 society.

 Our contribution to the social sciences has been recognised since 2014 through Bowes’ and
 Rummery’s elections as Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences, nominated by the British
 Society of Gerontology and the Social Policy Association; Phillips is a member of the Council of
 the Academy of Social Sciences. Internationally, Dominelli was awarded an honorary doctorate
 from the University of Malmo and Rummery was awarded an honorary Professorship at the
 University of Jyvaskyla, Finland. In 2020 Phillips was appointed UKRI/ESRC Research Director
 for the Healthy Ageing Challenge.

 Our external engagement and reputation has resulted in the large, collaborative research projects
 detailed above and the City Region Deal investments. We provide substantial and valued
 contributions to multi-university collaborative centres: the Centre for Population Change (Ageing,
 lead Southampton). the Centre for Research on Families and Relationships (Child Well-being,
 lead Edinburgh); the Scottish Institute of Policing Research (Justice, lead Edinburgh Napier)
 CaCHE (the Housing Evidence Centre, Governance, lead Glasgow). Going forward, our role in
 the adult social care evidence implementation centre (IMPACT) is an additional significant
 partnership (Ageing).

 4.2    Contribution to research base

 We contribute to the research base for Social Work and Social Policy in REF, for leading journals
 and for research funders. Staff in the Faculty have contributed to the REF: in 2014 Bowes was
 a panel member for Panel C, UoA 22; for REF2021 Phillips was appointed to sub-panel 20 for the
 assessment phase and the Interdisciplinary Research Advisory Panel; from 2017 Parkes has been
 a member of the Equality and Diversity Advisory Panel.

 Over the assessment period eight researchers have been/are editors of journals, reflecting our
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research. Notable journals have included: Journal of Cross-

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Cultural Gerontology (Phillips); Journal of Family Therapy (Forbat), Journal of Enabling
 Technologies (Gibson); Psychology of Women (Callaghan); European Journal of Probation
 (Graham); Criminology and Criminal Justice (Malloch); Local Government Studies (Matthews);
 Housing Studies (McKee);.

 In supporting the wider scholarly community, 21 researchers have had roles on editorial boards,
 or acted in advisory roles. Again, the focus has been on supporting interdisciplinary research in
 our key areas and the wider research base in Social Work and Social Policy. Notable journals
 have included: Physical and Occupational Therapy in Geriatrics (Hennessy); Social Policy and
 Society (Matthews and McCall); International Journal of Care and Caring (Phillips); European
 Journal of Ageing (Phillips); Geriatric Medicine (Philp); Policy and Politics (Simmons); Criminology
 and Criminal Justice (Brangan, Hamilton-Smith, McIvor).

 Since 2014, 27 staff have been reviewers for grant-awarding bodies, including 17 staff as
 reviewers, or members of the ESRC Peer Review College; eight have reviewed for the NIHR and
 one for the European Research Council. Bowes and Phillips have chaired ESRC grant-awarding
 panels.

 Staff have been involved in organising major international conferences since 2014. This has
 included hosting the 45th British Society of Gerontology Conference in 2016 (led and co-ordinated
 by McCabe, Ageing); the Society for Longitudinal and Lifecourse Studies Conference 2017
 (Lambert, Statistics); International Co-operative Alliance Global Research Conference 2017
 (Simmons, Governance). In 2018 Rutherford was on the International Academic Conference
 Committee of the International Society for Third-Sector Research. Over the assessment period,
 21 staff gave invited keynotes at international conferences for academic and practitioner
 audiences in both Global North and Global South contexts.

 The quality of research by individuals has been recognised in awards including prizes for papers:
 best Article of 2017 for the China Journal of Social Work (Dominelli); Sociology of Health and
 Illness Mildred Blaxter Award Highly Commended 2017 (Gibson; Lovatt); Local Government
 Studies George Jones Prize for best paper by an ECR 2017 (Rolfe); Campbell Adamson Memorial
 Prize for Best Paper at NCVO/VSSN Conference 2017 and 2018 (Rutherford).

 Thirty-eight staff are members of learned societies or professional bodies. Dominelli has been
 Chair of the Committee of Disaster Interventions, Climate Change and sustainability International
 Association of Schools of Social Work from January 2014 and Chair of the British Association of
 Social Workers Special Interest Group on Disaster Interventions since September 2018. Simmons
 is the European Board Member, International Co-operative Alliance Research Committee. McCall,
 McKee and McCabe have been Executive members respectively, for the Social Policy
 Association, Housing Studies Association and British Society of Gerontology.

 We contribute to doctoral development through active engagement in the DTP including
 substantial investment in kind. Simmons has held a part-time role in the DTP since 2018 as a Hub
 Lead, following Parkes, who served 2013-16 as Deputy Director of the preceding DTC; Bowes,
 Malloch, Punch, Simmons and Wilson have held roles as Pathway Leads for the DTC/DTP,
 selecting studentship recipients. We also contribute to advanced training through Summer
 Schools and other events, such as Parkes’ keynote on using VLEs to deliver doctoral training at
 the National Centre for Research Methods.

 4.3    Interaction with research-users and contributions to policy and practice

 Staff regularly make strategic contributions to the development of policies and practice in
 their areas. Reflecting our commitment to co-produced research, an important investment has
 been in the Social Work users group Unity, which supports both research and teaching, including
 running an annual conference to showcase their work. This commitment has also been reflected
 in engagement with service-user panels in research in Ageing and Addictions, and the

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 involvement of participant-researchers in Ageing, Addictions and Governance. The groups
 closely engaged in such research have included: older people with and without cognitive
 impairment; people with addictions and substance misuse challenges; people who are disabled;
 and people who identify as LGBT+.

 As demonstrated in our Impact Case Studies, staff work closely within policy networks at a local,
 national and international level to contribute research to policy and practice. Other notable
 examples of this engagement include:

       •   Phillips chaired Welsh Government ministerial groups on Housing and Ageing (2016-17);
       •   Forbat contributed to an Australian ministerial think-tank on palliative care and aged care
           (2017);
       •   Philp was a member of the WHO Frailty Expert Group (2016) and the Commission for
           Delayed Transfers in Care, NHS Providers (2015);
       •   Hennessy was a member of the Prime Minister's Task and Finish Group on Rural
           Dementia-Friendly Communities (2017);
       •   Rutherford is a Trustee of AgeScotland;
       •   Callaghan advised the Department of Work and Pensions on Bereaved Families and
           Families fleeing domestic abuse (2014);
       •   Dominelli represents social work in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
           Change (2010 onwards);
       •   Matheson Chairs the Scottish Government’s Drug Deaths Task Force, and Parkes is a
           member (2019 onwards);
       •   Malloch was a member of the Victims Taskforce convened by the Scottish Government
           Cabinet Secretary for Justice and the Lord Advocate (2018-2019);
       •   Anderson is a member of the NHS Scotland, Health and Homelessness Group (2015
           onwards) and was a Board Member, Homeless Action Scotland (2011- 2017);
       •   McCall was a committee member of the Scottish Federation of Housing Associations
           (2016–2020).

 4.4       Wider contributions to economy and society

 We are committed to research that should lead to an improvement in people's lives and we are
 proud of our record of delivering impact.

 Our contributions to inclusivity and social justice are evidenced across our Centres and
 Groups, going well beyond the selected impact case studies. In Ageing, we directly inform
 dementia care by training paid and unpaid carers, care inspectors and managers in the latest
 advances, drawing on research such as our observational studies in care homes and publish,
 through DSDC, well-used guidance on aspects of dementia care such as dealing with delirium
 and responding to distressed behaviour. In Child Well-being our researchers are in demand to
 provide expert advice in sensitive areas such as domestic violence and child protection. Callaghan
 for example worked with the Westminster government, Women’s Aid England, Action for Children
 and the NSPCC to influence the Domestic Abuse Act 2020’s approach to services for children and
 young people experiencing domestic abuse. Callaghan and Morrison have produced new training
 for domestic abuse workers supporting mothers and babies. In Addictions, research for NIHR in
 collaboration with the Salvation Army has developed a peer support intervention which is being
 operated across Salvation Army services. Matheson and Parkes are directly involved in Scottish
 Government’s efforts to tackle drug deaths in Scotland, through their Chairing and membership of
 the Ministerial Task Force. In Justice, Hamilton-Smith’s influential research on policing football
 matches directly informed Police Scotland’s thinking on the use of cameras at matches.

 Our network of partnerships with business supports economic impact of our research and helps
 support economic growth. In particular, in Ageing, we partner with care companies to improve
 their practice. We work closely with companies who are keen to be involved in our research from

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the start to share the learning process, such as with a large building company that plans to build
 a new demonstrator house on campus to showcase advances in design for dementia. Major
 international companies linked to our work include IKEA and Hitachi. Economic contributions have
 derived from research that specifically understands costs, and provides recommendations on the
 use of resources, such as optimal use of technology in care services. The City Region Deal is a
 major development that will enable us to further this business engagement, as we have described.
 We see these engagements and opportunities as significant for economic recovery following
 COVID, providing vehicles for us as researchers to contribute productively in the future.

 We have two spin outs that contribute to economic development whilst also promoting inclusion
 and social justice. IRIDIS is a joint venture with Space Group, a large architecture firm, that
 produces and markets apps for use by the public (free of charge), care providers, architects and
 designers to develop dementia friendly design in both existing and new build homes and public
 buildings. HUBS C.I.C. is a social enterprise that brings together a range of community broadband
 groups to improve access to high-speed broadband in remote and rural areas, addressing digital
 exclusion.

 We contribute to wider society and deliver impact through our postgraduate teaching for
 professionals in housing, social work, addiction services and dementia care. Several of our
 teaching innovations have been used globally. The innovations in coproducing research with
 people with dementia have informed innovative pedagogy of the group delivering the MSc in
 Dementia Studies. Across Social Work programmes, research has been used in practitioner
 education to improve decision making in adult and child protection by incorporating current
 research into programmes on Adult Support and Protection and Child Welfare and Protection.

 Concluding comment

 Our research environment supports and promotes our contribution to addressing the challenges
 of global ageing, better outcomes for children, addictions and their consequences, and fairness
 and quality in criminal justice. We have demonstrated sustainability through the success of our
 strategies, growing and developing research and impact significantly since 2014. Our supportive,
 vital research culture shows our ability going forward to continue producing impactful, applied,
 mission-driven research that contributes to economy and society across social work and social
 policy.




                                                                                           Page 19
