Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

 Section 1: Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The School of Politics and International Relations (SPIR) at the University of Kent is among the
 largest in the UK, and the only school of politics with a permanent campus in Brussels. Our
 research team comprises 39.4 Category A and 70 PhD students, including six academic staff and
 26 postgraduate research students based at our Brussels School of International Studies (BSIS).
 This split-site strategy reflects Kent’s unique reputation as the UK’s European University and
 creates an innovative transnational research environment. SPIR’s research is international in
 approach and global in reach. Since REF2014, the key characteristic of our research environment
 has been transformation: by increasing and diversifying our research income; in the scale and
 scope of the impact of our research; through the growth of our research postgraduate community;
 and by significant contributions to the health and vitality of our discipline. Research and impact
 are cultivated within three research centres, each operating across our Canterbury and Brussels
 campuses:

 Conflict Analysis Research Centre (CARC) produces theoretical and applied research that has
 shaped successful peace settlements, trained mediation practitioners, and developed new tools
 to incorporate citizen’s views in peace-building processes.

 Centre for Critical Thought (CCT) has nurtured ground-breaking research, including work on
 continental feminist theory, critical continental legal thought, religion and international politics, and
 transformation in the nature of work.

 Global Europe Centre (GEC) has conducted innovative research to transform the understanding
 of relations between Europe and its wider neighbourhood, including Russia and Central Asia,
 deepening analysis of EU foreign and security policy, and insight into a post-Brexit UK.

 These three centres incubate research ideas and projects, provide a context for academic debate
 and exchange of ideas, and promote the School’s broader intellectual agenda. They constitute a
 fertile research environment, enriched by a vibrant teaching practice that attracts some 220
 undergraduates each year. Our teaching expertise includes being co-host of one of the UK’s 17
 Q-Step Centres since 2013. At any given time, there are in excess of 150 taught and research
 postgraduates at Canterbury and a further 120 postgraduates in Brussels. Since REF2014, our
 total number of PhD completions has risen by over 66% (from 34.5 to 57.33).

 SPIR has seen an increase of over 320% in the value of research awards since REF2014, rising
 from £767,073 to £3,223,647. This reflects our responsiveness to the UKRI priorities of
 sustainability, resilience, and capacity-building. SPIR has also enjoyed success in attracting
 support from beyond research funding councils: for example, funding from the Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF), the US Institute for Peace (USIP), and the German Institute of Global
 and Area Studies (GIGA) illustrates our research focus on transformation processes.

 Our impact case studies reflect our interest in the political transformations affecting behaviour at
 the domestic, regional, and international levels. They demonstrate our close engagement with
 policy communities in the UK and overseas, and illustrate the breadth and vitality of the impact of
 our research across the world’s major contemporary issues, including counter-terrorism, Brexit,
 and grappling with the complexities of liberal societies.




                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact
 SPIR’s mission post-REF2014 has been to develop an international leadership role in research
 and impact, building on our long-standing position as a recognised UK hub for politics and
 international studies. We have pursued this mission through five strategic objectives:

    1.   Expanding and deepening the work of our three research centres;
    2.   Building and sustaining our research impact;
    3.   Maximising our contribution to the discipline;
    4.   Enhancing the connectivity of our research to our teaching;
    5.   Nurturing an open research environment and ensuring the integrity of our research.

 1.2.1 Deepening research centre activity

 Our three research centres have each expanded their funding, networks, and activities since
 REF2014. Across all three centres we have sought to increase our international significance and
 amplify our research, through building stronger international scholarly networks and nurturing and
 supporting activities relating to grant capture and impact.

 Conflict Analysis Research Centre (CARC)
 The Centre was established over 35 years ago and is today world leading in its sub-discipline
 (Aistrope, Ansorg, Belgioioso, Biegon, Bode, Cochrane, Cunliffe, Den Boer, Gruffydd-Jones,
 Grundig, Guichaoua, Klekowski von Koppenfels, Lee, Loizides, Mälksoo, Morgan-Jones, Mott,
 Pendry, Sakwa, Savic, Sudulich, Haastrup, Toros, Voller). It is the nexus for national and
 international research collaborations on ethno-national violence and political accommodation,
 world order studies, regional integration and alignments, conflict management/transformation, and
 minorities in conflict and post-conflict societies.

 CARC has grown significantly in size and scope since REF2014, deepening its long-standing
 expertise in conflict analysis and resolution, and applying conflict research to real-world situations.
 The Centre has established a prestigious annual public lecture series – the John Burton Lecture
 – to disseminate the conflict research undertaken at Kent to a range of external audiences. It has
 built strong research collaborations with UK and international academic and other partners,
 including charities, think tanks, and conflict-related research centres. These collaborations have
 raised CARC’s external profile, communicated its research activities to audiences globally, and
 cemented CARC’s position as a leading national and international centre for conflict research.
 Since 2014, the Centre has acted as the institutional home to the Conflict Research Society (CRS).

 CARC has particularly strong links with practitioners, a number of whom (with diplomatic and NGO
 experience) serve as Research Fellows of the Centre (Teresa Dumasy, Judith Large, Quintin
 Oliver, Owen Traylor). This practitioner collaboration includes externally funded work with
 Conciliation Resources, a UK-based NGO dedicated to peacebuilding; the Forum of Federations,
 an Ottawa-based international organisation; and Stratagem International, Northern Ireland’s
 leading public affairs consultancy with whom CARC staff played a key role in shaping the
 successful resolution of the naming dispute between Greece and North Macedonia in 2019.

 Collaborations within and beyond CARC have led to prestigious external research grants and
 significant co-authored publications, including:

    •    An award from the United States Institute for Peace (USIP): ‘Citizen Preferences in the
         Design of Effective Peace Settlements’ (2017-19; value: $95,678).
    •    A joint award from the German Institute of Global and Area Studies (GIGA) as part of
         Ansorg’s project ‘Security Sector Reform and the Stability of Post-War Peace’, funded by
         the German Research Foundation (2017-19; award: €249,7000; income to University
         £75,624.58).




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A co-authored book (Cochrane/Loizides) on power-sharing from a comparative
        perspective: Mediating Power-Sharing: Devolution and Consociationalism in Deeply
        Divided Societies (Routledge, 2017).

 Centre for Critical Thought (CCT)
 The development of political theory was flagged as a strategic priority following RAE2008, and
 today CCT (Aistrope, Azmanova, Devellenes, Cunliffe, MacKenzie, Mavelli, Molloy, Pabst,
 Rossbach, Sakwa, Turner) has a strong reputation for cutting-edge research on critically oriented
 theory in response to pressing national and international problems. Research within CCT has been
 at the forefront of emerging debates (post-liberalism, post-secularism, and the future of work) as
 well as contributing to reviving classical debates (the crisis of capitalism, universalism, the nature
 and function of critique). CCT’s achievements since REF2014 include:

 1) A new focus on grant capture in response to SPIR’s research income generation strategy (see
 section 3.1), leading to a transformation from zero in REF2014 to over £230,000. Grants include:

    •   British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship: Molloy (actual award figure: £159,403; amount to
        the University: £127,522).
    •   James Madison Charitable Trust grants: Pabst (£22,000) and Pabst and Sakwa (£3,000).
    •   Nuffield: Pabst (£26,880.55).
    •   National Institute of Economic and Social Research: Pabst (£12,676).
    •   Henry Luce Foundation grant, managed by the British Academy: Mavelli (£15,480).

 2) The creation of a Kent Summer School of Critical Theory. A collaborative venture with the Kent
 Law School, this fortnight-long summer school has been held in Paris since July 2015 and has
 brought together almost 200 PhDs/ECRs to engage with the work of leading thinkers in the critical
 tradition.

 3) Hosting agenda-setting international conferences that have broken new ground in terms of the
 transdisciplinary collaborations at their intellectual core:

    •   ‘General Organology: The Co-individuation of Minds, Bodies, Social Organisations and
        Techne’ (2014) brought together political theorists, philosophers, learning theorists,
        biologists, and experts in technology to examine dynamic and overlapping transformation
        in these different domains.
    •   The conference on ‘Culture and Technics: On Simondon’s du Mode’ (2018) led to a special
        issue of Culture, Theory and Critique. Underlying these discussions are issues relating to
        the critical turn to new materialisms, explored in a conference at Kent in 2013 and leading
        to the publication of a special issue of Theory, Culture & Society in 2018.
    •   The special issue of the journal Contentions on ‘Creative Practices/Resistant Acts’ was
        complemented by the innovative conference on the role of humour as a form of resistance,
        which led to the volume Comedy as Critical Thought: Laughter as Resistance (MacKenzie
        as co-editor).

 4) A broad range of civic engagement, including Azmanova’s current work on precarious
 capitalism and the Green New Deal and Pabst’s work on and with Blue Labour, resulting in a range
 of publications (ICS 19.3). Additional forms of civic engagement have included a three-year
 partnership with the Tate Exchange Programme at Tate Modern (2016-19) and, since 2017,
 seminar programmes in art and critical thought provided for third sector organisations (see section
 4.3).

 Global Europe Centre (GEC)
 Founded in May 2013, the Centre has expanded since REF2014 into a hub for individual and
 collaborative scholarship on Europe in a period of unparalleled change. The affiliated researchers
 (Casier, Dardanelli, Goodwin, Haastrup, Korosteleva, Madiyev, Mälksoo, Morgan-Jones,
 O’Mahony, Popp, Sakwa, Schnabel, Seyd, Sorace, van Gils, Whitman, Wroe) combine


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 comparative politics and international relations to investigate the place of Europe in a global
 context.

 GEC has gained recognition as a leading centre for research on Europe’s international role, with
 extensive collaboration between our Canterbury and Brussels campuses. Drawing on a strong
 track record in facilitating innovative research on relations between Europe and its wider
 neighbours, EU foreign and security policy, and Brexit, GEC’s profile is reflected in a strong
 publication record, prestigious externally funded projects, and an extended international network.
 GEC affiliates are active in diplomatic and policy communities (notably in London, Brussels,
 Beijing, Moscow, and Washington), through frequent involvement in advice and consultancy (inter
 alia for the European political institutions, the FCO, and DFID [now merged as FCDO], House of
 Lords, DIT, Cabinet Office, Ministry of Defence and the US State Department).

 GEC’s research develops in response to evolving policy challenges across Europe. Currently the
 Centre’s focus is on: transformational challenges in Eastern Europe and Central Eurasia; the
 impact of Brexit on foreign policies; and global challenges posed by changing hegemonies. The
 Centre’s approach to policy-related impact is demonstrated in two of our ICS (19.1 and 19.5).

 Since 2014, GEC’s research collaborations have led to prestigious external research grants,
 including:

    •   The GCRF-funded COMPASS project ‘Comprehensive Capacity-Building in Eastern
        Neighbourhood and Central Asia’ (PI: Korosteleva) in 2017 – focusing on resilience and
        adaptive governance in Central Eurasia (award: £2,929,747; award to University:
        £1,144,948.31);
    •   The H2020-funded UPTAKE project (European Commission) (PI: Korosteleva) building
        Research Excellence in Russian and East European Studies (£227,477.63);
    •   Two ESRC Senior Fellowships (Goodwin and Whitman) on the ‘UK in a Changing Europe’
        initiative (Goodwin £128,836.53; Whitman £146,164.00);
    •   Two Erasmus+ education and training projects (PI: Korosteleva) linking GEC with partners
        for research in Belarus in 2016 (€87,985) and 2018 (€87,775);
    •   ANTERO and NORTIA (Casier and Whitman projects linking ten universities in Europe for
        research and teaching on European foreign policy (ANTERO £24,376.26; NORTIA
        £34,810.58);
    •   A Newton International Fellowship (British Academy) (PI: Schnabel, sponsor: Dardanelli)
        on ‘An Instrument of Centralisation? Exploring the Politics of Conditional Grants in Federal
        States’ (£92,667.55).

 GEC has also been successful in gaining and delivering a Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence
 (Normative Power Europe and the impact on the EU-Asia relationship) (award value: £69,078.25);
 a Jean Monnet Multilateral Research Group (EU-Russia relations: developing a transnational
 perspective) (award value: £87,982.52); and two GEC members have been awarded Jean Monnet
 Chairs (Casier and Korosteleva).

 External engagement connecting academic research with policy is fundamental to the work of
 GEC. For example, Goodwin, Sakwa, and Whitman hold Associate Fellow positions at Chatham
 House; Sakwa is an Honorary Professor in the Faculty of Political Science at Moscow State
 University, and Senior Research Fellow at the National Research University - Higher School of
 Economics (HSE), Moscow; Korosteleva established an HEI network spanning the eastern
 neighbourhood, Central Asia, and China, with a focus on resilience, order, and change, under the
 GCRF UKRI COMPASS framework; Whitman and Goodwin held senior fellowships on the ‘UK in
 a Changing Europe’ programme.

 Other research clusters
 SPIR provides space outside its three research centres for staff to pursue research interests via
 other clusters of activity, including comparative politics, federal studies, and political psychology.
 These clusters are vibrant hubs of scholarly excellence in the School and across the Faculty (now

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Division). They hold regular research seminars and workshops, offer peer mentoring of work
 in progress, and initiate cross-disciplinary research. Our seed-funding of research has stimulated
 multidisciplinary collaborations in such areas as political trust, political psychology, and cyber
 security. The clusters also engage in policy work with external organisations, including the James
 Madison Charitable Trust and the Forum of Federations (Ottawa).

 1.2.2 Building and sustaining impact (see section 3.2)

 Our second strategic objective has been to increase and sustain research impact. We work closely
 with a range of domestic and international collaborators beyond academia, who not only benefit
 from but also inspire, support, and shape our research.

 Each of our three research centres has strong links with practitioners and policymakers, and this
 focus on external engagement has increased significantly since REF2014. The centres provide a
 distinctive environment to train and mentor staff to help them maximise the reach and significance
 of their research to benefit our external partners (see section 3.1). Individual researchers are
 mentored by colleagues with a strong track record in influential research to develop their impact
 strategies and to disseminate their work to non-HEI users. This active mentoring has included
 supporting placements of academic staff within non-HE partner organisations such as NATO
 (Toros) and Chatham House (Goodwin, Sakwa, and Whitman). The School has also maximised
 opportunities for impact and engagement by investing in support appointments to enhance the
 dissemination of research, including through social media, and via a series of research-user
 workshops and seminars (see section 2.1).

 Our collaborative ethos enhances the salience, significance, and reach of our work, ensuring it
 benefits partners across civil society and government: think tanks and policy institutes, non-
 governmental organisations (NGOs), national and international media, legal practitioners, public
 policy makers (UK and European parliament and national and international government agencies),
 regional governments and practitioners.

 We actively involve key stakeholders and beneficiaries from the early stages of our research
 activities, and the benefits of these relationships are demonstrated in our impact case studies.
 Since REF2014, SPIR’s research has shaped policy in the UK and overseas; led to the
 development of new training methods for practitioners; informed political and public debate; and
 provided expertise to specialist user communities.

 1.2.3 Enhancing our contribution to the discipline (see section 4)

 Our third objective has been to increase our external visibility and profile for research excellence
 within scholarly networks and professional associations.

 SPIR academics are playing an increasingly prominent role in terms of their scholarly visibility and
 service within the profession. We are proud that since REF2014 our staff have held editorships of
 three major international journals: Review of International Studies, Journal of Common Market
 Studies, and International Peacekeeping. Our contribution to the discipline is further evidenced by
 representation as Trustees of the main learned societies; on editorial and advisory board
 memberships; and journal and book series editorships (see section 4.2). We also have a strong
 record in hosting academic conferences and leading on public engagement and knowledge
 transfer activities (see section 4.2).

 The School’s standing within the discipline has been significantly enhanced via senior roles in the
 Political Studies Association (PSA), British International Studies Association (BISA), European
 International Studies Association (EISA), and University Association for Contemporary European
 Studies (UACES). These various external roles have made us more effective in key areas of
 research and professional practice to the benefit of all colleagues in SPIR. Via roles in PSA
 (Cochrane) and BISA (Whitman), we have participated in the PSA/BISA REF Working Group to
 nominate members to Sub-Panel 19 and the PSA Leadership Conference. Our involvement at the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 heart of the discipline has enabled us to shape and understand the changing landscape of external
 research funding, including the REF Consultation Document.

 1.2.4 Connecting teaching with research

 The fourth objective of our strategy is to connect our research activities with research-led teaching
 and the wider educational experience of our students. The School brings all undergraduates into
 contact with research during their studies, and adapts its teaching to allow for engagement with
 our areas of research expertise. Our teaching culture is driven directly from the research centres,
 and additions to our Masters programmes in EU External Relations and Political Psychology are
 examples of this process.

 In addition, SPIR offers students a ‘deep-learning’ environment, designed to make its research
 more coherently integrated into teaching practices. This we achieve through a range of
 engagement and knowledge exchange activities that feed into the educational environment of our
 PGR, MA, and UG communities (see section 3.2). This deep-learning environment is intended to
 bring more visibility and space to the work undertaken by the researchers, as well as to enable
 students to benefit from the distinctiveness of the School as a research and teaching institution.

 Our research-led international exchange activities have been supported by ERASMUS+,
 ANTERO, and NORTIA grants, and have an education and training focus. In addition, research
 grants from the GCRF UKRI (COMPASS and AGRE) and H2020 (UPTAKE) have enabled us to
 develop ‘hubs of excellence’ for research and knowledge transfer (see section 4.1); and our long-
 standing links to Moscow’s Higher School of Economics (HSE) facilitate Russian academics
 attending COMPASS-funded events, including student-focused master classes. Our postgraduate
 students have also used HSE as a base for research.

 1.2.5 Research transparency and integrity
 SPIR has nurtured a strong culture of collaboration and research integrity that has underpinned
 our strategy since REF2014. The School fully embraces the Open Access agenda, aligning with
 the values and principles of access, inclusivity, and an ethical approach to research. Through the
 University’s Research and Innovation Services and the Office for Scholarly Communication, all
 members of staff have been offered dedicated training opportunities on Open Access, research
 metrics, dissemination planning, and copyright.

 Embedded within the University’s robust approach, the School has three overlapping elements
 that support a strong culture of research integrity:

 1. The fundamentals of research ethics are reinforced annually through information sessions
    delivered to FTE and dedicated training sessions for PGR students. The School’s Research
    Ethics and Governance Officer is responsible for providing advice and guidance for academic
    staff as they develop research projects.
 2. The School has an Ethics Approval Process that allows for rigorous and timely elaboration and
    review. The application document and review process set a clear benchmark for research
    integrity.
 3. The School is a member of the University’s Research Ethics and Governance Committee.
    Alongside a formal reporting and accountability function, the Committee is an important venue
    for sharing best practice and addressing difficult cases, while also providing external ethics
    reviews for large grant applications. The University’s Research Ethics and Governance
    Manager works within this framework to provide advice and to share knowledge on emerging
    best practice.

 Taken together, these three elements drive a proactive culture of research integrity that combines
 a strong knowledge base with a rigorous, timely, and well-supported administrative process.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Future strategic aims for research and impact

 From November 2020, SPIR joined the newly constituted Division of Human and Social Sciences
 (replacing the Faculty of Social Sciences structure). This will help to enable research synergies
 with our co-located Divisional disciplines of anthropology, environmental and conservation
 sciences, economics, and psychology. A future research strategy for the Division will stimulate
 greater cross-disciplinary collaboration to deliver the University’s ambitious Research and
 Innovation Strategy 2018-2025 (see REF5a).

 Our overall aim for the period 2020-25 is to be among the top 15 Politics and IR research
 departments in the UK on every measure: research quality, grant income, impact, and
 environment. We are committed to further raising the profile of our three research centres to
 ensure world-leading significance for our distinctive work centred on transformational change in
 politics and international relations.

 Our future research strategy builds on our current approach, with a focus on six strands:

    •   Internationalising our research
    •   Increasing external grant income
    •   Widening research impact with academic and non-academic users
    •   Continuing to support the production of world-class outputs
    •   Maintaining best practice in our research culture
    •   Enhancing researcher mentoring and career development

 Running across these strands is a strong commitment to developing our cross-border activities
 and to preserving our distinctive transnational research environment. We will also maintain a
 flexible and responsive approach to UKRI priorities and building sustainable relations with our
 partners.

 We will prioritise and fund interdisciplinary research initiatives that connect with colleagues within
 the University (e.g. on cyber security) and externally, seeking to develop large consortia with the
 capacity and potential to make major grant bids. We will continue to enhance our research identity
 and reputation through prestigious journal editorships, service roles in professional bodies and
 associations, internal investment and organisation, and through enhanced visibility at international
 conferences.

 A major element of our future plans involves building on our success in securing funding from
 beyond research councils. Working closely with the University’s Knowledge Exchange and
 Innovation team, we are currently developing an innovation strategy to capitalise on our existing
 expertise in political risk analysis, public opinion surveys, and conflict mediation.

 We will maximise the use of our two-campus operation and deliver an integrated course portfolio,
 learning and teaching, research, enterprise, and impact that takes full advantage of the
 opportunities presented by operating in Brussels and Canterbury. In particular, we will maximise
 the unique advantage of our Brussels campus as a hub for EU-funded research.

 A sustained commitment of financial and personnel support covering the period 2020-25 will help
 ensure SPIR achieves these objectives. These financial resources will be used to increase the
 number of research-related support staff; provide an enhanced School Research Support Fund
 for seed-corn funding for research; create a researcher training support budget for specialist
 training in grant-getting and management; and provide activity funding for the School’s research
 centres (see section 3.2).




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2: People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 SPIR has taken advantage of its devolved budget to actively manage its staffing strategy. This is
 driven by our focus on deepening our research expertise and our commitment to maintaining a
 balanced staffing base that is international both in origins and outlook. It has four objectives:

    •   Maintain appropriate growth and balance in our staff numbers;
    •   Focus on recruiting and nurturing highly skilled ECRs;
    •   Develop the potential and capabilities of all our staff;
    •   Ensure our environment is conducive to international quality research, through a range of
        support measures.

 In the previous REF cycle, SPIR expanded its staffing significantly. Our strategy since REF2014
 has been to consolidate this growth, with a further increase from 35 to 39.4 FTE Category A staff,
 all on permanent Education and Research (E&R) contracts.

 We have invested strategically in posts within our three research centres that will augment our
 level of external research income and further enhance our impact and engagement strategies. We
 work to ensure a dynamic renewal and replacement of staff, with an appropriate balance between
 new entrants, ECRs, and more senior academics. Since REF2014, we have prioritised the
 recruitment of ECRs and as a result the number of ECRs has risen to 12, 30% of SPIR’s FTE
 (Aistrope, Ansorg, Biegon, Belgioioso, Bode, Gruffydd-Jones, Mott, Popp, Savic, Sorace, Turner,
 and Voller). These ECRs have brought a range of new approaches to our research.

 On 31 July 2020, our staff base consisted of 13 Lecturers (33.3%), 11 Senior Lecturers (28.2%),
 8 Readers (20.5%), and 6 Professors (15.4%). We have increased our research staff in BSIS from
 four to six. Staff recruitment has focused on strongly encouraging female and BAME candidates,
 and all new academic staff are on long-term Education and Research contracts. The strong body
 of academic staff is sustained by a highly professional administrative and technical support team
 of 15 FTE, encompassing both administrative and academic functions.

 SPIR’s staff development plan is intended to create an open, inclusive, vibrant, and collegial
 working environment (see also section 2.3). SPIR looks to develop the potential and capabilities
 of all our academic staff through a range of development opportunities, including:

    •   A supportive and rigorous probation procedure;
    •   Support for promotion via appraisal and mentoring;
    •   Transparent and equitable time management through our granular Work Allocation Model
        (WAM);
    •   Support for conference attendance through generous individual conference support
        budgets;
    •   Investment in new research through our Research Support Fund (RSF);
    •   Generous study leave entitlements.

 Skills development

 All new staff are supported through a probation period. ECRs are mentored for the duration of
 their probation and are actively supported in short- and long-term career planning and in promotion
 planning.

 SPIR undertakes an annual appraisal process, conducted by senior academics, based on the
 University’s RPD (Reflect/Plan/Develop) process. RPD is overseen by the Head of School and
 serves the purpose of identifying the needs of each member of staff, including training, pathways
 to promotion, and career development. The School has fully embraced the University’s signing up


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers to ensure holistic support
 for our ECRs.

 Alongside the RPD process is an annual research peer review and mentoring process to monitor
 the quantity and quality of staff research activities and their compatibility with the School’s research
 strategy. The process also provides staff with mentoring to help disseminate research and
 maximise impact, and ensures that resources are targeted appropriately and effectively (see 3.2).

 Our support and mentoring arrangements help staff develop the skills, confidence, and contacts
 to build an extensive range of relationships with users of our research beyond academia by pairing
 staff experienced in impact engagement activities with ECRs within our research centres (see also
 3.2).

 To further support ECR staff, the School’s WAM is designed to protect new academics’ research
 time by reducing their teaching and administrative load by 50% in the first year and 25% in the
 second year. The transparent nature of the WAM means that academic staff are given credit for
 the range of administrative and leadership roles undertaken in a consistent manner across all
 career stages.

 Recognition and reward

 The School Promotions Committee conducts a proactive policy on advancement, identifying
 potential candidates early in the annual promotion cycle, and encouraging and assisting in their
 applications. This ongoing promotion mentoring and specific support for promotions applications
 has seen a promotion success rate of 68% since REF2014.

 Just over a third of our 39.4 FTEs have been promoted since 2014. Of the ECRs included in the
 2014 submission, one has moved from a postdoctoral position to a full Lectureship to Senior
 Lecturer (Ansorg). A postdoctoral position has been made permanent (Huelss). Two staff
 members have moved from PGR to E&R contracts during the current REF period (Biegon, Turner).

 As a result of the H2020 UPTAKE and GCRF COMPASS grants, four ECRs have been appointed
 to postdoctoral research positions (van Gils, Madiyev, Kutlay, and Petrova). SPIR prides itself on
 the ability to generate postdoctoral positions attracting ECR researchers to the School.

 The School’s promotions process also actively supports academics at later stages of their career.
 During this assessment period, there have been 6 promotions from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 7
 from Senior Lecturer to Reader, and 2 from Reader to Professor.

 Study leave

 All academic staff are entitled to apply for one term’s study leave in seven. In total, 25 staff
 members benefited from study leave for an aggregate number of 37 terms during the assessment
 period (see 2.3). In addition, new Impact Secondment Sabbaticals are available to support staff in
 their engagement with research users and impact partners (see 3.2)

 2.2 Research students

 SPIR’s PhD programmes (and MAs by Research) attract high-quality applicants who enhance the
 School’s research environment. Since REF2014, the School has increased our research student
 numbers and enhanced their training. We produce well-trained future academics and research-
 orientated professionals who can work at the forefront of their field.




                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table: Total number of doctoral degrees awarded by year

                                 PhDs*
  2013/14                        7
  2014/15                        7.5
  2015/16                        4
  2016/17                        7.5
  2017/18                        12
  2018/19                        10.33
  2019/20                        9
  Total                          57.33

 Note: *No professional doctorates were awarded across these periods

 Since REF2014, our PhD completions have risen by over 66%. Moreover, the doctoral completion
 figures do not reflect the full story of our successful record of PhD awards, as our Brussels-based
 PhD student completions are excluded under HESA reporting requirements. The number of
 successfully completed PhDs at BSIS in the period 2014-20 is 22, making a total of 79 for BSIS
 and SPIR combined since 2014. This overall total represents a significant achievement for both
 sites, with a total increase of 74% in completions since REF2014.

 Recruitment and funding

 The significant increase in PhD students since REF2014 has been underpinned by our ability to
 attract funded PhD studentships. Since REF2014, SPIR has been awarded 45 University doctoral
 scholarships and has directly funded 22 Home/EU and two overseas scholarships at overseas fee
 rates. Four scholarships have been funded through our ESRC-funded Doctoral Training Centre
 and ESRC-funded Doctoral Training Partnership, the South East Network for Social Sciences
 (SeNSS). Two scholarships have been awarded through our GCRF-funded COMPASS project.
 Using GCRF funds, the University established the Global Challenges Doctoral Training Centre
 (GCDC) in 2018 to provide funding for interdisciplinary research projects aiming to help developing
 countries meet sustainable development goals, and to provide training for students to be effective
 in designing such projects. GCDC funds each doctoral student for 3.5 years, and the School has
 secured three scholarships from this source.

 SPIR’s research student community is international, with our current PhD cohort hailing from 20
 nations. In recognition of the barriers to promising PhD candidates from the Global South, we
 established an overseas scholarship award in 2015/16 to improve diversity and embrace
 inclusivity in our doctoral community.

 As part of our 2019 Athena Swan application, we reviewed and examined gender-based
 differences in our admission and funding processes. We found that our patterns of decisions mirror
 those of the discipline as a whole with respect to gender-based differences, with approximately
 40% admission rate for women. SPIR aims to boost the number of female applications and
 admissions beyond this disciplinary average (see 2.3).

 Training and supervision

 SPIR provides access to training through the Doctoral Training Centre, Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF), ECR Training Schools, and Global Challenges Doctoral Centre (GCDC),
 using GCRF QR funds.

 Doctoral students undertake modules in Advanced Research Design, Quantitative and Qualitative
 Methods. Students have additional opportunities to development their research methods skills
 through courses provided by the University’s Graduate and Researcher College, and a range of
 general skills training opportunities offered through the GCDC. Moreover, as one of the two

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 formative GCRF schools hosted at Kent, SPIR has played a central role in funding and organising
 training events. The School provides funding to enable students to attend additional workshops
 and training courses in Advanced Methods and Techniques offered by the University of Essex
 summer school or ECPR winter school in Methods. Our PGR, MA, and UG students are integrated
 into research-focused events held by SPIR.

 Students present their work at our weekly Graduate Research Training Seminar (GRTS), where
 they receive constructive feedback from staff and peers. Since REF2014, a significant amount of
 time and energy has been invested in running PGR career development sessions on getting
 published, Open Access, and research impact, headed by the current Deputy Director of Graduate
 Studies with specific responsibility for Graduate Research Training (den Boer). GRTS has also
 built in professional development activities including ethics, gender equality and unconscious bias,
 research integrity and replication. Fostering research integrity and professional standards from the
 start of their doctoral study, our PGR students are actively encouraged to attend professional
 development training offered by the Graduate School rooted in Vitae’s Researcher Development
 Framework.

 Publication activities

 Our supportive and inclusive approach has fostered a robust publication culture among our PhD
 students. Since 2014, our PGRs have published in numerous high-profile venues both individually
 and by co-authoring with SPIR staff: European Journal of Political Research, Political Science
 Research and Methods, Journal of Conflict Resolution, Journal of Peace Research, Journal of
 Political Ideologies, European Journal of Political Theory, International Politics, International
 Migration, Electoral Studies, Journal of European Public Policy, and Party Politics.

 Recognition and awards

 In addition to their growing publication pedigree, our research students have received recognition
 for their research. The Conflict Research Society awarded the Cedric Smith Prize, which is
 presented annually to the best research paper in peace and conflict research by a UK doctoral
 student, to Luke Abbs (2017) and Robert Nagel (2019). Robert Nagel (and his co-author Austin
 Doctor) also received the 2020 Dina Zinnes Award for best graduate student paper from the
 Scientific Study of International Processes Section of ISA. Within the University, Merheim-Eyre
 (2015) and Goddard (2017) were awarded the Faculty of Social Sciences Prize for Postgraduate
 Research. Van Gils received the 2016 University of Kent Research Prize for Postgraduate
 Research.

 Onward employment

 The quality of our doctoral students’ research output and professional skills has seen them
 recruited to academic and high-profile positions, including: postdoctoral positions at Georgetown
 University, University of Essex, University of Copenhagen, Utrecht University, Virginia Polytechnic
 Institute and State University in the US; permanent lectureships at the University of Groningen,
 the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, Indian Institute of
 Technology in Delhi, Weber State University, University of Nottingham's campus in Malaysia,
 University of Saskatchewan, and University of Kent; and high-profile research-based civil service
 positions in the UK Cabinet Office and private sector careers in the fields of Mediation and Conflict
 Management.

 All PGRs are offered appointment as a Research Fellow of one of our Research Centres upon
 graduating. This research affiliation is an important bridge between PhD and first academic job,
 and it allows the School to maintain connections and research engagement with our talented early
 career scholars as they build their careers.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Equality and diversity

 The School is committed to incorporating the principles of equality and diversity across all relevant
 characteristics in every aspect of our recruitment and promotion processes, working patterns,
 teaching, and research. Diversity is integral to the identity of the School, with staff drawn from
 sixteen nationalities.

 All staff undertake compulsory equality and diversity training on, for example, unconscious bias
 awareness and diversity and inclusion in Higher Education. The School is actively engaged in the
 University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) Network, and is represented on the forum by
 our EDI representative (Witchell). The School has established its own EDI committee to ensure
 that EDI principles are incorporated across all of our activities.

 The principles of equality and diversity are fully embedded across the School’s research
 environment. For instance, these principles help guide the choice of external speakers to the
 School’s research seminars.

 As part of Kent’s preparation for REF2021, staff directly involved in the submission, including the
 Unit’s REF Working Group members in addition to the REF coordinator and REF administrator,
 were required to undertake additional EDI training as part of Kent’s Code of Practice.

 Study leave and working patterns

 SPIR is an open, fair, and democratic workplace. Workloads are allocated on a transparent basis,
 with a WAM that includes credit for a range of activities, including leadership roles and PGR
 supervision.

 We recognise that staff need to balance often conflicting demands with regards to teaching,
 research, and personal lives. Our research leave provision is a key aspect of our staffing strategy
 that helps staff balance these priorities (see 2.1). Staff also have the flexibility to concentrate
 teaching into one term as a means to balance parental and caring responsibilities alongside
 scholarly activity.

 SPIR follows the University’s policies concerning support for staff and research students returning
 from periods of leave (including parental leave) or ill health, or with caring responsibilities.
 Furthermore, the School has a policy that staff returning to work following maternity leave are
 given a reduced teaching load in their first term to enable them to reinvest in their research. We
 have progressively migrated away from hourly paid staff arrangements.

 Wellbeing

 SPIR’s dedicated Wellbeing Officer supports staff through a range of activities that develop mental
 and physical wellbeing. All staff are encouraged to access the broad range of support services at
 the University, including Occupational Health and Wellbeing Services, and a free counselling
 service when needed. For PGR support, help is readily available via the Director of Graduate
 Studies (Dardanelli) and GTA/HPL mechanisms (O’Mahony) in the first instance, with University
 Services including Student Support and Wellbeing on hand for more specific support.

 Gender equality

 We are very mindful that our current academic staff gender mix is 26 male (66.6%) and 13 female
 (33.3%). Although this is broadly reflective of our subject field as a whole (https://www.advance-
 he.ac.uk/knowledge-hub/equality-higher-education-statistical-report-2020 Table 4.14), we are
 working hard to ensure equal representation among our new hires at all career stages, and three
 of our five most recent appointments have been female.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SPIR established an Athena SWAN committee in 2018 and applied for a Bronze award in 2019.
 The process has helped the School to identify ways of further strengthening gender diversity, and
 to use this learning to apply again. In preparation for its application, the School identified areas
 from recruitment to promotion in which female academic staff were under-represented and
 devised strategies to address the imbalance. SPIR has ensured that female colleagues are
 represented within all areas of School governance, including appointments to the School
 Executive Group, Promotions Committee, and appointment panels. Key leadership roles in the
 School, including Head of School (Blakeley, 2015) and Director of Research (Flockhart, 2016-18),
 have been held by women and all female staff at Senior Lecturer and above have held Directorship
 roles. Bode was appointed to the position of Director of the GCRF Doctoral Training Centre (2018-
 19). In addition to our first female professorial appointment in 2012 (Korosteleva), we have
 appointed (Flockhart) or internally promoted (Blakeley) two female professors. The School
 Promotions Committee is working with female academics to provide early feedback in advance of
 the promotions cycle to strengthen their applications.

 Our female academics have a particularly strong track record of successful grant applications.
 Between 2014 and 2019, women comprised 35% of academic staff and submitted 34% of the
 grant applications. Successful grants (25% of the School total) from our female academics
 constituted 80% of the School’s grant income during this period.

 We are also seeking to improve the gender balance among our research students, including
 through the creation of a PhD scholarship for research in the area of gender and politics to be
 supervised by female academics in the School (see also section 2.2).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income and funding strategy

 The School has seen a dramatic increase in research income over the period since REF2014.
 Overall external research awards have been in excess of £3.2 million, a growth of over 320% since
 REF2014. Our strategy for generating research income has been to diversify, increase, and
 internationalise grant awards. Since REF2014 we have:

    •   Increased the number of grant applications submitted;
    •   Diversified and internationalised the range of targeted funders;
    •   Supported applications for large and complex grants;
    •   Used School and Faculty research funds as a springboard for future large grant capture.

 As a result of this successful funding strategy, across the REF2021 review period SPIR has been
 awarded highly competitive research grants from prestigious bodies including: the British
 Academy, Centre for East European Language Based Area Studies, Economic and Social
 Research Council (ESRC), European Commission, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (German
 Research Foundation), Fritz Thyssen Foundation, GCRF, International Committee of the Red
 Cross, Leverhulme Trust, Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Social Science
 Research Council (US), University Association for Contemporary European Studies (UACES), US
 Institute for Peace (USIP), and Wellcome Trust.

 Currently funded projects for individual research include: a British Academy Mid-Career
 Fellowship award on E. H. Carr: ‘Realist Ethics Between Hegel and Marx’ (Molloy); a Social
 Science Research Council award on ‘Transnational Diaspora Activism and Human Security in the
 Homeland: The Cases of Iraqi Kurdistan, South Sudan, and Somaliland’ (Voller); a Nuffield
 Foundation award on revisions to UK Government Expenditure Plans (Pabst); a project on why
 centralization and decentralization in Federations funded by the James Madison Trust and the
 Forum of Federations (Dardanelli); and a project funded by the German Research Foundation on
 ‘Security Sector Reform and the Stability of Post-War Peace’ (Ansorg).



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Since REF2014, SPIR has made a number of strategic investments to support and generate
 innovative research.

 Funding

 The School offers a £25,000 per annum Research Support Fund (RSF) open to all staff as seed-
 corn funding for new initiatives and workshop activities to pursue new research agendas. In

                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition, we have recently created a Research Incentivisation Fund available to staff who apply
 for external funding in excess of £100,000 but are unsuccessful. They can apply for 1% of the
 award once per year in order to advance the research to allow a stronger application to be
 submitted on a future occasion or for an aspect of the research to be undertaken, such as
 fieldwork.

 These two funding streams are examples of a wide range of School initiatives intended to increase
 grant opportunities and support additional time for research activities to take place. Other
 examples include:

    •   Core funding to each research centre to underwrite the costs of hosting international
        conferences and events;
    •   A dedicated conference and workshop attendance fund for every member of staff (£1,500
        per annum per FTE);
    •   An External Grant Incentivisation Fund to support complex and large grant applications;
    •   A competitive process for annual support (via the WAM) for large collaborative research
        project applications, which assists colleagues submitting large collaborative grants by
        reducing their workload in other areas;
    •   An Annual Thematic Research Programme Fund, with £40,000 (4 x £10,000 grants)
        available per annum to encourage the development of new strands of collaborative
        research within each of the three research centres.

 In total, since REF2014, the School has spent approximately £124,000 incentivising new research
 through these support funds for small projects, fieldwork, engagement, and impact-related
 activities.

 SPIR staff were additionally supported by the Faculty of Social Sciences through the Small Grant
 Scheme (up to £5,000). Since REF2014, 25 members of the School have been recipients of these
 grants, totalling approximately £65,000, which have been a springboard for bids for larger external
 funding schemes. SPIR also provides opportunities for international-level research collaboration
 for staff and research students by funding membership of the European Consortium for Political
 Research (ECPR), the Royal Institute for International Affairs (Chatham House), and the
 University Association for Contemporary European Studies (UACES).

 Administrative support and facilities

 The School has increased administrative support for research, and our Research Support Officer
 (RSO) plays an important role in expanding our research capacity and ability to track and develop
 impact and engagement activities. The RSO has not only reduced the administrative burden on
 academics, freeing up time for research, but also enables projects, grant applications, and
 research monitoring to be achieved in an efficient and effective manner. An additional post-
 doctoral appointment, created in May 2015 (Ansorg, then Huelss), provides extra support for
 external grant applications.

 Scholarly infrastructure

 Through our three research centres we have an organisational infrastructure that promotes
 collaborative working, knowledge sharing, and vibrant and supportive research cultures across
 Brussels and Canterbury.

 We provide the intellectual space to support staff developing new pathways to research. Reading
 groups within the centres offer a fertile and supportive environment of knowledge and skills-
 sharing to support external grants.

 Our long-standing Visiting Fellowship Scheme continues to attract practitioners from diverse
 sectors (NGOs, policy-making, cultural institutions, and industry) to create links and partnerships


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the School’s existing research projects. Recent Fellowships include Lord Glasman, director
 of the Common Good Foundation, and Jason Cowley, editor of the New Statesman.

 The SPIR Research Seminar (SPIRRS) provides a framework for staff and research students to
 interact with cutting-edge research by leading scholars in the field. The idea is to facilitate
 discussion of new research. Numerous external speakers have benefited from the discussion at
 Kent in developing their thinking; for example, Molly Cochran and Katerina Tertytchnaya.

 We have welcomed a number of renowned speakers within the framework of our Public Speaker
 Programme (PSP). Recent speakers include Mme Fu Ying (former Deputy Foreign Minister of
 China and Chinese Ambassador to the UK), David Goodhart (founding editor of Prospect
 magazine), Phillip Blond (Director of the ResPublica think tank), Claire Ainsley (Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation), and Rachel Reeves (MP for Leeds West).

 Impact support

 SPIR has taken a number of steps specifically intended to boost impact, in line with our strategic
 objectives (see section 1.2):

 In 2017, we introduced Impact Secondment Sabbaticals, offering relief from teaching and other
 responsibilities for one term. These secondments operate in two directions: involving a staff
 member working in the partner organisation for a specific period on a project, or an impact partner
 coming to work in the School. We have also invested in new staff appointments (Osuteye and
 Norman) to support the organisation of School workshops, conferences, seminars, roundtables,
 and SPIRRS seminars that link users and practitioners.

 Other steps designed to maximise the impact of our work include:

    •   Active mentoring by peers with strong impact records to help train and support other
        research staff;
    •   Annual individual research planning meetings with the School Director of Research;
    •   Time allocations built into staff workloads to establish and sustain links with external
        stakeholders and user groups;
    •   Support to help disseminate the results of research, providing platforms for engagement
        with users outside academia via social media, workshops, conferences, and policy papers;
    •   Training on the full range of knowledge exchange activities through the University’s
        Research and Innovation Services team, especially its Enterprise and Impact Training, has
        helped academics to engage with non-HE users and demonstrate impact;
    •   We also work in close partnership with the University’s Office for Scholarly Communication
        and media team to disseminate and publicise our work (see section 4.3).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 SPIR hosts several major research collaborations and participates in a number of international
 collaborative networks. The School holds one of the first Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF) projects initiated by the UK Government in 2016. Through COMPASS, we work in
 partnership with four top HEIs in Eastern Europe and Central Asia to establish regional ‘hubs of
 excellence’ as research partners and leads for knowledge production and transfer. The research
 strand of COMPASS explores new approaches to ‘governance’ with a focus on resilience,
 capacity-building, peoplehood, and cooperative orders, to make governance more effective and
 sustainable. The outputs of the GCRF project have included research workshops and signature
 conferences at Kent and partner HEIs; international Training Schools for ECRs; and the Minsk
 Dialogue Policy Forum, attracting over 700 participants, with ambassadors offering training to
 young leaders of the consortium, and community engagement across Central Eurasia. This has


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 generated a 1000-strong network of researchers, policy, and community stakeholders, and
 resulted in 262 academic and policy publications and new strategic partnerships and funded
 projects.

 SPIR co-hosts MOVES: Migration and Modernity: Historical and Cultural Challenges, a European
 Joint Doctorate (EJD) in receipt of €4 million EU funding. MOVES has a cross-campus (Canterbury
 and Brussels) and cross-School (School of English and SPIR) programme linking the University
 of Kent with Charles University, Prague; Montpellier; Free University, Berlin; and Porto University.
 This doctoral programme is defined by a unique collaboration between university researchers in
 the Humanities and Social Sciences and partners across sectors (NGOs, charities working with
 migrants, and cultural and creative industries). It identifies the contemporary issue of migration as
 a problem to be treated within the wide context of modernity, acknowledging the way it has shaped
 European identity.

 The School partners with a number of other funded international collaborative networks. During
 the REF2021 period, these have included UPTAKE, an H2020 Twinning Project (2016-19), which
 brought together researchers from Kent, Uppsala, and Tartu universities for activities including
 postgraduate training schools, extensive inter-institutional mobility, joint supervision of doctoral
 students and postdoctoral fellows, and coordinated the promotion of research outputs, as well as
 a range of dissemination and communication measures.

 Through the Global Europe Centre (GEC), in November 2013 the School established a Jean
 Monnet Network of Excellence with four Asia-Pacific partners to investigate the idea of Normative
 Power Europe in relation to Asia; a Jean Monnet Multilateral Research Group (MRG) on the
 interaction between the EU and Russia (Casier); and was awarded two Jean Monnet Chairs
 (Casier in 2012 and Korosteleva in 2013). The School also received Erasmus+ funding as a
 partner in the ten-institution pan-European ANTERO, and its successor NORTIA (2017-20), the
 leading international networks for research-teaching on EU Foreign Affairs.

 4.2 Benefit to the scholarly community

 Staff at Kent have played an international disciplinary leadership role through half a century, and
 one of our five strategic objectives since REF2014 has been to build on and enhance this
 contribution to our discipline (see section 1.2). We have set out to amplify the research profile of
 the School within national and international scholarly networks in three ways:

 1. Increasing our activity within the main professional associations

 SPIR has greatly enhanced its profile within the main professional associations, in terms of playing
 a role within their governance, entering students and colleagues for prizes, and representation at
 events. Whitman was Chair of BISA (2016-18) and Cochrane was Vice-Chair of the PSA. We have
 also had representation from Goodwin and Haastrup, respectively, as Trustees of the PSA and
 BISA during this REF cycle. Mälksoo is serving as Executive Secretary on the EISA Governing
 Board (until 2021) and has been elected President of CEEISA (a member of the Executive
 Committee since 2016).

 School members have convened specialist groups for key national and international professional
 associations, including the Political Studies Association (PSA), American Political Science
 Association (APSA), British International Studies Association (BISA), International Studies
 Association (ISA), International Political Science Association (IPSA), European International
 Studies Association (EISA), Central and East European International Studies Association
 (CEEISA), Conflict Research Society (CRS), European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR),
 British Association for Slavonic and East European Studies (BASEES), the Jean Monnet
 networks, and the University Association for Contemporary European Studies (UACES).

 This range of leadership activity helps amplify the quality of research undertaken in the School
 and raises the profiles of colleagues within it.

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Editorships of significant academic journals

 We are proud that since REF2014 we have hosted editorships of some of the most prestigious
 scholarly journals in our field:

    •   Journal of Common Market Studies (Whitman, Haastrup);
    •   Critical Studies on Terrorism (Toros);
    •   International Peacekeeping (Cunliffe);
    •   Review of International Studies (Blakeley, 2014-17).

 The School owns Global Society, an interdisciplinary journal that examines key issues in
 international studies from a multitude of scholarly perspectives. This journal has been significantly
 revived during the current REF period under new editorship (den Boer) and has become an
 important asset for the profile of multidisciplinary research in international relations. We receive
 approximately £25,000 per annum from Taylor and Francis for editorial expenses and royalties.

 Editorships held by our staff include:

    •   Four Routledge book series: Studies in Federalism and Decentralization (Dardanelli);
        Russian and East European Studies (Sakwa); Studies in European Security and Strategy
        (Whitman); and European Foreign Policy (Whitman);
    •   MacKenzie is the editor of a Rowman and Littlefield International book series,
        ‘Experiments/On the Political’;
    •   Three journal associate editors: TELOS (Pabst); Nationalism and Ethnic Politics (Loizides);
        and New Perspectives and Global Society (Mälksoo).

 Editorial Board memberships:

    •   Loizides sits on the editorial board of Federal Governance;
    •   Whitman is on the editorial boards of European Security, Review of International Studies,
        and Studia Diplomatica;
    •   Pabst sits on the editorial board of Revue politique et parlementaire;
    •   Sakwa is on the editorial board of numerous journals, including Europe-Asia Studies, East
        European Politics, Russian Politics, and European Politics and Society;
    •   Mälksoo sits on the editorial boards of Contemporary Security Policy, Global Studies
        Quarterly, Journal of Genocide Research, and International Political Anthropology.

 3. Increasing our focus on hosting academic conferences

 The expansion of Middle East politics with the appointment of Voller resulted in the School being
 selected to host the 2020 British Middle East Studies Association (BRISMES) conference, for over
 500 internationally based Middle East scholars.
 Other major conferences hosted by SPIR include:

    •   Conflict Research Society Annual Conference, 2015 (100 delegates);
    •   Elections Parties and Public Opinion (EPOP) Annual Conference, 2016 (150 delegates);
        EPOP is the PSA’s largest Specialist Group;
    •   PSA American Politics Group 46th Annual Conference, 2020 (50 delegates from the UK,
        EU, Australia, and the US) (Chair: Wroe).

 4.3 Our wider contribution: research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 Our researchers seek to develop deep, lasting engagement with key users of their research by
 establishing ‘privileged partnerships’ and long-term affiliations. By providing commentary,
 briefings, and expert evidence, we are responsive to national and international policy and other


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 audiences in our research areas. SPIR’s engagement with research users, beneficiaries, and
 audiences has four strands:

 1. Engagement with public policy makers

 The School has strong links with government and public policy makers. Our researchers have
 established relationships with desk officers, heads of unit, and research analysts, providing ‘at
 request’ briefings and commenting on work-in-progress reports and analysis for the UK Foreign &
 Commonwealth Office (FCO) (Dardanelli, Korosteleva, Loizides, Sakwa, Whitman); Cabinet Office
 (Korosteleva, Sakwa) Ministry of Defence (Sakwa); European Commission (Casier, Korosteleva,
 Whitman); and European External Action Service (Korosteleva; Whitman).

 SPIR staff regularly provide expert evidence to the UK Government and European parliaments,
 prepare commissioned briefing for parliamentarians, and contribute to parliamentary reports and
 briefings for individual Members of Parliament (Ansorg, Bode, Casier, Haastrup, Korosteleva,
 Sakwa, Whitman).

 2. Connection with major think tanks

 Targeted, sustained, and long-term relationships with think tanks and policy institutes:

    •   Goodwin and Whitman are Associate Fellows of the Europe Programme of the Royal
        Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House);
    •   Korosteleva is a Visiting Professor of LSE IDEAS, College of Europe, Hertie School of
        Governance (as a Dahrendorf Fellow);
    •   Pabst is a Fellow and Associate Director of Research of the National Institute of Economic
        and Social Research (NIESR);
    •   Sakwa is an Associate Fellow of the Russia and Eurasia Programme of the Royal Institute
        of International Affairs (Chatham House);
    •   Whitman is an Academic Fellow of the Brussels-based European Policy Centre (EPC).

 3. Advisory and practical work with non-academic research user communities

 Our wider contributions to the economy and society include the cultivation of long-term
 partnerships with a range of NGOs and other practitioners (see ICS 19.1, 19.2, 19.3, 19.5). These
 sustained relationships have developed trust, and enabled the exchange of confidential and
 sensitive material.

 For instance, CARC’s research on the design of peace settlements and the study of citizen
 preferences in conflicts has underpinned advisory work shaping the evolution of the Northern Irish
 institutions (working with former NI MLA John McCallister); the comprehensive resolution of the
 Macedonia naming dispute (via work for Stratagem International); the design of the UN Guterres
 framework in Cyprus (the product of work leading the Forum of Federations); and an invitation by
 the Organization of American States (OAS) to support the establishment of OAS’s Department for
 the Promotion of Peace in the areas of conflict prevention, mediation and sub-national
 governance. As illustrative of our work with international organisations, Den Boer has acted as an
 external advisor for the OECD Social Institutions and Gender Index (SIGI).

 Academics in the School with long-standing expertise in their respective areas have also engaged
 directly with education and briefings for operational military staff (Guichaoua, Mälksoo, Sakwa)
 and other practitioners working ‘on the ground’; for example, by establishing counter-terrorism
 training for international security organisations (see ICS 19.2).

 Our partnerships with third-sector charities have brought political and social theory scholarship
 into the understanding of cultural practices via our work with the Tate Modern (MacKenzie,
 Rossbach). Between 2015 and 2018, SPIR was an Associate of the Tate Modern through the Tate

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exchange Programme, which connected universities and third-sector and arts organisations.
 MacKenzie and Rossbach developed local and national partnerships in England and Wales on
 the theme ‘Practices of Resistance’.

 4. Sustained public engagement via media and other public-focused activities

 SPIR has a robust dissemination strategy that goes beyond traditional academic publication
 methods, and includes the creative use of open access outlets such as blogs, op-eds in national
 and international media, internet publications, and policy briefs, as well as print and broadcast
 media appearances.

 Staff have built reputations for expert commentary, establishing strong relationships with national
 and international media (Ansorg, Azmanova, Blakeley, Cunliffe, den Boer, Goodwin, Guichaoua,
 Korosteleva, Lee, Pabst, Sakwa, Whitman). In addition to providing on-request quotations and
 commentary for major international broadcast media, as well as regional, national, and
 international print media, we foster close long-term relationships with key media correspondents
 in order to deepen public understanding.

 Since REF2014, SPIR’s staff have made over 1,273 radio and TV media appearances, and our
 research has 6,917 press mentions.




                                    SPIR - Number of press citations
  800
  700                             633
  600
                            481
  500                                                        437                               434
                                                       381         399 379
  400           323                                                                                  298
  300
  200                                            118                                     135
          103                                                                  89
  100                                       46                                      60                     54
    0
              International press                National press                     Regional Press
                       2014          2015        2016              2017      2018         2019




                                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Summary

 Politics and international studies research at the University of Kent operates within a dynamic
 environment that provides a strongly supportive and intellectually invigorating context for
 researchers. The significantly increasing scale and scope of our activities since REF2014, coupled
 with our strong focus on originality and national and international collaboration, demonstrates the
 vitality of our research environment. The University’s continuing investment in resources to
 support SPIR’s research environment demonstrates a strong commitment to fostering and
 increasing the international significance of politics and international studies.




                                                                                            Page 21
