Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution:
 Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: UoA2

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 1A. Overview: Unit context and structure

 Research in this UoA is carried out by 42 staff mostly working in the Institute of Population Health
 Sciences (IPHS). The Institute, inaugurated in 2019, arose from the ambition of the School of
 Medicine and Dentistry (SMD) at Queen Mary to consolidate its success in research in public
 health, primary care and health services research. The focus has been to produce the highest
 quality research to respond to the needs of the local East London population, which experiences
 amongst the worst levels of healthy life expectancy and life expectancy in London and the UK.
 The IPHS brings together the Unit for Social and Community Mental Health and the Centres for
 Primary Care and Public Health, Global Health, Women’s Health, and Clinical Trials.

 There is collaboration with the Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine (nutrition, smoking,
 cancer, trials), the Blizard Insitute (pollution, child health) and across the medical school and wider
 university.

 UoA2 staff play key roles in UCL Partners (Queen Mary is a founding partner) which oversees the
 Academic Health Sciences Network and Academic Health Sciences Centre (Thornton is Deputy
 Director). In 2013, with UCL, Queen Mary formed the successful Collaboration for Leadership in
 Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) North Thames, renewed as a five year Applied
 Research Collaboration (£9m; 2019). In 2020, we became a collaborator in the Prevention
 Research Partnership funded consortium (ActEarly) a north-south collaboration to tackle upstream
 causes of inequalities (£7m, Sheldon). Our primary care research was recognised nationally in
 2020 through inclusion in the NIHR School for Primary Care Research (£20m; Griffiths, Taylor,
 Robson, Eldridge, Swinglehurst, Sheldon and others). We have also led Queen Mary involvement
 in pan-London collaborations such as the Health Data Research UK (HDR UK) London Centre
 (£6.9m jointly with KCL, UCL, Imperial, LSHTM; Dezateux, Eldridge), and an eight-year Wellcome
 Trust Doctoral Training programme on health data (£5.5m; Dezateux, Eldridge, Swinglehurst)
 which trains 30 students over five years (from 2021). We lead the East London arm of the renewed
 NIHR Research Design Service London (£6.3m; Hooper, Taylor).

 Research income has grown from £5.5m per year in the 2008-2013 period to £9.5m per year over
 the seven years of this period (August 2013 to July 2020).

 1B. Strategic Research Aims and Impacts post-REF2014

 Our overarching strategic aims (abbreviated throughout as SA) post-REF2014 were to:
 (i)   consolidate new groups
 (ii)  build a cadre of strong independent researchers via fellowships and promotions
 (iii) expand in areas of research strength
 (iv)  develop the infrastructure and capacity for research impact.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our progress is described below.

 Our overall growth during this REF period is demonstrated by the increased number of staff
 returned in UoA2 from 23 (20.6 FTE; 6 early career researchers [ECR’s]) in 2014 to 42 (34.75
 FTE, including 7 ECR’s) in this submission. There have been 42 fellowships awarded and 6 staff
 promoted to senior research roles (see section 2 for more details).

 The research submitted in UoA2 has been organised into the key areas below, although our
 research ethos is collaborative, interdisciplinary and cross-cutting. These areas are: Mental
 Health, Respiratory, Self-management and Behaviour Change, Health Data, Clinical Trials and
 Methodology, Global Health and Women’s Health. This strategy complements that set out in
 UoA1, and together provides an holistic approach to addressing the health needs of our local East
 London population, with global application.

 Mental Health Research (SAiii,iv) The Unit for Social and Community Psychiatry brings together
 expertise in health and social care. It recognises the importance of mental ill health as a co-
 morbidity alongside other long-term conditions. Priebe leads the Unit which focuses on how social
 interactions can reduce mental distress, particularly interventions involving clinicians, patients,
 families and communities. The Unit is the only mental health-related WHO Collaborating Centre
 for Mental Health Service Development. Since 2014, we have evaluated the impact of having the
 same psychiatrist for both in- and out-patient care (COFI, Priebe, Bird, €5m EC) and developed
 DIALOG+ which turns routine patient-clinician meetings into therapeutically effective interventions
 (EPOS, £1.2m, Programme Grant for Applied Research), Priebe, Eldridge). DIALOG+ has been
 taken up in the NHS and elsewhere (see Impact Case Study) and has led to research programmes
 for patients with chronic depression in the UK (TACK, £2.5m, PGfAR, Bird, Kerry) and in five
 Balkan countries (IMPULSE, €2.4m EC, Jovanovic). The unit hosts a NIHR Global Health
 Research Group on Developing Psycho-Social Interventions (£2m, Priebe with Bird; Psychother
 Psychosom 2015), which tests DIALOG+, family involvement and befriending in Bosnia-
 Herzegovina, Colombia, Uganda, Argentina, Pakistan and Peru. An MRC Project (BRICs; Bird,
 Priebe) is testing DIALOG+ in disadvantaged adolescents with the Javeriana University in Bogotá
 (Lancet Glob Health 2019).

 Group-based body psychotherapy was tested against Pilates (NESS, £1.4m, HTA, Priebe,
 Eldridge) and demonstrated no overall benefit although a positive effect in women was evident. A
 recent trial tested art, music and dance-movement therapy (ERA, £1.4m, HTA, Carr). Family
 involvement in in-patient care was studied, identifying patient preferences and practical options
 for implementing family involvement early after admission (JAMA Psych 2016). Relationships with
 volunteers through befriending were evaluated in the VOLUME trial (£1.4m, NIHR PGfAR, Priebe)
 which led to increased social contact, with a beneficial effect lasting beyond the intervention. We
 are now testing interventions to widen the social networks of patients (SCENE, £2.7m, PGfAR led
 by Priebe; Br J Psych 2019). Freestone leads a new Brain Consortium for East London Genes
 and Health, and a programme with Yaqoob (UoA1) which investigates inflammation and
 depression in renal disease (Barts Charity, £180K). Hosang (JAMA Psych 2019) has created an
 online tool adopted in social services to assess the experience of stressful life events and identify
 patterns of triggers for depression (ESRC, 379K).

 Respiratory research (SAiii,iv) Griffiths co-leads (with Sheikh, Edinburgh) a 17-institution
 Asthma-UK Centre for Applied Research (AUK-CAR; Eldridge, Martineau, Mihaylova, Shaheen,
 Hamilton) renewed for a second 5-year term from 2019 (£2m). This UK-wide Centre focuses on
 the prevention of asthma attacks and reduction in asthma-related hospitalisation and death. In the

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014-2019 period, it leveraged more than £22m from the initial £2m investment. The AUK-CAR
 links with the MRC-AUK Asthma Mechanisms Centre, to provide a unified translational approach,
 from discovery science to clinical care and population health. We provided the first evidence of
 the extra-skeletal benefits of vitamin D supplementation in reducing the risk of respiratory infection
 (BMJ 2017), asthma attacks (Lancet Resp 2017) and hospitalisation (Martineau, Griffiths, Hooper,
 Eldridge NIHR PGfAR, £1.8m). We demonstrated that self-management reduces the risk of
 asthma attacks (Taylor, Griffiths BMC Med 2017); a multi-component education programme
 tailored for South Asians improves follow-up and quality of life after an attack (Griffiths, Eldridge,
 Taylor); poor air quality is associated with stunted lung growth in London primary school children
 (Lancet Pub Health2018); and that the London Low-Emission-Zone (LEZ) has limited impact and
 therefore further reductions are required (Griffiths, Grigg Lancet Pub Health 2019).

 Self-management and behaviour change (SAiii,iv): We are internationally recognised for our
 research in supported self-management of long-term conditions. Our comprehensive review of
 this topic for health service commissioners (PRISMS, Health Service Delivery Research 2014),
 has been downloaded more than 6,000 times, the most highly-accessed HS&DR publication ever.
 We have an extensive portfolio of major NIHR-funded primary care research, including multi-
 morbidity in airways disease (TANDEM, £1.9m, NIHR HTA, Taylor, Steed), asthma management
 (IMP2ART, £2.5m NIHR PGfAR co-lead Taylor, Eldridge, Steed); cancer survivors (SURECAN
 £2.5m NIHR PGfAR co-Lead Taylor) and polypharmacy in multimorbidity (APOLLO-MM, £1.04m
 NIHR ClinSci award, Swinglehurst).

 Smoking cessation is an important self-management activity and we lead with Hajek, an
 international leader on several NIHR-funded studies; nicotine replacement (NIHR £0.92m; BMJ
 2018; NEJM 2019); relapse prevention (NIHR HTA £1.2m); role of e-cigarettes in pregnant
 smokers (NIHR £1.6m), and smoking cessation via community pharmacies (STOP £1.4m, NIHR
 PGfAR Taylor, Eldridge).

 Finer (with van Heel, UoA1) co-leads the East London Genes and Health consortium (ELGH, now
 Genes and Health, Wellcome funding, £2.5m and £4m) which brings together expertise in
 genomics and population-based research. Her research spans genetics though to prevention of
 type 2 diabetes and encompasses new models of care. She studies the role of group clinics for
 young adults with diabetes in ethnically diverse, socioeconomically deprived populations (NIHR
 HS&DR £378k). With MRC funding (£579k, with Hull), Finer aims to harness East London
 population-wide electronic health record data to identify multimorbidity clusters and trajectories in
 British South Asians and to identify novel genetic causes and predictors of multi-morbidity (Hum
 Mol Genet 2015).

 Health Data Research (SAiii,iv) The Clinical Effectiveness Group (Robson, Hull, Boomla) leads
 research into the effective delivery of primary care in our ethnically diverse, inner city population
 of East London, making use of access to individual patient records from seven clinical
 commissioning groups (CCGs; from three in REF2014) and population of more than 2 million. The
 group used patient-level data to demonstrate that multi-morbidity is the strongest predictor of
 emergency department attendance, which is also independently associated with social
 deprivation, and that low use of the GP surgery is associated with low emergency department
 attendance (Hull; BJ Gen Pract 2018). High-quality ethnicity data developed by the group as a
 result of close involvement with the local health community over many years, showed that the
 prevalence of multiple sclerosis is lower in Black and South Asian populations than Whites, but
 considerably higher than among Black and South Asian territorial ancestry (Boomla, Robson; BJ
 Gen Pract 2017). Trusted use of primary care data integrated with secondary care data in near

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 real-time through the Discovery Programme (funded by NHS England/OneLondon and Endeavour
 Health Charity) is enabling Robson and Dezateux to build further research capacity in actionable
 population health and clinical effectiveness. Queen Mary is a member of the collaborative national
 implementation research network (related to HDRUK, see 1a) in text analytics (£680k, Dezateux)
 and multi-morbidity (£1.1m, Dezateux, Robson). Eldridge and Griffiths represent Queen Mary in
 BREATHE, the national HDRUK Hub for Respiratory Health, established to enable research and
 innovation to improve the lives of people living with respiratory conditions.
    We have shown the benefit of the national NHS Health Checks programme (Robson, Eldridge
 DoH £600k, B J Gen Pract 2017); characterised lung cancer care pathways (lead Peake, PHE,
 Robson, CRUK, £140k); evaluated safe stewardship of antibiotics (Co-CI Robson, ESRC, £1.6m);
 and undertaken methodological research to evaluate the use of observational data for comparative
 effectiveness research (Robson, Dezateux MRC £582k).

 In 2018, Robson, Dezateux and Griffiths were awarded £2.2m from Barts Charity for the REAL-
 Health programme to apply big data and health data science to important issues relevant to
 equitable health service delivery in East London. We investigated childhood obesity, congenital
 disorders, respiratory health, blood pressure and medicines optimisation for cardiovascular
 prevention. In parallel work, we showed the efficacy of hepatitis screening targeted at high risk
 groups (£2m NIHR-funded HepFREE, Eldridge, Griffiths, Lancet Gastroent 2018), that opt-out
 rapid testing in general practice led to increased rates of diagnosis (and possibly early detection)
 of HIV; and screening for HIV in primary care can be cost-effective (Leber, Griffiths, Kerry, Lancet
 HIV 2015, 2017). With £5.7m investment from Barts Charity, we created two new professorial
 teams (text analytics, machine learning) (SAiii). In the context of Covid, Robson (with Hippisley-
 Cox and colleagues from other universities) developed a risk prediction tool for Covid-19 (BMJ
 October 2020 [doi: 10.1136/bmj.m3731]).

 Clinical Trials and Methodology (SAii,iii,iv) Queen Mary hosts the UK CRC-registered, NIHR-
 funded (since 2008; latest award £544K for 2018-2021, Eldridge) Pragmatic Clinical Trials Unit.
 Thirty trials and other well-designed studies led or linked to the Unit have reported in this REF
 period, about half cluster-randomised or stepped wedge designs. In addition to trials listed
 elsewhere in this submission (Lancet Respir Med 2014; PLos Med 2015; Thorax 2015; Lancet
 HIV 2015,2017; BMJ 2017), we have tested the effectiveness of treatments for faecal incontinence
 (Lancet 2015, Eldridge); interventions to support physical activity in older adults (PLos Med 2017,
 Kerry) and interventions to address infertility (Lancet 2019, Hooper).

 In this period, we published over 90 methodological papers. A CONSORT statement for pilot and
 feasibility trials (BMJ 2016) and a paper on the definitions of these studies (Eldridge) have accrued
 >1400 citations and influenced funder guidance (see section-1c). Eldridge led the adaptation of
 the Cochrane risk of bias tool for cluster randomised trials, and is part of an international
 collaboration to develop a framework for the ethical design and conduct of pragmatic trials ($780K
 Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Chief Investigator; Taljaard). Hooper introduced a new
 efficient trial design (IJE 2014) and provided guidance on analyses of cluster randomised trials
 (BMJ 2018). His senior fellowship with The Healthcare Improvement Studies Institute (THIS) in
 2018, enabled an understanding of the relationship between observational interrupted time series
 and randomised stepped wedge designs. Joining post-REF2014, Relton brings leadership in trials-
 within-cohorts/registries and public health trials such as incentives for breastfeeding (JAMA
 Pediatrics 2018). Relton’s recent £2.1m award (Fresh Street, NIHR Public Health Research, with
 Mihaylova, Taylor, Griffiths) evaluates the efficacy of vouchers to promote healthy diets.
 Mihaylova, Feng, Tomini bring health economic leadership. They provided estimates of the
 healthcare costs of excess weight, emphasising the need for investment (Lancet Public Health

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017) and have demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of Simvastatin plus Ezetimibe for
 cardiovascular prevention in chronic kidney disease (Am J Kid Dis 2017). Building on this work,
 Mihaylova secured £558K from NIHR HTA to provide a detailed Individual Patient Data meta-
 analysis assessment of the clinical effects of statins and their value for money. We are evaluating
 the effectiveness and value of prescribed specialised services commissioning for quality and
 innovation (CQUIN) interventions (NIHR £496K, Feng, BMC Med 2016). The methodological
 strengths of the group led to its inclusion in the UK-wide Trials Methodology Research Platform
 (lead, Williamson, Liverpool) that replaced the MRC Trials Methodology Research Hub

 Global Health (SAi,ii,iii,iv) Our global health research portfolio has grown substantially with
 several large awards and high-quality outputs. In the overlapping mental health section, we
 describe the NIHR Global Health Research Group which has recently been awarded (£2.8m MRC)
 to explore building resilience in adolescent depression and anxiety in urban Latin America (Priebe,
 Bird) with partners in Bogotá, Buenos Aires and Lima (plus KCL and UCL).

 Prendergast leads a team that combines mechanistic laboratory work with large-scale public
 health trials of HIV and malnutrition in sub-Saharan Africa. The REALITY trial in four African
 countries showed that antimicrobial co-therapy reduced mortality by 27% among HIV-positive
 adults and older children with advanced immunosuppression (NEJM 2017). Current work aims to
 define the mechanisms through which this intervention operates (MRC £990K, Prendergast). The
 Sanitation Hygiene Infant Nutrition Efficacy (SHINE) trial (Gates Foundation, $16.6M to Zvitambo
 Institute for Maternal and Child Health Research, Zimbabwe; Director Prendergast) showed that
 better early-years feeding improved growth in rural Zimbabwe, whereas improved water, sanitation
 and hygiene had no effect (Prendergast, Lancet Global Health 2019). Sub-studies of SHINE have
 led to the award of three Wellcome Clinical Training Fellowships (more than £1.1m, supervisor
 Prendergast) to investigate growth in HIV-exposed infants, the impact of sanitation and hygiene
 on oral vaccine responses, and the long-term impact of early-life nutrition interventions. SHINE
 directly informed the Child Health, Agriculture and Integrated Nutrition (CHAIN) trial (BBSRC
 £1.8m, Prendergast), to improve childhood growth by improving infant diets through food
 supplements and agriculture. The Health Outcomes, Pathogenesis and Epidemiology of Severe
 Acute Malnutrition (HOPE-SAM) cohort of >700 children with severe acute malnutrition,
 established in Zimbabwe and Zambia (MRC £835K, Prendergast), evaluates pathogenic pathways
 underlying malnutrition. This has led to several early-career researchers joining the group (e.g.
 Bourke, Sir Henry Dale Fellowship, £1.16m; UoA1). The Therapeutic Approaches to Malnutrition
 Enteropathy (TAME) trial (MRC £632K, Prendergast) investigates four gut-focused interventions
 to reduce the high mortality among children hospitalised with complicated malnutrition in sub-
 Saharan Africa.

 Macgregor and He are pursuing an ambitious programme of work to reduce cardiovascular
 disease and prevent obesity and type 2 diabetes through reductions in dietary salt and sugar (see
 Impact Case Studies) (Lancet 2014, Lancet Diab Endo 2016). They have been awarded an NIHR
 Global Health Research Unit (£6.6m) to reduce salt consumption in China which complements
 their educational MRC-funded programme (£2.5m). They are working to reduce salt intake in
 Malaysia (£710K MRC and Resolve to Save Lives). They demonstrated that an incremental
 reduction in free sugars added to sugar-sweetened drinks (without the use of artificial sweeteners)
 would reduce obesity in the UK in over one million people across 2 decades and prevent around
 300,000 cases of type 2 diabetes (MacGregor, He; Lancet Diab Endo 2016).

 Their 2020 Consensus Action on Salt, Sugar and Health (CASSH) highlighted the role of the food
 industry in the outcome of Covid-19 infection (BMJ 2020). Following a report on poor government

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progress, the group exposed junk food advertisers who were deliberately targeting children during
 the lockdown and called for a national strategy to treat and prevent obesity in the most deprived
 areas. CASSH demonstrated that food companies continue to produce and market unhealthy
 food with misleading labelling. As a consequence, the Government released a comprehensive
 obesity strategy in July 2020.

 Women’s Health (SAi) This group was developed by Khan and Thangaratinam. They established
 the Katherine Twining Network to promote public participation and, in 2017, launched the Bart’s
 Research Centre for Women’s Health (BARC) with £2m from Barts Charity. The aim of BARC was
 to improve the health of women and unborn babies, leading in 2018 to a WHO Collaborating
 Centre for Research and Evidence synthesis in Women's Health. In May 2019, we recruited
 Iliodromiti (SAii) who now leads the group. Her research on large data sets demonstrated that low
 Apgar score at 5 min is strongly associated with the risk of neonatal and infant death (Lancet
 2014). She showed that closer surveillance or earlier delivery of fetuses with a predicted birth
 weight ≤25th or ≥85th centile may reduce adverse outcomes (PLoS Med 2017). The group has
 run a number of large randomised controlled trials. For example, EMPIRE l (Eldridge NIHR, HTA
 £1.5m) showed that regular monitoring of anti-epileptic drug levels in pregnancy does not improve
 seizure control or pregnancy outcome (HTA 2018). SALVO (NIHR HTA £1.8m, Hooper), a
 randomised controlled trial of intra-operative cell savage to reduce the necessity of donor blood
 transfusion in women undergoing caesarean section in 22 large maternity units across the UK, did
 not support the use of routine cell salvage (PLoS Med 2017).

 1C. Development of Impact Cases with acquisition of evidence

 In REF2014 our strategic aims in relation to impact were to:

 Impact Aim-1. Widen user representation (from patients, carers, front-line clinicians,
 policymakers and industry) through all stages of the research life cycle.
 Impact Aim-2. Develop additional collaborative links for applied research with local trusts,
 general practice, Clinical Commissioning Groups, and specialist services (e.g. smoking
 cessation).
 Impact Aim-3. Continue extensive representation on national policymaking groups (e.g.
 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, Public Health Interventions Advisory
 Committee and NHS England) to drive our findings into policy.
 Impact Aim-4. Work with Queen Mary Centre for Public Engagement to disseminate our
 research to the public via mass and social media.

 Here we give examples of the ways we have addressed these strategic aims and the resulting
 impact.

 Embedding impact in the research process (Impact aims 1,2,4).

 For the majority of our research projects, geographically strategic partnerships are key to ensuring
 impact is embedded in the research process. For example:

 (i) In our mental health work, involvement with Health Partnerships London (a collaboration
 between CCGs, Health Education England, NHS England, NHS Digital, NHS Improvement, Trusts
 and providers, the Greater London Authority, the Mayor of London, Public Health
 England, London Councils) enables research to be discussed and the implementation of findings
 to be adopted across London. We have good links with East London CCGs and the Integrated

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Care Partnership. At a national level, our work contributes to NICE guidelines leading to national
 adoption. This strategy influenced the impact of the DIALOG+ intervention (Psychotherapy
 Psychosomatics 2015) developed by Priebe, which is undergoing implementation across the
 NHS. DIALOG patient ratings are now recommended for the evaluation of care in all early
 intervention teams in England (18,642 patients as of October 2020 [NHS Digital]). Locally, it is
 now mandatory for all patients using London secondary mental health services (more than
 100,000 patients since roll out) to be supported by an implementation management group. The
 intervention has been translated to more than 17 languages, and implemented and tested in over
 18 countries (funded from multiple sources including EU, MRC and NIHR).

 (ii) Hajek investigates nicotine substitution in tobacco dependency. His research into the safety
 and effects of electronic cigarettes contributed to NICE guidance on harm reduction, parliamentary
 debates and ultimately to UK regulation of electronic cigarettes. The work enabled the UK-stop-
 smoking services to incorporate electronic cigarettes and contributed to the PHE inclusion of them
 in the latest national Stoptober campaign. Our activities are a key influence on electronic cigarette
 research and regulation globally.

 (iii) The Clinical Effectiveness Group has been a leader in supporting quality improvement through
 close working with NHS CCG’s for over 30 years. Research described in this submission has
 enabled substantial improvements in local primary care through locally relevant guidelines, in-
 practice facilitation, clinical tools, clinical templates and health informatics for commissioning and
 clinical management. The clinical outcome indicators have been improved from some of the worst
 in the country to some of the best in this area of high healthcare need. Examples are:

    •   City & Hackney and Tower Hamlets CCGs is now top or second in the UK in 18 out of 65
        national clinical quality indicators;
    •   Measures have been implemented in local CCGs to enable earlier detection of atrial
        fibrillation to prevent stroke;
    •   An increase in statin prescribing from 30% to 60% in individuals with known cardiovascular
        disease in East London CCGs;
    •   Inappropriate antibiotic prescribing has been reduced by 45%.

 In collaboration with UCL Partners, the group provided a set of risk stratification searches which
 are now used across London. The original QRisk cardiovascular disease score (Robson, with
 Hippisley-Cox) was implemented nationally in 2013 and is used in the NHS Health Check
 programme, with over 2 million checks completed annually. It was endorsed by NICE in 2014.
 Economic modelling has indicated that the programme saved the NHS about £57m pa after 4
 years, rising to £176m pa after 15 years.

 (iv) Our involvement in the CLAHRC (North Thames) has facilitated funding for the implementation
 of a HIV screening intervention which was tested in a cluster-randomised trial (Griffiths, Kerry).
 This improved detection in areas of high prevalence across London (Lancet HIV 2015).

 (v) The Health Research Board Ireland adopted the definitions of pilot and feasibility studies
 proposed by Eldridge 2016 (BMJ 2016), and NIHR have changed (Feb 2021) funding guidance in
 line with this work.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SMD-level profile raising and training (impact aim-4).

 The SMD has a dedicated team of Impact officers and managers led by the Deputy Dean for
 Research Impact (Taylor). She is supported by the Queen Mary Research Impact team, as
 detailed in the REF5a institutional environment. Our strategies to maximise research impact
 include well publicised novel community engagement facilities which engage the public and raise
 the profile of impact. Examples are the award-winning Centre for the Cell (eg highlighting research
 on asthma and air quality, Grigg, Griffiths), Barts Pathology Museum and the annual Festival of
 Communities. The latter engages the local population with research, for example our
 polypharmacy, multi-morbidity and cancer survivorship projects have been presented at these
 events (Swinglehurst, Taylor).

 The Queen Mary Impact team provides training sessions for staff and PhD students across the
 SMD with excellent attendance. The training sessions range from the broad and introductory to
 more specifically tailored workshops regarding particular areas of impact, such as planning and
 writing funding applications. The Impact team also provide bespoke, one-to-one sessions where
 academics can discuss specific details of impact with an Impact Officer.

 Developing and Promoting Policy Impact through dissemination, networks and links to key
 bodies (impact aim-4).

 A WHO Health Evidence Network Review and a technical guidance for European Governments
 (Priebe) provided recommendations on mental health promotion and mental health care for
 refugees and other migrants. Through the COFI project (Priebe), one of the most frequently and
 fiercely debated subjects in mental health care was answered: It does not make a difference in
 the long-term whether patients have the same or different psychiatrists for in- and out-patient care
 but continuity of care leads to higher in-patient satisfaction. This work has been disseminated
 at national and international events and informed policy debates in different countries.

 Mihaylova’s work on statins strengthens evidence of benefits of statin therapy in women (Lancet
 2015), chronic kidney disease (Lancet Diab Endo 2016), and older people (Lancet 2019). This
 work contributed to the updated European Society of Cardiology Dyslipidaemia Guidelines (Eur
 Heart Journal 2019).

 Building impact into our existing research strengths in Global Health and inequalities
 (impact aim-3,4).

 MacGregor and He have implemented an educational programme for primary school children to
 lower salt intake in children and their families (BMJ2015). The programme is now being scaled
 up to larger populations in diverse settings such as China. Their NIHR Global Health Unit in China
 has developed and implemented a comprehensive, effective and sustainable national salt
 reduction programme. In the UK, through a combination of public relations, public affairs and
 campaigning, they achieved policy impact for their research which led to recommendations to
 develop a Childhood Obesity Plan (2016), calorie-reduction targets and a new set of salt reduction
 targets (2020).

 Martineau is recognised for his work on Vitamin D. He has increased testing for, and correction
 of, vitamin D deficiency in patients with tuberculosis, asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
 Disease (COPD) and those at risk of acute respiratory infections. Many guidelines for TB treatment


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 now advocate correction of vitamin D deficiency. Outputs from the Analysis of Vitamin D trials
 (AVID) consortium led by Martineau have boosted vitamin D sales by 70% in the UK.

 During the Covid pandemic, Martineau set up a longitudinal cohort study of 17,500 volunteers
 (CovidENCE UK) and a study of 5,440 volunteers to prevent Covid (CORONAVIT). Over £250K
 of philanthropic funds were raised in 2020 for the CORONAVIT trial.

 Since 2008, Griffiths and Grigg have evaluated the impact of the London Low Emission Zone
 (LEZ) on the respiratory health of young children. This research, initially funded by Hackney
 Primary Care Trust and subsequently by NIHR, analysed the impact of air pollution on 2164 school
 children between the ages of 8 and 9 years from 28 primary schools across the London boroughs
 of Tower Hamlets, Hackney, Greenwich and the City of London (all areas failing to meet current
 EU nitrogen dioxide limits). The research team monitored children’s health and growth over six
 years, the period over which the LEZ had been implemented. The findings demonstrated that
 emissions from diesel vehicles stunted the growth of children’s lungs. This had potential knock-on
 effects on their health in adulthood, putting them at risk of lung disease in later life and a shortened
 life expectancy. The findings were publicised globally, featuring on UK and European television
 (BBC Victoria Derbyshire; France Channel 5; Chinese State Television) reaching audiences in
 excess of 1 billion.

 During the Covid pandemic, Grigg showed that fossil-fuel derived particulate matter deregulates
 the SARS-Cov-2 entry receptor Angiotensin Converting Enzyme -2 in upper and lower airway
 cells. The data were presented to the UK All Party Parliamentary Group on Air Pollution and
 referenced in their publication 'air quality to reduce coronavirus infection'.

 1D. Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 UoA2 research is a major pillar of SMD research. Post-REF2021, our strategy will be to enhance
 multi-disciplinary research to tackle health inequalities in order to deliver better and equitable
 healthcare for all.

 We will develop new areas of research building on current strengths to involve all institutes and
 faculties across the University. Our focussed areas of development will (i) environment and health,
 (ii) lifelong health (multimorbidity), (iii) digital health and health data science, and (iv) crisis
 prevention and management. Genomics is described in UoA1.

 Examples of how our work fits with the new areas are provided below.

 Environment and health: Through the Asthma-UK Centre for Applied Research, we will seek to
 prevent asthma attacks through personalised treatment. We will optimise management through
 self-management and care, clinical management, organisation of care, and addressing modifiable
 risk factors.

 We intend to develop an MRC centre for our global health research. Our work on malnutrition and
 HIV in sub-Saharan Africa will continue, incorporating translational and clinical work on hepatitis
 C (UoA1). Work on the gut-brain axis in neurodegeneration (Parkinson’s), pesticides and
 neurodegenerative diseases will expand. Longitudinal and biobank studies will maximise the
 synergies between different strands of our global health research. We will continue to expand salt
 and sugar reduction models to other countries, for example, Malaysia and the Eastern
 Mediterranean region, working with WHO to develop simple guidance.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lifelong Health: This will include self-management and behaviour change in long-term
 conditions. We will expand our portfolio and focus on multi-morbidity, polypharmacy and
 psychological problems associated with common long-term conditions by conducting social
 science enquiry, pragmatic trials and implementation studies to improve the health of local,
 national and global populations. Activity in social and community psychiatry will be expanded by
 establishing a Centre for Depression and Anxiety Research. Priebe and colleagues have been
 awarded £3.2m to pump-prime this initiative. The funding will support two senior lecturers and
 infrastructure staff to deliver a major research programme. We are planning that the Centre, along
 with the two ongoing NIHR programme grants for applied research and the new MRC Programme
 grant for related research in Latin America, will provide the basis for a bid for an MRC Centre of
 Excellence. At the same time, we will further develop an inflammation and psychiatry research
 theme, progressing the work on mental health with East London Genes and Health, as well as our
 work on comorbidities and integrated care models, practice and policy. The preventive neurology
 group (see UoA1) will develop a cross-Institute Preventive Brain Health Sciences Group. Mental
 and social mental health will be prominent in the crisis prevention and management as well as the
 lifelong health areas of development. Investment in Lifelong Health is consistent with the ambition
 of Barts Health to develop a beacon academic hospital focussing in this area at Whipps Cross.

 Digital health and health data science: Our precision medicine roadmap, developed as part of
 the Barts Life Sciences Initiative (Deloukas, Dezateux, Chelala, Jensen) will continue to develop
 actionable insights using digital innovations focusing on adult long-term conditions and reducing
 inequalities in child health (including immunisation and child obesity) in our multi-ethnic population.
 Currently, we are the only London site with a digital health programme to progress to the second
 round of a UKRI strength-in-places bid (£21m). Our vision is to secure major funding for place and
 household-based analyses of electronic health records using inter-sectoral data linked by Unique
 Property Reference Numbers (Dezateux, Robson).

 In Women’s health, we will enhance relationships with local CCGs and primary care to improve
 the diabetes prevention programme (Finer). Collaboration with the Genes and Health consortium
 will enable research on cholestasis in pregnancy (the South Asian population has a two-fold risk
 compared to the White UK population). Iliodromiti collaborates with Canadian colleagues to use
 artificial intelligence in preeclampsia and predict chronic hypertension in pregnant women. This
 links primary and secondary health data. She is also developing a pregnancy cohort based on our
 Antenatal Screening Service (where she has been appointed Director).

 Crisis Prevention and Management: We will build on our strengths across the University to
 expand our expertise in this area. We have a trauma centre at Barts NHS Trust and have
 developed collaborative expertise in scientific and clinical aspects related to knife crime, trauma
 and prehospital care (UoA1). Mental health research will figure highly in this Centre, though crises
 will include but not be limited to healthcare, thereby including all other faculties across Queen
 Mary.

 Translation to improve Healthcare: Although not a themed are of development, we will enhance
 our ability to test and implement findings through clinical trials. The Centre for Clinical Trials and
 Methodology was established within IPHS in 2019, based on extensive research on advancing
 methods for evaluating interventions in primary care, public health and health services research.
 The centre will continue to develop innovative designs, having been at the forefront of work in
 cluster randomised trials, stepped wedge designs and pragmatic trials for more than a decade
 (Eldridge, Kerry, Hooper). We will build on our pilot and feasibility studies and trials-within-cohorts
 and registries, particularly in relation to learning health systems. We will also establish a Health

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Data and Evaluation group, dovetailing with the themes above. Our health economics group will
 undertake research that builds on existing interest in generic health outcomes for health economic
 analyses.

 Wolfson Institute for Population Health: In order to deliver our new strategy, we will also merge
 the Wolfson Institute for Preventative Medicine with the Institute of Population Health Sciences
 (Quarter 3, 2021) under the leadership of a new director (Walter; start April 2021) and an
 investment of £1.2m. This will enable the new institute to focus on prevention, public health,
 primary care and health services research. We will have centres for preventive medicine and
 screening, primary care, clinical trials, health economics and, global and public health.

 2. PEOPLE

 2A. Staffing strategy and staff development
 The SMD has held a Silver Athena Swan award since 2017 and the University promotes equality
 of opportunity for all staff. The university provides a collegial environment with excellent
 opportunities for personal and academic advancement (see REF5a). We support early career
 researchers via grant-writing clinics, fellowship application mentoring and mock-interviews from
 experienced staff. The Barts Academy acts a forum for mentorship, away-days, training events
 and peer-to-peer interaction.

 Staff working in primary care, public health, global health and population health, benefit from the
 NIHR Research-Design-Service London which offers expert, free, confidential support to
 clinicians, health and social care professionals and academics to develop fellowship proposals
 and grant applications.

 Annual academic promotion rounds consider applicants on merit and evaluate their contribution
 to research, education and research culture. The SMD offers promotions workshops, including
 women’s promotions workshops, which inform staff on promotion requirements. In 2020, 3 female
 and 2 male staff were promoted from UoA2.


 2B. Staff and students
 A total of 34.75 FTEs are returned in this submission with a headcount of 42 research active staff.
 This is an increase of more than 100% (+70% FTEs) since REF2014.

 Doctoral students. Since 2014, UoA2 staff have supervised 98 students undertaking
 doctorates of whom 59 are ongoing and 39 completed (all within 4 years). Of the 39 students
 who have been examined to date, all have been successful. The majority of doctoral students
 (76%) are full time. Funding of doctoral students included: Barts Charity (5); Asthma-UK Centre
 for Applied Research (5); NIHR CLAHRC (4); ESRC Doctoral Training Programme (4); East
 London Foundation Trust (3); MRC (3), the European Union, Spanish Government, Wellcome
 Trust, WHO and The Willoughby Trust. In Mental Health, we host the Health and Psychology
 Theme of the ESRC London Inter-disciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership and
 the Health Psychology Doctoral Training Pathway (with KCL and Imperial).

 Clinical Academics: Lecturers, Fellows and Academic Foundation Year trainees. Since
 2014, we have trained 13 NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturers, six of whom are currently in post.
 The seven who have completed have remained in academic posts and have been awarded a wide


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 range of grants and fellowships (including an NIHR Clinician Scientist award, two Academy of
 Medical Sciences Clinical Lecturer Starter Grants, funding from NIHR HS&DR, CLARHC and
 Charities). They have published high quality peer-reviewed journal articles, including in The Lancet
 and BMJ. Our Clinical Trainees been appointed to a wide range of leadership positions, including
 a Senior Founding Fellowship from the Faculty of Medical Leadership and Management and a
 Royal College of General Practitioners Clinical Champion for Domestic Violence.

 We have hosted 25 NIHR-funded, or NIHR-badged ACF’s of which 12 are currently in post. Of the
 13 who have completed, half secured competitive external fellowships to continue their academic
 careers and a further two have been awarded consultant posts where they remain research active.
 In addition to many high impact publications, they have received a range of prestigious prizes and
 leadership positions, including the RSM Brooker Prize in Epidemiology, finalist for the 2018 Asian
 Women of Achievement Awards, and a Baylor College of Medicine Centre for Space Medicine
 Training scholarship.

 New Academic Posts since 2014. As part of SMD’s commitment to research in Primary Care
 and Public Health, senior academics were recruited to complement current expertise. Mihaylova
 (Professor of Health Economics) was recruited in 2018 to establish a research team in health
 economics and health policy analyses, with a focus on cost-effectiveness, evidence synthesis,
 heterogeneity in cost-effectiveness and statistical and epidemiological methods. Dezateux
 (Professor of Clinical Epidemiology and Health Data Science, recruited in 2017) has led our work
 on health data research, with an instrumental contribution to the HDR UK London Centre. Sheldon
 (Professor of Health Services Research; recruited in 2020; BMJ 2016; Lancet Diab Endo 2015) is
 co-director of the MRC Prevention Research Partnership Consortium focussing on reducing health
 inequalities in Tower Hamlets and Bradford. In 2020, Zenner (Clinical Senior Lecturer; Lancet
 2016; Lancet Infect Dis 2019), dually accredited in public health and primary care, brought
 expertise in tuberculosis, HIV and migration health. In 2019, a large recruitment drive within SMD
 brought 15 new ECRs with fixed term 3-year Lectureships, including Joliffe (Eur Resp J 2019; Am
 J Resp Dis 2020), consolidated from post-doctoral appointment, and Tiwari (Science Transl Med
 2018), recruited from New Delhi, both working on tuberculosis. An example of promotion of internal
 talent is Finer, a diabetologist working in primary care, who progressed from post-doctoral
 researcher to Senior Lecturer in 2016. Iliodromiti was appointed as Clinical Senior Lecturer. She
 was awarded a THIS fellowship to study immunological response and long-term maternal
 morbidity in Covid in pregnancy (£180K; 2020).

 In addition to external recruitment, we have promoted internal staff leading to two new research
 chairs. Hooper (THIS Fellow 2018) was promoted to a Chair in Medical Statistics. Swinglehurst
 was awarded a 5-year NIHR Clinician Scientist post in 2016 and promoted to Professor of Primary
 Care in 2018. He and Bird were promoted to chairs in 2018 and 2020 respectively.

 2C. Support, training and supervision of Post Graduate Research (PGR) students
 PGR student progression is supported by the SMD Code of Practice for PGR Programmes. This
 reflects the UKRI and the Vitae Concordat principles whereby all students are expected to submit
 their thesis within 48 months of enrolment. Within UoA2 we had completion rates of 88% and 95%
 for the 2014-2015 and 2015-2016 PGR intake cohorts, respectively.

 All supervisors undergo training every two years and are fully aware of the services available to
 support students. For continuity, progression is monitored by the same independent academic
 panel at 9,18 and 30 months. Supervision and assessments are captured on the university online
 system (MySIS) and oversight taken by the Director of Graduate Studies. Progression milestones

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 require the student to log at least 10 supervisions/year and to report their transferable skills training
 (70 hr/year), a process also captured online by the Doctoral College. Students are required to
 attend induction days, the GradFest event plus 31 other networking events organised by the
 Doctoral College. There are various opportunities for PGR students to engage in teaching and to
 join outreach programmes in the local community.

 The SMD provides an excellent research culture to prepare students for future employment. The
 success of this is mirrored in the bi-annual national Postgraduate Research Environment Survey
 (PRES) with an overall satisfaction of 85.8% and 80.7% for 2017 and 2019, respectively. This is
 higher than benchmark in many areas, including research skills training and professional
 development. We are putting in resource to ensure that we are in the top quartile for all parameters
 assessed in PRES.

 2D. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 Queen Mary is one of the most ethnically diverse, research-led universities. Equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI) are key principles for the University (see REF5a). Unconscious bias and active
 bystander training have been recently updated and are mandatory for all staff. As detailed in the
 Institutional statement, mentoring and leadership schemes for female and BAME staff have been
 developed. We also support flexible working and individuals taking career breaks. We have
 developed specific support for childcare costs such as funding for out of town conferences (pre-
 and post-Covid only) through the SMD Travel Grant for PhD students and Postdocs. Childcare
 costs for students are supported through the Financial Assistance Fund, usually in the form of a
 non-repayable grant. A Welfare Advisor is available to provide tailored information. A parents and
 carers network has been established in response to lockdown to provide support and a sense of
 community.

 In 2018, a new structure and reporting line for EDI was established, and in 2019 a VP for People,
 Culture and Inclusion appointed (REF5a). An EDI Committee supported by 2 FTE from
 professional services (lead Eldridge) takes oversight of all EDI matters across SMD. The SMD
 group led the following initiatives: an action plan following the killing of George Floyd; establishing
 an external speaker series to raise the profile of EDI and individuals with protected characteristics
 within the university community; producing a well-read monthly newsletter containing links to
 further reading and resources; a research project on attainment gap between BAME and non-
 BAME students; signing up to the BMA Charter for medical schools to prevent and address racial
 harassment; and, recommendations for greater transparency in the membership and terms of
 boards and committees. This has been agreed by the SMD executive committee and
 recommended by the University EDI committee for appropriate adaptation and adoption. The
 group also played a leading part in the inclusion of citizenship as a promotion criterion and in
 developing a Queen Mary group focusing on gaining a Race Equality Charter. We proactively
 worked on embedding EDI into all meeting structures, forums, policies and procedures within each
 institute. These initiatives build on our Athena SWAN successes: we received an Athena Swan
 Silver in 2014 and 2017. SMD funded three members of staff to attend Stonewall training who act
 as diversity champions including highlighting the ‘QMOut’ LGBTQ+ network.

 We have an impressive and longstanding record of gender balance. 38% of our research-intensive
 professors in this unit of assessment are female, compared with 23% across the Russell Group.
 Over 70% of research-intensive staff at reader, senior lecturer and lecturer level are female. The
 percentages of BAME staff are 11% and 13% at senior lecturer and lecturer levels respectively
 and we are working to further improve these proportions. We believe that one of the best ways to
 further improve is through role-modelling and attention to the detail of gender and race balance,

                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for example, in committee composition and representation in senior roles. For 10 years between
 2007 and 2017, Eldridge (female, statistician) and Griffiths (male, GP) shared the leadership of
 the Centre for Primary Care and Public Health, which is the backbone of the IPHS. We believe
 this model of shared leadership has been important in making our values visible. Further, our
 work on boards and committees has enabled us to set ambitious targets of at least 50% female
 and 25% BAME by August 2022 and we have developed an implementation plan to achieve these
 targets. A University-wide promotions review aims to increase diversity (REF5a). Of the research-
 focused staff internally promoted between 2014 and 2020 from UoA2, 66% were female.

 A key objective of our strategy is to educate an increasing number PhD students. We recognise
 that, in addition to academic excellence, the research culture needs to be inclusive. There is a
 strict policy of zero tolerance to bullying and relevant training is provided for supervisors. In future,
 we will enable EU and International students to apply for UKRI funded positions, which will be
 offered at the UKRI fee level (£4,500) for 30% of students.

 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3A. Research income
 Over the REF2021 period until July 2020, we were awarded around £100m with a spend of
 £69.5m. This equates to an average of £9.9m per year compared to £5.5m during the REF2014
 period. Income during the seven years was £2m/FTE and £286K/FTE/year. The main funder
 remained NIHR with £24.2m of research spend (35%). Other government bodies, local authorities,
 health and hospital authorities provided £21.1m (30%) of research income. UKRI funded £7.5m
 (10.8%).

 We had major awards from NIHR for a Global Health Unit and two Groups. We received funding
 for large randomised control trials from NIHR, MRC and BBSRC. Global health research was
 awarded two MRC programme grants. During the REF period, the Pragmatic Clinical Trials Unit
 was reaccredited (2017). The unit now has a portfolio of between 35 and 45 studies at any time.
 NIHR funding remained constant during this period (currently £136K per annum until April 2022).

 3B. Infrastructure and facilities
 Since REF2014, over £25m new capital has been invested in research buildings and facilities. The
 University invested £11.7m in a wide range of projects to improve our facilities and we secured
 £14.4m through competitive proposals to external funders. These include MRC, Wellcome Trust,
 HEFCE (now Office for Students) and Barts Charity, together with a number of smaller Trusts and
 foundations. A major programme of refurbishment has been undertaken in the Abernethy Building
 at Whitechapel (location of the Health Data Science and Genes and Health teams). In close
 vicinity, Queen Mary acquired Empire House and established a University wide Digital
 Environment Research Institute, which synergises with our health data science by bringing
 expertise in artificial intelligence and machine learning. The University has also invested £850k to
 enhance the SMD data safe haven to ensure compliance with NHS Digital data governance
 requirements for patient-identifiable data. This facility is key to our clinically-focused work in UoA2.

 3C. Promoting research integrity
 To support an environment where auditing other researchers’ data is regarded as a normal part
 of the research process, we appointed Professor Grigg in 2019 as Deputy Dean for Research
 Integrity. He provides mentorship for senior researchers and advice on integrity training including
 the use of the educational resources of UK’s Research Integrity Office. The SMD research integrity
 website provides links to protocols and the UUK Concordat, a blog by Prof Grigg, and contact

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 details for specific enquiries. Our clinical trial transparency is very good with 94% of our European
 Union Clinical Trials Registered (EUCTR) studies reported in 2019 (EU Trials Tracker). We have
 developed a publicly-available Research Information Management System (Elements/QM
 publists). This provides the infrastructure for researchers to upload research data supporting their
 published studies where possible and in compliance with data protection regulations. We are
 committed to developing an audit and reproducibility culture for both clinical and non-clinical
 research and to uphold the Hong Kong principals for assessing researchers, thereby fostering
 integrity. Seminar series are delivered by Grigg for PhD students (3 times per year; in association
 with the faculty Deputy Dean for Post-Graduate Research) and there is a research integrity
 workshop for senior academics (twice per year, alternate on our two campuses).

 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY

 We have an ethos of collaboration and contribute to the research base, economy and society. One
 example, is the way we have led (through the Pragmatic Clinical Trials Unit) the development of
 data sharing policies and practices within SMD https://www.qmul.ac.uk/pctu/collaborate-with-
 us/data-sharing/. Other examples are that Robson published Covid dashboards (updated daily)
 to support public health and primary care monitoring. They identified priority groups for shielding,
 flu and Covid vaccinations in 2.2 million patients across north east London. Robson, Dezateux
 and Boomla provided data and maps to support GOLD command in London and beyond. The
 data has been used to inform healthcare provision, identify trends and model scenarios.

 4A. Research collaborations
 A large number of collaborations with academic, commercial and third-sector institutions are led
 or developed by UoA2 staff, too many to report here. Below we focus on the ones with broader
 reach and research impact where our staff have played a leading part.

 Mental health research: The COFI study is the largest prospective study of psychiatric in-patients
 ever conducted in Europe. It involves the European network of social psychiatry researchers
 including those at the University of Verona. Priebe leads the multi-disciplinary Social Psychiatry
 Group for post-doctoral researchers covering all of the London universities. Carr leads the Alliance
 for Recovery Research in Music Therapy (Universities of Limerick, Bergen and Melbourne) and
 has built a network of music therapy researchers with a focus upon recovery in mental health.
 They produced a position paper (Voices, 2018) and programme of research. The Unit has formal
 collaborations with organisations in Bosnia, Kosovo, Republic of North Macedonia, Montenegro,
 and Serbia through the EC funded IMPULSE project. Our staff work closely with charities,
 community agencies and NGOs. We host Careif, an international mental health charity (2004-
 2019), and work with honorary appointments in East London NHS Foundation Trust, Barts Health
 NHS Trust, and Public Health England. We are affiliated with the WHO Violence Prevention
 Alliance and have a strong public engagement presence, e.g. our research won the Guardian’s
 Young Radicals 2018 Award.

 Respiratory research: The 17-institution Asthma-UK Centre for Applied Research, co-led by
 Griffiths, has achieved impressive results since its inception in 2014 (details in 1B). Griffiths leads
 the CHILL international research programme on air pollution, involving the MRC Epidemiology
 Unit (Cambridge University), MRC-Public Health England Centre for Environment & Health
 (Edinburgh University), the University of Southern California and University of Bedfordshire.
 Martineau leads the AVID consortium of approximately 30 researchers who have done


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 randomised trials of vitamin D in respiratory health. The consortium published four highly cited
 papers, all of which inform guidelines (Eur Resp J 2019, HTA 2019, Lancet Resp Med 2017, BMJ
 2017). The group has key collaborations with the Asthma-UK Centre for Applied Research,
 Asthma Mechanisms Centre, HDRUK, NHS Global Digital Exemplars Optimum Patient Care,
 Respiratory Effectiveness Group, Primary Care Respiratory Society, Scottish Health Research
 Register, Cochrane Airways Group and Education for Health.

 Self-management and behaviour change: We have collaborations on large NIHR grants with
 medical schools in Edinburgh, Kings College, Warwick, Sheffield Hallam, UCL, Oxford,
 Nottingham, South Bank University, Charles University Prague, Cancer Council Victoria Australia.
 Hajek is a Member of UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies (formed by 12 universities in
 the UK, one in New Zealand).

 Health Data research: The Clinical Effectiveness Group (funded by Clinical Commissioning
 Groups, GP Confederations, Public Health and research grants), part of our Health Data research
 work, has been supporting primary care for over 20 years and we are now working with seven
 CCG’s in East London.

 Clinical trials and methodology: Eldridge leads the international Pilot and Feasibility
 collaboration established in 2011 which has led to key papers and a website designed for those
 working on empirical pilot and feasibility studies or methodological work. We have several
 collaborations on cluster randomised and stepped wedge designs which have led to key papers.
 We have hosted an international meeting every year since 2015 (70 participants in 2019) and
 have a website designed for those working on empirical trials or methodology. Eldridge led the
 cluster randomised trials sub-group that recently revised the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool.

 Global Health: Through our NIHR Unit (£6.5m, He/McGregor), NIHR Group on Mental Health
 (£1.9m, Priebe/Bird) and NIHR Group of Asthma Outcome in African Children (£2m, Grigg,
 Griffiths and Fortune [UoA3]) we have extensive productive collaborations across several
 countries in South America, Africa and Asia.

 Women’s health: We set up the pioneering Katherine Twining research network to promote
 participation in quality research in women’s health. This network integrates one of the UK’s most
 diverse and vibrant communities.

 4B. Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 Spin out companies, commercialisation, industry, impact and media: Submitted staff have
 contributed to public understanding through appearances on, for example, BBC News, the Victoria
 Derbyshire Programme, BBC Today, Radio 3 Music Matters, BBC Radio London, BBC Asian
 Radio, Sky News, The Breakfast Show, as well as contributed to articles in the Guardian and
 Independent. Griffiths and Grigg have made several presentations of their research on air quality
 and the London ultra-low emission zone. Finer led public engagement in research, explaining the
 link between maternal sugar intake in pregnancy and childhood allergy risk, stress at work and
 incentives to improve breastfeeding. Eldridge has contributed to the wider research community
 through numerous YouTube videos on pragmatic trials. Mihaylova was involved in Perspectum
 Diagnostics, a spin out company which uses multi-parametric Magnetic Resonance Imaging to
 quantify liver tissue in the diagnosis of liver disease. Robson and Dezateux are founding members
 of the North-East London Discovery Data Service. This is an NHS project which united East


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 London’s longitudinal realtime primary care, secondary care and other health related records to
 improve clinical outcomes.

 National and international funding panels: Our staff sat on over 20 national and international
 funding panels. These included NIHR Health Technology Assessment (Priebe, Taylor, Eldridge),
 Efficacy and Mechanisms Evaluation (Grigg), Programme Grants for Applied Research (Taylor,
 Eldridge, Mihaylova), Advanced Fellowships (Hooper), Post-Doctoral Research Fellowships
 (Hooper), Research for Patient Benefit (Hooper). Sheldon sits on the Research Leader Awards
 review panel (2019; Health Research Board of Ireland) and, from 2018, on the Research Council
 of Norway. Priebe is Chair of the panel for Mental Health of Refugees Research (German Ministry
 for Education and Research), Clinical Trials panels (German Research Association) and the Swiss
 National Fund. Staff sit on the National Institute for health/National Institute on Drug Abuse panel
 (Hajek); International panel assessing applications to Global Research Awards for Nicotine
 Dependence (Hajek); Marie Curie Cancer Care (Taylor); EU Horizon 2020 Mental Health in the
 Workplace (Bird); German Federal Ministry of Education and Research Advisory Panel to
 establish a national centre on “Healthy lifelong Child and Adolescent Health” (Dezateux); Music
 Therapy Charity Research Committee (Carr).

 Health strategy panels and Government advisory bodies: In this REF period, staff have
 contributed to over 30 strategic panels and initiatives. These include invited contributions to House
 of Commons committees (Hajek, Carr); contributions to Public Health England panels (Grigg,
 Carr); NHS England Renal Strategy (Hull); National Tier Four Personality Disorder Service
 Commissioning Panel (Freestone); Confidentiality Advisory Group of the Health Research
 Authority (Boomla); Office of Strategic Coordination of Health Research, Health Informatics Sub-
 Group (Dezateux); NIHR Strategy Committee (Carr), Health Technology Assessment Expert
 Advisory Group Member (Taylor) & Chronic disease self-management reports (Taylor); Wellcome
 Trust Advisory Group on Understanding Patient Data (Dezateux); Staff contributed to NICE
 Guidelines (Hajek), Royal College of Physicians influential reports (Griffiths); the Diabetes UK
 advisory board on health economics (Mihaylova) and British Heart Foundation UK cardiovascular
 data science centre (Dezateux).

 We have advised overseas Governments on funding, advisory bodies and agencies: Malta,
 National Mental Health Strategy 2020-30 (Priebe, Taylor); WHO, European Governments
 (Priebe); Ireland Health Information and Quality Authority (Taylor); Belgium Health Care
 Knowledge Centre (Eldridge); Ministry of Health of the People’s Republic of China (Hajek).

 We responded to the pandemic in a number of ways. In addition to the research contribution of
 Martineau, McGregor and He reported above, Eldridge is a member of the UKRI/NIHR urgent
 public health review panel, which provides expert reviews to the board. Sheldon is a member of
 the Bradford Covid-19 Scientific Advisory Group (C-SAG), providing expert input to the response.
 He presented this work recently to the NIHR Senior investigators annual conference. Several
 projects on Covid are led or co-led by our staff. We contribute to the national testing programme
 and associated research, and established a PCR-Testing facility in the Wolfson Institute of
 Preventative Medicine as part of the Pan-London MedCity Covid-19 Testing Alliance (pillar 2
 testing; Department of Health £3.66m). We are extending this to include Loop-mediated isothermal
 amplification (RT-LAMP) for saliva-based testing.

 Leading positions in professional subject associations or learned societies: Chair, Royal
 College of Paediatrics and Child Health Working Party on the effects of indoor air pollution on
 children’s health (Grigg); Head (elected) Paediatric Assembly, European Respiratory Society

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Grigg); Chair of Genes and Environment Group, Epidemiology Assembly, European Respiratory
 Society (Shaheen); Chair of Academy of Medical Sciences Steering Group, New Technologies &
 Patient Data, 2017-18; Chair of Academy of Medical Sciences Sectional Committee, Fellowship
 Panel, 2015-2018 (Dezateux); Academy of Medical Sciences work group on Data Driven
 Technologies (Boomla); Member of Royal Statistical Society Council 2015-2019 (Eldridge);
 member of the national chronic kidney disease audit in primary care team (Hull); Linguistic
 Ethnography Forum 2014-2017 (Swinglehurst); Founding member of Doctors against Diesel
 (Griffiths), Alliance for Recovery Research in Music Therapy international research consortium
 (Carr); Austrian Forum for Primary Care & Public Health Forum (Leber); Task Force member of
 2019 European Society of Cardiology and European Atherosclerosis Society Guidelines for the
 management of Dyslipidaemias (Mihaylova); RCGP Cardiovascular group member (Robson),
 Chair of the NIHR Statistics Group Executive (Eldridge).

 Editorships, awards, honours, prizes and keynote presentations: Victoria Tzortziou-Brown
 received an OBE in the 2020 New Year honours, for services to General Practice. Khan (left in
 2019) and Eldridge became NIHR senior investigators, Martineau obtained Fellowship of the
 Royal Society of Biology. Swinglehurst received the prestigious RCGP/Society for Academic
 Primary Care John Fry Award for contribution to the discipline through research, Hooper won
 Journal of Clinical Epidemiology Reviewer of the year, Jovanovic won the European Annual
 Research Award for Early Career Psychiatrists, Hosang won the Samuell Gershon Young
 Investigator Award (International Society for Bipolar Disorders).




                                                                                       Page 18
