Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The School of Life Sciences (SLS) at the University of Dundee makes fundamental discoveries on
the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying health and disease in humans, animals, plants,
parasites and bacteria and translates that knowledge to address global challenges. All of our
UoA5-returned research occurs in SLS. With 700 staff from over 50 countries, SLS provides a
dynamic, multi-national, collegiate and diverse environment within which to train the next
generation of scientists and innovators. We have extensive productive interactions and
collaborations with industry and take effective interdisciplinary approaches to address complex
biological questions. State-of-the-art laboratory and technology facilities, and extensive
professional service support, underpin our ambitious research portfolio and world-changing impact
successes.

Our outstanding international profile is verified by many external benchmarks including being;
the only UK institution in top 50 (26th) for research impact on global innovation (Nature Index 2017
Innovation); the world’s most influential research institution in pharmaceuticals (Clarivate Analytics
2017); in the world top 100 for research quality (Nature Index, 2019); 1st in Europe and 2nd globally
for scientific impact in 'Biomedical and Health Science' (CWTS Leiden Ranking 2020 for number
and proportion of publications in the 1% most cited 2014-2017, minimum 1000 publications, using
fractional-counting).

Our people are central to our success. Our diversity enriches our environment and how we
approach our work. SLS has 78 Principal Investigators (PIs) leading research groups totalling 345
postdocs, 132 PhD students and 76 technicians/research assistants. We are loosely organised into
8 Research Divisions, and some smaller groupings. Many PIs (22%) are affiliated with more than
one Division or have additional affiliations to other Schools or institutions, facilitating
interdisciplinary work at a variety of organisational levels. Each Division is supported by embedded
Laboratory Management teams (16) and clerical staff (19). Core technology platforms (45
technologists) support all Divisions as do 24 wash-up/media-preparation/stores staff, 28
professional service staff (Finance, HR, Research & Innovation Services), and 3 business
development managers. All but one Division are in a single interlinked complex. Plant Sciences is
located at the nearby James Hutton Institute (JHI), with whom we have had a key strategic
partnership since 2002, providing access to world-class crop research facilities.

Leadership and Management: We are led by the Interim Dean, Prof Inke Nathke (appointed May
2020). Prof Nathke is supported by a School Manager and five Associate Deans (ADs) for
Research, Learning & Teaching, Internationalisation, Quality Assurance, and Professional Culture.
The Associate Dean for Research is Prof Claire Halpin FRSE. Leadership and strategy
development within the School also benefits from the experience of former Deans and Heads of
School/Units including Regius Prof Sir Mike Ferguson FRS, Prof Doreen Cantrell FRS, Prof Dario
Alessi FRS, Prof Sir Philip Cohen FRS and Prof Julian Blow FRSE FMedSci and from input from
the Heads of our research Divisions. Prof Nathke contributes to the University Dean’s group which
feeds directly into the University Executive Group responsible for strategic planning and
management of the University’s activities. The School thus directly influences University strategy
and resource allocation and holds authority and responsibility for policy implementation at School
level.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Major research groupings:

Division of Biological Chemistry and Drug Discovery, BCDD, aims to discover chemical
solutions to biological problems, focusing on drug targets for neglected tropical diseases and
innovative targets for cancer, Parkinson’s and other disease treatments. The Drug Discovery
Unit, the Wellcome Centre for Anti-infective Research and the National Phenotypic
Screening Centre sit within BCDD but have many collaborative projects with other Divisions and
institutions world-wide, including pharmaceutical companies.

Division of Cell and Developmental Biology, CDB, investigates the mechanisms of
differentiation in developing organisms, stem cells and adult tissues. Their research combines
embryology, genetic approaches, super-resolution cell and tissue imaging, genome-wide analyses,
and mathematical modelling.

Division of Cell Signalling and Immunology, CSI, researches the mechanisms by which cells
process antigens and sense and transmit external signals, particularly those detected by immune
system receptors and those causing changes in cellular metabolism, autophagy or energy status.

Division of Computational Biology, CB, brings together computational, mathematical and
biophysical scientists to tackle biological and medical questions. It has long-standing expertise in
machine learning and artificial intelligence.

Division of Molecular Microbiology, MMB, investigates the processes that govern microbe
interactions with the environment and other microbes. They benefit from large dedicated
containment level 2 space which is used by researchers across SLS. The Geomicrobiology
Group studies the transformations of metals and minerals by microorganisms.

Division of Gene Regulation and Expression, GRE, studies gene expression and chromosome
biology using forefront technologies including live cell imaging, RNA/DNA sequencing and
quantitative proteomics. The Division supports the OME: Open Microscopy Environment co-
founded in Dundee. The CRUK Nucleic Acid Structure Research Group studies the structural
and chemical properties of nucleic acids and their interactions with proteins.

MRC Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, MRC-PPU, investigates the
mechanisms of protein phosphorylation and ubiquitylation in cell regulation and physiology, thus
facilitating the development of drugs to treat related diseases. The Unit is an international centre
for Parkinson’s Disease research and hosts the Division of Signal Transduction Therapy
(funded by Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline and Merck).

Division of Plant Sciences, PS, explores the mechanisms by which plants grow and develop in
response to their environment and to pathogens, as well as providing solutions for crop
improvement. We have a close strategic partnership with the JHI where labs of our 10 plant
science PIs are based for close interaction with JHI researchers and to access world-class
greenhouse and field facilities.

We invest in world-class technologies to underpin discovery in all 8 Divisions through our Centre
for Advanced Scientific Technologies (CAST) which includes: Advanced Quantitative
Proteomics, the Dundee Imaging Facility, Flow Cytometry, Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Facility,
Dundee CryoEM Feeder facility, X-ray crystallography, DNA/RNA sequencing, High-performance


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
computing, Animal Facility and the Data Analysis Group. Our Facilities also support research for
external customers/universities and deliver advanced specialist training to staff and students.

Strategic research plans from REF2014, reviewed below, have been fulfilled and exceeded:

Aim1: To double drug discovery capacity and deliver strategic collaborations in drug
discovery with UK academic institutes and industry
The opening of the 4,700sqm ‘Discovery Centre’ for Translational and Interdisciplinary
Research in 2014 was central to achieving this aim. We recruited 8 new group leaders in
Infectious Diseases and Drug Discovery and established the Wellcome Centre for Anti-Infectives
Research (WCAIR) underpinned by a £13.6M Centre award. These initiatives and investments
enabled many new strategic collaborations developing therapeutics for various disease areas such
as with Bukwang Pharmaceutical Company and Oxford University (£4.2M, 2019, Parkinson’s
Disease); Takeda Pharmaceutical Company and Cambridge University (£4M, 2019,
neurodegenerative disorders); not-for-profit Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative and
GlaxoSmithKline (£1.1M, 2018, leishmaniasis and Chagas disease); GlaxoSmithKline-Wellcome
(£7.9M, 2017, neglected tropical diseases); Bayer, University of Cape Town and Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation (£6.5M, 2016, tuberculosis); and Innovative Targets Portfolio partnerships in
multiple therapeutic areas (9 programmes with industry; projects with over 40 scientists from 18
institutions in 7 countries). Increasing the Drug Discovery Unit capacity (now 110 FTE) has
achieved impacts including: licensing of ubiquitin-specific protease USP15 assets to Corbin
Therapeutics (2019); bringing a windfall £5M to the University when SME partner IoMET,
collaborating on cancer immunotherapies, was acquired by Merck Sharp & Dohme (2016); and two
Impact Case Studies - one on a single dose cure for malaria, and a second on the delivery of
therapeutics for visceral leishmaniasis.

Aim 2: To establish a ‘pre-incubator’ that will provide early spin-outs access to specialised
equipment, services and expertise
A key part of our mission is to support local, and national, job and wealth creation. Increasing our
footprint through our Discovery Centre allowed us to pre-incubate and nurture several companies,
now successfully spun-out including drug discovery company Amphista Therapeutics Ltd (backed
by Advent Life Sciences LLP and the Scottish National Investment Bank); informatics software
company Platinum Informatics Ltd; dermatological medicines spin-out In4Derm (Scottish
Enterprise High Growth Spin Out Programme); dermatological screening company Ten Bio (Sept
2019); and protein degrader company Outrun Therapeutics (Nov 2019). These originated from
three research Divisions; GRE, BCDD, and MRC-PPU. The spinning-out of Amphista features in
our Impact Case Study on PROTACs (PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras) as revolutionary new
tools to attack previously undruggable targets. Based on our excellent track record with spin-outs,
we have secured City Deal support to create a next-phase Innovation hub to anchor inward
investment in high-growth spinouts and start-ups (see New Aim 2 below). Similarly, our Plant
Science Division is a partner in the successful JHI City Deal bid to build an International Barley
Hub and Advanced Plant Growth Centre, with spin-out opportunities (see New Aim 4).

Aim 3: To dismantle barriers between the physical, computational and biological sciences
Opening the Discovery Centre facilitated creation of the Division of Computational Biology (CB),
which brings physicists and theoreticians from the School of Science & Engineering together with
our bioinformaticists and quantitative biologists, to pursue biologically-aligned research.
Recruitment into CB has brought additional expertise in artificial intelligence and machine learning.
The value of our facilitation of interdisciplinary working is evidenced in our Impact Case Study on
spin-out Exscientia Ltd which enables breakthrough productivity gains in drug discovery by

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
deploying artificial intelligence approaches. Our Photonics in Life Sciences and Medicine initiative,
supported through our PHOQUS (EU) PhD programme, successfully trained 10 students at the
physics/biomedicine interface across three research Divisions: CDB, GRE, and BCDD, in
collaboration with the Schools of Medicine and Science & Engineering. The acquisition of a triple-
view lightsheet microscope in 2019 further enhanced capability in this domain. To facilitate better
cross-School administration, we realigned our Dundee Imaging Facility under Professional
Services management with academic steering group oversight.

Aim 4: To develop our expertise in quantitative proteomics, data warehousing and analytics
We successfully used business intelligence, computing and data warehousing to pioneer the
development of a unique customised Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). This
enabled our proteomics facility to manage sample collection and user communication, supporting
diverse projects from research Divisions and external customers. In 2016, the LIMS software was
deployed at the University of Manchester’s Stoller Centre for Clinical Proteomics, (with £600,000
income to us), forging collaboration between the two leading UK proteomics facilities. Based on
these successes, and the expertise of Prof Angus Lamond FRS (Founder and CSO), a spin-out
company, Platinum Informatics, was incorporated in 2018 offering state-of-the-art software
solutions for the management, visualisation and analysis of large complex data, as well as end-to-
end mass spectrometry-based proteomics services. Our world-class expertise in proteomics
continues to attract commercial collaborators and customers and underpinned two Impact Case
Studies on the development of diagnostics for human African trypanosomiasis, and therapeutics
targeting Parkinson’s. Pioneering work led by Prof. Jason Swedlow (with the OME Consortium and
European Bioinformatics Institute) developed the Image Data Resource, a unique public repository
of image datasets allowing scientists worldwide to mine and integrate data in ways not previously
possible.

Aim 5: To sustain ambitious goals for academic research
Over the assessment period we secured £302M research income (average £43M/annum) despite
an increasingly competitive environment. This underpinned an annual average of 548 high-quality
research publications. Our proactive recruitment strategy is central to sustaining our ambitious
research goals and we have recruited 20 new PIs since 2014. We expanded research spanning
the chemical-biology interface (>£2.5M recent School investment). An £8M award from the
Scottish Funding Council catalysed establishment of the interdisciplinary National Phenotypic
Screening Centre in 2015, offering sophisticated high-throughput phenotypic screening for human,
animal and plant health research. We renewed our strategic partnership with the JHI in 2014
including 2 new joint appointments. We co-invested >£1M (with University of Aberdeen and JHI) in
the Scottish Food Security Alliance (Crop) initiative to train 10 PhD students in cutting-edge crop,
soil, and environmental science. Our MRC-PPU underwent a rigorous quinquennial review and
successfully renewed MRC core funding (£25.6M 2018-2023). The diversity of our publications and
discoveries since 2014 is exemplified by the composition of our output submission.

Future strategic aims and goals for research: Our strategic research goals for the next 5 years
aim to enhance our progress and strengths, and nurture innovation:

New Aim 1: To found a Centre for Targeted Protein Degradation and expand our leading
position in Drug Discovery
We are developing a world-leading position in the emerging area of Targeted Protein Degradation,
which is fundamentally revolutionising academic chemical-biology and the drug discovery industry.
Our vision is a Centre that produces novel tools, probes and approaches to investigate unexplored
biology and target hitherto undruggable disease-causing proteins for degradation and therapy,

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
building on the work of Ciulli, Sapkota and Virdee and existing relationships with pharmaceutical
companies.

New Aim 2: To develop a commercialisation pipeline that drives life sciences innovation
and local economic growth
Our ambition is to catalyse a sustainable step change in innovation-led growth, leveraging inward
investment to deliver inclusive economic benefit for the local region. We will use our £25M
competitively-awarded City Deal funding to establish a new Innovation Hub (opening 2023) to
anchor and support growth of life sciences/biomedical spin-out companies in Dundee, providing
high quality jobs and skills opportunities for school-leavers and graduates. Over 15 years we intend
this to attract £150M venture capital investment and support the creation of 10 life sciences
companies.

New Aim 3: To integrate interdisciplinary activity in Quantitative Medicine & Biology
Dundee has a track record of developing analytical methods and data-driven technologies to
support the study and treatment of disease. We generate large datasets through cell and tissue
multi-dimensional imaging, advanced quantitative proteomics and metabolomics, GWAS, and
chemical library screening for drug discovery. Along with the Schools of Medicine, and Science &
Engineering, our vision is to advance these technologies while deploying the full potential of novel
AI methods to exploit our rich datasets and uncover new insights to further biomedical research.

New Aim 4: To expand plant sciences capability and excellence through new initiatives with
our strategic partner The James Hutton Institute
We are partnering JHI to establish the International Barley Hub (IBH) and an Advanced Plant
Growth Centre (APGC) in Dundee using £62M City Deal support. The IBH will translate research
into tangible impacts for all barley-related industries (breeding, farming, brewing/distilling, feed,
food and health sectors). The APGC will provide state-of-the-art controlled-environment plant
growing facilities. Our Plant Sciences Division will fully exploit these opportunities for recruitment
and growth of excellent plant sciences research and innovation for economic, societal and
environmental benefits.

New Aim 5: To grow our international research profile with new areas of excellence
Through ongoing recruitment in new areas and support/development of our PIs we will enhance
our reputation and position ourselves for major industrial and UK Government funding by further
aligning to priority areas such as ageing-related disease and artificial intelligence (Industrial
Strategy) or expanding our work on infectious diseases (Wellcome).

Facilitating Impact from SLS Research
We recruit and invest in areas where we can achieve high quality research with impact, for
example our substantial recruitment and investment into the Drug Discovery Unit. Indeed, each of
our 6 Impact Case Studies is associated with one or more of our 5 post-2014 strategic aims
above, demonstrating how each element of our strategy has been effective in facilitating impact.
Through the University promotions procedures, we ensure that impact is recognised. We
encourage and support our staff in commercialisation agreements and the development of spin-out
companies, providing School funds for pre-commercialisation activity.

To ensure a coordinated strategy, we established a Translation and Commercialisation Support
Group (TransComm, 2018) with 10 core members and expertise spanning commercialisation,
technology-transfer, innovation funding, entrepreneurship and life sciences/biotech. The group has
a fund to progress concepts and makes recommendations for further core investment/support

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
where required to maximise impact. For example, spin-out In4Derm (incorporated 2019; winners
2019 Converge Challenge), focussed on topical drug treatment for skin disorders, was provided
>£400,000 by SLS during Phase 1 and 2 development, complementing the £550,000 awarded
from the Scottish Enterprise High Growth Spinout Programme. The TransComm group coordinates
Venture Capital Funder visits, linking interests of funders with projects requiring investment. The
Dundee Accelerator Programme, operated from the Dundee Centre for Entrepreneurship,
provides assistance for early-stage businesses to improve their business offering, growth and
investment potential. External funding, such as our MRC Confidence in Concept award,
accelerates the impact of our research by supporting preliminary work or feasibility studies to
establish the viability of a business idea.

Exemplar indicators validating the success of our approach include: i) Recognition of the global
impact of our research in International Impact rankings (e.g. CWTS Leiden Ranking 2020); ii)
Recipients of nationally-awarded prizes – Hopkins was BBSRC Commercial Innovator of the Year
2015; iii) Creation of successful spin-out companies (e.g. Amphista Therapeutics); and, iv)
unprecedentedly, twice winning “Project of the Year” (2014/2018) from Medicines for Malaria
Venture reflecting our step-change work on malaria drug treatments. Several of our Impact Case
Studies reflect School/University investment leveraging subsequent impact in the DDU, in
PROTAC research (~£1M bespoke space for commercially-sensitive work), and in enabling
Hopkins to relocate to Harwell to develop company, ExScientia, while an SLS PI.

Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
A core ethos of the School is to promote interdisciplinary research. Our Divisions are housed in a
single complex (except Plant Sciences) facilitating integrated approaches to address complex
biological questions. Several PIs from other academic Schools are based in our complex and 22%
of our PIs are affiliated with more than one Division. In the last 5 years, 10% of our publications
involved at least 2 of our research groups. Our Mode of Action Group (established 2015) acts as a
paradigm for our multi- and inter-disciplinary approach; they integrate high-throughput genetics,
cell biology/biochemistry and chemical proteomics to undertake transformative drug target
deconvolution studies and were awarded GlaxoSmithKline’s STOP prize in 2017. Events such as
our Annual Research Symposium and Philosophy & the Life Sciences Seminar Series encourage
cross-discipline working and collaborations. Researchers actively participate in the Dundee
Interdisciplinary and Innovation Forum focusing on major societal challenges. We embed
interdisciplinary working at early career stages e.g. through our MRC PhD programme
“Quantitative and Interdisciplinary approaches to Biomedical Science” (commenced 2016).
We nurture interdisciplinary (life sciences/medicine/engineering/physics) collaborations with an
institutional pump-priming fund of £200,000/annum (two schemes: the Inter-Institutional
Interdisciplinary Partnership Fund and the Interdisciplinary Research Fund). Our LifeSpace, a
Science Art Research Gallery (co-directed by School of Art & Design), provides a platform for
interdisciplinary art/science interactions and a location for curatorial exchange between
staff/students and the general public. During the assessment period, we supported 18 exhibitions
spanning diverse themes. We actively invest in areas that support and enhance our
interdisciplinary capabilities. Recent £2.5M investment at the chemical/biology interface (in addition
to Discovery Centre investment) further increased our chemistry capacity to validate targets to treat
fungal infections (van Aalten) and leveraged an Eisai partnership to develop oncology therapeutics
(Ciulli).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Open Research Environment
Funding to support Open Access publications is managed centrally for equitable distribution. Our
Library and Learning Centre hosts an annual “Open Access” events week explaining the benefits
of open access, while emphasising the importance of measuring research impact through non-
journal-based metrics. SLS has been a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research
Assessment (DORA) since 2013 and actively encourages use of pre-print publications. We clearly
stipulate on PI recruitment adverts that, in assessing applicants, we consider the scientific quality
of their outputs not the Impact Factor of the journal where they are published. SLS PIs have been
pioneers in Open Data and in the release or upgrade of innovative Open Platforms, Software and
Tools that promote the analysis, sharing and management of research data including:

•   Swedlow’s BioImage Archive (2019, https://www.ebi.ac.uk/bioimage-archive/) allowing
    storage, sharing and analysis of biological images.
•   Barton’s Jalview (https://www.jalview.org/), for multiple sequence alignment, editing,
    visualisation and analysis, supporting >60,000 users and 2.1 million accesses since 2014 with
    19 upgrades and 36 YouTube training videos.
•   Lamond’s EPD: Encyclopedia of Proteome Dynamics
    https://www.peptracker.com/accounts/login/epd) for sharing, analysing and visualising
    proteomics and other large-scale datasets. It aims to establish a "gold standard" for sharing
    large-scale data as usefully as possible.
•   Barton’s upgraded protein secondary structure prediction server JPred that completed >1.5
    million user-submitted jobs (http://www.compbio.dundee.ac.uk/jpred4/index.html).
•   Swedlow’s OME: The Open Microscopy Environment (http://www.openmicroscopy.org/) that
    led Euro-BioImaging (EuBI) in building public resources for imaging data (2016-to date).

Positive Culture of Research Integrity
Research integrity and good research practice are Institutional strategic priorities. SLS’s Prof Alan
Fairlamb CBE FRSE FMedSci chairs the University Research Governance & Policy Sub-
Committee. Prof Nathke, our Associate Dean for Professional Culture (ADPC) over the REF
period, has responsibility for oversight of Research Integrity within the School (with additional roles
to promote an inclusive culture and staff development). All new staff and PhD students complete
the University’s bespoke commissioned course ‘Responsible and Ethical Practice in Research and
Publication’ (https://www.dundee.ac.uk/research/governance-policy/researchintegritytraining/) that
has been adopted by a number of other HEIs across the UK. Our PhD students participate in
annual research integrity workshops to ensure continued awareness. Tools to demonstrate
provenance of data are an integral part of research integrity. Two SLS Divisions are currently
trialling the use of electronic laboratory notebooks/management systems with the aim of adopting
throughout the School. The MRC-PPU successfully trialled a policy (initiated 2018) ensuring
primary data is securely stored in a locked read-only format in a centrally-managed repository at
first submission of a research output. We aim to implement this policy School-wide. We have
developed guidelines outlining best practice, including independent repeats of key experiments by
a second researcher and deposition of large datasets in open access databases such as PDB,
PRIDE, MIAME. Several of our outputs directly address data reproducibility and valid
interpretation, e.g. Brenes et al (2019; Mol Cell Proteomics), the highly cited Schurch et al ‘How
many biological replicates are needed in an RNA-seq experiment’ (2016, RNA; cited 199 times),
and our RoSA (Removal of Spurious Antisense) open source software
(https://github.com/bartongroup; Maurao et al 2019 F1000). Other outputs highlighted anomalous
results in the literature (e.g. Barakate et al., 2014 Plant Cell) or resulted in paper/patent retractions
by other groups (e.g. Hobley et al., 2014 Cell; see retractionwatch.com).


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Creation of the ADPC role was transformative for SLS, putting us in the forefront of UK Universities
in how we deal with allegations of scientific misconduct. Our ADPC leads our Professional
Behaviour and Research Integrity Group (established 2016) which is responsible for promoting an
SLS culture of adherence to the highest standards of research integrity. The group has developed
clear procedures for reporting and investigating potential research misconduct. It performs initial
assessment on allegations before reporting to the Dean for further action. Since 2016, it has
overseen 14 preliminary enquiries, 5 informal investigations and instigated 1 formal proceeding
(upheld, and disciplinary action taken). We subscribe to PubPeer automated alerts so that issues
raised by the wider community can be swiftly investigated and acted upon appropriately. We have
held open forums on research integrity to foster increased awareness and develop an open culture
where the nature and drivers of misconduct are discussed. These SLS initiatives prompted similar
developments across the University. Each academic School now has a lead for research integrity
who feeds into a University committee chaired by our ADPC who is also leading the establishment
of a Scotland-wide Research Integrity Network.

 2. People

The excellence and diversity of our staff underpins our success. Our ethos is fundamentally
supportive, inclusive, and collaborative. Flexibility is a cornerstone of our approach, enabling staff
at all career stages to exploit opportunities and fulfil their potential. We facilitate the success of our
world-class researchers and research-support teams through effective and responsive managerial
structures, the provision of advanced technology platforms run by skilled technologists, and a
multitude of training and career development opportunities offered by the School and the
University’s Organisational and Professional Development team.

Principal Investigators: We aim to recruit and support the most talented international researchers
and maintain a healthy sustainable demographic. On 31st July 2020, our PIs fell into the following
age bands: 30-39 (10%), 40-49 (40%), 50-59 (24%), >60 (26%); gender: female (27%), male
(73%); ethnicity: white (79%), BME (12%), other (9%). Our tenure-track PIs, representing 17% of
our category A staff, are typically on 7-year contracts with a commitment to review for tenure within
5 years. We have 3 PIs on pre-tenure-track 3-year salary underwrite while they prepare fellowship
applications – these automatically progress to a new 7-year tenure-track contract once they secure
a fellowship. The gender balance in the tenure-track and pre-tenure-track group is almost 50:50 (7
females; 8 males) with only 2 being UK-born, illustrating our commitment to equality and diversity
and to investing for the future. We achieve this using transparent and well-understood recruitment,
mentoring and tenure processes. The remaining 83% PIs are tenured.

Recruitment. Our recruitment strategy is informed by the needs of our forward research plans and
responds to recommendations from Divisional Quinquennial Reviews and our International
Scientific Advisory Boards. Our Search & Recruitment Committee and Round Table appointment
committees have diverse representation and gender balance. Appointments are made after lengthy
consideration, usually involving two visits to Dundee including many short meetings with individual
PIs, a presentation on candidates’ current research and future plans, and a round table interview.
Successful applicants are offered tenured (for senior appointments), tenure‐track or pre-tenure-
track positions. Over the period of assessment, SLS recruited 16 tenure-track/pre-tenure-track PIs,
one acting PI (due to unexpected retirement) and 3 tenured PIs at Senior Lecturer/Professorial
level. This includes an individual whose progression we supported from a technical role through to
a tenure-track position. These appointments are in strategic areas: molecular parasitology and
drug discovery (Pawlowic, Wyllie), molecular microbiology (Dorfmueller, Bergkessel), cell and

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developmental biology (Murray, McGurk), immunomodulation (McSorley, Sollberger), crop science
(Hein, Bulgarelli), MRC-PPU (Rousseau, Swamy), DNA replication and epigenetics (Alabert,
Pelisch, Rasmussen) and the application of machine learning (Schweikert). All but the 2 most
recent pre-tenure-track appointments have won prestigious research fellowships illustrating the
effectiveness of our procedures for identifying and supporting promising early-career researchers.

Start-up packages and mentoring. Pre- and tenure-track PIs receive a lab start-up package
(>£30,000), plus re-location expenses (including immigration lawyer if required) and 50% matching
funding for major equipment claimed on research grants. They are provided with excellent facilities
and outstanding technology platforms to support research and benefit from targeted allocation of
PhD studentships. Pre- and tenure-track PIs receive guidance from their Head of Division and
Associate Deans for Research and Professional Culture, and are paired at the outset with a senior
PI mentor who advises on how to run a group and on the preparation of manuscripts and grant
applications. New starts are encouraged to participate in the cross-institutional Teaching, Research
& Academic Mentoring Scheme run in partnership with the University of St Andrews, Abertay
University, Glasgow School of Art and the JHI. We sponsor all new PIs to attend the well-regarded
EMBO lab management course to further support them in lab leadership. We support PI recruits
who identify as female to attend the Advance HE Aurora Leadership programme which aims to
address the under-representation of women in leadership positions in Higher Education. Tenure-
track PIs have limited teaching commitments although we encourage them to complete the
Associate Module element of the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAPHE). This
not only informs their teaching, but helps improve supervision of PhD students and develops other
skills relevant to research. We support personal development and leadership training of senior and
Professorial staff, for example by offering sessions with a personal coach.

Appraisals and Tenure Reviews. Every PI in SLS is appraised annually by their Head of Division
in a discussion about performance over the past year and objectives for the next. Heads of Division
have an annual appraisal with the Dean. Tenure-track PIs will additionally have a ‘mid-term’ review
in their 3rd year to support and inform their case for tenure. Final tenure review typically occurs no
later than the end of a PI’s 5th year, but we underwrite their salaries for a minimum of 7 years,
enabling the submission of grant applications for almost all of the tenure-track period. Special
consideration is given to PIs whose research has been affected by personal circumstances
including parental leave (maternity, paternity, adoption, etc.) or other carer duties; part-time work;
disability including temporary incapacity; absence due to ill health. In the case of parental leave,
SLS delays tenure review and extends salary underwrite by an appropriate time (e.g. by 12 months
for each maternity). All tenure-track appointments have had their underwritten period extended to
recognise the impact COVID-19 has had on establishment of their careers.

At tenure review, candidates submit a dossier of publications, funding, research achievements,
wider contributions, and future plans. At least 5 expert external referees will comment in writing on
whether the candidate is on a trajectory to become an international leader in their field. The dossier
is evaluated by the Assessing Committee (chaired by the Dean or AD Research, with 2
distinguished External Assessors - directors of scientific institutes/departments – and 5-6 other
senior academics). The PI presents a seminar and discusses future plans with the Assessing
Committee who make a recommendation that is communicated to the PI immediately by the Dean.
Over the REF period, 13 of 17 PIs who underwent review were awarded tenure including 100% of
female PIs.

Postdoctoral Researchers and Other Research Staff: Our research assistant community is
diverse – 47% female, 53% male; 22% BME, 7% other and 71% white ethnicity from > 50 different

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
nationalities; with >10 individuals with declared disabilities (3.5%). The SLS Research Staff
Association (SLSRSA; http://rsa.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/ established 2005) was one of the first such
organisations in the UK. Initiated by postdocs for postdocs, it has since expanded to recognise all
research staff. SLSRSA acts as a conduit to School management and has a seat on the School
Research Committee; it assists in research staff career development; fosters a culture of debate
and communication between research staff through events and activities; and helps new staff with
local orientation. SLS provides SLSRSA with an annual budget (£7,000) to organise a seminar
programme, including talks on careers beyond research. All research staff have an annual career
development appraisal with their group leader and are encouraged to acquire transferrable skills
through a broad spectrum of courses. We actively support the development of our research staff.
Several research assistants without postgraduate research qualifications have been supported to
study for a PhD (2 part-time PhDs, and 3 PhDs by publications since 2014). We funded fees for
these staff and encouraged participation in training/development activities associated with our PhD
DTP programmes. We strive to support postdoctoral researchers who are focused on an
independent research career. Since 2014, 19 SLS postdoctoral researchers/technologists have
been mentored by their PI/Head of Division to apply for very early career Fellowships or
substantive grants. Of these, 7 were successful and 5 sought and were offered PI positions in SLS
(Swamy, Pelisch, Hickerson, Wyllie, van den Akker). We actively support our postdocs to apply for
small research grants (<£50,000), under the sponsorship of a PI, to enhance their experience and
support career development for those aspiring to an independent position.

Implementation of the Concordat to Support Career Development: SLS fully supports the
Concordat as does the University which retains its 'HR Excellence in Research' award from the
European Commission. SLS fulfils the signatory responsibilities of championing the Concordat at
all levels within the University. We seek to provide security for research staff through open-ended
permanent contracts (after 4 years) and provide bridging funds from our Wellcome Trust
Institutional Strategic Support Fund. Our ADPC regularly surveys views of researchers on our
approaches to career support and development.

Flexible leave of absence: The University has flexible leave of absence policies for Periodic
Leave/Sabbaticals, Special Leave-with-pay and Special Leave-without-pay. Requests are signed
off by the Dean. It is SLS policy to support staff who need research, training or impact leave or
contract changes. Requests are considered sympathetically and equally for staff of all career
stages. No reasonable request is refused. During the review period, we granted e.g.:

•   leave or contract adjustments for postdoctoral researchers to pursue research, training or
    impact activities elsewhere (2 formal requests)
•   PI flexible working time abroad for research, teaching or impact activities (7 formal requests)
•   contract adjustment enabling senior academic (Hopkins) to be CEO of spin-out, Ex-Scientia
•   funding and time for senior and mid-career academics to develop spin-outs, Platinum
    Informatics (Lamond; Chief Scientific Officer) and Amphista (Ciulli; Director)
•   salary support for two senior Research Assistants involved in early-stage commercialisation

Exchanges between academia and other stakeholders: We promote and enable knowledge
and personnel exchange with other stakeholders (businesses, industry, public bodies) as essential
to maintaining our international research vitality and relevance. Driving innovation and
collaboration with industry is a key strategic priority. For example, our Division of Signal
Transduction Therapy (DSTT) is one of the largest and longest international collaborations
between the pharmaceutical industry and an academic research institution. We host visiting


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
researchers from Industry (8 over REF period), often waiving the costs as an investment in the
research base. These visits have led to formal research collaborations or contracts. PIs can be
allocated time within our workload model for engagement in external activities, e.g. Ferguson as
the Deputy Chair of Wellcome’s Board of Governors; Cantrell as an MRC Council member. Our
Wellcome Centre for Anti-infective Research has an extensive portfolio of training activities
including providing placements in the DDU, and prioritising (with full scholarships) those working in
countries endemic for neglected tropical diseases (18 placements to date from 9 countries in
Africa, Asia and South America). Embedded procedures support the incoming individuals
irrespective of career-stage. The programme also deploys trainers to external institutions wishing
to develop skills in Drug Discovery, with training adjusted to suit needs. Through our Industrial
CASE studentships, we partner with industry (SMEs and non-SMEs) on collaborative research
projects, providing students with research experience in a non-academic environment (20 iCASE
studentships over the assessment period).

Reward and Recognition of Research and Impact: Benchmarked metrics for both research
achievement and a variety of research impacts are included in our promotions criteria. Our annual
PI progress reports capture both research and impact contributions and assist in identifying
candidates for promotion. We actively celebrate notable achievements in research outputs, grants
won, honours awarded, and impact activities through our web-based ‘news’ displayed on screens
throughout the complex and through the monthly “Dean’s Message’. We fund a number of annual
prizes to recognise high-quality research and impact-related activities including: Innovator of the
Year (two categories - best innovation and best early-stage new business idea); The Howard
Elder Prize to recognise the PhD student/postdoc who published the most significant paper related
to cancer; the Molecular and Cellular Biology Prize for excellence in basic research. Winners of
Innovator of the Year get a place on the three-month Elevator accelerator programme designed
to assist early-stage business owners/ideas to improve their business offering and investment
potential. Our Translation and Commercialisation Group supports staff in achieving impact and
makes recommendations for investment, including time provision in individuals’ workload models.

Postgraduate Research Students: Training of the next generation of scientists is a top priority for
SLS. Over the assessment period we invested £6.2M into our PhD programmes. All SLS PhDs are
run by a centralised system headed by our Head of Postgraduate Studies (Mackintosh) supported
by an administrative team of four. Each Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) has a Programme
Lead (reporting to the Head of Postgraduate Studies) and a Programme Management Committee
with diverse academic representation.

Student recruitment. We manage PhD recruitment using a bespoke online application system
where we capture equality, diversity and inclusion data. We carry out equality impact assessments
after each recruitment cycle which can be acted on accordingly. We run PhD advertisements and
project descriptions through ‘Gender Bias Decoder’ to ensure no unconscious biases.
Advertisements highlight availability of part-time study and support for those with caring
responsibilities or disabilities. Scoring of applications ensures equal consideration of non-traditional
routes and backgrounds, and shortlisting and interviewing is carried out by the Programme
Management Committee to ensure consistency. All staff involved in recruitment must complete
unconscious bias and equality, diversity and inclusion training.

Doctoral Training Programmes. We offer studentships as part of DTPs or on an individual
studentship basis. Programmes include: BBSRC EASTBIO partnership between the Universities of
Edinburgh, Aberdeen, St Andrews, Stirling and other organisations to provide high-level bioscience
training (~7 students annually to Dundee); the Dundee MRC DTP in Quantitative & Interdisciplinary

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Approaches to Biomedical Science (9 students annually including 2 iCASE studentships); MRC-
PPU Prize Studentships (~ 3 students annually) in the areas of signal transduction and DNA repair;
Wellcome 4-year PhD programme in Integrated Molecular, Cellular and Translational Biology (5
students annually); and our international partnership programmes with the China Scholarship
Council, CAPES (Brazil) and Marshall Aid (USA). Students on our MRC DTP and Wellcome
programmes carry out rotation projects during their first year before making their final project
choice. All students participate in a comprehensive Induction Programme and undertake 10 days
of student-led generic skills training a year. All our programmes train students to be data literate,
achieve basic coding competence, and acquire skills in quantitative aspects of biological research.

Monitoring and Support Mechanisms. Students are supported in their academic progress and
career development throughout their studies. Each of the two academic supervisors meets their
students regularly and is responsible for assessing academic progress. Template contracts are
provided to foster successful student-supervisor relationships. Each student is assigned a ‘Thesis
Monitoring Committee’ (TMC) of two additional academic advisors who monitor progress, personal
career developmental plans, and well-being. Our mentorship arrangements draw on the expertise
of diverse groups to provide the best advice possible. Peer-peer support is a critical component
and students benefit from high postdoc-student ratios. Recognising and understanding stress in
research students is a high priority and we strive to support positive attitudes and mental health.
Innovative programmes such as ‘Mind Matters’ raise awareness of, and provide support for, those
with mental health issues. Other activities such as ‘Therapets’ sessions are run as de-stressors.
Students can seek pastoral support from the Head of Postgraduate Studies and their academic
mentor. The SLS postgraduate office team have undergone mental health first-aid training and
frequently act as the frontline. We are committed to equally supporting all our students impacted by
the COVID-19 pandemic and have awarded funded extensions to all that required one. Over the
assessment period, only three students did not pass their ordinance transfer (MSc to PhD
transition) but submitted successful MSc theses. In UoA5, 283 FTE successfully completed their
PhD and no students went over time, evidencing the effectiveness of our monitoring and support
mechanisms.

Skills, career development and integrated research student culture. PhD students are fully
integrated into the running and activities of the School, with representation on Divisional, Research
and School Boards. All PhD students present their work at regular lab meetings, and in Divisional
seminar series. Our students participate in a bespoke coaching programme led by an external
consultant that enhances their resilience and builds capacity to manage relationships at all levels.

The School has an active PhD-led society (PiCLS) that facilitates networking through academic
and social events. PiCLS organise their own annual Research Symposium where they invite
external speakers and raise sponsorship (underwritten by the School). SLS works with PiCLS to
facilitate student outreach and public engagement projects. All PhD students are required to attend
at least one relevant scientific conference (UK or abroad). Our training programmes are closely
aligned to the VITAE framework, which promotes professional skills development. Students are
strongly encouraged to participate in career development opportunities such as the Biotechnology
YES competition and the Max Perutz writing competition. Many students participate in placements
or internships during their PhDs. The use of flexible and strategic funding allows us to support
students after thesis submission which enables key publications to be completed and the
acquisition of new skills, enhancing their ability to secure prestigious postdoctoral fellowships and
support career transitions. To widen participation in postgraduate research, we target scholarships
for our annual International Summer School (30-40 competitively-selected undergraduates) to
students from universities whose mission statements and core aims are to help students from a

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
variety of backgrounds (e.g. Universities of Westminster, and Highlands & Islands). Recognising
the value of these experiences, we hosted 20 virtual research projects during Summer 2020 when
laboratory access was restricted due to COVID-19.

Evidence of how the submitting unit supports equality and diversity: We are proud of our
environment and culture that has allowed our community to perform to the highest level. We
formalised our support of diversity, career development and research integrity by appointing an
Associate Dean for Professional Culture. We are fully committed to the principles of the Athena
Swan charter and have an Athena Swan Silver award (2018). The University is a Race Equality
Charter (REC) member and Prof Hari Hundal from SLS is leading the University application for a
REC Bronze award. We aim for parity across gender, race, age, physical and mental disabilities in
all of our activities. Completion of online Equality, Diversity and Inclusion modules is mandatory for
staff and students. We deliver unconscious bias training for new students and annually for staff.
Our annual ‘Peoples Award’ recognises individuals/teams who have made positive contributions to
our culture. The inaugural prize (2018) was awarded to two staff who developed our LGBT+
network. Students and staff also contribute to other networks (e.g. BAME, disabled) through which
they can connect, find peer support and contribute to the University's policies. The University’s
former ‘Women in Science Festival’ now has a formal partnership with Dundee’s Women Festival
where we celebrate outstanding women in society (e.g. Christina McKelvie MSP; Helen Keen, the
radio 4 comedian; Margaret Fairlie, the first woman professor in Scotland). The gender balance of
speakers in our prestigious annual “Named Lectures” increased from 17% female (up to 2013) to
47% female (2014 – 2020). SLS has many women in key leadership roles - 4 out of 7 of the
School’s Executive Group are women.

We have well-established flexible working policies to support work-life balance (flexible working
hours, semester time working, remote working, job-sharing); all recent requests (2017-2020) from
Academic/Research staff have been approved. We instigated positive changes to postdocs’
contracts at University level - individuals on fixed funding that ends during maternity leave have
their contract extended to cover the whole leave period so that they receive full benefits, and
maternity pay is not paid back if they do not return to work. Our shared parental leave policy allows
both primary care providers to benefit from paid leave.

All PIs have time within our workload model for preparation of grant applications and associated
professional service support is accessible to all. For individuals undertaking substantial leadership
roles (Dean, Associate Dean, Head of Division) dedicated administrative and research support is
provided to ensure that research continues unhindered. Leadership training is provided. We have a
rotating co-opted member position on our School Executive Group to support succession planning
and expanded career opportunities. Declaration of any mitigating circumstances is part of the
academic promotions process.

Innovative use of strategic funding has underpinned our Flexible Dependent Care Grant scheme
since 2015. This supports the professional development of researchers with primary care
responsibilities e.g. by covering dependent care expenses when attending workshops, or
professional development opportunities, or providing research assistant support to academics on
parental leave (https://www.dundee.ac.uk/research/issf/schemes/flexible-dependent-care-grants/).
Funds are available to all career stages, including undergraduates on our Summer School
programme. Over the last 3 years of the assessment period, 15 individuals (8 female, 7 male)
benefited from this support. PhD students with caring responsibilities receive enhanced stipends.
During the assessment period, we funded two re-training “Return to Work Fellowships” for


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
individuals returning to research after a career break. We award bridging funds to cover short-term
funding gaps in researchers’ portfolios with priority for applicants with extenuating circumstances.

We proactively support the well-being of our staff and students. We have a number of individuals
with declared disabilities and adjustments are made to enable unhindered research activities e.g.
we have provided adjustable height/size lab and office benching or chairs, and a signer is used in
seminars for a deaf Masters student. Buddy systems are set up where required. Dedicated office
space is provided where specialist needs are identified. SLS has 4 trained mental health first
aiders as direct points of contact, and 3 bullying and harassment advisors, as well as first
responders for gender-based violence. We have gender neutral toilets in support of an inclusive
environment. Our School Outreach Officer (Hardee) is one of nine nationally selected members
joining the British Science Association's Inclusive Science Engagement Network, a 2-year scheme
to investigate how to make science engagement workplaces and activities more inclusive.

Construction of REF submission: Outputs have been selected and attributed to individual staff
by our UoA Planning Group in a way that aims to maximise the overall quality profile for the
submission. We have not flagged our interdisciplinary outputs as the membership of sub-panel 5
(Biological Sciences) is sufficiently diverse to be able to asses them. All REF returnable staff were
invited to suggest potential impact cases studies and those chosen reflect the strongest impacts
arising over the REF period as deemed by the UoA5 Planning Group. Of our 181 outputs
submitted, 77% are from male PIs and 23% from females, similar to our overall UoA5 gender
balance. Other comparisons based on protected characteristics suggest no bias in output
selection. Prior to output selection, all Planning Group members completed training in: (a)
unconscious bias awareness; (b) equality, diversity and inclusion; (c) information security. Our
institutional Code of Practice was adhered to at all times.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income: All PIs are responsible for obtaining funding for their research groups and are
aware of our expectation that they should have continuous research income of at least
£150,000/annum. Any PI not reaching this target for several years is offered additional support
over and above the normal peer review processes and alternative options are sensitively
discussed if appropriate. Tenure-track PIs are provided with significant support to win external
fellowships and they benefit enormously from the prestige this brings to their careers. All PIs have
access to our excellent technological facilities and are expected to ensure their sustainability by
costing usage into grant applications. Grant opportunities are widely publicised, and the Associate
Dean of Research will coordinate for demand-managed calls or where input from several PIs is
needed (for example multi-user equipment grants). PIs with personal experience of grant and
fellowship panels share non-confidential advice. These strategies have been very successful and,
over the reporting period, our PIs have been awarded, collectively, £83M from Wellcome, £55M
from the MRC, £25M from the BBSRC, £43M from CRUK and other charities (e.g. £4M from
Michael J Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research), £17M from the EU and ERC, £39M from
industry, £14M from UK Government bodies, and £6.5M from other sources. Particularly notable
awards include:

•   £25.6M MRC Quinquennial renewal
•   £13.6M Wellcome Centre award for Anti-Infectives Research
•   £8M from SFC to establish the NPSC
•   £8M portfolio award from Wellcome to develop drugs for leishmaniasis and Chagas’ disease


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   £7.5M from Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline and Merck for DSTT renewal
•   £4.9M from Wellcome for the DDU Mode of Action group
•   £3.6M from Bill & Melinda Gates for lead optimisation for neglected diseases/tuberculosis
•   £2M from the BBSRC to study the architecture of biofilms

PIs with personal fellowships are listed in section 4. All but our 2 newest early career PIs have
been successful in obtaining personal fellowships. These successes reflect both our robust
recruitment strategy and comprehensive support/mentoring mechanisms. Our grant success rates
for male versus female PIs are equivalent at ~35%. Research income is, on average, >£500,000
per PI per annum. This level of funding underpins high quality outputs and impact detailed in other
sections.

Nature and quality of the research infrastructure: We use £1.5M of our annual School budget
for infrastructure as matching funding for carefully chosen equipment grant and strategic award
applications. For example, we are providing £2.1M as matched-funding for the MRC Quinquennial
renewal award, £1.65M to the Wellcome Centre for Anti-Infectives and, on average, an additional
~£1M/annum to support studentship programmes. We are agile in coordinating and responding to
wider infrastructure funding opportunities. Thus, over the assessment period, we invested >£10M
in proteomics, compound screening and profiling and ‘drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics’
(DMPK), chemical-biology, fluorescence-activated cell sorting Next-Generation Sequencing,
single-cell sequencing, high-resolution microscopy, multi-photon and light-sheet microscopy and
high-performance computing. Over the next 5 years, our technology platforms will require >£5M
investment, with the majority of this funding already in place.

Mechanisms for promoting research, sustaining and developing a vital research culture and
delivering impact: A critical component of our research and impact success is the quality of our
infrastructure and in-house support. All our laboratories were either built or refurbished within the
last 25 years and are carefully maintained by our Laboratory Management team liaising with a
responsive University Estates and Buildings team. The entire SLS complex is in open-plan format,
stimulating collaboration between groups and facilitating technology transfer. Each Division has
one or more centrally-located large equipment rooms containing equipment owned by individual
labs that is maintained by core staff and available for all to use; this arrangement significantly
extends the range of equipment easily available to any individual research group. Our Stores
provide same-day delivery to the bench and Central Technical Services provide media, wash-up
and tip-racking.

A variety of communal activities (below) regularly bring specific groups, Divisions or the entire
School together to celebrate and share our love of science. In 2020, all seminar/lecture/symposia
activities continued, but moved online to times compatible with home-schooling.

Research Boards. Each Division operates a research board (monthly/bimonthly) that, via Division
Heads, reports into a bimonthly School Research Committee, providing lively fora for discussing
research and impact strategy, postgraduate/postdoctoral training, public outreach, and EDI. All
boards have representation from technical support staff and from the postdoctoral and PhD
associations.

Seminar Programmes. Each Division has a budget for a seminar programme where prominent
external scientists give lectures and meet with our PIs, postdocs and PhD students. These enrich
PhD and post-doctoral scientist experience and are interspersed with seminars by the postdocs
and PhD students themselves, providing them with further training.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Named Lectures. The School hosts several high-profile Named Lectures throughout the year,
delivered by distinguished scientists including Nobel laureates, and attracting high attendance
(>200). They are aimed at a broad audience and bring all Divisions together in celebration of
excellent science (https://www.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/research/events/named-lecture-archive).

Annual Symposia. A key event in our calendar is the Annual School Research Symposium. This
3-day event of presentations, short-talks and posters takes place at a hotel in the Highlands and
promotes academic and social interactions, leading to many fruitful scientific collaborations.

Divisional Symposia/Retreats. Divisions hold one or more symposia each year to review current
research and develop future plans. These events take various forms, including scientific talks,
brainstorming sessions, poster presentations and networking activities.

International Scientific Advisory Boards (ISABs) and Quinquennial Reviews. Divisions benefit
from the input of ISABs that provide invaluable advice regarding the overall research portfolios and
strategies. Each Division undergoes rigorous quinquennial review, organised by the AD Research
and Head of Division, which informs strategic planning for the Division and School. Feedback is
generally outstanding but we are not complacent and strive for continuous improvement.

Access to specialist research facilities. A core ethos is to have accessible scientific facilities
that enable all staff/students to harness cutting-edge technology for discovery and translation while
maximising effective and efficient use. Early-stage spin-out companies also benefit from access to
accelerate their development. To best manage our core facilities, many of our major technology
platforms have been incorporated into a Centre for Advanced Scientific Technologies (CAST;
http://www.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/technologies). CAST is run by 22 dedicated staff who ensure
equipment is properly specified, operated and maintained. They contribute to experimental design
and coordinate PhD student/postdoc training. Our scientific facilities are subject to external reviews
allowing critical evaluation that assists in sustaining excellence.

CAST provides the following services:

•   The Proteomics Facility operates 18 high-end state-of-the-art mass spectrometers, offering a
    range of services for analysing whole proteomes, proteins, peptides, oligonucleotides,
    oligosaccharides and small molecules. They have particular expertise in SILAC, TMT and
    Label-Free quantitative proteomics and the identification of post-translational modifications.
•   Our state-of-the-art Dundee Imaging Facility operates cross-school (SLS, Medicine, and
    Science & Engineering) with a range of light microscopes, including 7 DeltaVision
    Deconvolution systems, 3 confocal microscopes, 2 electron microscopes, the latest state-of-
    the-art Zeiss 880 Airyscan for high-speed confocal imaging with super-resolution and the Zeiss
    spinning disk Axio Observer Z1 offering high-resolution data capture in living cells. The service
    provides technical expertise in localising proteins in fixed and live cells, and on tissue imaging.
•   Our Animal Facility provides a transgenic service that re-derives in-coming mouse lines to a
    high barrier status, cryopreserves mouse lines and produces transgenic and gene-targeted
    mice. Current occupancy is about 5,500 mice, with smaller numbers of rats and frogs. Most
    mice are housed in individually-ventilated cages. There are facilities for category 2 and
    category 3 containment, small animal surgery, telemetry and activity monitoring.
•   The Flow Cytometry Facility with 3 analysers and 2 cell sorters includes; a high specification
    five-laser, fifteen colour LSR Fortessa, eight-colour FACS Canto II, thirteen-colour Novocyte,
    an eleven-colour Beckton Dickinson Influx Sorter and a six-colour Sony SH800 sorter housed
                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     within a class 2 biosafety cabinet, in addition to a MUSE cell counter. The facility provides cell
     analysis and sorting services and advice.
 •   The X-Ray Crystallography Facility provides high-throughput robotics for crystallisation,
     sample mounting, X-ray screening and data collection.
 •   The Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Facility provides researchers across the University with
     verified hESCs and hiPSCs and differentiation systems, training in working with HPSCs and
     expertise in the development of cell-based assays.
 •   Our new CryoEM facility, equipped with a 200kV JEOL JEM-2200FS, is capable of high-
     resolution image data capture.
 •   The Data Analysis Group advises on programming, statistics and biological data analysis.
     Interacting extensively with PhD students and postdocs, they run training courses, help
     analyse datasets (from microarray, NGS, proteomics, imaging) and develop software and
     databases (https://dag.compbio.dundee.ac.uk/).

 Other significant facilities available within SLS include:
 • Our Drug Discovery Unit has the full repertoire of professional, industry-standard expertise
     and infrastructure for early stage drug discovery. Multiple disciplines (biology, chemistry,
     pharmacology, bioinformatics, computational drug design) work together in an integrated
     management structure focusing on key areas, including diseases of the less-developed world
     and anti-microbial resistance (http://www.drugdiscovery.dundee.ac.uk/).
 • The International Centre for Kinase Profiling analyses the selectivity of protein kinase
     inhibitors, a technique pioneered in Dundee. It is heavily used by the Drug Discovery Unit,
     other members of the School, plus many external customers (http://www.kinase-
     screen.mrc.ac.uk/).
 • A 10xGenomics machine is a cross-School resource, enabling researchers in SLS and in
     Medicine to perform single cell transcriptomics, feeding library preparations into the Next
     Generation Sequencing operated in the School of Medicine, equipped with the latest platforms
     including the NovoQ.
• Our High-Performance Computing Service enables safe and efficient storage, archiving and
   analysis of our ever-increasing quantities of data, from drug discovery, proteomics, microscopy
   and DNA sequencing, using >2 petabytes of high-speed parallel storage systems and a parallel
   computer cluster with over 3,500 CPU cores.

Evidence of cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of infrastructure: Through the Scottish
Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA; https://www.sulsa.ac.uk/), we provided access to OMX
super-resolution microscopy and compound screening and pharmacokinetics for all Scottish HEIs.
Similarly, we benefit from access to, for example, metabolomics (Glasgow) and 800 MHz NMR
(Edinburgh). Our Proteomics facility has an excellent reputation for delivery and performed services
for colleagues from many UK Universities over the reporting period. As a member of the Scottish
Consortium for Macromolecular Imaging, we act as a feeder facility (for Dundee and St Andrews
researchers) for the top-end JEOL 300 ARM cryo-EM in Glasgow. The National Phenotypic
Screening Centre (NPSC) is built on a core partnership between the members of SULSA and the
University of Oxford. State-of-the-art robotics, instrumentation and computation are located in the
SLS Hub, and in Oxford, with link-up to an additional assay development team in Edinburgh.
Screening and assay development have been delivered across the UK and beyond. The MRC
Reagents and Services operates for academics worldwide, and our Drug Discovery Unit
collaborates with a large number of universities (as of 31st July 2020, 19 active collaborations and
membership of large consortia such as TB Drug Accelerator, MalDA malaria Drug Accelerator, and
COVID-19 IMI2 CARE).

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Major Benefits in-kind: In addition to synchrotron and EM allocations (valued at £2.73M over the
assessment period), we benefit from other in-kind contributions such as: i) >£2.5M in-kind
contribution from GlaxoSmithKline as part of our 2016-2021 Wellcome partnership to develop anti-
parasite drugs, and £10M commitment by GlaxoSmithKline to move our pre-clinical candidates to
the clinic; ii) a range of compound libraries (lead-like compounds, chemical diversity library,
annotated libraries and clinically approved compound libraries), valued in excess of £10M, that
have been gifted to the NPSC.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Effective collaboration at the national and international level
Our culture is fundamentally open and collaborative. Of our total awards granted over the
assessment period 19% involved at least 1 named external partner (industrial, HEI or other 3rd
party) with joint funding. Of these joint grants, 20% were local collaborations within Scotland, 32%
within UK, and 48% were international projects. We support development of fruitful relationships
through several mechanisms such as funding external seminar programmes and use of strategic
funding (our “Inter-Institutional Interdisciplinary Partnership Fund” and GCRF fund) to pump-prime
national and international collaborations with a particular focus on global challenges.

Our training of overseas PhD students and postdocs has proved an effective long-term mechanism
of developing international collaboration when students/postdocs return home to academic
appointments (e.g. Birch - Huazhong Agricultural University; Lilley – Nankai and Xiamen
Universities).

SLS PIs are involved in numerous large consortia tackling research problems too big for any one
institution to address. For example, Waugh led on the successful global effort to sequence the
genome of barley (Nature 544, 2017) and contributed to genome sequencing of the world’s most
important cereal, wheat (Science 345, 2014). Swedlow, and The Open Microscopy Environment
based in SLS, are contributing to the global effort across 1,000 institutions in 64 countries to
develop the Human Cell Atlas, and map every type of cell in the body as a basis for
understanding health and disease (funded by Chan Zuckerberg Initiative). Alessi is leading a $9M
project for ‘Aligning Science Across Parkinson’s (ASAP)’ with partners in the USA aimed at
fostering collaboration/resources to better understand the underlying causes of Parkinson’s
disease. Ferguson leads our partnership in UK SPINE, building a national knowledge-exchange
network around therapeutics for age-related co-morbidities.

Many smaller grants (under £1M) also attest to international collaborations with partners across the
world, for example Halpin’s collaborations with Vietnam and the Philippines on rice straw uses,
Simpson’s work with the African Orphan Crops Consortium, WCAIR (Read/Wyllie/Gilbert)
collaboration with colleagues at the University São Paulo, Brazil to investigate Amazonian bacteria
and natural products for new drug development, and our 2018/19 Universities UK International
(UUKi) Rutherford Fund Strategic Partner Grant that enabled 8 promising Australian ECRs to
spend up to a year in Dundee for continuing collaborative research. Our Open Research platforms
mentioned earlier also connect us daily with researchers worldwide.

Our strategic relationships with other UK institutions and details of inter-HEI resource sharing were
described earlier. These represent important mechanisms to stimulate national collaboration, as
does active participation in ’cluster’ events and initiatives. The ‘Scottish HEI cluster’, which extends
to the North of England, is very active in promoting research activity in areas such as cell and

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developmental biology, stem cells, immunology, infectious diseases and bioinformatics through
research ‘clubs’ (Scottish DNA Replication Network; Scottish Neuroscience Group; Scottish Fly
Meeting; Scottish Microscopy Society; Infectious Disease Research in Scotland), and many others
that SLS researchers contribute to. We support such networking both in principle and financially,
and many inter- and multi-institute research collaborations emerge from such events. We have a
long-standing strategic partnership with The James Hutton Institute where our Plant Sciences
Division is co-located and supported them in their successful City Deal bid that secured £62M to
build an International Barley Hub and Advanced Plant Growth Centre in Dundee. We are founding
partners of SULSA (Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance), a strategic alliance between 11
Scottish Universities, and contributed to its Directorship (Hopkins, 2011-2016) and Executive
(Ferguson; Owen-Hughes).

Collaboration with Industry
SLS has exemplary partnerships with industry with examples described in all of our Impact Case
Studies. Our Division of Signal Transduction Therapy (DSTT) is one of the largest and longest
international collaborations between the pharmaceutical industry and an academic research
institution. Running for 22 years and attracting over £65M of investment, the DSTT was renewed in
2020 for a further 4 years with £7.5M from Boehringer, GlaxoSmithKline and Merck. DSTT
researchers from MRC-PPU, CSI, and other Divisions deliver ideas from basic research on drug
target identification and validation for cancer, arthritis, lupus, hypertension and Parkinson's
Disease for rapid uptake by partner companies. The DSTT has helped to expedite the
development of drugs for clinical use, bringing benefits to patients and accelerating the impact of
our research. DSTT is widely regarded as a model for how academia should interact with industry.
Boehringer also consider their partnership with Ciulli (BCDD) on the use of PROTACs as
therapeutics to be a role model collaboration. One indicator of this partnership success is that
Boehringer made Ciulli’s PROTAC MZ1 the first external compound offered open-access to other
researchers through its opnMe.com portal. Direct industry collaborations have been developed
in most Divisions during the review period, for example plant sciences with crop breeders
Syngenta, KWS, Secobra and RAGT (Waugh), biotech companies Chain Biotech and Corbion
(Halpin), agribusinesses Simplot and Syngenta (Birch); MMB with Beauty-Hsiao Biotechnology Inc
(Stanley-Wall) and AstraZeneca (Van Aalten); CSI, MRC-PPU and BCDD with Ono
Pharmaceuticals (Cohen, Arthur, Cantrell, Ciulli); BCDD with Takeda (Gray); DDU with Pfizer,
Bukwang and others already mentioned (Wyatt); CB and GRE with many clients of spinout
Glencoe Software (Swedlow); the National Phenotypic Screening Centre’s Phenomics Discovery
Initiative partnered with Janssen, and many other examples.

Developing relationships with key research users to generate impact
We engage with many stakeholders, particularly pharmaceutical companies, in the drug discovery
pipeline. Hopkins led SULSA’s successful bid to establish the NPSC in partnership with the
University of Oxford, and we offer a range of services and collaborative opportunities to the
scientific community through the Phenomics Discovery Initiative (PDi). PDi is a public-private
partnership between pharmaceutical companies and NPSC that seeks to identify, develop, and
validate innovative phenotypic assays relevant to human disease. We have several productive
partnerships with global non-profit Product Development Partnerships (PDPs) such as Medicines
for Malaria Venture (MMV), Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative (DNDi) and the Foundation for
Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND), described in three Impact Case Studies. Our WCAIR has
further formal partnership agreements with GlaxoSmithKline (to discover new pre-clinical
candidates for leishmaniasis and Chagas disease), Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the
Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (tuberculosis drug discovery). WCAIR has a
mission to develop capacity for research in drug discovery, and partners to train scientists from

                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
countries most affected by neglected tropical diseases (Ghana, Malawi) through placements in
Dundee, short courses, expert visits and online resources. SLS (Ciulli, 2019) has a partnership
with Eisai for cancer drug discovery using targeted protein degradation PROTACs (see Impact
Case Study) and partners with Boehringer Ingelheim on the development of PROTACs as
therapeutics.

Wider contributions to the economy and society
SLS is committed to exploiting the wider economic, policy and societal impacts of its research at all
levels. For every pound of Scottish government funding, we generate £7 for the Scottish economy
(Fraser of Allander Institute, 2016) and biomedical-related activity accounts for 16% of Dundee’s
total economy. Our productive interactions with industry are described earlier and in our Impact
Case Studies. We host work-placements for school pupils and contribute to Breakthrough Dundee
where our staff mentor local young people from care-experienced backgrounds. We are very active
in public engagement with diverse audiences from schools, local community, industry, strategic
bodies, local professional groups (see public engagement section below). We build creative
partnerships to deliver high-quality, innovative engagement programmes. We regularly host patient
research interest groups (e.g. Parkinson’s disease) to inform our research. We are key contributors
in responding to the global COVID-19 pandemic. SLS staff contributed to the establishment of the
Lighthouse Lab in Glasgow using knowledge of high-throughput platforms (Gray), sat on SAGE
(Ferguson), donated Kingfisher robots to the Lighthouse Lab Milton Keynes (Lamond), provided
the research community with recombinant versions of all 29 SARS-CoV-2 proteins, along with
clones and antibodies, established the Coronavirus Toolkit website and the COVID-19 protein
portal (https://mrcppu-covid.bio/; https://covid19proteinportal.org/; MRC-PPU Reagents and
Services) and carried out COVID-19-related research (e.g. Wyatt, Gray, Cantrell, Kulathu, Virdee,
Lamond).

Public Engagement
The School is strongly committed to public engagement and outreach activities to inform the public
about science and our research. Our excellent and innovative practices were recognised by being
the 1st faculty in the UK to be awarded a Gold Engage Watermark from the National Co-ordinating
Centre for Public Engagement (2017). Each Division has a public engagement (PE) champion. In
2016, we appointed a school-wide academic lead for PE (Stanley-Wall) who has responsibility for
oversight of all PE activities and for developing and implementing our PE strategy
(https://www.lifesci.dundee.ac.uk/impact/public-engagement). This is developed in consultation
with staff and students across the School and aims to embed models for engagement that enable
researchers to enhance the impact of their research. To this end, the School deploys a significant
budget (>£120,000/annum) employing two Public Engagement Officers and a Schools Outreach
Officer who provide administrative and logistic support for academic staff, postdocs, PhD students
and support staff to participate in public engagement activities. A 0.5 FTE administrative post
supports the PE team and academic lead in their activities. We benefit from the input and expertise
of independently-employed PE practitioners (e.g. CRUK Research Engagement Manager) with
whom we maintain close working relationships.

In addition to School-wide PE activities/support, most Divisions/Units additionally run engagement
activities specific to their research. For example, WCAIR has a PE co-ordinator and manages, in
collaboration with colleagues in the University’s Duncan of Jordanstone College or Art & Design,
the programme for LifeSpace, the exhibition space previously mentioned. WCAIR recently installed
‘Para-Site-Seeing: Departure Lounge’, an interactive installation that lets you be the deadly
Leishmania parasite, and engaged with local Girl Guiding groups to launch a Medicine Maker
badge. Their illustrated children’s book describing the DDU’s work through the eyes of a young

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
schoolgirl was translated into Spanish for GlaxoSmithKline who ordered 1,000 copies
(https://wcair.dundee.ac.uk/public-engagement/projects/). The Computational Biology Jalview team
are active in outreach visits and activities for Schools and produced a range of resources for their
website (http://www.jalview.org/school-resources). Plant Sciences runs an annual Plant Power day
at the University’s Botanic Gardens that attracts up to 1,000 people.

Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline and encouraging best practice
In addition to numerous research activities already mentioned that help to build and sustain the
discipline, SLS researchers have developed several platforms and initiatives that connect and
support researchers worldwide. As well as the Open research platforms mentioned earlier, some
with dedicated training resources that specifically encourage best practice in the storage and
analysis of data include:

•   Jalview (Barton) a free program for multiple sequence alignment editing, visualisation and
    analysis supports 60K+ users globally. Its YouTube training videos have had 70K hits, and
    SLS has run training courses in Edinburgh, Liverpool, St Andrews, Glasgow, Cambridge,
    London, Oxford and Australia.
•   OMERO (Swedlow) is a client-server software for managing, visualising, analysing and
    sharing microscopy images and associated metadata. It is used in hundreds of institutions
    world-wide.
•   3D-RNAseq (Brown) an easy-to-use open source App for three-way differential analysis of
    RNA-seq data, designed to be run by biologists with minimal bioinformatics experience with
    training video and workshops run across the UK.

Indicators of wider influence on the discipline
SLS PIs positively influence, support and contribute to the wider research community in many
different ways. Some notable exemplars are provided below.

Governorships and senior office bearers: Chair REF2021 UoA5 Biological Sciences Sub-Panel
(Cantrell), Deputy Chair Wellcome Board of Governors (Ferguson), Sir Henry Dale Fellowship
Interview Committee (Cantrell), Royal Society Newton Fellowships Committee in Biology (Alessi),
MRC-Wellcome Human Developmental Biology Resource Joint Steering Committee (Storey),
EMBO Young Investigator Committee (Labib), and formerly (but within the assessment period) on
Babraham Institute Board (Cantrell), Council of the MRC (Cantrell), The Francis Crick Institute
Trustee Board (Cantrell).

International and national advisory board membership: Board of Directors of the Medicines for
Malaria Venture (Ferguson), Scientific Advisory Board of the Crick Institute (Ferguson until 2019),
Scientific Advisory Board of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (Ferguson until
2019), Wellcome Trust Science Strategy Advisory Group (Cantrell), Scientific Advisory Board of
ICR/Imperial Cancer Research Centre of Excellence (Cantrell), Governing Board of Tres Cantos
Open Lab Foundation (Fairlamb), IBioIC Governing Board (Halpin), Scottish Industrial
Biotechnology Development Group (Halpin), Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance Executive
Committee (Owen-Hughes), Royal Society of Edinburgh Sectional Committees (Halpin, Birch,
Waugh, Cowling, Swedlow).

Membership of major grant and fellowship awarding bodies: Royal Society University
Research Fellowship Panel (Halpin), MRC BMC: Major Awards Committee (Ferguson), Wellcome
Sir Henry Dale Fellowship Committee (Labib, Cantrell), EPSRC Panel of Experts (Nathke), UKRI


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
FLF panels (Alessi, Owen-Hughes, Halpin), MRC Molecular & Cellular Medicine Board (Rouse),
BBSRC Research Committees (Simpson, Stanley-Wall), ERC panel (Blow), Wellcome ERG (Horn,
Coulthurst, Field).

Honours, fellowships and other awards: Our School includes 8 FRS, 30 FRSE, 12 EMBO
members, 3 CBE and 2 Knighthoods. During the REF period, a multitude of honours and awards
were conferred on UoA5 staff (https://uod.ac.uk/3k4m4aN) with particularly notable examples
including: Knight Bachelor of the British Empire (Ferguson), CBE - Commander of the Order of the
British Empire (Cantrell), 2 Fellowships of the Royal Society (Palmer, McLean), 11 Fellowships of
the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Muqit, Cowling, Barton, Stanley-Wall, Horn, Rouse, Labib,
Hopkins, Birch, Halpin, Gilbert), 4 Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Awards (Storey, Halpin,
Birch, Cowling), Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences (Lamond), Membership of EMBO
(Palmer, Storey), Royal Society of Edinburgh Patrick Neill Medal (Coulthurst), and Royal Society of
Chemistry Khorana Prize (Lilley).

Research Fellowship awards: Of the 78 PIs in SLS, 20 held or won personal fellowships in the
assessment period: 4 Wellcome Principal Research Fellowships (Cantrell, Fairlamb, Lamond,
Tanaka); 2 Wellcome Senior Fellowship Renewal (Owen-Hughes, Coulthurst), 1 Cancer Research
UK Career Development Fellowship (Rasmussen), 2 UKRI Future Leader fellowships (Schweikert,
Bergkessel), 7 Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowships (Findlay, Murray, Januschke, Swamy,
Dorfmueller, Pawlowic, Moraga), 1 Wellcome Senior Fellowship in Clinical Science (Muqit), 1
Wellcome Senior Fellowship in Basic Biomedical Sciences (Coulthurst), 1 MRC Senior Non-
Clinical Fellowship (Cowling), 2 Career Development Fellowships (Hickerson, Pelisch). Other
significant research awards to current or former PIs in the period include: 8 Wellcome Senior
Investigator Awards (Field, Hardie, Crocker, Weijer, Cohen, Hay, Horn, Cowling, Tanaka), 3 ERC
Advanced Awards (Waugh, Birch, Schaap), 1 ERC Consolidator Award (Cowling).

Participation in the peer-review process: Our PIs contribute routinely and extensively to peer
review of publications and grants, and many perform editorial roles on journals. Given the fluid
nature of these commitments it is impossible to cite accurate figures over the review period, but all
PIs contribute in one or several ways.

Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
We engage with funder opportunities and frequently host strategic visits from key funders such as
UKRI, Wellcome, industry and government bodies. A national priority for research, clearly
expressed by Government thorough the Department for Business Innovation & Skills and the UK
Research Councils and by the major-medical charities, is to demonstrate knowledge-transfer and
societal impact through the translation of basic research. We have responded well to this challenge
through our extensive collaborations with pharmaceutical company partners, our investment in in-
house drug discovery capability, our nurturing of (and continued support for) local Biotech
companies and the strategic partnering of our Plant Sciences research with the JHI. Much of this is
detailed elsewhere in this document. We have been key contributors in responding to the global
COVID-19 pandemic as explained previously.




                                                                                             Page 22
