Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: 11. Computer Science and Informatics

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 Durham University’s Department of Computer Science (DurCS) is a small but rapidly growing
 department whose importance, growth and well-being is strongly supported by the University
 (see Institutional Environment Statement IES§1.1, IES§1.2), so much so that Computer
 Science became an independent department in 2017, choosing to split from the School of
 Engineering and Computing Sciences. The cohort of staff is in the process of an exciting
 managed growth from 16 permanent teaching-and-research academic staff at the time of
 REF2014 to a target of 43 staff by 2022 and 59 by 2027, with 27 staff submitted to REF2021*.
 In December 2020, DurCS will move to a new purpose-built £42M building housing DurCS and
 the Department of Mathematical Sciences (IES§4.2). The formation of DurCS and the
 subsequent massive expansion and relocation has dominated the assessment period**.

 * An additional 9 new teaching-and-research members of staff, 3 female, have been appointed
 since July 2020. Whilst these appointments conform to the strategies detailed below, they are
 outside the REF census period and so receive no further mention. Henceforth, all data and
 discussion relate only to the REF assessment period.

 ** COVID-19 has caused significant disruption to DurCS and the University. The plans outlined
 in this document are accurate at the time of writing and are expected to be realised unless the
 duration or effects of the pandemic exceed current assumptions. Further details are available
 in the “Institutional-level statement on COVID-19”.

 Research structure
 Computer Science research is currently partitioned into “theory” and “applied”, reflected in the
 two research groups ACiD and ICG (with all persons appointed prior to REF2014 unless
 otherwise stated).
     Algorithms and Complexity in Durham (ACiD; 11 members) works, broadly, on
        algorithms, computational complexity and discrete mathematics at the interface
        between pure mathematics and theoretical computer science. Members are Bordewich,
        Dantchev, Friedetzky, Gadouleau, Ivrissimtzis, Johnson, Krokhin, Martin*, Mertzios,
        Paulusma (Head of Group, HoG), Stewart. (Appointed in * 2016.)
     Innovative Computing Group (ICG; 17 members) works on methods for data
        understanding, Artificial Intelligence (AI), visualisation and efficient large-scale
        computation spanning a range of data modalities, and the role of human interaction
        within such methods and across a broad range of computing systems. Members are Al
        Moubayed*, Black**, Breckon, Budgen, Cristea** (HoG), Hadžidedić†, Ivrissimtzis,
        Koulieris**, Li, Long†, Love†† (HoD), Mitchell**, Obara, Shi†, Sturgeon†, Weinzierl,
        Willcocks**. (Appointed in * 2017, ** 2018, † 2019; †† joined from Physics 2017.)

 Achievement of strategic research and impact aims over the assessment period
 Since 2014, the research strategy from REF2014 has been strongly enacted (and has evolved
 since the split; see below). This strategy, taken from the REF2014 environment template and
 interspersed with enacted exemplars, was as follows:
     a) “to focus on and establish critical mass in our core areas of research so that there is an
         encompassing relationship between these topics, the research and the researchers
         involved, and so that our research in these core areas is internationally leading”
          ACiD had critical mass at REF2014; moreover, there is strong research
           coherence and mixed co-authorship on a large number of research outputs and
           grant proposals within ACiD, e.g., ACiD has published 77 papers in the
           following universally-acknowledged world-leading journals and conferences:
            o Algorithmica, FOCS, ICALP, IEEETransInfTh, IEEETransParDistSys,
                JourACM, JourCompSysSci, JourCombThSerB, JourParDistComp, LICS,
                PODC, SIAMJourDiscMath, SIAMJourComp, SODA and STOC.
         ICG has been significantly strengthened with 10 new appointments since 2017
           (4 female) and broader in scope but now approaching critical mass in:
            o imaging and vision (encompassing bioimage informatics, computer
                graphics, computer vision, image processing and vision science via
                Breckon, Ivrissimtzis, Koulieris, Li, Long, Love, Obara, Willcocks).
            o artificial intelligence (encompassing machine learning, deep learning,
                natural language processing, pattern recognition, human-AI interaction and
                applications via AI Moubayed, Breckon, Cristea, Hadžidedić, Long, Obara,
                Shi, Sturgeon, Willcocks).
b) “to strengthen and further develop relationships between theoretical and practical
   research”
         There are new research partnerships between ACiD and ICG such as:
           Bordewich/Breckon on anomaly detection in video; Mertzios/Weinzierl on graph-
           theoretic data movement formalisations in computer simulations;
           Gadouleau/Mitchell on post-quantum cryptography; Gadouleau/Weinzierl on
           maximum surface-to-volume ratio of space-filling curve partitions; and
           Stewart/Al Moubayed on applying evolutionary algorithms within deep learning.
c) “to increasingly develop research collaborations both within the wider spectrum of
   Computer Science and also of a multi-disciplinary and industrial nature so that not only
   does the research undertaken impact significantly on other disciplines and on real-
   world problems but also involves high-quality Computer Science research”
         There is a wide range of ongoing research with academic partners in Durham,
           e.g., Anthropology, Biosciences, Business School, Earth Sciences, Education,
           Engineering, Geography, Mathematical Sciences, Psychology and Physics.
         There are numerous inter-disciplinary research outputs involving authors from
           Breckon, Cristea, Gadouleau, Hadžidedić, Ivrissimtzis, Johnson, Koulieris,
           Krokhin, Long, Love, Mertzios, Obara, Paulusma, Sturgeon, Weinzierl and
           Willcocks with researchers from departments of
            o Agriculture and Food, Business, Earth Sciences, Economics, Electrical
                Engineering, Engineering, Genetic Medicine, Linguistics, Mathematics,
                Medical Sciences, Optics, Optometry, Pharmacology, Physics, Psychology,
                Sports Science and Vision Science, and the NHS
           and in topics including
            o algebra and combinatorics, astrophysics, atmospheric modelling, BAME
                equality, coastal ocean modelling, computational mechanics, display
                engineering, economic games, education, epidemiology, healthcare,
                marketing, modern languages, numerical analysis, robotics, partial
                differential equations, protein biochemistry, seismology, sensing, sports
                science, vision science and visual perception.
         Industrial concerns involved in active research collaborations include
            o Apt-Core, Astro Zeneca, Autonomous Devices, Blue Bear Systems
                Research, Boeing, Boots, Bruker, Centre for the Protection of National
                Infrastructure, Cosmonio, Createc, Cryptalabs, Cubica Technologies,
                Department of Transport, Dyson, Geospacial Research, Gilardoni, Google,
                Home Office Scientific Development Branch, IBEX Innovations, IBM,
                Intogral, Jaguar Landrover, Kromek, Leica, Leonardo, Machines with
                Vision, Micro-X, Microsoft, Metropolitan Police Service, MOD, MODUS,
                NHS, Nikon, NM Group, Nvidia, Orsted, Petards, Pearson Engineering,
                Procter & Gamble, QinetiQ, Rapiscan Systems, Renault, Schlumberger,
                                                                                              2
                   Selex Galileo, Smiths Detection, SQR Systems, Syngenta, UK’s Defence
                   Science Technology Laboratory (DSTL), Unilever, US Department of
                   Homeland Security, VisonMetric and ZF Race Technologies
   d) “to provide the core scientific capability of iARC”
           As part of our restructuring, iARC (Institute for Advanced Research Computing,
              a university research institute) was redeveloped in 2017 as ARC (Advanced
              Research Computing), a dedicated computing support unit within the Research
              Division of the University whose aim is to leverage computational, data-
              intensive and research computing practice across all disciplines (IES§4.3). Both
              iARC and ARC have supported various Computer Science research projects.
   e) “to build a vibrant and dynamic research environment: within which there are both
      focussed and more general research activities; that engages with research and
      researchers on both a national and an international level; and that is conducive to
      collaborative activities”
           The massive departmental expansion, in terms of staff numbers, wider and
              more collaborative activities, impact creation and the new building, has strongly
              contributed to this strategy.

At REF2014, Computer Science's impact strategy was practically constrained, given its
research portfolio at that time. The REF2014 impact strategy sought to amend this and has
been enacted but the departmental expansion since 2017 has changed the situation
dramatically and rendered this strategy somewhat obsolete. Nevertheless, the REF2014
strategy (taken from the REF2014 impact template) was as follows:
    a) "to use our expertise in systems and computer methodologies to enable impact via
        collaborations with key industry players such as IBM"
    b) "for iARC to be at the fulcrum of all computationally-relevant impact activities across
        Durham University and for Computer Science to lie at the heart of all iARC activities"
    c) "for ACiD to influence the impact of Durham Computer Science research through
        collaborative activities with IC [now ICG] and other departments"
    d) "to increase the engagement of Computer Science researchers with committees and
        organisations having impact upon public policy".
Obara and Breckon were appointed as part of our intention to strengthen the area of computer
methodologies and its engagement with key industrial collaborators (and which has evolved
into the current imaging and vision research cluster). This strategy has borne fruit, e.g.,
Breckon's wide-ranging industrial research portfolio and engagement with governmental
security policies (cf. our case studies) and Obara's involvement in the University's strategic
partnership with Procter & Gamble (IES§1.1, IES§2.5.3) and development of the start-up
Intogral (now Gliff.ai; Obara/Willcocks).

Our impact strategy for post-2021 is detailed below but has been operational since 2017 and
we highlight here a notable early success of this strategy. Our appointments since 2017
together with our sustained focus on impact have resulted in an initial portfolio of over 30
potential case studies for a post-2021 REF, with involvement from Al Moubayed, Black,
Bordewich, Breckon, Cristea, Gadouleau, Hadžidedić, Ivrissimtzis, Koulieris, Li, Long, Obara,
Paulusma, Weinzierl and Willcocks in areas including
     anomaly detection, athletic performance, automotive sensing, autonomous devices,
        drug design, fire detection, fraud detection, hardware security, healthcare data
        anonymization, kidney exchange, medical informatics, mental health, natural language
        processing, seismic data evaluation, technology training, tectonic plate movement,
        underwater robotics and X-ray imaging.
In short: the vitality of our impact landscape and our approach to sustain impact generation
from DurCS research have been transformed.




                                                                                                  3
Research and impact strategies post-REF2021
The post-2017 expansion has necessitated a re-evaluation of our research and impact
strategies and these have already taken effect. A primary intention is to ensure that our
research feeds into impact in an unencumbered fashion and that our impact is supported and
strengthened by and feeds back into our research.

Our strategic vision for Durham research is
     “to have well-formed and sustainable groups of researchers working together and
        producing excellent research so that these groups cover areas of research across the
        Computer Science research spectrum, interact with researchers and/or application
        domains within DurCS, the University and beyond, and produce research that helps to
        shape the discipline of Computer Science and/or benefit wider society at both a
        national and global level.”
By securing critical mass in chosen areas and performing beyond the sum of our parts, we aim
to engage (selectively) across the research spectrum. In order to facilitate our research vision,
we have the following strategies, interspersed with brief exemplars of their enactment:
    a) "retain critical mass in core areas of research, establish critical mass in emergent areas
       of research, and build new areas of research so that researchers within a group can
       work together to produce excellent research and also so that researchers within
       different groups can collaborate on intra-group research"
             With recent recruitment, we have developed cognate groups of researchers in
               imaging and vision and in artificial intelligence; we intend to do likewise as
               regards scientific computing and distributed/network computing, and we are
               looking to establish a new research bridge to Mathematical Sciences (with
               whom we will share a building).
             ICG is in the process of strategically realigning into smaller research groups. In
               order to facilitate this fragmentation, we are in the process of establishing four
               sub-groups within ICG, namely VIViD (Vision, Imaging and Visualization in
               Durham), AIHS (Artificial Intelligence and Human Systems), NESTiD (Network
               Engineering, Science and Theory in Durham) and Scientific Computing that will
               become new research groups post-REF2021.
    b) "develop more research collaborations both within Computer Science and also of a
       cross-disciplinary and industrial nature so that the research produces academic impact
       within Computer Science and/or impact on societal and environmental challenges"
             ACiD currently leads the EPSRC Network Grant "AlgoUK: A Network for
               Algorithms and Complexity in the UK" (PI Stewart, with support from research
               groups at KCL, Leicester, Liverpool, RHUL and Warwick) which caters for and
               interacts with all of the UK algorithms and complexity community.
             Within the assessment period, research funding has been awarded of over
               £530K from Procter & Gamble (Obara); over £700K from Defence Science and
               Technology Laboratory (Breckon, Obara); over £590K from the Department of
               Transport (Breckon); over £350K from Renault (Breckon); and over £300K on
               HPC involving a range of other universities and companies (Weinzierl).
    c) "build a vibrant, dynamic, diverse and inclusive research community within which there
       is a varied range of research activities, that engages with research and researchers on
       both a national and an international level, and that is conducive to cross-discipline
       collaborative activities, with research excellence pervasive throughout"
             The new building and our expansion contribute significantly to this strategy.
             ACiD hosted over 50 international visitors from 13 different countries within the
               assessment period, almost all of whom gave research seminars, and also
               organised and hosted the workshops and conferences: "Geometry and
               Computation on Groups and Complexes" (jointly with Newcastle); "Algebraic,
               Topological and Complexity Aspects of Graph Covers"; "British Colloquium for
               Theoretical Computer Science BCTCS"; "Computability in Europe CiE"; and
               "Mathematics of Constraint Satisfaction" (postponed due to COVID-19).

                                                                                                    4
Our impact strategy has been significantly enhanced and our strategic vision is now
     to have impact creation embedded within all aspects of our research, the promotion of
         a strong impact culture, a diverse portfolio of impact activities, and the involvement of
         many staff in impact creation.
We recognise that involvement in impact creation can occur at all points on the pathway from
(prior to) the inception of the original research through to the point of impact and beyond, and
come in many shapes and forms so that all staff have the potential to be stakeholders (this
contributes to our stated intention for a "seamless" connection between research and impact).
In order to facilitate our impact vision, we have the following strategies, interspersed with brief
exemplars of their enactment:
    a) "promote a strong impact culture and develop and enable impact appreciation and
         awareness across the Department"
              Impact features strongly in the University's new promotion and progression
                 benchmarks (IES§2.5, IES§3.2).
              Strong attention has been paid to the potential for impact creation in recent
                 recruitment rounds, resulting in a significant increase in the vitality and
                 sustainability of our potential impact generation portfolio (see above).
              DurCS has fully supported members of staff as regards impact arising from
                 research, e.g., Obara and Procter & Gamble, Breckon with his impact cases
                 spanning the automotive, defence sensing and aviation security sectors (cf.
                 DurCS impact cases).
    b) "provide leadership and co-ordination for the Department's external engagement and
         impact activities and strategically manage the development, dissemination, support and
         sustainability of departmental impact"
              We have a departmental Impact Officer (IO, Ivrissimtzis; IES§2.5) whose role is
                 to support and assist staff in potential impact creation and to develop
                 opportunities for DurCS impact across the University.
              We have a departmental Research Committee on which sit: the Director of
                 Research (DoR, Stewart); the IO; the HoGs; the Director of Postgraduate
                 Studies (DPG, Friedetzky); and PGR and PDRA representatives. The DoR and
                 the HoGs also sit on the Senior Management Group (SMG) within which all
                 strategy is developed, as do the Director of Education (Johnson) and the
                 Director of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI, Black).
              Credit has been built into the departmental Workload Allocation Model to
                 support staff who have substantial loads concerning impact activities.
    c) "encourage and enhance the development of cross-disciplinary links with other
         academic disciplines, knowledge transfer and public engagement so as to build
         pathways to impact"
              There is active staff engagement with a range of Durham's multi-disciplinary
                 research institutes including Institute for Data Science (Breckon, Cristea, Shi,
                 Sturgeon, Weinzierl), Biophysical Sciences Institute (Love, Obara), Durham
                 Energy Institute (Breckon), Institute for Computational Cosmology (Weinzierl),
                 Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies (Cristea) and Wolfson Research
                 Institute for Health and Wellbeing (Breckon, Budgen, Love, Obara) (IES§2.2).
                 Cristea leads the cross-departmental Digital Humanities Steering Group.
              We currently have active or recent involvement in a number of Knowledge
                 Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) including ones with Cievert (improve identification
                 and treatment of radiotherapy side effects using AI; Al Moubayed, Long), The
                 Footy Club (generate human-readable, search engine optimised product
                 descriptions to automatically match product data; Al Moubayed, Long), Modus
                 Seabed Intervention (develop enhanced Hybrid AUV capabilities using
                 advanced AI; Breckon, Ivrissimtzis), NM Group (automated LiDAR classification
                 and power line modelling; Breckon, Obara) and Distinctive Publishing (generate
                 a publishing ecosystem that facilitates collaboration/co-creation of content by
                 applying AI; Cristea, Obara).
                                                                                                      5
              Support from the University's Grant Seedcorn Fund (IES§4.1) for transitioning
               from academic research outputs to impact has been given on 10 occasions in
               the assessment period and on 4 occasions matched with departmental funding,
               e.g., Breckon received £6K to support industrial liaison, and Weinzierl received
               £5K to fund software development.

Research integrity and open research
Durham University leads the way in open access to published research, ranking 4th in the world
for percentage of publications that are available through open access (IES§2.4). The University
Library provides a central open access publication repository, Durham Research Online, and
supports research data management and open data (IES§2.4). DurCS adheres to the
University's research integrity and open research and data policies (IES§2.2). These policies
are repeatedly emphasised by the DoR and IO, staff having benefitted from training by HR
professionals in new data protection laws (GDPR), in Unconscious Bias and in effective
collegiate research practices. DurCS also adheres to the University's policy that all research
grant proposals should be internally peer-reviewed prior to submission. Each grant proposal is
checked by the DoR in this regard and also in relation to protocols on ethics and financial
management before being signed off.

The following are exemplars of research integrity and open research. Cristea et al. built and
made publicly available a gold Arabic corpus for Twitter-based Telecom data; all software
developed by Mitchell is released under open licences with versions archived in perpetuity on
Zenodo; and Breckon makes a notable amount of his software and datasets publicly available
via Durham Collections.

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy has had two primary drivers since the formation of the new department,
namely growth and diversity, and this will continue to be the case. Our intention is to reach 59
permanent academic staff by 2027 and we are in the fortunate position of being able to appoint
at all grades (our 27 REF2021 teaching-and-research staff comprise 11 Full Professors, 6
Associate Professors and 10 Assistant Professors); though we will ensure sustainability,
support and career progression (cf. critical mass within research groups). As regards staff
recruitment, we follow an improved EDI-supporting University recruitment process (IES§3.1)
and set up search committees and actively headhunt likely individuals (we have seen strong
sets of applicants for all positions advertised).

Staff development
All but 2 of the 10 appointments we have made since 2017 are at the Assistant Professor level
(the other 2 are Full Professors) and we view the staff development of these early-career
researchers (ECRs) as being of the highest importance. In line with University policy, every
member of staff (and not just ECRs) is assigned an experienced mentor (not their line
manager) to support career and research development and provide individual assistance with
all aspects of university life, e.g., grant proposal preparation, MSc/PhD supervision, teaching
and administration (one-to-one meetings occur regularly). Preferential treatment is given to
new ECRs as regards teaching/administration via 50% load in their first year and 75% in their
second (DurCS has a transparent workload allocation model). The allocation of department-
funded and university-funded PhD studentships is purposefully heavily biased towards ECRs,
e.g., Koulieris, Willcocks and Al Moubayed have recently received university- and department-
funded PhD studentships. Moreover, every staff member applying for an EPSRC New
Investigator Award is promised matched funding for a PhD studentship. The Durham Centre
for Academic Development (DCAD; IES§3.3) supports all researchers at all stages of their


                                                                                                   6
careers but in particular ECRs, e.g., through "Newton’s Apple" and the Leading Research
Programme.

PDRAs within DurCS have the opportunity to undertake undergraduate teaching, if they so
wish, with appropriate training and support. Since REF2014, 25 PDRAs have been funded
through research grants, with the majority who have left going on to academic positions or
industrial research labs in the UK and abroad, e.g., to universities in Bergen, Birmingham,
Cambridge, Darmstadt, Derby, Glasgow, Hertfordshire, Middlesex, Novosibirsk and
Amsterdam, as well as to Beijing Aerospace UAV System Engineering Research Institute.
PDRAs are supported with guidance and mock-panel events when they submit fellowship
proposals and through the Careers and Enterprise Centre and DCAD as regards career
planning and progression.

The University has completely redeveloped its promotions and progressions process
(IES§3.2). In short, all staff mandatorily submit CVs each year to ensure that everyone is
considered fairly as regards promotions, with all staff receiving feedback from the promotions
and progressions process via a confidential meeting with the HoD (the Department Promotions
and Progression Committee is diverse and all those on it have undergone EDI training). Staff
can apply for research leave on the basis of one-term-in-seven (IES§3.3). Research leave can
also be allocated strategically in order to support impact development and be applied for by
new parents returning from maternity, adoption or shared parental leave. Research leave also
enables staff to undertake significant research visits to other institutions, e.g., Ivrissimtzis to
Yale, Bordewich to Canterbury, New Zealand (twice), and Friedetzky to Hamburg.

Every member of staff automatically receives £1,000 per annum (cumulatively) to support
research activities such as conference travel, academic visits and small equipment purchases.
Additional research support funds are awarded to the PIs of successful grant proposals
(equivalent to 10% of the funded overheads), and the University also matches this 10% by
contributing into a departmental research fund that is used strategically for all (IES§3.3).

Research Students
DurCS has two mechanisms to allocate internal funding to PhD studentships. The first is to
invite all applications with no restriction on topic or field, which are judged on the academic
strength of the candidate and project, equality and diversity, the fit to our research strategy,
and the potential to support ECRs. The best candidates are put forward for Durham Doctoral
Scholarships, but guaranteed funding from DurCS (if eligible) even if their applications are
unsuccessful, or to the Chinese Scholarships Council (if eligible). This offers security to the
candidate in accepting the position at Durham early and avoids losing strong PhD candidates
to other institutions. The second mechanism for funding allocation is to call internally for staff to
propose PhD projects that will support the research and impact strategies of DurCS. The best
project proposals are then guaranteed funding, enabling staff to advertise fully-funded PhD
positions widely (which can often draw a larger and stronger pool of candidates). DurCS is also
heavily involved in MISCADA, an MSc in scientific computing and data analysis, which
provides a feed for PhD student recruitment.

All PhD students within DurCS receive 3.5 years of funding and have both a primary and
secondary supervisor. In addition, DurCS funds conference attendance, research support
activities and equipment for each student up to a total amount of £2,500 per annum. Each
research student undertakes our Graduate Programme (monitored by the DPG) which includes
a written report after nine months of study and an associated viva, and thereafter annual
progress reports. It is obligatory within our Graduate Programme that research students give
seminars on their research; we encourage and support students to reach as broad an
audience as possible, e.g., a number of PhD students have given seminars within the
University's Institute for Data Science. We operate a portfolio model of training whereby
research students create a tailor-made training package by selecting from a menu of courses
from within DCAD. There is also departmental involvement in CDTs with Breckon/Obara
                                                                                                        7
involved in the Leverhulme Centre for Visual Arts and Culture CDT and Breckon in the Aura
CDT.

DurCS holds an annual Research Day, organised by our PhD students, which allows students
to present their research through talks and posters to the rest of DurCS and to industry visitors.
PhD students and PDRAs also organise a regular Junior Seminar Series (at which they gain
experience in presenting and receive feedback from their peers) and ad hoc research events,
e.g., reading groups, and can nominate external speakers for research group seminar series.
PhD students are also encouraged to play a role in the supervision of UG projects when
appropriate.

Since REF2014, we have had 46 PhD and 3 MRes students graduate and there are currently
47 PhD and 2 MRes students who are enrolled and yet to graduate. Our current research
student cohort comes from over 10 different countries with funding from a variety of sources
including EPSRC, Durham University Scholarships, CONACyT, EU IIIP, various industrial
concerns, and overseas governmental and institutional funders (there are also self-funded
students). The quality of our students is testified by the fact that during their studies at Durham,
our students have had joint publications with researchers from Alagoas, Athens, Beirut,
Bergen, Bordeaux, Brussels, Canterbury, Glasgow, Grenoble, Helsinki, Leeds, Lyon, Mainz,
Metz, Montpellier, Munich, Newcastle, Singapore, Oxford, Prague, QUB, RHUL, Rome,
Roraima, Sao Paulo, Shenzhen, Shinshu, Toulouse, Trento, Utrecht, Vancouver, Warsaw,
Warwick and Wellington.

Equality and Diversity
DurCS is fully committed to the University’s EDI principles and values (IES§3.6). DurCS has
always been diverse in terms of staff nationality with current staff from Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Bulgaria, China, France, Germany, Greece, Netherlands, Poland, Romania,
Russia, Syria and the UK. However, we have not had a good gender balance and serious
consideration of this weakness has been undertaken in recent years. At the time of REF2014,
none of the 15 staff we returned were female. It has been a particular focus of the recent
growth strategy to both make the application process fair and accessible and to make the
department welcoming and attractive for all genders. This starts with reviewing the wording of
advertised job descriptions to highlight inclusivity and to ensure they fully reflect the
opportunities available in DurCS, regardless of gender, and persists throughout the process to
final interviews, where female academic membership on interview panels is mandatory. In
consequence, since 2017 we have appointed 4 female permanent academic staff, as well as a
further female Assistant Professor (Teaching), including 2 female Full Professors, one of
whom, Black, leads on improving equality and diversity within Durham.

We have instigated additional management practices in order to facilitate inclusivity, e.g.: our
departmental promotions and progression committee has two female senior staff members,
Black and Cristea; equality and diversity are taken into consideration at all stages of
departmental planning, such as in the development of the new building; and the Director of EDI
has been constituted as a senior departmental role.

As a department we are endeavouring to make female role models significantly more visible
throughout our research environment and also to enable connectivity to other networks and
activities aimed at providing a better gender balance.
    a) We have recently formed the Durham University Women in Tech group, which forms
         part of our department Computer Society; there are already over 30 members.
    b) In 2018 we launched a prestigious scholarship for aspiring female computer scientists
         to support them throughout their undergraduate studies: the Anne-Marie Imafidon
         Women in Technology Scholarships.
    c) In 2019 we took 5 of our female undergraduates to the Grace Hopper Conference in
         the US where they had the opportunity to connect with many global tech employers and

                                                                                                       8
      other women in tech from around the world, as well as learn about research
      opportunities from female experts in, e.g., AI, data science and cybersecurity.
   d) A good gender balance is a strong focus when drawing up speakers for seminar series
      and other research events, e.g., before her appointment at Durham, Black provided an
      inspirational talk to DurCS on how she helped save Bletchley Park.
   e) The female members of our External Advisory Board (see below) take a hands-on
      approach in promoting Computer Science and its research interface with industry, and
      specifically in recruiting women into the discipline.
   f) We inaugurated the Durham Lovelace Lecture, a prestigious lecture held each year
      during International Women’s week to celebrate the achievements of women, which is
      now led by Engineering at Durham. Recent speakers have included Professors
      Danielle George (Manchester), Carron Shankland (Stirling) and Joanna Haigh
      (Imperial).
   g) We are developing an annual Steve Shirley Lecture, building on a lecture (in
      partnership with Google) by Dame Stephanie Shirley in DurCS in November 2019.

DurCS was awarded funding of £500K from the Institute of Coding for "TechUPWomen", a
programme to provide women from BAME and underrepresented communities in the Midlands
and the North of England with an intensive six month course on topics including coding, data
science, cyber security, machine learning and agile project management to transform or kick-
start careers (the full grant is with researchers from the Universities of Edge Hill, Nottingham
and York). Additional funding is being sought and the TechUPWomen grant could form an
impact case of any post-2021 REF. DurCS has an Athena Swan Bronze Award and a Silver
Award is in preparation. DurCS also has a Disabilities Support Officer.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income
ACiD has a strong research funding record for a theoretical research group with the following
EPSRC- and Leverhulme-funded research grants, totally over £3M (in FEC value), being active
within the assessment period:
     "Efficient Graph Colouring Algorithms via Input Restrictions" (Paulusma, Johnson,
        £607K, 2016-19); "The Complexity of Promise Constraint Satisfaction" (Krokhin,
        Paulusma, £555K, 2018-21); "Detecting Induced Graph Patterns" (Paulusma, Stewart,
        £493K, 2013-16) "Interconnection Networks: Practice Unites with Theory (INPUT)"
        (Stewart, £438K, 2013-16); "Algorithmic Aspects of Temporal Graphs" (Mertzios,
        £407K, 2017-20); "Topology, Geometry and Laplacians of Simplicial Complexes"
        (Dantchev, Ivrissimtzis, £395K, 2013-16); "AlgoUK - A Network for Algorithms and
        Complexity in the UK" (Stewart, Paulusma, £134K, 2017-20); "Memoryless
        Computation and Network Coding" (Gadouleau, £130K, 2013-15); "Algorithmic Aspects
        of Intersection Graph Models" (Mertzios, £128K, 2013-15); "Robustly Tractable
        Constraint Satisfaction Problems" (Krokhin, £102K, 2012-15).
Prior to the merger in 2016 of the EPSRC's research themes of Maths of Computing and
Theory of Computation within its ICT portfolio, ACiD was acknowledged by EPSRC as being
one of four major EPSRC research investments in Maths of Computing. Some research
highlights from the above grants (in collaboration with the PDRAs) follow.
     Research outputs co-authored by Mertzios and the PDRA Zamaraev on "Algorithmic
        Aspects of Temporal Graphs" were published in ICALP, AAAI and JourCompSysSci.
     Research outputs co-authored by Krokhin and the PDRA Oprsal on "The Complexity of
        Promise Constraint Satisfaction" were published in STOC and FOCS.
     Research outputs co-authored by Paulusma and the PDRA Dabrowski on "Detecting
        Induced Graph Patterns" and "Efficient Graph Colouring Algorithms via Input
        Restrictions" were published in JourCompSysSci (x4), Algorithmica (x3) and
        SIAMJourDiscMath.


                                                                                                   9
      Research outputs co-authored by Stewart and the PDRA Erickson on "Interconnection
       Networks: Practice Unites with Theory (INPUT)" were published in
       IEEETransParDisSys, JourParDistComp and JourCompSysSci.
      As part of the "Interconnection Networks: Practice Unites with Theory (INPUT)" grant,
       an open-source software tool INRFlow providing a flow-level simulation framework for
       modelling large-scale networks and computing systems was developed, authored by
       Stewart, the PDRA Erickson and also researchers from Manchester
       (JourParDistComp).

Since the start of the departmental expansion in 2017, ICG have secured research funding of
over £3.9M whereas other ICG grants active within the assessment period amount to over
£1.7M (in FEC value). Funding has come from a variety of non-industrial sources including:
    EU, UK government (Centre for Defence Enterprise, Centre for the Protection of
       National Infrastructure, DA-CMT Shrivenham, Department of Transport, DSTL, Home
       Office, Innovate UK, Metropolitan Police Service, MoD, NHS), US government
       (Department of Homeland Security), EPSRC, Royal Society, ESRC, AHRC, the Nuffield
       Foundation and KTP and KTA schemes.
Funding from industry includes funding from:
    Cievert, Daykin and Storey, Clickso and Foster Findlay Associates (Al Moubayed)
    Autonomous Devices, Cosmonio, Jaguar Land Rover, Leonardo, MODUS, NM Group,
       Petards Joyce-Loebl, QineteQ, Rapiscan Systems Limited, Renault and ZF Race
       Technologies - Conekt (Breckon)
    IBEX Innovations Limited and Geospatial Research Limited (Ivrissimtzis)
    Boots, Dyson, Intogral, Procter & Gamble and Unilever (Obara).
Some research highlights from the above funded research follow.
    Funding by the UK Home Office, Department for Transport, UK Centre for the
       Protection of National Infrastructure and the Metropolitan Police Service resulted in
       research outputs in IEEETransInfForensSec and JourXRaySciTech which underpin the
       current case study "Advanced Algorithm Development for use in X-ray and Computed
       Tomography Security Scanners used for Transport and Border Security" (Breckon).
    Funding from Jaguar Landrover, ZF Race Technologies – Conekt and Renault resulted
       in research outputs in ICIP, ECCV and ICMLA, which underpin the current case study
       "Real-time Scene Understanding for On-Vehicle Automotive Sensing" (Breckon).
    Funding from DSTL, Innovate UK, MOD and UK Technology Strategy Board resulted in
       research outputs in SPIEOptPhotonics (x3) and SPIEGroundAirMultisensInterop which
       underpin the current case study "Object Detection, Classification, Localization and
       Tracking for Automated Wide-Area Surveillance" (Breckon).
    Research outputs co-authored by Obara and the (then) PDRA Willcocks, who was
       funded by Dyson and Procter & Gamble, were published in
       IEEETransPattAnalMachineInt, IEEETransMedImaging and IEEETransInfForensSec.

Our strategic vision as regards research income generation is that every member of staff's
research should be supported by external funding, with collaborative proposals featuring
strongly, and that our overall research income portfolio should be diverse and make use of all
potential funding opportunities. There is a strong expectation signalled to staff that research
funding should be secured. Receiving 10% of the overheads of a funded proposal provides
another strong incentive.

Our intention to build critical mass in specific research areas feeds into our strategic vision for
research income generation as critical mass encourages and supports collaboration in
securing research funding (cf. ACiD's research grant collaborations above). Having a high-
quality research group of critical mass also means that the group attracts high-quality potential
collaborators. Again, ACiD is a case in point: "Interconnection Networks: Practice Unites with
Theory (INPUT)" was part of a joint proposal with Manchester whose PI was Professor Steve
Furber FRS FRSE; and "Algorithmic Aspects of Temporal Graphs" is part of a joint proposal
with Liverpool whose PI is Professor Paul Spirakis. Having a thriving seminar series (which
                                                                                                      10
both ACiD and ICG have) facilitates the development of collaborative grant proposals, e.g.,
"Algorithmic Aspects of Temporal Graphs" (Paul Spirakis, Liverpool; seminar 2015) and
"Efficient graph colouring algorithms via input restrictions" (Stéphane Vialette, Université Paris-
Est Marne-la-Vallée; seminar 2014), and there are currently ongoing grant proposals involving:
Al Moubayed and data scientists from Caspian (a Newcastle-based company); Gadouleau and
researchers from Manchester; Li and researchers from Swansea; Paulusma and researchers
from Glasgow; and Weinzierl and researchers from Columbia, all of which have arisen
following seminar visits.

Departmental infrastructure and facilities
As regards departmental facilities and laboratories, extensive consultations with academic staff
were held during the development of our new building (IES§1.1). As well as the usual office
space, the building includes the following research facilities:
     6 research breakout spaces, featuring informal furniture and whiteboards; dedicated
       research space for PDRAs and PhD students; a high-specification meeting room for
       video conferencing; and a 100-seat Scott Logic Lecture Theatre
     a Visualisation Laboratory housing research equipment relating to computer vision and
       visualisation so as to support on-site trials with industrial partners, including a range of
       specialist surveillance cameras and permanently installed live thermal image feeds (this
       replaces our current Visualisation Lab which underpinned much of the work for our
       impact case studies)
     a Heavy Duty Laboratory to support our research in autonomous vehicles and aviation
       security and: to operate two fully electric vehicles with on-board sensor suite
       comprising stereo vision, radar and LiDAR sensing for on-road/off-road vehicle
       autonomy research; and to contain two airport security scanners (dual-energy multi-
       view X-ray) coupled with extensive aviation-focussed test material
     a Robotics Laboratory to support research in autonomous robotic guidance, human
       robot interaction and robot sensor design, where there is space for indoor drone
       experiments on a number of robotics platforms including six Nano humanoid robots, a
       robotic human-interactive head, two open-rover all-terrain wheeled devices and a wide
       range of both commercial and in-house drones
     a SCENE Laboratory equipped with AR equipment (from mobile phone applications to
       Microsoft HoloLens), 3D printers, 3D scanners and VR headsets, to enable the creation
       of various human interaction "scenes" in relation to research in applied and
       interdisciplinary fields
     a Displays Laboratory equipped with specialist optics equipment to enable the design
       and construction of experimental display prototypes, the development of innovative
       imaging algorithms and performance evaluation through psychophysical experiments
     a Learning Laboratory equipped with tablets, sensors, small robots, head-mounted
       display devices and projectors to support research on human-AI interaction and
       human-centred design
     a research server room, hosting a Network Compute Cluster (NCC); a network of
       cutting-edge NVIDIA CUDA GPUs for machine learning which was enhanced in 2019
       with University funding of £150K that partially funded 96TB of high-speed data storage
       and servers hosting 49 cutting edge NVIDIA GPUs) and a 16 node BlueField cluster
       (from Mellanox)
     a Hazan Venture Lab forming a dedicated workspace for young entrepreneurs
       (individuals and teams), designed to facilitate formal and informal interactions with
       other innovators and industry partners
     additional laboratory space for future expansion.

To aid our expansion, an External Advisory Board (EAB) was set up in 2016 consisting of 16
distinguished individuals from the forefront of industry, academia and the public sector who are
recognised as leading figures in their respective fields, with its remit being to provide advice


                                                                                                      11
and support to DurCS as regards industry-related aspects of teaching, research and impact.
Members include:
     Anne-Marie Imafidon MBE: cofounder and CEO of Stemettes, an award-winning social
       enterprise inspiring females into STEM subjects (over 13,000 participants in its first 4
       years)
     Rashmi Misra: Head of Business Development of AI at Microsoft; she was formerly
       Head of Artificial Intelligence Solutions at Hewlett Packard Enterprise and has held
       senior positions at Motorola
     Giselle Stewart OBE: Director of UK Corporate Affairs for Ubisoft; Director of TIGA, the
       games developers' trade association; and Vice-Chair of Dynamo NE, a not-for-profit
       group set up to grow the North East IT Economy
     Lincoln Wallen: CTO of Improbable Worlds Limited, which develops distributed
       simulation software, and former CTO of DreamWorks, a US animation company
     Simon Meacham: Head of Information and Intelligence at Lyft; former CEO of the cyber
       security firm Trust Networks Inc.; and who has recently worked in support of the White
       House Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President
     Neil Hunt: Chief Strategy Officer for Curai who was previously Chief Product Officer at
       Netflix where he led the product team on the Netflix experience.
The EAB helps DurCS to better understand the complex interface between academic research
and the real world, and its members actively support and assist in this regard. In addition, the
EAB has enabled DurCS to secure £3M in philanthropic donations and the Anne-Marie
Imafidon Scholarships to support Women in Technology and internships and industry
placements for our students, in particular those from disadvantaged backgrounds.

University facilities
Durham University already has a significant computational infrastructure: it hosts one of the
UK’s largest academic high-performance computing resources through its Hamilton and
COSMA supercomputers (IES§4.3). Weinzierl and his collaborators use Hamilton mainly as a
prototyping and performance analysis system to develop software that is later rolled out to
large-scale production HPC machinery. Durham's HPC infrastructure enabled Weinzierl to
secure the EU H2020 project ExaHYPE (2015-19, with collaborators in Italy, Germany and
Russia and with a budget of almost €2.9M, over £666K of which came to Durham) and to
subsequently develop the open-source engine (also called) ExaHYPE to solve hyperbolic
partial differential equations in first order formulation on dynamically adaptive space-tree grids.
Weinzierl has had collaborations with Durham's Institute of Computational Cosmology in
Physics, involving a joint grant with Intel, two jointly supervised PhD students and EPSRC-
funded grants, within which they used the COSMA supercomputer. In addition, two grant
successes in this area have recently been announced: with colleagues from Physics, Weinzierl
(CI) has been awarded an EPSRC grant "Massively Parallel SPH for Engineering and
Astrophysics at the Exa-Scale" (£368K); and Weinzierl (PI) has been awarded an EPSRC
grant "ExaClaw: Clawpack-enabled ExaHyPE for heterogeneous hardware" (£167K; the
ExaClaw software forms an ExCALIBUR use case). Weinzierl is also a PI behind the DINE
(Durham Intelligent NIC Environment) supercomputer which is installed in collaboration with
DIRAC/COSMA (DIRAC provides HPC facilities for the national STFC theory community and is
hosted at Cambridge, Leicester, Durham and Edinburgh). Furthermore, it was announced in
February 2020 that Durham will host a new £3.1M Northern Intensive Computing Environment
(NICE) supercomputer, Bede, to be used to address challenges in subjects ranging from
artificial intelligence to advanced X-ray imaging by the N8 Research Partnership (IES§2.5.3) of
leading universities in the North of England (this will be installed by ARC; IES§4.3). There is
also some usage of national HPC facilities through the ARCHER national supercomputing
service (Mitchell).

NETPark (North East Technology Park; IES§2.5.3) is a specialist business park that provides a
dynamic and supportive environment to accelerate the growth of ambitious, innovative, high
tech companies into global markets, supported by Business Durham, the economic

                                                                                                      12
development organisation for County Durham. We have recently used facilities there to host
large equipment items and experiments, e.g., full-scale airport security baggage scanners
(Breckon) and our start-up company Intogral (Obara/Willcocks).

University research support
Research and Innovation Services (RIS) provide specialist support for all staff as regards
research funding (IES§4.4). Within RIS, there is a Research Operations team member
responsible for DurCS who meets with staff individually to advise on funding opportunities,
assists staff with costing and preparing grant applications, and arranges award set-up and
post-award support. DurCS is also supported by the Research Development Team and the
Partnerships and Engagement Team who assist staff to engage in commercial research, e.g.,
Obara’s ongoing research in collaboration with Procter & Gamble is part of a wider university
relationship with Procter & Gamble managed by the Partnerships and Engagement Team
(IES§1.1, IES§2.5.3). The University provides research support funds through mechanisms in
addition to the Grant Seedcorn Funds mentioned above, including Strategic Research
Equipment bids, e.g., DurCS received £150K for a GPU compute cluster for machine learning
as well as seedcorn funding.

DurCS is also supported in engaging in bids by ARC who provided support for: the successful
TechUp bid (Black, Cristea); successful proposals with Renault, UK Home Office and the MOD
(Breckon); Weinzierl's recently awarded EPSRC proposals (see above) where ARC injected
0.3 FTE over 15 months as matched funding; securing 4 ERDF PhD studentships (Al
Moubayed, Breckon, Ivrissimtzis); and an ongoing research proposal involving the North East
Regional Special Operations Unit (NERSOU) on serious crime (Willcocks).


Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research collaborations
Engagement in the University's research institutes is strong (see above) and research
collaborations thrive in DurCS, e.g., there are DurCS research outputs co-authored with
researchers from over 35 UK universities and 40 non-UK universities. There are numerous
funded collaborations with other researchers, many of which are inter-disciplinary, seek to
address national priorities and sustain the discipline of Computer Science. Some examples
follow:
      Krokhin is PI on "The Complexity of Promise Constraint Satisfaction" (EPSRC, £441K)
        with researchers from the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics at Charles University.
      Stewart was PI on "Interconnection Networks: Practice unites with Theory (INPUT)"
        (EPSRC, £353K, “Working Together” initiative) which was joint with Professor Steve
        Furber FRS FRSE, Computer Science, Manchester
      Mertzios is PI on "Algorithmic Aspects of Temporal Graphs" (EPSRC, £319K) which is
        joint with Professor Paul Spirakis, Computer Science, Liverpool.
      Obara is PI on "At Home Diagnostic Technologies to Enable Self-Care"
        (GlaxoSmithKline, £245K) with researchers from Psychology and Biosciences at
        Durham.
      Long has a Fellowship "Intelligent Healthcare Systems for Large-scale Populations"
        (MRC, £238K) with computer scientists and neuroscientists from the Chinese Academy
        of Sciences, Nanjing University of Science and Technology and Newcastle University.
      Weinzierl is PI on "ExaClaw - Clawpack-enabled ExaHyPE for heterogeneous
        hardware" (EPSRC, £167K) with applied mathematicians, earth scientists and
        computer scientists from Munich and Columbia Universities and Barcelona
        Supercomputing Centre.
      Breckon is CI on "A New Partnership in Offshore Wind" (EPSRC, £3.9M) with
        engineers from Durham, Sheffield and Hull Universities.

                                                                                                13
      Obara is CI on "Preparedness and planning for the mountain hazard and risk chain in
       Nepal" (NERC, £3.8M) with researchers from Geography at Durham, Newcastle,
       Northumbria and Oxford.
      Weinzierl is CI of the consortium behind "ExaHyPE - an Exascale Hyperbolic PDE
       Engine" (EU, €3.5M) with computer scientists, engineers, physicists and earth scientists
       at Durham, Frankfurt, Munich and Trento Universities.
      Obara is CI on "LINC-NET: A Bio-image Data Driven Informatics Approach Quantifying
       Nuclear Biomechanics That Predicts Metastasis" (Rosetrees Trust, £796K) with
       researchers from Biosciences, Mathematics and Physics at Durham.
      Obara is CI on "Church, State, and Nation: The Journals of Herbert Hensley Henson,
       1900-1939" (AHRC, £705K) with researchers from the Government and International
       Affairs at Durham and History at Durham and Leeds.
      Love is CI on “How the eye focuses: Basic mechanisms and opportunities for advanced
       displays” (NSF, US$537,554) with vision scientists from UC Berkeley.
      Dantchev and Ivrissimtzis were CIs on "Topology, Geometry and Laplacians of
       Simplicial Complexes" (EPSRC, £395,679) with mathematicians from Durham and
       Newcastle Universities.
      Bordewich is CI on "The Combinatorics of Reticulate Evolution" (New Zealand Marsden
       Fund, NZ$655K) with mathematicians from the University of Canterbury and Sorbonne
       Université.
      Weinzierl is CI on "Massively Parallel Particle Hydrodynamics for Engineering and
       Astrophysics" (EPSRC, £294K) with engineers, physicists and computer scientists at
       Durham, Hertfordshire, Liverpool John Moores and Manchester Universities.
      Obara is CI on "Automated 3D Measurement of Macular Holes" (Northern Accelerator
       Research England, £100K) with researchers from Genetic Medicine at Newcastle
       University.
      Gadouleau was PI on "Cellular Automata and Boolean Networks" (Royal Society,
       £11K) with mathematicians from Institut de Mathématiques de Marseille, CNRS and
       Aix-Marseille University.

Partnerships and networks
The University has a strategic partnership with Procter & Gamble (IES§1.1, IES§2.5.3) and
within this, Obara has developed a strong ongoing relationship. He has secured 6 grants from
the company worth over £535K in total, he provides advice to the executive team in relation to
data science and AI research and he has given invited specialised talks to P&G R&D teams
globally. Obara is also AstraZeneca Visiting Professor in Image Processing and Artificial
Intelligence at AstraZeneca, Cambridge. Breckon currently has: an agreement for IP
exploitation in return for bespoke technical support for algorithm integration with Gilardoni (who
also integrated and tested his algorithms in one of their products); and a rolling supply contract
with Rapiscan (who have adopted one of his algorithms to support their global product-line).
Breckon has had research consultancies with Autonomous Devices, Blue Bear Systems
Research, Cosmonio, Kromek Group PLC, Micro-X, Pearson Engineering and VisionMetric,
resulting in funding and an enhanced research relationship. Weinzierl has a close relationship
with RSC group, a Russian supercomputer company: they are partners on two of Weinzierl's
grants and there are RSC co-authors on some of his research outputs. RSC allow Weinzierl
access to experimental machines. Willcocks has a partnership with NHS University Hospital of
North Durham whereby large X-ray/CT datasets from the hospital are exclusive to Durham.

Contributions to and engagement with industry and society
DurCS has other occasions of impact that are not reflected within the case studies and some
of which are initial steps towards additional impact development.

Obara has contributed to the development and implementation of BisQue, a free web-based,
cross-platform and open-source system for the exchange and exploration of 5D biological

                                                                                                     14
images which has been developed mainly at the University of California, Santa Barbara and
which is used by many research and commercial institutions such as iPlant and Pfizer. He has
also given talks at the following companies: GE Oil & Gas (Newcastle); Unilever (Port
Sunlight); GlaxoSmithKline (London); and AstraZeneca (Cambridge). He contributed to a
UNESCO meeting on data protection and security to fight against the illicit traffic of antiquities
attended by agencies such as Interpol, International Council of Museums, and Office Central
de Lutte contre le Trafic des Biens Culturels (Paris).

Weinzierl's collaborations with IBEX Innovations have led to PhD co-funding under the ERDF
umbrella and they have granted him access to novel hardware worth around £1M per year that
is not yet on the market. He has also co-authored papers with researchers from Intel (USA)
and this has led to in-kind grant proposal support. His links with Mellanox have resulted in free
access to novel networking solutions, in-kind grant proposal support and the preferential
purchase of a SmartNIC/Mellanox-enabled cluster. Weinzierl is the driving force behind two
major open-source codes: Peano and ExaHyPE. These codes are used by an ERC Starting
Grant and also the EU’s Centre of Excellence in Solid Earth (ChEESE). ChEESE actively
supported Weinzierl's grant proposals in 2019 and committed to run his future codes on
European supercomputers.

Breckon is a permanent member of the Cabinet Office Cyber Security Expert Group as an
academic expert advisor with responsibilities to advise on specific cyber-security risks to the
UK under the National Risk Assessment. Breckon was appointed as an expert adviser to a UK
government Blackett review (details classified). Breckon is currently a member of the scientific
advisory board of Machines with Vision.

As well as the start-up Intogral (Obara/Willcocks), Durham research has contributed to 3 other
start-ups: Fjelltopp (integration, management and comprehension of public health data; 2
DurCS PhDs); Cosmonio (AI systems that automate the process of extracting visual
information from images; DurCS PhD); and Udara (specialist aerial computer vision
consultancy; DurCS PhD).

Breckon, Friedetzky and Weinzierl have all given Saturday Morning Science public lectures.

Contributions to the research base
A number of staff hold or have held editorial positions with journals.
    Editor-in-Chief: Computer Journal (Section A) (Stewart).
    Editorial Board: Computer Journal (Paulusma), Frontiers of Artificial Intelligence
      (Cristea), Graphs and Combinatorics (Paulusma), IEEE Transactions on Learning
      (Cristea), IET Computer Vision (Breckon), International Journal of Cyber Ethics in
      Education (Li); International Journal of Distance Education Technologies JDET (Li);
      International Transactions in Operational Research (Paulusma), Journal of Discrete
      Algorithms (Stewart), Journal of Graph Theory (Paulusma), Networks (Paulusma),
      Pattern Recognition (Breckon), Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A
      (Stewart), SIAM Journal on Computing (Krokhin), Visual Computer (Koulieris).
    Guest Editorships: Discrete Applied Mathematics (Paulusma).

9 staff have attended events at invitation-only international research institutes within the
assessment period such as Dagstuhl, Oberwolfach, Lorenz Center, Indian Institute of
Mathematical Sciences and Centre International de Rencontres Mathématiques. Furthermore,
Bordewich, Krokhin and Paulusma have organised 3 Dagstuhl seminars and Stewart was a
Member of the Schloss Dagstuhl Review Board.

There is a strong engagement with UKRI agencies (beyond the usual proposal reviewing).
    EPSRC Panel Chair: Stewart (programme grants).


                                                                                                     15
      EPSRC Panel Membership: Breckon (x4), Budgen (x4), Krokhin, Paulusma, Stewart
       (x4).
      UKRI Panel Membership: FLFs (Krokhin, x2), STFC (Breckon), MRC (Stewart).

As well as the usual proposal reviewing for over 20 international funders, DurCS staff have sat
on various panels of funding agencies.
    Panel Chairs: Academy of Finland Mathematics Review Panel (Stewart).
    Panel Memberships: EUROGIGA Review Panel for EUROCORES (Stewart), FCT
       Portuguese Funding Body (Cristea, x2), French National Research Agency (Breckon),
       National Centre for Research and Development Poland (Obara), Norwegian Funding
       Agency IKTPlus (Cristea, x3), Research Council of Norway Mathematics Expert Panel
       FRINATEK (Stewart), Research Foundation of Flanders (Breckon, x4).

Staff have received various keynote invitations to speak at national and international research
events.
     International: 100 Years of Matching Theory in Hungary (Paulusma), International
        Workshop on Boolean Networks IWBN (Chile; Gadouleau), 33rd Computational
        Complexity Conference CCC (USA; Krokhin), 29th Workshop on Cycles and Colourings
        C&C (Slovakia; Paulusma), 41st International Workshop on Graph-Theoretic Concepts
        in Computer Science WG (Germany; Paulusma), 14th Int. Symp. on Mathematical
        Morphology ISMM (Germany; Obara), 13th Int. Conf. on Parallel Processing and
        Applied Mathematics PPAM (Poland; Weinzierl), 10th Int. Joint Conf. on Software
        Technologies ICSOFT (France; Budgen), SIAM Conference on Computational Science
        and Engineering (USA; Mitchell).
     National: Workshop on Algorithms in Networks, Graphs, Distributed Computing
        (Stewart), Bristol Algorithms Day (Stewart), 27th British Combinatorial Conference BCC
        (Paulusma), Combinatorics Colloquium (Johnson), 19th Annual UK Workshop on
        Computational Intelligence UKCI (Cristea), 9th International Conference on Educational
        and Information Technology ICEIT (Cristea), 4th International Conference on
        Information and Education Innovations ICIEI (Cristea), London Algorithmic Workshop
        (Stewart), Workshop on Network Sciences and Technologies (Mertzios, Stewart).

As well as the usual reviewing for journals and conferences, DurCS staff have sat on program
committees on over 90 occasions, chaired program committees and organised workshops and
conferences:
    PC Chair: CiE (Paulusma), ICIEI (Cristea), ICWL (Li), ITS (Cristea)
    Conference and Workshop Organisation: 8ECM Minisymposium (Paulusma, COVID-
       postponed), ACCV RGB-D Workshop (Breckon), ATCAGC (Johnson, Paulusma),
       BCTCS/AlgoUK (Johnson, Martin, Mertzios, Paulusma), ICALP Satellite Workshop
       (Mertzios, x3), Int. Conf. on Cyberinfrastructure for Historical China Studies (Sturgeon),
       ISC (Weinzierl, x2), PASC (Weinzierl), SIAM CSE (Weinzierl, x2).

Staff have received awards and been invited to contribute research papers and edit volumes
for journals and other publishers, e.g., Krokhin co-edited a volume of surveys on constraint
satisfaction published by Schloss Dagstuhl; Li received the best paper award at Conference on
Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education ITiCSE; Paulusma was invited to
contribute a survey on graph colouring to Journal of Graph Theory; and Paulusma was invited
to contribute to a special issue of Networks on past winners of the Glover-Klingman Prize.

Staff have contributed to various learned societies and research organisations across
Computer Science: ACMUKWomen (Al Moubayed); British Machine Vision Association
(Breckon); LMS (Martin, Stewart); UKCRC (Paulusma, Stewart). ACiD is a partner in the
Center for Discrete Mathematics, Theoretical Computer Science and Applications DIMATIA (a
joint project of Charles University, the Czech Academy of Sciences and Institute of Chemical
Technology, Prague; Stewart is a member of the Advisory Board of DIMATIA).

                                                                                                    16
