Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 i.    Unit Context and Structure
 English is an integrated interdisciplinary research grouping of 17.2 FTEs within the School of
 Humanities. The unit produces original and impactful research in three intersecting areas: 1)
 British and North American literatures, 2) Film and Television, 3) Creative Writing (hereafter CW).
 Our wide-ranging, interdisciplinary research has continued to evolve strengths in four scholarship
 areas that continue to meet the aims identified by the University Research Strategy: Place, Space,
 and Mobilities; Creative Methods and Practices; Textual Editing; and Contextually-informed
 Literary and Filmic Criticism. These specialisms underpin our Research and Impact Strategy,
 which during this REF period has been to enhance existing strengths in literary and textual
 scholarship whilst fostering growth in collaborative, impactful work combining creative and critical
 expertise.

 We sustain a collegial environment through regular research seminar series, each welcoming an
 average of 8 speakers from different institutions per year: the English Seminar; the David Bruce
 Centre seminar for American Studies; and an interdisciplinary Early Modern Seminar shared with
 History. We formulate research strategy via regular programme meetings and in consultation with
 the Humanities Research Director (RD: currently Peacock), who oversees all three of the School’s
 UoAs (English, History and Music), the leads of which regularly meet. Peacock also liaises with
 others on the Faculty Research Committee to ensure that Humanities and Social Sciences
 research continues to meet the aims identified in Keele’s Research Strategy. During this period,
 specific roles were created to manage AHRC studentship applications (Morgan) and Global
 Challenges funding (Palladino) for the whole institution. The Keele Institute for Social Inclusion
 (KISI), established in 2018, promotes collaborative, interdisciplinary research and grant proposals;
 all colleagues in English are members.

ii.   Research and Impact Strategy

 Achievements since 2014

 In 2014, our aims were to: (1) develop emerging strengths in textual scholarship, film, CW, and
 literary methods drawing on geography and science; (2) extend engagement with non-academic
 beneficiaries; and (3) improve the quality of research outputs and grant capture. In all, we have
 made excellent progress: Since 2014 we have:
 ● Increased staffing by 24% (from 13.9 to 17.2 FTE)
 ● Grown average research income per year by 49%, (average per FTE per year by 20%)
 ● Published over 150 peer-reviewed outputs, including 13 monographs and 11 scholarly editions
 ● Doubled the average number of PGR awards per year (from 1.8 to 3.6)

 Thanks to a coordinated strategy and unit- and university-level support structures, our public
 engagement and impact has increased in ambition and scope. Our historical and politically
 engaged criticism retains strong links to the Potteries region, but increasingly reaches out to
 national and global audiences. The burgeoning of Keele-led scholarly editions and large editorial
 projects (see below) has given us an important identity. Film and Television scholarship has
 developed in line with our expertise across literary studies and CW in space, place, and mobility,
 a specialism exceeding our conceptions for literary geographies in 2014. Our longstanding interest
 in intersections of literature, science and health has grown, in the form of critical, creative, and
 practice-based work and outputs engaged with health, wellbeing, and emotions.

 Future Objectives



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our objectives have evolved as we have recorded our achievements since 2014. They have
 consolidated to shape objectives for the next five years which are to (1) develop existing research
 strengths; (2) maintain our commitment to engaged, historical and politically informed criticism and
 diversify interdisciplinary research; and (3) support researchers at all career stages, including
 postgraduates. Our unit-sustaining aims looking forward are to:

 1. Enhance established strengths in textual editing and literary history.
 2. Consolidate newer strengths in mobilities and geographies, and creative methods and
    practices.
 3. Continue to increase research income and diversify its sources by supporting the development
    of ambitious interdisciplinary and international funding bids.
 4. Extend our engagement with non-academic beneficiaries at local, national, and international
    levels and foster robust pathways for sustainable impact.

 Aim 1: Enhance established strengths in textual editing and literary history.

 Colleagues’ expertise ranges from early modern to contemporary literature. In this period, we
 produced interdisciplinary, historicist scholarship, situating literature within various sociocultural
 contexts. Yearling’s monograph, Ben Jonson, John Marston, and Early Modern Drama (2016)
 reappraises satire in Renaissance drama; she is now writing a book on audience responses to
 violence in Shakespeare. Adcock’s Baptist Women’s Writing in Revolutionary Culture, 1640-1680
 (2015), nominated for the International John Bunyan Society Richard L. Greaves Prize, uncovers
 an important, neglected tradition of life-writing. Shears’s The Hangover: A Literary and Cultural
 History (2020) ranges from early modern to contemporary fictional and cinematic representations,
 showing how understandings of alcoholic excess have changed through time. Medicine, health,
 and science remain major strengths, as with Bruce’s work on television medical drama and her
 ongoing work on historical representations of the uterus, Amigoni’s contributions to cultural
 understandings of evolution and ageing, Bowler’s co-edited book, May Sinclair: Re-Thinking
 Bodies and Minds (2017), and Morgan’s work on chronic pain in “Circling.” As with Shears’s
 Hangover book and Bruce’s work, above, intersections of film and literature remain a major focus.
 Bowler’s Literary Impressionism: Vision and Memory in Dorothy Richardson, Ford Madox Ford,
 H.D. and May Sinclair (2016) reappraises major Modernist fiction through theories of visual art,
 cinema, and memory. In 2018 Bentley co-edited a collection: Teenage Dreams: Youth Subcultures
 in Fiction, Film and Other Media. Archer’s work ranges from novel-screen adaptation to film and
 television history, intervening in contemporary debates about genre (comedy, science-fiction, road
 movies) and adaptation. And McWilliam’s work on the neoconservative construction of American
 ‘monsters’ tackles representations of paedophiles and serial killers on page and screen.

 Keele has further strengthened its position as a leading textual editing centre. In 2018 the sixth
 volume of the seventeen-volume, AHRC-funded (£533,661, 2004) Cambridge Edition of the Works
 of Jonathan Swift was published, with McLaverty as PI. Prior to McCracken’s 2016 departure,
 Keele led the AHRC-funded (£966,466, 2014) ten-volume OUP Dorothy Richardson Scholarly
 Edition. Adcock produced a critical edition of Aphra Behn’s The City Heiress for CUP’s Works of
 Aphra Behn (2020) and is currently editing The Roundheads. Harris produced 6 editions of
 Burroughs’s ‘cut-up’ works (2014, 2020). Lustig edited Henry James’s The Sacred Fount for CUP’s
 Complete Works (2019), of which Bell is general editor. Yearling edited James Shirley’s The
 Doubtful Heir for OUP (2021). Seager edited Samuel Johnson’s Life of Savage (2016) and
 completed an AHRC-funded edition of Daniel Defoe’s correspondence (CUP 2021). He will next
 co-edit a volume of correspondence for OUP’s Writings of Alexander Pope, a 22-volume edition
 of which McLaverty is general editor. Bowler was appointed general editor of the forthcoming 28-
 volume Edinburgh Critical Editions of May Sinclair; and won funding from the National Endowment
 for the Humanities and the Modern Humanities Research Association.

 Aim 2: Consolidate newer strengths in mobilities and geographies, and creative methods
 and practices.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have enhanced our strengths in literary geographies – emerging from 2014 – into a more
 strategically-focused research cluster around Place, Space, and Mobilities. This is reflected in our
 outputs and Impact Case Studies (ICS), the Emergency Poet and Geopoetics, both of which
 employ innovative creative methods and practices. Publications in space, place and mobilities
 include Archer’s articles and 2016 monograph on the global road movie. Spatial approaches to
 North America underlie Peacock’s monograph Brooklyn Fictions (2015) and his ongoing work on
 gentrification, and Morgan’s work on geohumanities and literary geographies in contemporary
 Quebec: for example, her digital map of Montreal (‘Fictional Montreal/Montréal fictif’ 2016) and her
 contribution to the 2019 Routledge Handbook of Memory and Place. Palladino co-edited The
 Globalization of Space: Foucault and Heterotopia (2015), focused on Foucauldian ‘other spaces’;
 she has written extensively on (im)mobility, displacement and migrants’ experiences. Flood’s
 France, Algeria and the Moving Image (2016) addresses interactions between colonisation (past
 and present), violence, and audio-visual representation.

 Major creative work enhances this research cluster. Sheard’s poetry collection, The Abandoned
 Settlements (2017), shortlisted for the T.S. Eliot Prize, explores people’s relation to places –
 warzones, deserted villages. Henderson’s novel The Valentine House, shortlisted for a 2018
 Historical Writers’ Association Crown Award and featured on Radio 4’s A Good Read, explores
 the intergenerational relationships of a wealthy English family to the French Alpine village where
 they spend holidays. Other notable CW achievements include Riley’s First Love (2017), which
 was shortlisted for the Baileys Women’s Prize for Fiction, Gordon Burn Prize, Goldsmiths Prize,
 Dylan Thomas Prize and James Tait Black Memorial Prize.

 Creative methods and practices is an ancillary research area where Keele excels nationally and
 internationally. Alma and Sheard’s Emergency Poet and Poetry Pharmacy (see Section 3) enjoys
 ongoing national success: they use creative practices to engage with various audiences, exploring
 the therapeutic potential of poetry and its benefits to health and wellbeing. Alma won the Saboteur
 Awards Best Poetry Anthology for #MeToo: A Women’s Poetry Anthology and several other
 anthologies have issued from the project, including her Ten Poems of Happiness and The
 Emergency Poet: An Anti-stress Poetry Anthology. Morgan’s work also entails participatory,
 creative practices; she uses geohumanities, psychogeography and other mobilities methods to
 explore links between place and the moving body, fostering engagement with artists, participants,
 and audiences, co-creating art in the process: workshops, exhibitions, and published poetry and
 prose such as ‘Avenue (rue) Coloniale’ (2019) (see ICS). Schuitema (Leverhulme Postdoctoral
 Fellow) deployed creative methods to communicate and co-create knowledge with school children
 with learning disabilities. Palladino’s co-edited special issue Creative Engagement with Migration
 (2019) explores the potential for creative co-production/ co-authorship to facilitate cross-sector
 engagements between academia, the arts, activism, and community groups focussed on complex
 issues pertaining to migration. The co-development of creative methods and artistic practices is
 also a method employed in several UKRI-funded projects (see Section 3).

 Aim 3: Continue to increase research income and diversify its sources by supporting the
 development of ambitious interdisciplinary and international funding bids.

 (See Sections 3 and 4) In this period, English saw a large increase in grant income: our 20%
 increase in average income per staff FTE is 39% above the 2014 sector median. Major UKRI
 funding successes for international collaborative projects include McCracken’s award for the
 Dorothy Richardson edition; Seager’s for Defoe’s correspondence; Morgan’s for Quebec fiction;
 and Palladino’s for migration in the Maghreb region. Colleagues were funded by, among others:
 AHRC, GCRF, the British Academy, Wellcome Trust, Modern Humanities Research Association,
 Arts Council England, National Endowment for the Humanities (USA), and the Bibliographical
 Society.

 This success derives partly from a targeted staffing strategy. We have bolstered existing areas of
 expertise with excellent early-career appointments: Bowler and Flood, for example, quickly won
 external funding. Additionally, the Keele Institute for Social Inclusion’s funding for networking and
 pump-priming activities has helped colleagues in subsequent external bids. Morgan received KISI

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funds in 2018 to develop a Geohumanities scholars' network and explore innovative methods of
 artistic co-production already implemented in the Potteries region, which then underpinned her
 successful AHRC application for her Quebec project. KISI support has helped us build on the unit’s
 inherent interdisciplinarity, evidenced above in Morgan and Palladino’s work, and in other KISI-
 funded activities: Bentley’s Working-Class Studies Network (2018), Kistler’s “Labelling the
 Museum” (2018) and Peacock’s interdisciplinary symposium on gentrification (2020). These
 recent projects complement long-standing interdisciplinary work, including the “Ages and Stages”
 project run by Amigoni in conjunction with Jill Rezzano and Mim Bernard at the New Vic Theatre
 in Newcastle-under-Lyme; and Harris’ innovative work on “Cut-Ups,” which combines music,
 visual art and literature.

 Also fundamental to our success was a deliberate strategy of continual encouragement and
 support. We use mentoring and appraisal processes to encourage funding applications, and
 workshops and peer-review to develop them. Our Research Director signals the availability both
 of funding calls and his open-door policy for dedicated advice and support, and Keele’s Research
 and Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE), established in 2017, provides professional support
 for research development, governance, ethics, contracts, public engagement, costings of funding
 proposals, and impact. Regular communications between the HoS, RD and RaISE have helped
 us improve the quality and effectiveness of research proposals, their implementation, and their
 impact. Research management training is provided by the Academic Development unit and
 training in ethical, intellectual property and impact matters by RaISE.

 Aim 4: Extend our engagement with non-academic beneficiaries at local, national, and
 international levels and foster robust pathways for sustainable impact.

 Keele’s institutional strategy stresses engagement with regional beneficiaries while fostering “a
 global outlook,” and English contributes significantly to these aims. Keele’s Cultural Strategy and
 Keele Deal Culture (2019) – an agreement between Keele and local partners to realise the full
 potential of the university’s cultural resources for the local area – and KISI – which convenes
 academic and non-academic collaborators at events such as the ‘Tackling Inequalities’ conference
 (2019) – provide structures to enable sustainable regional, national and international partnerships.
 Internally, English’s engagement strategy is complemented by commitment to innovative impact
 pathways; over this assessment period impact and its recording have been integral to all research
 discussions (in programme meetings and Away Days) and this will continue beyond REF 2021.

 Locally, we have played a substantial role in our area’s cultural life. As Chair of the Stoke-on-Trent
 Cultural Forum, Amigoni made major contributions to Stoke’s 2017 City of Culture bid, cooperating
 with Stoke/North Staffordshire cultural sector stakeholders including Appetite Stoke, a company
 developed from Arts Council England’s People and Places scheme. The bid had significant local
 impact and strengthened community links with English and the University. Morgan’s work on
 geopoetics engaged with non-academic Potteries audiences: she led the ‘Memories of Mining’
 workshop in Silverdale, curated an exhibition at the local library (2016-17), and co-produced a
 show called Seams (see 2i below). Morgan also participates in AHRC-funded projects,
 “Decommissioning the Twentieth Century” and “Planning Creativity,” led by Ben Anderson (Keele
 History), exploring post-industrial landscapes as heritage sites.

 Impact is embedded in CW activities: Monday night readings bring national and international
 writers to a wide Potteries audience. Seabridge, a CW doctoral candidate, became Stoke-on-
 Trent’s Poet Laureate in 2018 and is active in regional public engagement activities, bringing
 poetry to wider audiences and encouraging Stoke residents to write verse. This postgraduate
 engagement is part of a sustained investment strategy to nurture Keele’s writing community
 through visiting writer programmes, work-in-progress and open mic readings, summer schools,
 and festivals.

 Alma and Sheard’s Emergency Poet saw a significant expansion in the 2018 opening of the Poetry
 Pharmacy in Bishop’s Castle, Shropshire (see ICS), and has led to (literally) hundreds of national
 public engagement activities, including residencies and collaborations (Alma’s poet-in-residence

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work at the NHS Psychology and the 2017 Psychological Therapies Conference) and interviews
 on numerous BBC Radio shows (including Saturday Live, Front Row, and Woman’s Hour on Radio
 4, and Chris Evans’s Show on Radio 2). National engagement with archives and the heritage
 sector is evidenced by successful AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards working with Cumbria
 Archives (Seager), Staffordshire Record Office (Morgan), and Samuel Johnson Birthplace
 Museum (Seager), as well as Adcock’s role as academic advisor at the National Civil War Centre.

 Since 2017, Palladino has co-organised international exhibitions in Keele, London, Glasgow,
 Naples, and Rabat. ‘Arts for Advocacy’ was commended by the United Nations High
 Commissioner for Refugees in 2018. Supported by the UKRI GCRF agenda (2019 MADAR),
 Palladino has developed strong, equitable partnerships with international organisations across
 North Africa, fostering cross-sector collaborations to address displacement.

 Open Research

 English has contributed substantially at national level to the development of an open research
 environment: Bruce served on the UUK Open Access Monographs Group, played a substantial
 role in the writing of its final report, organised a major British Academy event on OA Monographs
 and ran numerous panels on OA for national subject communities in the Arts and Humanities.
 Internally, we ensure research outputs are made openly available whenever possible: having
 encouraged OA in advance of the current REF policy, we have 100% open access compliance for
 REF 2021. We utilise Keele’s repository and make book chapters as well as articles OA where
 possible.

 Research Integrity

 Sustaining and enhancing research integrity is vital to research excellence; responsibility is
 overseen by the PVC for Research & Enterprise (Amigoni) and centrally managed through the
 Head of Clinical Governance and Research Integrity. The university is compliant with the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity; its annual statement of research integrity is ratified by
 the University Council. Keele is a signatory to DORA (Jan 2018), underwriting its commitment to
 a responsible approach to the use of research metrics. Our aim is to make research integrity a
 part of normal research life to be discussed, enhanced, managed, and, where problems arise,
 resolved. The Faculty Research Integrity Champion works closely with the Research Director and
 researchers within English to apply the guidance of the Concordat in ways appropriate to our
 disciplines’ methodologies and data.

 Future Plans

 Over the next five years, English will continue to: develop individual, collaborative, international
 and interdisciplinary research; build on existing strengths and enhance developing areas; and
 attract ambitious, competitive grants, utilising the mechanisms detailed above. To these ongoing
 objectives we add 3 new aims:

 (1) Consolidate the expansion of our postgraduate community and strengthen support for
 research students. PGR awards increased in this cycle from 9 in the previous REF to 25, an
 increase of 178%. Working closely with the newly established Keele Doctoral Academy (KDA), we
 will sustain this high level of recruitment, by enhancing our support, development and capacity-
 building strategies for doctoral candidates. The KDA will provide mentoring schemes, funding
 support, training opportunities, and networking events. We will also explore emerging proposals
 (from KDA and nationally) for awarding PhDs by publication: this will further enhance our
 commitment to embedding professionalization in PhD training, and provide more diverse
 opportunities for collaborative, cross-sector, creative and interdisciplinary doctorates.

 (2) Extend public engagement with international audiences and embed impact-building
 strategies into research projects from inception. KISI provides a vital platform to engage with
 non-academic beneficiaries; we will consolidate existing partnerships and networks and seek

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities for more international links. We will use KISI’s structures – which facilitate cross-
 faculty interdisciplinary relationships – to develop long-term, sustainable partnerships and co-
 develop interdisciplinary, impactful research projects. We will help colleagues develop impact
 pathways locally, nationally and internationally through regular unit-level workshops to discuss
 impact and engagement strategies and monitor and evaluate impact. The Research Director will
 hold regular meetings with colleagues to discuss ongoing projects, and with the Humanities liaison
 in Marketing to discuss researchers’ engagement with diverse publics.

 As well as submitting two ICS for this REF (Morgan; Alma and Sheard), we have identified
 colleagues with potential future ICS: notably, Harris’s work on William Burroughs, which has
 already led to a Huffington Post interview, a live Guardian webchat, contributions to Radio 4’s
 Burroughs at 100 and events at New York Public Library and in Paris which engaged with both
 specialist and non-specialist audiences.

 (3) Continue to enhance existing strengths in our four strategically supported areas of
 scholarship and develop emerging research areas. Textual scholarship: Adcock’s next Behn
 edition, Seager’s Defoe and Pope editions, Harris has another Burroughs edition due for
 completion in the next 3 years; Bowler the first volumes of Critical Editions of May Sinclair. Literary
 and filmic criticism: Flood’s next monograph, Radical Screens, emerging from BA-funded
 research, is due in 2022; Archer is starting a major project on the politics of cinema acting training.
 Bentley will produce a monograph on working-class youth subcultures. Creative writing will
 continue to flourish, with Henderson to publish a new novel (engaging, through a narrator with
 dementia, with questions of health and wellbeing) and Sheard a poetry collection in the next REF
 cycle. The profile of Place, Space, and Mobilities will be significantly enhanced by Morgan’s
 AHRC-funded interdisciplinary project, ‘“Heartlands/Pays du coeur”: Geohumanities and
 Quebec’s “regional” fiction’ and Peacock’s KISI-funded project on gentrification, which will lead to
 an AHRC Research, Development and Engagement Fellowship application in 2021. Palladino’s
 GCRF-funded Network Plus (2020-2024) will produce high-impact scholarly and creative outputs
 across North Africa and the Middle East with direct policy impact on the government’s
 development strategy, “Building an evidence base on the protection of people affected by conflict”
 (BEPAC).

 We aim strategically to support further enhancement of Literature and Science, building on Keele’s
 long-standing reputation for ageing research (Amigoni’s ‘Ages and Stages’, Shears’ BA-funded
 conference on “Narratives of Old Age and Gender”). Shears and Yearling will explore historicised
 approaches to affect in forthcoming work (Byron’s Feelings and Shakespeare's Violence and the
 Early Modern Spectator, respectively); Adcock is working on ritual and embodiment in
 seventeenth-century dissenting communities, and Amigoni is investigating inheritance in
 evolutionary thought. Bowler’s monograph project on food, wellness, and Modernism also
 confirms strengths in this area.

 2. People

 i.   Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our staffing strategy is underpinned by Keele’s People Strategy and focuses on the appointment,
 support, and development of the highest calibre researchers. As a small-to-medium sized
 department, we need to ensure capacity to deliver a broad, research-informed curriculum, but we
 construct job advertisements carefully, aiming simultaneously to encourage appointees who can
 contribute to both cross-cutting themes and period specialisations. Research excellence and
 potential are essential criteria for all appointments. In this REF period we particularly focused on
 recruiting and developing early-career researchers (ECRs), a concerted investment in the next
 scholarly generation. Adcock (2015), McWilliam (2015), Flood (2016), Bowler (2016), and Alma
 (2019) all joined us in this period and, with our support, have already delivered substantial outputs
 and grant successes and enhanced unit- and university-level connections. Flood, for example, is
 a co-I on Palladino’s GCRF MADAR project.



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New colleagues are formally inducted by the University and are assigned both research and
 teaching mentors; our friendly, supportive atmosphere also encourages colleagues to take
 collective responsibility for ECRs, sustaining a culture of informal mentoring. The University is a
 signatory to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers: as PVC for
 Research, Amigoni chaired the steering group; Seager and Flood were on the committee. We
 support its implementation locally by giving ECRs reduced teaching loads during probation
 (usually 3 years); and allocating smaller administrative roles, designed to aid integration in the
 unit, School, and Faculty research culture. The HoS conducts all probation meetings and guides
 new appointees during probation with advice on grant applications and publication trajectories.

 Since REF2014, English has had 5 externally funded postdoctoral research positions: Schuitema
 (Leverhulme), Dikova (MHRA), Bowler and Mierowsky (AHRC) and Southon (Marie Sklodowska-
 Curie Fellow). Bowler attained a permanent lectureship at Keele; Mierowsky a prestigious five-
 year McKenzie postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Melbourne. Both have published or will
 publish work with their PIs, McCracken and Seager, respectively. As PI for Dikova (in post), Bowler
 is again co-authoring and co-editing work. Contracted research staff at Keele receive the same
 mentoring opportunities as Category A staff. Southon (supervised by Morgan, with Barbara Kelly
 at RNCM) has gone on to publish extensively on French music.

 Post-probation, academics benefit from the University’s Staff/Professorial Performance Review
 and Enhancement (SPRE/PPRE). This provides opportunities to review progress and objectives,
 set targets, and discuss and agree annual research plans (produced with the support of the
 reviewee’s mentor, Research Director, or HoS). SPRE/PPRE meetings are guided by the
 university’s Academic Role Expectations, so that objectives are clear and appropriate for career
 stage. Appraisals thus establish a structured and supportive approach to research and career
 planning over an extended period. They also enable the HoS to identify training needs and allocate
 resources. Research achievements, including public engagement, feature prominently among
 Keele’s promotion criteria, and applicants are encouraged to think about promotions trajectories
 at every annual appraisal. The success of this support framework is confirmed by the fact that it
 helped ten colleagues (around 58% of the current cohort) gain promotion during the census period:
 Archer, Flood, Morgan, Palladino, Seager, Shears, and Yearling to Senior Lecturer; Seager to
 Reader in 2019; and Lustig to Professor in 2020.

 Staff are entitled to apply for 1 semester of research leave in every 8, with new appointments to
 open-ended posts eligible for leave no later than their seventh semester. Where there has been a
 good case for early leave, it has been granted. Applications for leave include specific research
 plans; they are reviewed by the Research Director and HoS, who request revisions to those plans
 where they may be insufficiently robust before forwarding them for further scrutiny and ratification
 at Faculty level. End-of-leave reports detail the extent to which goals are achieved, enabling further
 supported career planning. Exceptional leave (parental leave, sick leave, externally funded leave)
 counts towards these seven/eight semesters, so that Keele-funded leave is not delayed.

 We support colleagues’ research during the teaching semester. Humanities’ workload model
 ensures that Category A staff have ring-fenced research time. All colleagues are enabled to design
 and teach innovative, research-led UG and PG modules. Shears’s module ‘The Alcohol Question’
 has informed his history of the hangover; Yearling’s ‘Violence and Death in Shakespeare’s
 Theatre’ applies to the classroom the approach to staged violence in her current research; and
 Bentley’s ‘Youth Subcultures in Fiction, Film, and Theory’ similarly involves students in the
 production of understanding shaping his latest monograph project. Morgan’s module
 ‘Writingscapes’ uses creative practice also explored in her ‘Dawdlers’ group.

 Our staffing strategy, fluent communications and dynamic environment have led to excellent
 retention rates. Whereas seven colleagues departed for other institutions in the previous REF
 cycle, only two permanent staff members have departed since 2014. The stability in the group is
 conducive to a long-term, collaborative research strategy.

 Equality and Diversity

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The unit values diversity and is committed to equality of opportunity. The Chair of the Faculty
 Research Committee is one of our LGBTi role models. Bruce is Keele’s Institutional Lead for
 Gender Equality and sits on Faculty and University-level EDI steering and Oversight groups, and
 the national network of EDI leads, NEDIAL; she will be participating in future in AdvanceHE
 Athena Swan working groups. English was awarded a Gender Equality Mark (GEM) in 2014.
 The Unit renewed its Athens Swan Bronze in 2017; our submission has subsequently been
 recommended to several other national and international institutions. Keele received a Bronze
 Race Equality Charter Award in 2019 (one of only 14 in the country) and is now working towards
 its Race Equality Action Plan. Keele is also recognised as a Level 2 Disability Confident
 Employer.

 Our championing of diversity is evidenced in our explicit messaging in job adverts, and
 colleagues involved in staff and PGR recruitment undertake mandatory EDI training. EDI training
 (including ‘bullying and harassment’ procedures supported by awareness raising and training) is
 part of our induction processes for new staff and PGR supervisors. Our commitment to EDI is
 also embedded in our structures: the School has an EDI Committee (with an EDI Lead), which
 considers the EDI implications of decisions and procedures.

 English is fully compliant with University and School protocols for advancing women’s and BAME
 careers; the unit has led institutionally on many of these initiatives and has done international
 outreach work in them. Recruitment and Selection Training, which includes unconscious bias
 work, is mandatory for all interview panellists and renewed biennially. We aim for gender parity on
 all panels. Where women are under-represented, we include a positive action statement; positive
 action is also applied to encourage BAME applicants and people of all genders to all roles.
 Recruitment panels are reminded at the outset of every search of institutional targets (35% female
 Professors and 50% female Senior Lecturers). Action points for English, as for the school, include
 avoidance of single-sex shortlists, the offer of childcare or video interview formats to candidates
 with childcare commitments, and the encouragement of boys into English at undergraduate level.
 Institutionally, we offer promotion mentoring aimed mainly at female scholars. Newly appointed
 staff are provided with our extensive induction handbook including HR policies on, inter alia,
 parental leave, race equality, flexible working and promotions.

 Humanities generally and English in particular, ensure that key leadership roles are allocated
 fairly. Research Director, HoS, UoA lead, Programme Director (PD), Deputy PD and Exams Officer
 roles have all been held by men and women during this period. We make adjustments to enable
 staff with protected characteristics to research productively: these include variations to the
 Workload Allocation Model; extensions to internal deadlines; and alternative arrangements for
 timetabling and access to space. English has been exemplary in supporting staff and research
 students returning from leave: female colleagues returning from maternity leave have immediate
 access to research leave and are supported in returning to work with appropriate adjustments to
 workload and timetabling. All maternity leave returners may access a fund to enable them to buy
 themselves out of teaching or support their return to research trajectories in other ways (for
 example, by allowing partners to accompany them on research trips to help with childcare).
 Similarly, adjustments (i.e., phased return) and enhanced support through additional mentoring,
 internal funds, and reduced workloads have been provided to colleagues returning from other
 leave periods. We embrace and apply flexible working - both formal requests for changes of
 working hours and informal arrangements to cover individual circumstances.

 We have integrated EDI in our internal REF audit: all REF readers attended unconscious bias
 training, and throughout the audit we regularly reviewed the gender balance within the reading
 group, including external readers. The inclusive, supportive nature of our research environment is
 evidenced in female colleagues’ success in gaining external grants (see Section 3). Additionally,
 the Research Director ensures diversity of representation in any discussions with direct effects on
 research; for example, meetings about research leave applications and internal funding.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gender balance among staff is broadly in line with benchmark and pipeline expectations. We need
 to improve professorial female representation, but women in English are well represented at
 Senior Lecturer level (see above re. promotions). Our EDI agenda extends to talks, events and
 engagement activities: efforts are made to ensure racial and gender parity in fielding visiting
 speakers; we take steps to ensure that the scheduling and location of meetings and visiting
 speakers does not disadvantage those with disabilities, or childcare or caring commitments.

 Internal Research Income Support

 Keele’s internal funding opportunities and support infrastructure were instrumental in helping
 capture external funding. Colleagues such as Morgan and Palladino directly benefited from
 internal investment, leading to major funding successes which testify to continued strengths in
 Place, Space, and Mobilities; Creative Methods and Practices; Textual Editing; and Literary and
 Filmic Criticism. As well as funding rich programmes of visiting speakers, the Keele Institute for
 Social Inclusion (KISI) offers funds for developing research projects: Bruce received £5k seed-
 corn funding for the “Gravid Uterus” project; Morgan received a number of Faculty Research
 Strategy Fund awards for interdisciplinary projects on Walking Studies and “Memories of Mining.”
 KISI is another funding source for pump-priming and networking: Morgan received £2.5k from KISI
 for a Geohumanities networking day (2018). KISI also offers limited funding to support the
 participation of external, non-academic bodies in collaborative, interdisciplinary research projects:
 In 2019 it launched the Keele Active Partnership Programme, a scheme which offers seed-corn
 funding (£2-5k) for non-academic, external KISI members to propose innovative, collaborative
 projects addressing social inclusion.

 Approximately £5k per annum is available for staff to apply for seed-corn research expenses,
 conference attendance, and Keele seminars. Additional Faculty funding is accessible for strategic
 investment in engagement and impact. In 2018 £2.5k was devoted to “Seams,” a participatory
 performance created in conjunction with Restoke, a not-for-profit arts organisation based in the
 Potteries (Morgan, with History colleagues, CW students and members of the “Dawdlers”) plus
 £6,800 from Keele’s Impact Case Study Development fund. “Seams” generated words, music and
 dance deriving from the history of mining in Keele’s immediate locality. Colleagues have also made
 use of funding from the David Bruce Centre for conference presentations, research expenses and
 symposia.

ii.    Research Students
 PGR students are central to our strategy and achieved considerable success during this period.
 Support for postgraduates at unit, Faculty and institutional levels created a hugely successful
 postgraduate culture. In this REF period we awarded 25 PhDs, compared to 9 in the previous, an
 increase of 122%. 14 new students have joined since 2014, pursuing research in our three main
 areas: literary studies, film and television, and creative writing. We prepare students for
 professional careers inside and outside academia, emphasising the role of the arts and humanities
 in addressing societal challenges. 32 students are currently supervised in English, which will lead
 to a further significant increase in awards during the next REF cycle. This growth has been
 successfully managed through the University’s code of practice for PGR supervision and training
 of supervisory staff. CW contributes strongly, with one funded studentship and five PhD
 enrolments at the time of submission. Our unit integrates research students fully in our research
 activities to develop their publications, presentation skills, and career prospects.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The quality of our PGR provision is evidenced by the award of funding for the AHRC North West
 Consortium for Doctoral Training Partnership in 2013. Through this partnership, Keele is awarded
 studentships in literature, CW, film, and cultural studies pathways. During this period the unit has
 benefitted from 11 AHRC doctoral awards, (with internal match funding), 10 internal Graduate
 Teaching Awards, and 6 further external awards. KISI has raised the profile of Keele as a place
 to pursue socially relevant interdisciplinary research, which makes us increasingly attractive to
 students wishing to pursue projects involving interdisciplinary supervisory teams. Last year, for
 example, we welcomed an AHRC-funded doctoral candidate writing on experimental aesthetics in
 Williams Burroughs and Jeff Nuttall, and another researching a thesis straddling English, sociology
 and education, looking at students’ perceptions of literature’s cultural and professional value.

 English’s PGR strengths come in the context of Keele’s placement as tenth overall out of 107 UK
 institutions for PGR research opportunities in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES 2019). Its overall satisfaction score of 86% placed Keele in the highest quartile for research
 culture, research skills and professional development; we also scored highly across many
 individual assessment categories, enjoying third place in “Supervision.”

 Our sustained success comes from an effective supervisory, monitoring, and support system
 overseen by the School’s Research Committee. All students are co-supervised with one lead
 supervisor and one or two co-supervisors; this allows us to spread supervision among colleagues,
 benefiting students by balancing expertise and experience, and benefiting colleagues, especially
 ECRs, by building experience and capacity. PGRs develop a learning and development plan and
 complete 200 hours of tailored research training. They submit progress reports every six months
 and have a rigorous written and oral doctoral progression at ten months, providing vital
 opportunities for feedback. To monitor progress and ensure timely completion, a thirty-month
 review checks readiness for submission. We are committed to continuity of support in case of staff
 movement.

 The major development during the period has been the establishment of the Keele Doctoral
 Academy, an interdisciplinary hub for training, workshops and intellectual exchange, providing a
 unified platform for PGR support (for example, Faculty funding is available to attend external
 training courses and conferences), governance, and training, and encourages PGRs to connect
 with interdisciplinary communities of Keele researchers.

 As well as having diverse, mentored, teaching and outreach opportunities, PGRs have several
 fora for sharing work in stimulating interdisciplinary contexts. An annual, university-wide
 postgraduate conference promotes their original research and public engagement skills to a wide,
 multidisciplinary audience; an annual Faculty postgraduate symposium encourages them to
 present their work to a more specialist audience of students and staff. In addition, a Faculty
 student-led forum encourages the presentation of work-in-progress. A regular postgraduate/staff
 reading group has an agenda shaped by research students, and discussion shared with staff.
 Other groups that contribute to the vitality of postgraduate culture include the Keele/Chester neo-
 Victorian reading group, which has met biannually since 2010. “Dawdlers” is a walking-reading,
 walking-writing group for staff and PGRs founded by Morgan in 2017. As PGR Director, Morgan
 also ran weekly writing retreats for PGRs and colleagues.

 PGRs are enabled to gain generic and subject-specific skills for their future career, in accordance
 with Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. We have worked to formalise the continuation
 beyond completion of the relationship between supervisors and doctoral students, providing
 individual and workshop support to prepare job applications. The Keele Postdoctoral Fellowship,
 implemented by Lustig as Head of School in 2017, provides two years institutional affiliation after
 graduation for Keele PhDs, and has been extended from Humanities to the institution at large.
 These initiatives bolster existing postgraduate support, such as regular sessions run by the
 Careers and Employability unit.

 The success of our PGR strategy is further evidenced by major research outputs authored by PhD
 students since 2008. This includes monographs and articles by Kristian Shaw, Harriet Earle,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Amber Regis, Katie McGettigan, and Joanna Taylor, all of whom enjoy thriving careers in
 academia (at institutions including Sheffield, Lancaster, Manchester, Royal Holloway, Sheffield
 Hallam, and Lincoln). Richard Johnston Jones gave conference papers on Philip K. Dick in
 California (2016) and Finland (2017), supported by Faculty bursaries and the David Bruce Centre;
 Molly Drummond participated in a panel with her supervisors (Bruce and Eva Giraud from Media)
 at the Utopian Acts conference (Birkbeck, 2018). With Peacock, her PhD supervisor, and Sam
 Knowles, Earle co-edited a special number of Journal of Postcolonial Writing on postcolonial
 comics. Other PGR achievements: Christopher Prendergast’s novel, Septembers, was published
 by Salt in 2014; Stephen Seabridge became Stoke-on-Trent’s Poet Laureate in 2018; Amy Coquaz
 won the Prix de Quebec student prize in 2017 and in 2019 was awarded £42k Leverhulme funding
 to pursue her writing in Montreal. Christina Westwood received an Eccles Centre Postgraduate
 Visiting Fellowship and was book reviews editor for US Studies Online; Jen Campion (CW) was
 shortlisted for the Bridport Prize (2015). Matthew Mild organized “European Traumalgia:
 Neuroscience and Cultural Memory in Cinema and Literature,” at the Centre for the Study of
 Cultural Memory, London (2017). Aimee Merrydew, one of our GTAs, organised a KISI-funded
 conference on trans-inclusive education in partnership with Healthwatch Stoke-on-Trent and
 Newleaf members. She was also Bob Beattie Postgraduate Student of the Year (2020). Martin
 Goodhead was elected to the BACLS executive in 2020.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As Section 1ii above details, English, with the support and infrastructure described in Section 2,
 has seen an impressive increase in grant income (£936K, significantly above the sector average).
 Aim 3 – improving research outputs and increasing funding – was achieved with the strategic
 support of the Faculty and KISI, and in partnership with RaISE, which provides infrastructure for
 grant applications. RaISE organises workshops on writing bids and offers close support for
 prospective PIs throughout grant planning, writing and submission. To complement RaISE’s work,
 English ran its own workshops on grant capture, sharing good practice and advice based on recent
 successful and unsuccessful applications, and discussing projects with potential for external
 funding.

 Colleagues in English made use of diverse external funding sources to develop specialisms.
 Palladino was awarded £1,871,675 by the UKRI GCRF’s highly competitive Collective
 Programme (Network Plus) to lead a four-year project, “The Maghreb Action on Displacement and
 Rights” (MADAR 2020-2024).” Previously she received a £55,578 Development Award to develop
 international partnerships for MADAR and a further £100k of “Inception funding” and, also as PI,
 a £34,314 AHRC Networking grant for “Responding to Crisis: Forced Migration and the Humanities
 in the Twenty-First Century” (2016-2018). Palladino’s grant income also involves major
 collaborations with Glasgow and Edinburgh as Co-investigator in three other GCRF projects: the
 £1,905,776 “Culture for Sustainable and Inclusive Peace Network Plus” (CUSP N+); £242,596
 “Arts for Advocacy: Creative Engagement with Forced Displacement in Morocco” ESRC-AHRC
 (2016-2018); and £86,416 “MARAM: Mobilising Access to Rights for Artists in Morocco” (Impact
 and Engagement funds 2019-20).

 In 2017 Seager was awarded a £214k AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Early Career) for his edition
 of Defoe’s correspondence (with Amigoni as advisor and Mierowsky as postdoctoral assistant).
 Morgan received a £247,805 AHRC Leadership Fellowship for her geohumanities
 “Heartlands/Pays du cœur” project; she also secured a Leverhulme International Academic
 Fellowship, ILAS Fellowship, ICS Development Fund and a BA Small Research Grant. In 2014
 McCracken gained a £966,466 AHRC Major Standard Grant for the Dorothy Richardson scholarly
 editions project, in which Bowler was also involved. Bowler secured an MHRA Research
 Associateship (£25,000) for an RA to support work on Edinburgh UP’s May Sinclair Critical Edition.
 Alma and Sheard were awarded £12,190 from Arts Council England for activities related to poetry
 and wellbeing. Adcock won a Wellcome Grant for conference organisation; Bowler, a travel grant
 from the Modernist Studies Association; Flood and Archer, BA Small Research Grants (£10k);
 Bowler a BA Small Research Grant as co-I with Lisa Drewery of Sheffield Hallam (£7.986); Harris
 and Shears, BA Conference Grants.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Keele English has wide influence within and beyond the academy – locally, nationally and
 internationally. We contribute to the research base through cross-institutional collaborations,
 national and international associations and networks, and discipline representation at the very
 highest levels.

 Discipline representation

 We have major influence at discipline level. Several colleagues have served on the AHRC Peer
 Review College (PRC) in the period (Amigoni, Bell, Bruce, Morgan, Palladino, Seager). Two
 (Amigoni and Bruce) are Strategic Reviewers in the AHRC PRC; Palladino has Strategic Official
 Development Assistance. Amigoni was a national moderator for AHRC’s research network
 scheme; Bruce and Palladino were members of the AHRC Research, Development and
 Engagement Fellowships Peer Review College; Palladino was also a member of the ESRC Peer
 Review GCRF. Amigoni and Seager were PRC members of the UKRI Future Leader scheme
 (Amigoni a core member). Bruce chaired University English (UE) from 2014-17, increasing its
 early career and postgraduate representation, lobbying on political issues with long-term
 implications (A-level restructuring, university admissions and Brexit) and instituting, with the
 English Association, the triennial national conference, English: Shared Futures. She served on
 the English Association’s Higher Education Committee and remains on the UE executive. She
 co-chairs the Arts and Humanities Alliance, an umbrella group which now includes over 50
 subject associations and learned societies in the Arts and Humanities.

 Amigoni chairs the Advisory Council of the IES (SAS, University of London, since 2020). As
 Keele’s PVC for Research he was PI on Keele’s iteration of UKRI’s SEE-PER project (c.£120K
 over two years), strategically embedding PER in the University’s research culture: he has worked
 extensively with the National Centre for the Coordination of Public Engagement, including invited
 conference roles at their international Engage conference (2018). This delivered Stoke’s first
 University-led “festival of ideas,” Stoking Curiosity (2018). In this way national discussions have
 impact at local level, and vice-versa. This is also seen in Amigoni’s role as Chair of the Stoke-
 on-Trent Cultural Forum in 2017 (see Aim 4). Amigoni continues to work extensively with many
 organisations in Stoke, in particular the New Vic Theatre, where he is a director and Board of
 Trustees member. Amigoni, Alma and Sheard were involved in organising the Live Age Festival,
 which ran annually throughout the assessment period. It celebrates late-life creativity and is
 further evidence of our commitment to interdisciplinary research and public engagement in
 literature and health.

 Public talks, events, engagement activities

 Throughout the period, Keele English organised events that reflected its research reputation,
 attracting international researchers to Keele and engaging with multiple publics. Like Amigoni,
 other colleagues have applied their expertise to activities with local, national and international
 reach. Peacock organised a public launch event in Manchester for The Clash Takes on the World
 essay collection (2017), which featured international contributions from literary scholars,
 historians, musicologists and sociologists. Sponsored by the Joe Strummer Foundation, it included
 academic talks, music, drama and readings, combining transnational approaches with a focus on
 Manchester.

 In this REF cycle English researchers gave public talks and workshops at many internationally
 renowned locations, including Oxford Museum (Amigoni), Magna Carta Institute (Archer), Oxford
 University (Bruce), New York Public Library and The Photographer’s Gallery in London (Harris),
 l’Université du Québec à Montréal and Concordia University (Morgan), the Samuel Johnson
 Birthplace Museum (partners on Seager’s Defoe project), Nottingham Refugee Week and
 Yorkshire Integration Festival (Palladino). Bruce delivered an open lecture on feminism in Ramadi
 Iraq (2020) organised by the University of Anbar. Alma served on the All-Party Parliamentary

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group for poetry (2018-19). Morgan was a jury member for Blue Met’s Violet Literary Prize/prix
 violet (2019).

 As evidence of our commitment to public engagement, colleagues have had great success with
 The Conversation. During the period, colleagues have published articles on a range of topics,
 including Brexit and British Comedy, Star Wars, the BAFTAs, the TV adaptation of Ian McEwan’s
 The Child in Time, Edward Hopper, Philip K. Dick, second-person fiction, hangovers in literature,
 the movie Bombshell, migration, and religious responses to pandemic. Amigoni is on the editorial
 board. Staff have also participated in numerous media appearances, including Flood’s interview
 on Turkish television, Alma on Radio 2 and Radio 4 and Bentley’s appearance on Radio 4’s
 Thinking Allowed (2017).

 Subject associations, learned societies, journal editorships, keynotes and plenaries

 Our standing within our research specialisms is reflected in engagement with subject associations
 and societies, and in the numerous invitations to international conferences. The Northern
 Modernism Seminar was founded by McCracken and Andrew Thacker (Nottingham Trent) and
 has run since 2003. Adcock is Associate Editor of Bunyan Studies and on behalf of the Bunyan
 Association organised a one-day conference at Keele: “Remembrance and Re-Appropriation:
 Shaping Dissenting Identities” (2018). Bell sat on the BAAS Executive Committee until 2015,
 receiving an honorary BAAS Fellowship in 2016. Bentley is a founding member of the London
 Literary Society and was treasurer until 2018. Peacock took over in 2019; he is also BACLS’
 Conference Organiser. Bowler co-founded the May Sinclair Society. Harris is President of the
 European Beat Studies Network, and Seager is on the boards of the Defoe Society, the British
 Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Stoke Newington edition of the works of Daniel Defoe,
 and Elizabeth Montagu Correspondence Online. In 2019, Seager co-delivered with the Samuel
 Johnson Birthplace Museum four days of specialist bibliographical research training for 12 (non-
 Keele) PhD students and postdocs. Funded by the AHRC, this involved contributors from 6 UK
 and 1 Canadian university and provided full-cost bursaries for 9 UK-based participants and 1 each
 from Norway, Spain, and the USA. McCracken was co-founder of the Dorothy Richardson Society;
 he founded and edited Pilgrimages: The Journal of Dorothy Richardson Studies. Morgan was a
 Council member of the British Association of Canadian Studies and Trustee and Board Member
 of Writing West Midlands. Two journals were edited from Keele: Morgan was co-editor of The
 British Journal for Canadian Studies (until 2016); Shears is editor of the Byron Journal and a
 member of its Executive Committee. Amigoni was editor-in-chief of Literature Compass (2014-
 2016). We also have representatives on the boards of English; Arts and Humanities in Higher
 Education; Humanities; Open Screen; New Formations; English Studies in Canada; Tropismes;
 Critical Engagements; Journal of American Studies; Literature Compass; Symbiosis; Journal of
 Beat Studies; Le Tour Critique; Quaker Studies; and Digital Defoe.

 During this period colleagues in English gave invited, keynote or plenary talks at the following
 institutions: American University of Paris, Bari, Birkbeck, Birmingham, Bristol, British Library,
 Dundee, Durham, Edinburgh, Florence, Galway, Henry James’ house in Rye, Keats’ House in
 Hampstead, Leuven, Manchester, Newstead Abbey, Oslo, Plymouth, Rostov-on-Don, Senate
 House in London, Södertörn, Uppsala, Woodbrooke Quaker Studies Centre and York.

 Other service

 English researchers contribute to the wider discipline in many other ways. Bruce sat on
 appointment and promotions panels in Aarhus, Reading and Nicosia and was REF reader for two
 HEIs in this cycle; Bell was REF reader for Reading, Leicester, Glasgow and UCLAN; Flood was
 reviewer for the British Academy’s Sustainable Development Programme (2018); Seager was
 reviewer for a tenure application at SUNY-Oneonta (2014); Harris was a reader for a promotion
 application to Dean/Provost at Lake Forrest College, USA (2018); Peacock was remote evaluator
 for the Government of Ireland Postgraduate Scholarship Scheme (2016). Institutions where
 members of English examined PhD and MRes include Australian National University, Birkbeck,


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Birmingham, Cambridge, Canterbury, Canterbury Christchurch, Edinburgh, Girona, Griffith
 University, Leuven, Liverpool, Manchester, Nottingham, and Royal Holloway.




                                                                                 Page 14
