Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 17: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Established in 1989, Kent Business School (KBS) has grown significantly, now including 74
 Category A staff. Over the REF2021 period, KBS became an international leader in sustainable
 innovation research. The School has achieved this aim through its staffing strategy (see Section
 B) and strategic research initiatives, including establishing two new research clusters, focused on
 innovation and sustainable economic growth: the Centre for Technology, Innovation Management,
 and Entrepreneurship (TIME), and the Productivity Research Hub.

 Since 2014, our Category A staff base has grown from 60 to 72 FTE (74 headcount) across our
 Canterbury and Medway campuses, with 55 and 19 Category A staff, respectively. Over the same
 period, KBS also moved into its new £35 million Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) award-
 winning building (Sibson) on the Canterbury campus, and invested a further £1.2 million in the Sail
 and Colour Loft facilities situated in the Historic Dockyard at the University’s Medway campus. As
 a mark of its growing reputation, the School achieved Association to Advance Collegiate Schools
 of Business (AACSB) accreditation in 2019, one of only 36 business and management schools in
 the UK to hold the award. Our commitment to gender equality was recognised by our 2020 Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award, with our first female Dean’s career progression through the School
 exemplifying the equality of opportunity that we are committed to offering all our researchers.

 In 2019-20, the University undertook a large-scale reorganisation, as a result of which the various
 academic Schools were restructured within six academic Divisions. KBS is one of those Divisions:
 its status as the only single-School Division reflecting both its size and its distinct identity.

 During the REF2021 period, our research community received international recognition for its
 contribution to:

    •   Thought leadership. Our researchers are recognised for their contributions to a range of
        fields. In Ioannidis’ 2020 Stanford University Report, seven KBS staff were ranked in the
        Top 2% of Scientists in the World, with Mingers ranked in the top two for Operational
        Research in the UK and in the top 17 in the world (Ioannidis, Baas et al, 2019). Clark was
        listed as a Web of Science Highly Cited Researcher 2018, and Oxford University Press
        described Funnell as ‘the world’s leading scholar of public sector accountability’ in 2016.

    •   International research projects. Significant projects addressing the United Nations’
        Sustainable Development Goals have been led by Scaparra, who received funding through
        the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) for ‘Optimal Investment Strategies to
        Minimise Flood Impact on Road Infrastructure Systems in Vietnam (OSIRIS)’ (2017;
        £291,876) and ‘Improving Community Resilience and Sustainability Through Operational
        Research Capacity Building in Southeast Asia (CREST-OR)’ (2019; £265,126). Acquaye
        leads the KBS team for a Horizon 2020-funded project, ‘Re-Evaluating the Transition to
        the Circular Economy: Models, Methods, and Applications (ReTraCE)’ (2018;
        €303,172.58). Scaparra’s projects focus on Southeast Asia and Acquaye’s on Europe (see
        Section D). Other projects, such as Hampton’s work on resilience and tourism in Southeast
        Asia, have had a major impact on local stakeholders.

    •   Business transformation. KBS has achieved significant impact on small and medium
        enterprises (SMEs) in the South-East region, as recognised by the Small Business Charter
        (SBC) Award in 2018. The initiatives behind this include a number of successful Knowledge
        Transfer Partnerships (KTPs). All the completed KTPs have been awarded the highest
        grade (‘Outstanding’), and they represent long-established collaborations with key players
        in the UK’s transport infrastructure, such as the Port of Dover and Eurostar, as well as with
        regionally based businesses such as Parker Steel, Priority Freight, and Zero Trace

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Procurement (see the impact case studies ‘Meeting Complex Logistics Challenges to
        Reduce CO2 Emissions and Improve Efficiency’ and ‘New Decision Analytics Models
        Generate £5 Million Savings and Increased Efficiency for Port of Dover’). The KTPs with
        Port of Dover and Eurostar were featured in the Operational Research Society’s ‘Impact’
        practitioner magazine, with the Port of Dover article being the third most read in the
        magazine’s history.

    •   Developing the next generation of researchers. Since 2014, our PhD students have
        achieved against every performance indicator: completion rates (74.5 completions, 100%
        of students); active involvement in international conferences; winning prizes for their
        papers and awards for their doctoral projects. They have gone on to careers in academia
        and industry, with posts at institutions such as the Bank of England and the Sasin School
        of Management in Thailand. At the next point in the academic pipeline, early career
        researchers (ECRs) have been supported to achieve promotion and make considerable
        contributions to their fields (see Sections B and D).

 These activities have helped KBS to deliver on its core research theme of sustainable innovation,
 organised around three principal themes:

    •   Environmental sustainability and natural resources. Our research in this area addresses
        responsible consumption and renewable energy, as well as climate change.
    •   Social sustainability. Our research in this area explores the impact of innovation in
        sustainable business practices, in terms of improving diversity, health, and wellbeing within
        organisations as well as society.
    •   Sustainable economic growth. Our research in this area looks at how to create and support
        innovative business practices that enable sustainable long-term economic growth.

 Research Strategy 2014-20
 The School’s mission, as reported in REF2014, has been to build ‘a research-intensive business
 school that produces rigorous and applicable knowledge’, which ‘informs the practice of
 management in public and private, local and global communities for a sustainable future’. This
 involved three components: 1) sustainable growth of research capacity; 2) developing enterprise
 and sustainability as priority areas; and 3) developing multi-disciplinary research partnerships.

    1. Sustainable growth of research capacity

 Over the REF2021 period, KBS has continued to broaden and deepen its research activities, with
 a commensurate net growth in Category A staff headcount from 65 to 74. The alignment of these
 appointments with our strategic priorities is outlined in Section B. New colleagues have brought
 new expertise in priority areas (for instance, Hassan and Krasonikolakis in digital marketing) and
 bring a global perspective to sustainable innovation. We are proud that KBS’s supportive and
 inclusive community attracts research talent from an international pool, with 21 different
 nationalities represented in our community. KBS has invested £1 million in scholarships over the
 period. The achievements of our PhD students are outlined in Section B.

 The investment in infrastructure and the work it facilitates are outlined below, but equally important
 has been the additional investment in professional service support for research, with the research
 support team now including a Research Grants Manager in addition to the Research Manager.

    2. Enterprise and Sustainability

 Reflecting the School’s research strengths and aligned with UKRI’s Global Challenges, as well as
 the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, our focus on sustainability evolved into the
 core theme of sustainable innovation. Our commitment to this theme is evidenced by the eight
 researchers with sustainability expertise appointed since REF2014. A key element in our research
 strategy was to build on expertise in enterprise and entrepreneurship by establishing the

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology, Innovation Management, and Entrepreneurship (TIME) research centre. The centre
 is led by Papadopoulos, who was appointed in 2016 and was included in the Top 2% of Scientists
 in the World.

 In 2016, KBS established the Accelerator Space for Innovation and Responsible Enterprise
 (ASPIRE) Lab to accelerate the progress of student entrepreneurs’ ideas. ASPIRE brings together
 KBS’s research in innovation and enterprise, as well as industry mentors and partners such as
 Google, the Kent Foundation, the National Association of College and University Entrepreneurs
 (NACUE), IPSE, and Tech Nation. Twenty-eight businesses have been supported to launch, 15
 of them owned by BAME entrepreneurs, including: RR Collective, a sustainable fashion business
 upcycling Nigerian rubbish into jewellery; ethical beauty brand Nadia Esi Naturals; and sustainable
 fashion brand Jehu-cal (featured in Vogue). Each business demonstrates how effectively
 messages around ethical business practices and sustainability are embedded into the Business
 Start-Up Journey. For example, Nadia Esi, who received funding through ASPIRE’s partnership
 with Santander, switched to recycled packaging.

 Our impact on the local business community was recognised in 2018 when KBS led the
 University’s successful Small Business Charter (SBC) application. Activities recognised by the
 award include the School’s annual Business Summit and the Business Soundbites events. KBS
 works in close partnership with the Institute of Directors (IoD) and the Federation of Small
 Businesses (FSB), to organise and host the annual Kent and Medway Business Summit, the
 largest conference of its kind in the region. The one-day event brings together academics, local
 government, and Kent business leaders to discuss sustainable economic growth for the region.
 The summit focuses on positive action and cross-sectoral collaboration in priority areas, with high-
 profile speakers bringing relevant insights to bear on critical business issues. The outcomes of the
 summits have helped inform research into both the short- and the long-term economic implications
 for Kent and the UK in this highly dynamic economic environment, particularly since the local
 economy and its transport infrastructure are particularly affected by Brexit.

 The regular Business Soundbites events provide a more informal forum for knowledge exchange.
 This networking event series aims to develop closer link between local business, alumni, students,
 and academics. The events take place in various locations across Kent and enable researchers
 to share the latest business research with the business community. Topics address the current
 concerns of the sector, such as Brexit, internationalisation of businesses, and happiness in the
 workplace

    3. Multidisciplinary research partnerships

 There are three specific areas where KBS has developed multidisciplinary partnerships during the
 period:

    •   Infrastructure development and logistics research. This area is pursued by a wide range
        of academics across our research groups (Acquaye, Afrifa, Garcia, Lowe, Lyngdoh,
        Papadopoulos, Salhi, Scaparra). Scaparra’s GCRF-OSIRIS (Optimal Investment
        Strategies to Minimise Flood Impact on Road Infrastructure Systems in Vietnam) project
        exemplifies this. Scaparra, who specialises in Operational Research (OR), collaborated
        with researchers from meteorology, hydrology, and transport economics to blend
        optimisation modelling with tools from other disciplines to minimise flood impacts on road
        infrastructure in Vietnam, by optimising investments in flood mitigation interventions. The
        project developed a 20-year investment plan for the City of Hanoi (GCRF British Academy
        2017-19). Scaparra has been shortlisted for the International Federation of OR Societies’
        Prize for Operations Research in Development 2020 for her work on this project (winner
        to be announced 2021).

    •   Productivity. As anticipated, the co-location of the new Sibson building with the Schools of
        Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (SMSAS) and Economics has resulted in
        greater collaboration, with the Productivity Research Hub being a joint endeavour with the

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        School of Economics. The Hub is linked with the National Institute for Economic and Social
        Research (NIESR) through Robinson’s visiting post and Chadha’s (School of Economics)
        secondment to the role of Director at NIESR.

    •   Food systems. The School’s expertise in this area has developed through the REF period
        (see special issues co-edited by Fraser, Lowe, and Souza Monteiro in Psychology and
        Marketing (2015), and Lowe, Petrovici, and colleagues in the European Journal of
        Marketing), and multidisciplinary partnerships have been nurtured through events such as
        the ‘Food and Consumers: Current Issues and Future Directions’ research forum in 2018,
        which featured Professor Grunert as a guest speaker. Lowe’s current work in the area
        includes his involvement in the recently awarded BBSRC project, ‘Co-production of
        Healthy, Sustainable Food Systems for Disadvantaged Communities’ (2020; £145,564).
        The project team includes researchers from the areas of agricultural, environmental, and
        nutritional science, as well as psychology and sociology. The team will work with people
        from a variety of disadvantaged communities (Whitley-Reading, Brighton & Hove, Tower
        Hamlets, and Plymouth), small and large food businesses and policy-makers to co-develop
        solutions to give improved access to fresher food and identify opportunities to prevent food
        loss in mainstream supply chains. Going forward, the School will actively engage with the
        University’s recently established Signature Research Theme: Environment, Food
        Systems, and Natural Resources (see Section 4 for Growing Kent and Medway).

 Impact Strategy 2014-20
 Our core research theme supports the creation of social and economic impact, and the School’s
 emphasis in working with SMEs is an important driver of economic growth in the South-East.
 Examples of projects that achieve these goals are included throughout this Environment
 Statement, with staff leading high-impact activities supported through various School-level
 initiatives, including workshops, a £10,000 impact generation fund, and an External Services
 Team with a remit for creating knowledge transfer opportunities. The School identifies projects
 with high-impact potential and supports leads through mentoring, funds for impact-generating
 activities, and dedicated time in each lead’s workload allocation. Support for enhancing the impact
 potential of projects at design stage is provided by both the professional service team and the
 Associate Dean for Research and Innovation. Further embedding impact is an explicit aim of our
 future strategy, as detailed below.

 Research Strategy 2021-27
 The School’s strategic research aims build upon those of the 2014-20 strategy, with a stronger
 focus on global reach and activity with direct societal or economic impact. Our research will
 contribute to the wider mission of KBS as a leader in sustainable innovation research and as a
 hub for entrepreneurs in academia, business, and society seeking to effect positive change.

    •   Sustainable innovation scholarship. KBS will remain an environment where thought
        leaders can undertake innovative and pioneering research with closer alignment to
        sustainable innovation and to realising the potential of our early career staff. While strategic
        appointments will still play a role, we will enable excellence through embedded support
        and revitalised structures.

    •   Transformative knowledge exchange. Our greatest international successes have come
        through our funded work on global challenges, and our biggest achievements regionally
        and nationally have come through business transformation activities. In recognition of this,
        the School will build on the following translational activities: externally funded projects;
        relationships with practitioners; and more effective dissemination of our research findings
        and our offering across the sustainable innovation sub-themes.

    •   Interdisciplinary and international partnerships. We will continue to support successful
        partnerships and, through alignment with University and School strategies, we will nurture
        collaborations that further the above objectives.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our strategy with regard to each of these elements is outlined below.

    1. Sustainable innovation scholarship

 Structure and governance. As part of the University reorganisation, from 2021 the School’s
 research groups will be restructured into four departments: Accounting and Finance; Leadership
 and Management; Marketing, Entrepreneurship, and International Business; Analytics,
 Operations, and Systems. The Heads of Department will drive forward the research strategy at
 departmental level, and research leads for each unit will be appointed. While the Heads will retain
 line-management responsibilities, the research leads will work with the Associate Dean for
 Research and Innovation to deliver the research and innovation strategy, adapt departmental-
 level implementation plans, and provide specialist mentoring to colleagues.

 Investment and support. While the external environment is extremely challenging, KBS has
 committed to continued investment in research. This includes pump priming, research allowances,
 seminars, and bespoke training (see Section B), as well a significant increase in professional
 service staff support. From 2021, the professional service Research and Innovation Team will
 consist of: Research and Business Development Manager; External Engagement Manager; two
 Research and Innovation Managers (with grant-writing and funding bid development expertise);
 ASPIRE Officer; and a Research and Innovation Coordinator. This enhanced team will support
 researchers, deliver training, and work collaboratively with academic staff on securing knowledge
 exchange opportunities.

 Appointment strategy. We will continue to recruit world-class researchers and will ask all
 applicants to demonstrate how their work aligns to our core research theme of sustainable
 innovation. KBS will establish a KBS Fellowship Programme to attract and nurture highly talented
 people, from our gifted PhD students to early and mid-career researchers. The School will further
 develop its postgraduate researcher community and is committed to increasing the external
 funding for these roles.

    2. Transformative knowledge exchange

 Business transformation. We will build on our strong track record in knowledge transfer and
 enterprise engagement, and will continue to nurture long-term partnerships built around the needs
 of businesses, with a view to: better understand clients’ research needs; capitalise on the
 relationships generated by our business events; continue to secure KTPs; and extend activities
 for more general support for business. Our research centres will continue to play a key role here.

 Entrepreneurship. ASPIRE will continue to support and nurture the new generation of
 entrepreneurial leaders as part of our mission to develop responsible enterprise. The Growing
 Kent and Medway project will utilise aspects of the ASPIRE Business Start-Up Journey (BSUJ),
 and research activities will focus on analysing the effectiveness of the approach in this context.

 Global impact through funded projects. The KBS community of researchers is a global one, with
 21 nationalities represented. This brings a global perspective to our research, and staff are leading
 projects that have direct societal or economic impact across Europe and internationally (see
 Section D). The profound impact we anticipate from Scaparra and Acquaye’s GCRF and Horizon
 2020 projects is something we want to replicate, and the School has the expertise and skills to
 realise this aim. We will build on this success and will capitalise on our interdisciplinary focus, in
 attracting funded projects that address UN Sustainable Development Goals, Global Challenges,
 and Grand Challenges outlined in the UK Government Industrial Strategy.

 Communication and engagement. Kent and Medway Television (KMTV) is a public service
 OFCOM-regulated television broadcaster, part-owned by the University. KBS will sponsor a
 weekly Business Show, providing expert comment on current affairs. KMTV is currently producing
 a documentary on Scaparra’ s GCRF projects in Southeast Asia. The three KBS Research Centres

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Hub will act as mechanisms for practitioner engagement, with the Centre for Logistics and
 Heuristic Optimisation (CLHO) acting as a model in this respect, as it hosts the three annual
 meetings of the regional branch of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport. We will also
 involve end users in research design. For example, when designing the project that resulted in
 the paper ‘The Influence of Geographic and Psychic Distance on Online Hotel Ratings’, Philips
 worked with the Senior Director of Tripadvisor.

    3. Interdisciplinary and international partnerships

 Extending ‘the region’. Our impact in the South-East is clear, and our position in Kent means that
 there has always been a European dimension to our KTPs. For example, our KTP with Eurostar
 has informed the redesign of border control checks at the Paris Gare du Nord station and the
 introduction of a new email and online early arrival notification system. KBS worked with the
 University on the development of the new 3i University Network (Interregional Internationalisation
 Initiative), which will intensify collaboration between the member partners: Ghent, KU Leuven,
 Lille, and Kent. 3i aims to respond to shared cross-border regional challenges, by bringing together
 higher education, local and regional business, and governmental organisations to identify
 strategies and approaches to address these shared challenges.

 Disciplinary leadership. We aim to attract one major international conference to the School every
 year. KBS will provide support for hosting internationally recognised conferences and workshops,
 such as the two scheduled for 2021-22 on the Canterbury campus: ‘Gender, Work, and
 Organisation’ conference (2021); and the Academy of Marketing Science World Marketing
 Congress (2023). Details of current editorships and other contributions can be found in Section D.

 Signature Research Themes. Our expertise in the broad area of sustainable innovation equips us
 to engage meaningfully with the Eastern Academic Research Consortium (Eastern ARC), as well
 as the University’s new Signature Research Themes, with ‘Environmental sustainability and
 natural resources’ mapping directly onto the Environment, Food Systems, and Natural Resources
 Signature Research Theme. Eastern ARC is a strategic collaboration between the universities of
 Kent, Essex, and East Anglia that was launched in 2013. Eastern ARC’s Enabling Innovation:
 Research to Application (EIRA) network (supported by the UKRI Connecting Capability Fund) has
 established a collaborative environment focused on delivering knowledge exchange and research
 support to industry.

 Organisational Structure

    1. Research leadership and governance structures

 KBS is a community of researchers from diverse disciplines and backgrounds. The School’s
 strategic direction is provided by leadership teams and committees, who are reflective of this
 diversity, and therefore able to meaningfully translate the strategic vision into policy and practice
 across the subject specialisms. While the School has a relatively flat structure, and discussion is
 actively encouraged, the governance structures set common agendas and drive forward strategic
 aims. Each of the committees below includes an Athena SWAN advocate.

 Leadership roles are appointed to through an open recruitment process and are fixed-term for
 three years. The interview process is conducted by a gender-inclusive assessment panel whose
 members have undergone recruitment and Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity (EDI) training.
 Recent recruitment processes have strengthened female representation at senior leadership level,
 with women now making up 50% of Head of Groups and over 50% of the Senior Leadership Team.
 From 2021, the School’s research groups will be restructured into four departments: Accounting
 and Finance; Leadership and Management; Marketing, Entrepreneurship, and International
 Business; Analytics, Operations, and Systems. Sustainable innovation will remain the School’s
 core research theme across all four groupings, and the new Heads of Department will sit on the
 Senior Leadership Team to provide strategic input and support to the Dean.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Senior Leadership Team (SLT). The SLT manages KBS’s ‘devolved’ responsibilities for the
 implementation of the University’s research and innovation strategy, as well as setting aims and
 objectives at School level. The team oversaw the evolution of the core research theme into
 ‘sustainable innovation’, as well as the design and implementation of the research strategy.

 Research Committee. This Committee supports the Associate Dean for Research and Innovation
 to develop and implement the Research Strategy, in alignment with the School’s strategic aims.
 This strategy encompasses research management (including policies and procedures), as well as
 development activities at individual and environment level. Membership includes academic and
 professional service staff involved in research and staff management, as well as the School’s EDI
 representative and an ECR.

 International Advisory Board (IAB). The IAB is an external committee established in 2017 with
 representation from government, academia, and business. It meets twice a year to provide
 strategic advice, contribute to the development of collaborations with other business schools, and
 assist in developing research networks and corporate engagement.

 Research Groups. During the REF2021 period, KBS operated a devolved governance structure,
 with academic staff divided into six groups, each focusing on a different research specialism:
 Accounting; Finance; Marketing; Management Science; People Management and Organisation;
 and Strategy and International Business. Each Head of Group (HoG) was responsible for
 implementing the research strategy and supporting the individual research programmes of
 members, with highlights as follows:

    •   Accounting. Led by Bigoni, this group includes six Category A staff and is considered an
        international leader on research of public-sector accounting, critical accounting, and
        accounting history. Bigoni and Funnell were both included among the ‘thought leaders’ in
        the field of accounting and religion by Carolyn Cordery, the editor of Accounting History.
        The appointment of Hilson as an expert in environmental accounting aligns with our
        sustainable innovation theme. In 2020, Hilson published a report for www.planetgold.org
        titled Access to Finance: Options for Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining. planetgold’s
        ultimate aim is to reduce the use of mercury in the sector through improving production
        practices and increasing artisanal and small-scale miners' access to finance and markets.
        Recognition of the group’s excellence in the area is evidenced by the number of prizes
        awarded over the REF period. Funnell won both the Academy of Accounting Historians’
        Barbara Merino Prize (for the book Accounting by the First Public Company: The Pursuit
        of Supremacy) and the Enrique Fernandez Pena Prize for best paper from the Spanish
        Accounting Association (2015). Bigoni won the Academy of Accounting Historians’ Margit
        F. and Hanns Martin Schoenfeld Award, awarded in recognition of contributions to
        accounting history studies made by emerging scholars (2016). Iqbal won the Excellent
        Paper Award at the International Conference on Economics, Business and Management
        for the paper ‘Effects of business excellence frameworks on quality culture’ (2018). Bigoni’s
        paper ‘Accounting for power and resistance: The University of Ferrara under the Fascist
        regime in Italy’ was judged to be best Accounting History paper written by an Italian author
        in the year 2019 and awarded the Alberto Bisaschi Prize.

    •   Finance. Led by Shamshur, this group includes eight Category A staff who carry out
        research into corporate finance, derivatives pricing, risk management, financial
        econometrics, international banking, financial regulations, asset pricing, and real-estate
        modelling. The group works closely with practitioners, facilitated by the Centre for
        Quantitative Finance (see below). For example, in 2015, Tunaru jointly hosted a workshop
        at KBS with Jokivuolle, Head of Research at the Bank of Finland, discussing potential
        future financial crises that could impact financial systems worldwide and what would
        safeguard institutions in this scenario. It was attended by representatives from Goldman
        Sachs, the Bank of England, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, and the European
        Central Bank, in addition to leading researchers in the area. Turnaru and Jokivuolle
        subsequently published Preparing for the Next Financial Crisis: Policies, Tools and Models

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (2017), summarising the discussions, with contributions from the participants. Tunaru
        followed this with the books Model Risk in Financial Markets and Real Estate Derivatives.
        The group’s work has had significant impact over the period (see impact case studies
        ‘Property Valuation Tool Promotes Fairer Taxation in Greece and Reduces Mortgage
        Lender Risk’ and ‘Modelling the Future: Investments in an Uncertain World’). Panopoulou
        developed an economic evaluation model that is used in HM Treasury’s Green Book to
        provide guidance on how to appraise, cost, and evaluate public projects in the UK.
        Alexandridis’ research for Eurobank Property Services (a leading Greek and Romanian
        mortgage lender) resulted in an automatic mass valuation system for the real-estate sector,
        which was also used by the Greek Ministry of Finance and the European Commission to
        objectively define the value of real estate in Greece. Oberoi (whose KTP is described in
        Section C) won the 2018 research prize from the International Centre for Pension
        Management, for his paper on population structure and asset values.

    •   Management Science. Led by Scaparra, this group includes 14 Category A staff and has
        an international reputation in the areas of operational research, big data analytics,
        operations management, information systems, and environmental management. This
        covers the spectrum of Operational Research (OR) from Soft OR (Mingers, Papadopoulos)
        through to Hard OR (O’Hanley, Salhi, Scaparra, Wassan, Wu), and those researchers
        whose work bridges both fields (Acquaye, Kotiadis, Liu). Four members of the group
        featured in the Top 2% of Scientists in the World (Mingers, Papadopoulos, Salhi, Wu).
        Mingers is considered a pioneer in the field of Soft OR, and he is ranked in the top two for
        Operational Research in the UK and top 17 in the world. The economic and societal impact
        on the group’s research internationally is illustrated by the examples throughout this
        document (KTPs, CREST-OR, ReTraCE), while its contribution to the research base is
        outlined in Section D. This academic influence is nurtured through events such as the three
        international conferences the group has hosted over the REF period: International
        Symposium on Combinatorial Optimisation (2016); Data Envelopment Analysis
        International Conference (2019); and OR Society Annual Conference (2019, co-chairs
        Kotiadis and Salhi).

    •   Marketing. Led by Lowe, this group includes 12 Category A staff whose research spans
        four main themes: new product development and innovation; buyer behaviour and
        marketing communications; marketing sustainability and ethics; and the management of
        supply (value) chains and market delivery systems. The group has a long tradition based
        around its sectoral focus on the food industry, and recent research in the group has
        contributed to debates on behaviour change around key societal issues such as food
        consumption (Lowe, Petrovici), household water consumption (Lowe), energy
        conservation (Chryssochoidis), and health behaviours (Garcia, Lowe, Petrovici). Ongoing
        and future projects will continue to extend its sectoral foci on emerging market economies,
        high-technology and new (social and digital) media environments. In 2023, the group will
        host the Academy of Marketing Science’s World Marketing Congress. Garcia, who appears
        in the Top 2% of Scientists, has worked with Kaggle, the leading online platform in data
        analytics, in a project to examine the role of intrinsic and extrinsic motivation in online
        communities’ participation and determine the impact of contests’ task and knowledge
        characteristics in participants’ motivation. Marketing researchers will have a pivotal role in
        leading involvement in the University’s Environment, Food Systems, and Natural
        Resources Signature Research Theme, as well as the Growing Kent and Medway project
        (Chryssochoidis, Lowe). The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a number of businesses
        approaching the School for support in developing digital marketing strategies, an area
        where the group has particular expertise (see Krasonikolakis’ impact case study ‘Helping
        Greek Banks to Move Online’).

    •   People Management and Organisation (PMO). Led by Lewis, this group includes 11
        Category A staff and conducts research in: employment relationships; diversity; the role of
        social partners; the effects of skills, technology, and culture on the world of work; employee
        engagement; and the role of leadership. The group’s international reputation in the

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        discipline is evidenced through Lewis’s inclusion in the Top 2% of World Scientists,
        Georgellis’ position as a Top 10% author in the RePEc worldwide citation rankings, and
        Clark’s award of Web of Science Highly Cited Researcher 2018. Clark and Georgellis are
        internationally recognised for their work in the area of wellbeing, with Georgellis (a
        Distinguished Associate of the International Atlantic Association) providing the keynote at
        the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Humanistic Management
        Network Conference. Aligned with the School’s focus on entrepreneurship, Georgellis has
        examined job satisfaction and self-employment (Georgellis, 2016), Koch explored the
        career patterns of the self-employed and the success associated with different career
        patterns (Koch, 2019), and Lewis has published on female entrepreneurs and
        ‘mumpreneurs’ (Lewis, 2014 and 2017). The group currently hosts two funded projects,
        with Leicht’s work with the Templeman Foundation outlined in Section D. Lewis’s
        Leverhulme Fellowship focuses on her project ‘Postfeminism in the City: Leadership as
        Lived Experience’. The first two papers documenting this project won the Best
        Developmental Paper Award in the Gender in Management track at the British Academy
        of Management Conference in 2019 and 2020. It is through Lewis’s position as Joint Editor-
        in-Chief of Gender, Work and Organization that KBS secured the 11th Biennial
        International Interdisciplinary Gender, Work and Organization Conference.

    •   Strategy and International Business (SIB). Led by Saridakis, this group includes 23
        Category A staff and conducts research in strategic alliances, non-market strategies,
        performance management, business in emerging economies, international strategy,
        management of multinational enterprises, and corporate social responsibility. Included
        within the list of the Top 2% of Researchers is Amankwah-Amoah, who won the European
        Academy of Management and European Management Review Best Paper (2018) for his
        work ‘Integrating the Dark Side of Competition into Explanations of Business Failures:
        Evidence from a Developing Economy’. In 2019, the group organised a research panel on
        Migrants’ Entrepreneurship with group members (Khan, Saridakis, Puthusserry) and top
        scholars from the USA (including Gary Knight) at the annual conference of the Academy
        of International Business at Copenhagen. Since 2018, Saridakis has been Track Chair for
        ‘Business Creation, Early-Stage Development and Business Closure’ for the Institute for
        Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE). Members of this group frequently contribute
        to think pieces and blogs, with Stoian’s article on Unilever’s decision to move its
        headquarters from London to Amsterdam reaching a global audience of more than 5 million
        readers, with citations in more than 10 newspapers worldwide, including the New York
        Times, AFP European, the Gulf Times, and Kuwait Times. Stoian won the 2018 Danny
        Van Den Bulcke Best Paper Prize at the 44th European International Business Academy
        conference for her article on the impact of foreign direct investment on institutional change
        in African countries.

 Research Centres and Hub. KBS currently hosts three Research Centres and one Hub, all of
 which contribute applied research expertise to organisations and government agencies, regionally
 and nationally.

    •   Centre for Logistics and Heuristic Optimisation (CLHO). Led by Salhi, this Centre
        focuses on the development of new applied research in logistics, using heuristic search
        and practical optimisation. The research carried out in CLHO has helped to tackle real-life
        problems arising both in the public and in the private sectors. This has led to the generation
        of optimisation tools to improve scheduling and routing, production, facility location, and
        network security enhancement for a wide range of stakeholders. Current areas of interest
        include green logistics such as environmental routing, routing of electric vehicles, and
        scheduling with drones. CLHO is at the forefront of theoretical research in the most
        common areas of heuristic search: design of new facets within heuristics; constructing
        efficient data structures and appropriate neighbourhoods; robust optimisation; and the use
        of information, combining exact and heuristic methodologies and analysis of heuristic
        methods, among others. Members of the Centre have implemented this applied research
        in four of the five KTPs hosted by the School: Dover Harbour Board (O’Hanley); Eurostar

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (O’Hanley); Parker Steel (Wassan); Priority Freight (Salhi). These projects built on its
        active engagement with practitioners through the Centre’s hosting of the three annual
        regional meetings of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.

    •   Centre for Quantitative Finance (CeQuFin). Led by King, this Centre aims to bridge the
        gap between academia and industry. To this end, the research carried out in CeQuFin
        focuses on finance and governance affecting the corporate and banking sectors, as well
        as financial markets, with a specific focus on quantitative approaches and on research that
        dynamically addresses key challenges raised by the 2007-9 Global Financial Crisis (GFC).
        The Centre hosts successful seminar and working paper series, and the 16 associate
        members include representatives both from industry and from external academic
        collaborators. In 2015, the Centre, together with a group of international collaborators from
        the universities of Surrey, Maastricht, and Orleans, won seminar funding from the ESRC.
        The ‘New Financial Reality’ series included five seminars that took place across all four
        partner institutions. The events included both academic and finance sector participants,
        with sessions on new risks and new asset classes, as well as new measures of risk and
        risk transmission mechanisms.

    •   Technology, Innovation Management, and Entrepreneurship (TIME). Led by
        Papadopoulos, this is a new multidisciplinary research centre that explores digital
        innovation and industry 4.0. TIME’s research addresses key managerial challenges and
        practices, and aims to generate a corpus of knowledge that can help both academics and
        practitioners tackle the organisational, social, environmental, and economic challenges
        emerging from the rapid development and use of new digital technologies and innovation.
        Papadopoulos is Special Interest Group Chair, eBusiness and eGovernment, for the British
        Academy of Management. Through this role and joint events and projects, the Centre is
        building links with similar research clusters at other universities. TIME hosted the two-day
        event sponsored by Society for Advancement of Management Studies, ‘Open
        Collaboration for Innovation and Change in Healthcare and Medicine’, and has recently
        shifted activity online in response to COVID-19, co-organising a webinar in May 2020
        (‘Hidden Power of Theoretical Mechanisms’) in collaboration with the Special Interest
        Group e-Business and e-Government of the British Academy of Management and the
        eBusiness Research Centre of University of Newcastle Business School.

    •   Productivity Research Hub. The Hub is led by Robinson (Co-Director) with Howells,
        Lyngdoh, and Ko, in conjunction with the School of Economics staff Siegel (Co-Director),
        with Bailey, Klein, Ledesma, Savager). The Hub was created to contribute to current
        debates around productivity, in terms of both macro- and micro-economic perspectives,
        from explaining and addressing regional inequalities to establishing models of cooperation
        that help firms of all sizes to increase their output per hour and per worker. The Hub has
        already secured funding from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) for a pilot study into
        AI robotics and skill complementarity (May 2020). This study examines whether firms that
        invest in AI robotics have identified a training need or recruited into the area, to realise the
        productivity gains. Robinson is conducting a study for the Scottish Government, through
        the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, that investigates the factors
        driving Scotland’s productivity gap (March 2020). The study, which does not limit
        comparison to the UK, was conducted in partnership with Cambridge Econometrics and
        the University of Perugia.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 Since 2014, KBS’s staffing strategy has aligned with the strategic aim of pursuing excellence in
 sustainable innovation research. The School has appointed nine researchers specialising in
 sustainability, including: sustainable finance (King); the circular economy (Acquaye); sustainable
 supply chain performance management (Afrifa); the environmental and social impacts of the oil

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and gas and mining industries in developing economies (Hilson); wellbeing and sustainable
 human resource management (Georgellis, Clark); sustainable health-care systems (Lyngdoh,
 Papadopoulos); and sustainable growth in emerging markets (Amankawah-Amoah).

 The ASPIRE initiative has formed part of the staffing strategy within the innovation area, with two
 ASPIRE Postdoctoral Research Associates (PDRAs) in Innovation appointed in 2017 and two new
 Professors of Innovation (Flowers and Howells). Other appointments over the REF period include
 experts in new venture financing and strategy (Park); big data management and industry 4.0
 (Shamim); and digital economy and dynamic capabilities (Zeng).

 Senior appointments. New professorial appointments have brought leadership to the research
 groups (Saridakis; Shamshur) and centres (Papadopoulos), led the recent funding success
 through Growing Kent and Medway (Chryssochoidis; Howells), and played a pivotal role in
 strategic development through leadership roles such as Associate Dean for Research and
 Innovation.

 Mid-career researchers. Appointments at the mid-career level have bought energy and ambition
 to the community, with Kotiadis’ work on the PartiSim approach being utilised by PhD students
 and integrated into the curriculum, and Robinson leading the new focus on productivity. These
 staff have developed into leadership roles while at KBS, with Kotiadis now Director of Graduate
 Studies (Research), King leading CeQuFin, and Bigoni serving as Head of the Accounting Group.

 Early career researchers (ECRs). Aligned with the University’s commitment to supporting the next
 generation of researchers, the majority of appointments over the REF2021 period have been at
 the Lecturer and Senior Lecturer level. We are committed to recruiting, developing, and retaining
 researchers with the potential to produce world-leading research. Appointed as a Lecturer in 2011,
 Wyatt has since been promoted and leads an impact case study. Scaparra and O’Hanley were
 recruited at Lecturer level in 2006 and are both now members of the School’s professoriate:
 leading grant applications and KTPs, generating impact locally and internationally, and now
 mentoring the new ECR recruits within the Management Science research group, which Scaparra
 leads.

 Within the REF2021 period, the School also recruited Afrifa, who has worked with Acquaye on
 environmentally sustainable supply chain performance and whose work on corporate governance
 has covered both gender (2019) and greenhouse gas reporting (2020). Since his employment in
 2019, Raeesi has been supported to publish his work on a new methodology for making mobile
 battery swapping an alternative to intra-route recharging of Electric Commercial Vehicles. Raeesi
 has been invited to the EPSRC Network-H2 call on the ‘Economic Feasibility of Hydrogen-Fuelled
 Transportation’. Leicht’s work with the John Templeman Foundation is outlined in Section D below.

 Promotions. Since REF2014, 27 members of academic staff have been promoted: 12 female and
 15 male. Female Readers have been supported to undertake significant roles of responsibility, to
 enable them to apply for promotion to Professor, as part of activities to address the professoriate
 gender imbalance. While we aim to retain staff through our supportive and enabling culture, we
 recognise that academic staff movement is an inherent part of the domestic and international
 sector. The progression and development of researchers during their time at KBS, and their
 subsequent attractiveness on the market, is a source of pride, and their ongoing relationship with
 the School helps to extend research networks. Panopoulou progressed from Senior Lecturer to
 Professor at KBS, and is now Deputy Head of the Finance Group at Essex, while remaining a
 member of CeQuFIN.

 Our staffing strategy for 2021-27 will remain focused on: recruiting at professorial and ECR levels
 in alignment with strategic aims; retention through development and progression; and maintaining
 relationships with leavers. However, the introduction of the new departmental structure in 2021
 will inform where these new appointments are focused, to ensure capacity across the
 Departments.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff Development
 KBS is committed to developing individual research trajectories through a culture of support and
 mentoring, aided by annual personal development plans.

 Review and mentoring. The School undertakes annual Individual Research Planning (IRP)
 meetings with all research staff to support their research activities. Meetings with the Associate
 Dean for Research and Innovation provide an opportunity to acknowledge achievements, identify
 barriers, connect staff to support, and indicate development needs at School and University
 levels. New academics on probation are allocated a dedicated research mentor to provide
 support, advice, and guidance.

 Research allowances. Researchers each receive £2,000 per annum and are encouraged to use
 their allowances to support publication, impact development, and winning research funding.

 Staff training. The University runs an annual programme of workshops through the established
 ECR Network and Grants Factory programme for staff at all career stages. Staff have found these
 training opportunities very useful, with Lewis attending a Grants Factory session on Leverhulme
 funding prior to her successful application. KBS ‘Lunch and Learn’ events run throughout the year,
 with topics informed by feedback and the research strategy. For example, given wide interest
 across KBS in health and wellbeing research, a workshop on ‘Applying for National Institute of
 Health Research (NIHR) Funding’ was run with the NIHR Research Design Service South-East
 in 2020. Annual Research Induction events for new joiners introduce the professional research
 support team (see below) and provide sessions on matters such as Open Access, research ethics
 procedures, and research support mechanisms.

 Advanced research training. KBS allocates £15,000 to this activity each year. This funding can
 be utilised for individual development, but workshops and sessions that benefit groups are given
 priority. Topics for forthcoming workshops are identified through a review of IRPs.

 School research seminars. Since REF2014, the School’s research seminar series has included
 external conferences, funded workshops, and 51 invited speaker seminars. The budget for the
 seminar series is £7,000 per annum, enabling KBS to invite external speakers from the UK and
 abroad. As an example, Professor David Lane (recipient of the OR Society’s President’s Medal
 and System Dynamics Society’s ‘System Dynamics Application Award’) was an invited speaker
 in 2019.

 Research support team. Our researchers are supported by a dedicated professional service
 support team comprising: Research Manager (Cockell); Research Grants Manager (Garcia-
 Suarez); and Research and PhD Coordinators (Pemble, Krafft). This team keeps the
 administrative burden of research activity low for academic colleagues and provides tailored
 support, including workshops and grant application feedback, as well as facilitating collaborations.
 The coordinators support staff to make their research Open Access compliant, advise on research
 ethics, undertake event organisation, and advise academic colleagues on external regulations
 and University procedures and policies.

 Research Students
 In 2019-20, the KBS PhD community included 55 postgraduate research (PGR) students (52 full-
 time and three part-time). Our cohort of PGRs is enrolled on seven distinct programmes:
 Accounting; Finance; Management; Management Science; Marketing; Operational Research;
 and Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management. In 2019-20, a further 18
 students enrolled on the KBS PhD programme, which has the following indicators of success:

    •   Completion rates. Since REF2014, 74.5 students have completed their PhDs and of these
        84% of KBS registered students completed within four years (one part-time student within
        six years).


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Recognition. PGR Jeeu Fong Sze won the 2017 OR Society Doctoral Award for 'Most
         Distinguished Body of Research leading to the Award of a Doctorate in the field of OR'
         and was one of the ORS Beale Lecture 2020 speakers. Starita was a finalist for the same
         award and was selected to present his research in the House of Commons during the
         STEM for Britain 2017 exhibition for early career researchers. Luo was awarded the 2018
         Chinese Government Award for Outstanding Self-Financed Students Abroad.

     •   Publication. While still a PhD student, Bochra Idris won the Best Paper Award at the
         Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship Conference (2019) for a paper co-
         authored with Saridakis. Allahi won the Best Student Paper Award of the 2017
         International Conference of Financial Engineering.

     •   Careers. Recent graduate Mattia Bevilacqua is now a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at
         the Systemic Risk Centre at the London School of Economics. Annunziata Esposito
         Amideo is a Lecturer in Business Analytics at the Quinn School of Business at University
         College Dublin, and Stefano Starita is a Lecturer at the Sasin School of Management in
         Thailand: both continue to work with members of the Management Science Group. Rufus
         Howard is Director of Sustainable Development at Royal Haskoning DHV, and Davide
         Vioto is a Policy Analyst at the Bank of England. Vioto, Howard, Starita, Esposito Amideo,
         and Bevilacqua all received University-funded PhD studentships. Over the REF2021
         period, Simeonova progressed from being a PhD scholarship student to KTP Associate
         at Parker Steel, and is now a Lecturer in the Management Science Group.

     •   Externally funded studentships. Since REF2014, 10 KBS students have been supported
         through externally funded scholarships, including: four South-East Network for Social
         Sciences (SeNSS) awards; three EPSRC awards; and two ESRC and one European
         Commission H2020 scholarships.

     •   School studentships. Across this REF cycle, KBS has invested £1 million in PhD
         scholarships, with 33 studentships awarded during the period, a significant investment in
         providing opportunities to outstanding students. In recognition of the international profile
         of the student cohort, the School introduced KBS International Scholarships, which include
         fees at the overseas student rate, facilitating recruitment of excellent students.

     •   PGR training. KBS PhD students complete four compulsory, discipline-specific PGR
         modules that complement Graduate and Researcher College provision. In 2016, these
         modules were reviewed to ensure compliance with ESRC requirements, and, in 2017, a
         KBS quantitative module was developed and introduced. In addition to this formal training,
         the annual PhD Conference provides the opportunity for students to receive feedback on
         their research and present to a wide audience. Following her success in the poster
         competition in the 2020 PhD Conference, Arwa Alhyari went on to win the Best
         Developmental paper award at the British Academy of Management Conference (Public
         Management and Governance Track).

     •   Culture. KBS PhD students are fully integrated into the wider research community, as well
         as within the research group aligned to their programme of study. They attend seminars
         at School and Group level, and are included in meetings and social events. Our PGR
         community also runs monthly colloquia throughout the term, where they present to their
         colleagues. The Director of Graduate Studies (Research) and research support team have
         fostered this supportive culture through regular coffee mornings, the provision of student
         support, and informal interactions.

 Equality and Diversity
 Gender. KBS has worked hard to improve female representation at the higher levels and in
 leadership positions. Three of the six Heads of Group and 50% of the Senior Leadership Team
 are female. The new Dean (Garcia) was promoted to Professor while at KBS, successfully led

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 KBS at Medway, and is now the School’s first female Dean. Kotiadis is Director of Graduate
 Studies (Research), and Scaparra is the incoming Associate Dean for Research and Innovation.
 In 2019-20, 22% of Professors within KBS are women (up from 18% in 2015-16), with 40% of
 Readers being female (up from 0% in 2015-16). While improved, these statistics are far from the
 equal representation to which KBS aspires. To create a targeted and effective action plan, the
 School used the Athena SWAN framework and successfully applied for a Bronze Award in 2020:
 KBS is now one of only 31 business schools to hold an Athena SWAN award. Actions will build on
 existing targeted intervention: three of the School’s female academics were selected for the
 University’s first Aurora leadership programme cohort, with one of our impact case study leads
 (Wyatt) participating in the programe. KBS is able to apply its research excellence in gender and
 diversity to our programme of cultural and structural change. Three members of the PMO Group
 play a key role in the Athena SWAN self-assessment team (Evans as Chair, Leicht, Wyatt), with
 Lewis providing advice. Our researchers are involved in other disciplinary initiatives, with Kotiadis
 a founding member of Women in OR and Analytics (WORAN) for the OR Society (UK).

 International and ethnically diverse staff base. KBS is one of the most international Schools in the
 University, with more than half of its academic members holding non-UK passports and 21
 nationalities represented within the cohort. The School has a high proportion of BAME staff (39%,
 of whom 20% are UK nationals and 54% international), with 20% of the professoriate being BAME.
 The HESA data for 2018-19 showed that, across the UK higher education sector, only 140
 academic staff at professorial level identified as Black, equating to 0.7%. The KBS professoriate
 includes two Black Professors (one UK national and one international), one of whom was
 promoted to Professor in 2020. For details of the School’s impact on BAME leaderships within
 higher education as a sector, see Wyatt’s impact case study, ‘Supporting the Career Advancement
 of BAME Professionals in Healthcare, Education, and Industry’.

 Inclusive culture. KBS has invested in, and remains committed to, a comprehensive range of
 inclusivity actions and objectives. One example is the change to the research seminar series,
 which was moved to lunchtimes in 2018, with vegan and halal options made available. The
 Research Manager and Associate Dean for Research and Innovation have experience of leading
 Athena SWAN activities at a national and institutional level. While our researchers are mainly in
 the 36 to 45 age range (43%), there is representation from 26 to over 65. Research support is
 offered to staff of all ages and at every career stage (with the two not being conflated) through IRP
 meetings. While the policy is universal, implementation is designed to avoid indirect discrimination:
 staff are confidentially asked if they consider any circumstances to have impacted negatively upon
 their research outcomes, and support is tailored to each staff member’s individual circumstances.
 Examples of support include proofreading for non-native speakers of English and specialist
 software for disabled staff members.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 The School’s research income for the REF2021 period show an increase of 550% in comparison
 with REF2014, from £88,533 in 2013-14 to £477,652 in 2018-19. A disappointing drop in 2019-20
 (£157,550) is attributed to the pausing of projects owing to COVID-19 (for example, the Eurostar
 KTP and CREST-OR), though the securing of £1.1 million in new funding in 2019-20 will ensure
 that this dip is temporary. The generally improving trend evidences the impact of the enhanced
 peer-review process and IRP meetings, as well as the regular funding workshops. The £930k
 awarded to the UKRI ‘Strength in Places’ research project, ‘Growing Kent and Medway’, is
 representative of our potential and strategy for the next REF cycle (see Section A).

 The above figures refer to the income the School receives as a result of its involvement in a wide
 range of different projects, rather than to the total values of the individual awards themselves. For
 example, while Acquaye and Spiegler’s contribution to the ReTraCE project (2018-22) is
 recognised through a €303,173 award to KBS, the total value of this European Commission H2020
 project is €4,039,862.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Many of our smaller awards from funders such as the British Academy (King, Matousek,
 Shamshur) and the Society for the Advancement of Management Studies (Garcia) have led to
 larger projects, such as Acquaye’s capacity-building ‘Environmental Sustainability Modelling’
 workshops creating the foundation for his ReTraCE involvement. Funded by the Society for the
 Advancement of Management Studies in 2018, the event attracted attendees from 19 universities,
 banks, and the private sector.

 Much of the funding for our business transformation initiatives comes through KTPs, where KBS
 has a particularly strong track record. The funding for these projects over the REF2021 period has
 totalled £800,213, and KTPs form the basis of two of our impact case studies. InnovateUK data
 for the REF2021 period shows KBS received the third highest share of the available funding, out
 of the 36 business schools participating in the initiative.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 KBS Canterbury. In 2017, our Canterbury-based team moved to the £35 million Sibson building,
 which won a RIBA South-East Award in 2018 for design and sustainability. The new building
 promotes our research culture in a number of ways. The building is shared with the School of
 Mathematic, Statistics and Actuarial Sciences (SMSAS), and located next to the School of
 Economics, creating links with Schools that share research interests (see Section A: Productivity
 Hub). A large and attractive atrium provides an ideal venue for events. A staff room and café
 facilitate further informal interaction. PhD students are housed in shared offices next to academic
 staff offices, which enables our PGRs to have easier access to supervisors and other experts in
 their field. There is also dedicated space for our postdoctoral researchers.

 KBS Medway. Our Medway-based team is located in the Sail and Colour Loft on the Historic
 Dockyard. In 2018-19, KBS invested a further £1.2 million in additional space and facilities at this
 site. Improved amenities include: PhD office spaces; social spaces for informal interactions and
 the daily coffee mornings for researchers and PhD students; and a new group learning room which
 hosts the Medway seminars, as well as TIME meetings and events.

 Bloomberg facilities. Bloomberg software provides real-time and historical financial data for our
 finance researchers. All staff and PhDs have access to the data and Excel plug-ins allow for easier
 download and manipulation of data. This facility provided empirical data used in the CeQuFin
 study ‘Equity Release Mortgages: No Negative Equity Guarantee (NNEG)’, which was funded by
 the Institute and Faculty of Actuary and the Association of British Insurers in 2019.

 Specialist research software and IT equipment. The University holds site licences for Matlab,
 SPSS, and NVivo, while more specialist software can be bought via individual research
 allowances. For high-end calculations, KBS is an early subscriber to the University’s two High-
 Performance Computing (HPC) clusters: Phoenix, which is a 96-core Matlab machine; and Tesla,
 which has a 4096-core GPU system and can be additionally used with R and Python. The HPC
 cluster was utilised during the recent KTP with the energy management consultancy, Zero Trace
 Procurement Limited (ZTP).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our organisational structures, funded projects, and service to the disciplines all combine to ensure
 that we play a significant role with academic and other stakeholders regionally, nationally, and
 internationally. Our focus on sustainable innovation ensures a balance of academic, economic,
 and societal contributions from disciplines as varied as operational research, finance, marketing,
 accounting, strategy, and human resource management.

 Research Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships
 Both our organisational structures and our individual research programmes result in formal
 collaborations worldwide. At School level, our International Advisory Board, visiting academic
 programme, Research Centres, and programme of external events ensure regular interchange

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and networking with scholars from other institutions, countries, and disciplines. These activities
 are described throughout this document and particular highlights are also listed below.

 One specific route to high-quality, high-impact international collaborations has been through our
 growing portfolio of externally funded research and innovation projects, such as:

    •   ReTraCE (Acquaye, Spiegler, 2018-22, Horizon 2020) develops a holistic approach for
        evaluating and realising the transition towards the Circular Economy, addressing
        economic, environmental, and social issues. The consortium comprises: seven academic
        institutions from Germany, Greece, Holland, Italy, and Sweden; two industrial partners,
        Tata Steel UK and Olympia Electronics SA; and a not-for-profit organisation, the Academy
        of Business in Society.

    •   Leicht’s projects for the John Templeton Foundation with the University of Birmingham
        (UK), Kent State University (US), and York University (Canada) have expanded the
        Foundation’s research on science and religion, from the humanities (History of Science,
        Philosophy, Theology), to a new research field within the social sciences.

    •   Enhancing fisheries resilience and hydropower development: the road to sustainable
        energy-water-food NEXUS in Brazil (O'Hanley, 2018 British Council, Newton Fund grant).
        This project supports networking with South American researchers working on river
        conservation, river connectivity enhancement, and optimally locating/removing
        hydropower dams in Brazil.

    •   GCRF-OSIRIS (Optimal Investment Strategies to Minimise Flood Impact on Road
        Infrastructure Systems in Vietnam; Scaparra, 2017-19). This GCRF project funded by the
        British Academy through the Cities and Infrastructure programme is a collaboration
        between the UK universities of Kent and Nottingham together with Vietnamese cross-
        sectoral stakeholders involved in flood risk management. These include the Vietnam
        Ministry of Transport, the Vietnamese Academy of Science and Technology, and the
        Vietnam Institute of Meteorology, Hydrology, and Climate Change. This project generated
        momentum around the use of analytics tools for sustainable development in Southeast
        Asia and fostered the creation of a wider multi-institution, multi-country partnership in the
        region, which ultimately led to the CREST-OR capacity-building project.

 Building on individual achievements in the area, in 2020 the School hosted a two-day workshop
 on ‘Open Collaboration for Innovation and Change in Healthcare and Medicine’, sponsored by the
 Society for the Advancement of Management Studies, and hosted by TIME. The event was open
 to academics and practitioners, and panel discussions included representatives from NHS Trusts
 and a local children’s hospice, as well as the Director of the Institute for Patient Experience.

 These formal collaborations are complemented by our active programme of academic visits. As
 well as welcoming 37 visiting researchers from 13 countries during the REF2021 period, KBS
 researchers are visitors at several international institutions, as well as collaborators in projects
 based in overseas institutions. Examples include:

    •   Clark’s position at the Paris School of Economics and co-directorship of the CEPREMAP
        Well-Being Observatory, where researchers from a range of institutions (including Paris
        School of Economics, Sciences Po MediaLab, Sciences Po Cevipof, and the OECD) work
        on wellbeing in France.
    •   Bigoni’s relationship with the University of Ferrara, where he is a member of the Research
        Centre on Public Value, as well as of the Scientific Committee for the executive education
        course Local Government and Other Public Administrations Performance Improvement.
        Bigoni delivers an annual invited lecture on public sector accounting every year, to an
        audience including public servants and managers. This interaction led to a paper on the
        public value management system adopted by the municipality of Ferrara.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   In 2018, King won a visiting research ACRI fellowship for emerging international research
        talent (under 40), which was hosted by the Department of Communications and Economics
        at the University of Modena and Reggio Emilia.
    •   Hampton is a Visiting Professor of Tourism at Universiti Teknologi, Malaysia, and a
        founding member of the International Small Island Studies Association (ISISA).
    •   Lewis was a Visiting Professor at the Centre for Research in Equality and Diversity at the
        School of Business and Management, Queen Mary, University of London, in 2020.
 Contributions to the Research Base
 The highlights of the School’s contributions to the research base include prominent editorial roles
 across a wide range of academic journals, as well as the hosting of academic conferences for
 learned societies at our Kent campuses. Through collaborative projects, particularly those
 awarded through GCRF and KTP mechanisms, our staff also help build research capacity in the
 diverse settings of low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and organisations that develop tools
 based on our research, as well as building innovative academic collaborations that open up new
 fields of study internationally.

 Individually, many of our researchers are recognised for their contributions to a range of fields. In
 Ioannidis’ 2020 Stanford University Report, seven KBS staff were ranked in the Top 2% of
 Scientists in the World, with Mingers ranked in the top two for Operational Research in the UK and
 top 17 in the world. Clark was listed as a Web of Science Highly Cited Researcher 2018 and
 Oxford University Press described Funnell as ‘the world’s leading scholar of public sector
 accountability’ in 2016.

 As a School, we also take advantage of our excellent location for national and international
 meetings of scholars and learned societies. High-profile events that took place on campus during
 the REF2021 period include:

    •   BAM Eastern Academic Research Consortium Seminar on Innovation, Sustainability, and
        Performance (December 2014)
    •   ESRC Research Seminars on Volunteer Tourism (Hampton, June 2015 and 2016).
    •   ESRC Research Seminar series on Gendered Inclusion in Contemporary Organisations,
        a collaboration with the University of Essex, Cranfield University, and Middlesex University,
        with two seminars taking place at KBS (Lewis 2015- 19).
    •   International Symposium on Combinatorial Optimisation (September 2016).
    •   Data Envelopment Analysis International Conference (June 2019).
    •   UK OR Society Annual Conference OR61 (2019, co-chairs Kotiadis and Salhi).

 These contributions and markers of esteem are in addition to the prizes, awards, and grants
 detailed elsewhere in this document.

 Editorial Roles, Reviewing, and Learned Societies
 The School currently has seven Editors-in-Chief, Founding Editors or equivalent at publications
 including: British Journal of the OR Society (Salhi); Gender, Work and Organization (Lewis);
 Health Systems Journal (Kotiadis); and International Journal of Multinational Corporation Strategy
 (Amankwah-Amoah). Scaparra is a member of the Scientific Committee for the 2021 CABS
 Academic Journal Guide (2020-21).

 In addition, staff at the School are Co-Editors and members of the Editorial Board or equivalent
 on a further 37 journals, including: European Journal of Marketing (Lowe); International Journal of
 Operations and Production Management (Papadopoulos); Accounting, Auditing and
 Accountability (Funnell); Institute of Industrial and Systems Engineers Transactions (Scaparra,
 Wu); Reliability Engineering and System Safety (Wu); and Technological Forecasting and Social
 Change (Lee, Papadopoulos).



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A number of our researchers have also been awarded ‘Outstanding Reviewer’ status for their
 contribution to the peer-review process for respected journals, including: Kotiadis (European
 Journal of Operational Research); Lowe (International Journal of Bank Marketing in the Emerald
 Literati Network 2016 and 2019 Awards for Excellence, plus ‘Outstanding Journal Contribution’ for
 the European Journal of Marketing, 2019); Wu (European Journal of Operational Research,
 Reliability Engineering and System Safety, and International Journal of Production Economics).

 Members of KBS also contribute to a range of professional societies, hosting and delivering joint
 events with the Chartered Institute Professional Development (CIPD). Wyatt is chair of the British
 Psychological Society’s (BPS) Division of Occupational Psychology’s (DOP) international working
 group.

 Developing Capacity and New Directions for Management Scholarship
 In addition to the disciplinary contributions listed above, our research community uses formally
 constituted research collaborations and externally funded projects to build capacity amongst a
 wide range of stakeholder groups, and to establish new fields of enquiry for the discipline. Some
 indicative examples are listed below:

    •   Kotiadis, O’Hanley, Scaparra: CREST-OR (Improving Community Resilience and
        Sustainability Through Operational Research Capacity Building in Southeast Asia), 2019-
        21. This EPSRC-funded project aims to build research capacity in OR and address UN
        Sustainable Development Goals in Southeast Asia (SEA), specifically four challenge
        areas: disaster management; resilient transport infrastructure; food supply security; and
        smart cities (Scaparra et al. [2019], ‘Community perceptions of social, economic and
        environmental impacts of flooding in central districts of Hanoi, Vietnam’). The project,
        which involves three UK universities (Kent, Lancaster, Southampton) and seven academic
        institutions in four SEA countries, is endorsed by both the UK Operational Research
        Society and the International Federation of OR Societies (IFORS). One of its objectives is
        to lay the groundwork for the establishment of a Southeast Asia OR Society.

    •   Kotiadis’ PartiSim uses soft OR methodology to create simulation models for non-specialist
        audiences. Originally developed for the NHS to support an obesity patient pathway, the
        dedicated toolkit is now publicly available. The PartiSim approach has been embedded
        into undergraduate and MSc modules and taught as part of NATCOR, the Behavioural OR
        summer school. Two of Kotiadis’ PhD students are now applying PartiSim techniques in
        studies related to mental healthcare and to ageing populations in South America, with
        Vivianne Horsti Dos Santos being funded through the University’s Global Challenge
        Doctoral Centre (GCDC).

    •   Leicht’s two social science and religion projects for the John Templeton Foundation
        resulted in the Foundation’s three-pillar initiative on the Social Scientific Study of Science
        and Religion, worth $10 million. Leicht and her team were awarded £2.2 million to grow
        the international research network that underpins this initiative. The resulting networking
        project focuses on academic capacity-building and extending the field through a sub-
        granting scheme along with regular workshops, summer schools, and conferences. Leicht
        serves on both the advisory board and the current grant funding sub-committee of the
        scheme. The network works with scholars across 26 countries, including Argentina,
        Australia, Germany, Spain, and Sri Lanka.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society
 As a business school that specialises in sustainable innovation, we are particularly proud that our
 research makes important societal contributions across a range of sectors, both nationally and
 internationally, as well as being applied directly by businesses. In a number of the examples below,
 our research achieves this societal benefit through commercial partnerships.



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our contributions to the economy and society within the UK include:

    •   Growing Kent and Medway project. This project (commencing in September 2020) focuses
        on the production and processing of high-value foods and plant-based compounds. The
        consortium includes four large agri-food companies (Berry Gardens Growers, Thanet
        Earth, APS Salads, Worldwide Fruit) and delivers an inclusive and innovation-led growth
        cluster to develop the region's advanced horticulture and food and drink processing and
        packaging industries. The project builds on regional projects related to food, such as Wu’s
        2015 ESRC project ‘Smart data analytics for business and local government’, which
        analysed the association between fly-tipping, food hygiene, and the environmental factors
        of food establishments in Kent, with findings informing county council decisions.

    •   Kent County Council. Filippaios undertook two studies as part of an Interreg Project on
        Small and Medium Enterprises Information Exchange (SIE), engaging seven EU regions
        (2016). The first study analysed the internationalisation activities of 268 Kent-based SMEs
        and their evaluation of existing support mechanisms at regional and national level. The
        second project focused on the internationalisation of SMEs. Outcomes of the studies have
        informed policy development in the areas of SME support at Council level, and an article
        based on the research outcomes was awarded Best Paper by the Institute of Small
        Business and Enterprise (ISBE) at their annual conference in Belfast, 2017.

    •   Kent Resilience Forum. Our researchers are contributing their skills and expertise to
        support efforts to tackle the multitude of challenges engendered by the COVID-19
        pandemic. The Kent Resilience Forum consists of all the major agencies (police/fire
        rescue, Public Health England, local trusts, local councils, Kent County Council), and
        Kotiadis has been supporting their decision-making with regard both to COVID-19 and to
        Brexit, particularly how the agencies work together to make the best use of resources.

    •   Social enterprises. Between 2014 and 2019, Robinson led a work package for the WISERD
        Civil Society ESRC Research Centre, led by Cardiff University. While not new, social
        enterprises have gained in popularity since the financial crisis, as they offer a more socially
        sustainable way of doing business. The project focused on defining social enterprises as
        business entities, and found that they offer employment opportunities to marginalised
        elements of the labour force. Robinson subsequently authored a chapter in the Handbook
        of Quantitative Research Methods in Entrepreneurship and a State of the Art Review
        (SOTA) through the Enterprise Research Centre (ESRC-funded and led by the universities
        of Warwick and Aston).

    •   Racial inequality in senior management. Since 2014, Wyatt has worked directly with
        sector-leading organisations on evidence-based initiatives that address racial inequality in
        senior management. Partners include a leading international professional services
        consultancy, several NHS Trusts in London, and Advance HE, a UK charity that supports
        organisational development across the UK’s higher education sector. In every case,
        Wyatt’s research has contributed to new training or organisational development initiatives,
        which focus on the role of informal and political workplace dynamics. Outcomes include a
        more representative board at the professional services consultancy and improved diversity
        in senior management across UK higher education. For further details on the impact, see
        the impact case study ‘Supporting the Career Advancement of BAME Professionals in
        Healthcare, Education, and Industry’.

    •   Zero Trace Procurement KTP. The risk management tool developed by Panopoulou and
        Oberoi (2018-20) enables Zero Trace Procurement to help its clients manage their energy
        market activity more effectively, by giving them the ability to forecast price movements and
        model the risk associated with their open contracts. The resulting product (Kiveev) won the
        ‘Broker Initiative of the Year’ award, and was also shortlisted for ‘Innovation of the Year:



                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Software, Digital, and Data’ at the Energy Awards, the premier energy industry event, in
        November 2019.

    •   Equity Release Mortgages. The project ‘Equity Release Mortgages: No Negative Equity
        Guarantee (NNEG)’ was funded by the Institute and Faculty of Actuary and the Association
        of British Insurers. The study identified a more accurate model for forecasting short- and
        medium-term house prices in the UK, and results were released at a launch event in
        February 2019, which was filmed so that the recommendations could be widely
        disseminated to the actuarial profession. David Rule, the Executive Director (Insurance
        Supervision) of the Bank of England Prudential Regulatory Authority, stated: ‘We believe
        the research paper’s advocacy of ERM valuation using risk-neutral techniques is clearly
        expressed and merits serious consideration by firms and their auditors.’ Tunaru conducted
        the study with the support of Quaye, a KBS Research Scholarship PhD student, recruited
        to the post of Lecturer in September 2020.

 Our International contributions to the economy and society include:

    •   IPCC. Acquaye’s expertise in climate change is recognised by his role as Lead Author for
        the United Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment
        Report (AR6), 2018-21. He previously acted as a Lead Author for the Fifth Assessment
        Report (AR5) (2012-14) and Contributing Author for the Technical Summary Report of the
        IPCC. Released in 2012, AR5 informed the Paris Agreement in 2015.

    •   Indonesian Ministry of Tourism. In 2019, Hampton designed and delivered a GCRF-funded
        workshop for senior officials from the Disasters Department and Destinations Department
        at the Indonesian Ministry of Tourism and 30 government, private sector, NGO, and
        academic stakeholders from Vietnam, Thailand, and Malaysia. Coastal tourism in
        Southeast Asia is particularly vulnerable to natural disasters, such as tsunamis and
        earthquakes, as well as to human-originated hazards, including terrorism and political
        instability. This vulnerability constrains the sustainable development that comes from
        tourism, and specifically impedes effective poverty alleviation in the host communities (see
        Jeyacheya and Hampton (2020), ‘Wishful thinking or wise policy? Theorising tourism-led
        inclusive growth: supply chains and host communities’).

    •   OptiPass. This is an optimisation-based decision support tool developed by O’Hanley,
        which was designed to help restore river habitats impacted by artificial river barriers (e.g.
        culverts, dams, and weirs). The tool has been used by a range of government agencies
        and non-profit organisations, including the US Forest Service, North Olympic Salmon
        Coalition, and Squaxin Island Tribe (see King and O’Hanley (2016), ‘Optimal fish passage
        barrier removal – revisited’). O’Hanley’s work on OptiPass was recognised in 2015 by the
        EURO Excellence in Practice Award from the Association of European Operational
        Research Societies (EURO). His ongoing work includes the optimal location of hydropower
        dams.

    •   Korean cultural institutions. Following the publication of his study ‘Business model
        innovation through digitisation in social purpose organisations: A comparative analysis of
        Tate Modern and Pompidou Centre’ (2020), Lee provided his findings to the Goyang
        Cultual Foundation and Sesomun Shrine History Museum in Korea. He provided advice
        on digitalisation and audience engagement, and was invited to deliver lectures at both
        institutions to curators, cultural programmers, academics, and policy-makers.

    •   Injurymap. Lowe and Laffey were awarded an EU Interreg voucher to evaluate user
        experience for Injurymap, a physiotherapy app developed by a Danish company with a
        global user base (2018-19). This involved a 12-month free trial of the app and a subsequent
        global survey of user experience. The study provided insights into further increasing the



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         value of Injurymap to users; for example, through making exercises available beyond the
         recovery phase, to prevent relapse.

 Since 2014, Kent Business School has significantly extended the reach of its research, its
 contribution to capacity building, and its international societal impact across multiple sectors
 through its commitment to sustainable innovation. Throughout the REF2021 period, we have used
 this mission to drive forward new directions in management scholarship, as illustrated throughout
 this environment statement, and effect positive societal, economic, and environmental change on
 a global scale. This commitment has required significant investment and resourcing since 2014,
 and is now fully integrated into the activities of the whole School. Further realisation of this potential
 remains at the core of our research and innovation strategy for the next REF cycle.




                                                                                                   Page 21
