Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 Since REF 2014, the University of Hull has significantly increased support for interdisciplinary
 social science research through substantial strategic investment in staff, research infrastructure
 and PhD scholarships.

 Over the past 7 years, UoA 20 at the University of Hull has more than doubled its research
 income and PhD student completions, developed new strategic research collaborations, and
 colleagues in the Unit have been heavily involved in the work of the Wilberforce Institute, an
 interdisciplinary University research institute that, in 2015, was awarded the Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize for its outstanding work in the fields of historical and contemporary slavery.

 Following a substantive institutional reorganisation in 2016, the UoA is co-located across two
 Faculties: the Faculty of Arts, Cultures and Education (FACE) and the Faculty of Health
 Sciences (FHS). This has strengthened existing collaborations and facilitated strategic
 investment in new interdisciplinary research and a number of innovative cross-cutting initiatives,
 e.g. Humberside Police-Academic Collaboration (H-PAC), The Institute for Clinical and Applied
 Health Research (ICAHR), and the Wilberforce Institute. This has led to a much-strengthened
 REF submission with a strong quality profile and sustainable portfolio despite reduced staff FTE.

 The UoA 20 submission comprises 20 staff members (18.8 FTE). It is an interdisciplinary
 community of social scientists, consisting of criminologists (11), social policy (3) and social work
 (6) staff, undertaking research across three principal themes: vulnerability, harm and health,
 utilising theoretically-informed, mixed-methods approaches providing ‘real world’ insights and
 solutions to some of the most pressing social problems of our time.

                          Social Work and Social Policy Research Themes



                      Vulnerability            Harm                 Health


                        Supervision           Victimology,          Living with
                           and                 harm and             long-term
                        punishment             resilience           conditions




                                            Contemporary           Professional
                       Better policing,
                                             slavery and          practice, young
                            safer
                                             exploitation           people and
                        communities
                                                                  mental health



 These themes explore how people, particularly communities on the margins, experience
 injustice, inequality and illness. We use our findings to better understand these experiences to
 inform policy and enhance service provision. Our two impact case study themes, violence
 prevention and contemporary slavery, are exemplars of this. Our strong interdisciplinary focus
 has enabled us to deliver ground-breaking advances in our traditional, theoretically informed,
 areas of research whilst strengthening the applied, impact-driven ethos of our research

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships and collaborations, further embedding the University of Hull as an anchor institution
 in an area of significant socio-economic deprivation and inequality.

 Since REF 2014, our UoA has doubled research grant income and diversified income streams.
 PhD completions have also doubled, post-graduate intake has increased and the number of PhD
 funded scholarships has grown substantially, facilitating capacity building in core research
 programmes. Our UoA has benefited from extensive institutional investment in the University
 library (£28 million refurbishment) and the Health Campus. In particular, the award-winning
 Allam Medical Building (£28-million investment) provides state of the art teaching and research
 facilities, with more than 50 networked computers, bookable research rooms and breakout
 spaces. It is home to the new Institute for Clinical and Applied Health Research and Hull Health
 Trials Unit. We have invested in research support, forged new relationships with external
 stakeholders, particularly with health services, Local Authorities and the regional police network,
 and extended interdisciplinary collaborations, locally and internationally, which are strongly
 reflected in the impact case studies.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 Following REF 2014, we developed explicit research themes (see Figure above) with clearly
 defined research and impact goals:
     o To build new interdisciplinary, collaborative, national and international research networks
        founded on three overarching themes (Vulnerability, Harm, Health) to deliver research
        impact in: modern slavery and exploitation; policing and community safety; health, social
        work; and social care.
     o To strengthen research capacity, high quality output and impact in our core areas of
        excellence, increase and diversify research income and expand PGR recruitment.

 1.2.1   Extending Core Research Strengths

 Theme one: Vulnerability (1 impact case study)

 Supervision, Surveillance and Punishment
 McCahill, Johnston, Calverley, Green, Johnstone, Dearey, supported by The Centre for
 Criminology and Criminal Justice, employ innovative methodological techniques (smart phone
 time-space diaries, prison ethnography, digital archives) to examine the micro-sociological
 impacts of supervision, systems of punishment, everyday resistance and policy-related research.
 This work calls for a ‘caring’/‘benevolent’ approach to supervision and surveillance, including
 restorative justice, which ameliorates the effects of, ‘vulnerability’, ‘harm’ and ‘ill-health’. The
 research demonstrates how those subject to these strategies are creative social actors often
 managing to negotiate, avoid or contest supervision and surveillance.

 Key Projects
 Our Criminal Past and Our Criminal Ancestors (Johnston: AHRC).
 English Prisons at War: Imprisonment During National Crisis (Johnston: Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship).
 Invalids, Disability and the Modern Prison, 1850-1930 (Johnston: The British Academy).
 Theorising Surveillance in Contexts of Crime, Big Data, Migrancy and Care (McCahill: The
 British Academy).
 The Social Context of Desistance from Offending (Calverley).
 The Innovative Use of Arts-Based Methodologies in Cultural Criminology (Dearey: ESRC).
 Building Bridges: Restorative Dialogues between Victims and Offenders (Johnstone &
 Brennan: European Commission).

 Better Policing, Safer Communities
 Brennan, Burton, Green, Santorso, O’Leary have expanded collaborations with police forces
 across the UK. They have contributed evidence about patterns in domestic abuse, prevention of
 serious violence, use of body-worn video and the use of ANPR camera data to understand
 contemporary offending. They have forged strong links between the University and its local

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 police force, expanding opportunities for research collaboration, knowledge exchange and
 personnel development. The Humberside Police-Academic Partnership (H-PAC) was founded in
 2018 with the signing of a memorandum of understanding to collaborate on research, knowledge
 exchange and personnel development. The University has supported this partnership, awarding
 six PhD scholarships (£480,000 - 2020-2023).

 Key Projects
 Evaluation of Domestic Abuse Matters (Brennan: Office of the Police and Crime
 Commissioner for Hampshire).
 FASTer Access to Alcohol Treatment (Phillips, Brennan: Office of the Police and Crime
 Commissioner for Humberside).
 Evaluation of the Deployment of Body-Worn Video in Humberside Police (Santorso:
 Humberside Police and N8 Policing Research Partnership).
 Feasibility Study to Explore the Use of the MoJ-DfE Linked Dataset to Aid Evaluations
 (Brennan with Cornish, Teyhan, Boyd & Tilling (University of Bristol): ADR-UK).
 Evaluation of the Early Intervention Youth Fund (Brennan with Ecorys and Ipsos MORI:
 Home Office).
 Evaluation of the Violence Reduction Units Programme (Brennan with Ecorys and Ipsos
 MORI: Home Office).

 Theme two: Harm (1 impact case study)

 Victimology, Harm and Resilience
 Green, O’Leary, Calverley, Brennan, Kidd investigate the cultural, environmental and
 biographical impact of violence and harm on victims of crime, including how their sense of harm,
 self-identity and resilience is shaped by the context and aftermath of injustice. The impact of this
 work is evidenced by engagement with the Home Office, Ministry of Justice, police forces, Police
 and Crime Commissioners, victim charities and victims to inform UK and European victim policy
 and practice.

 Researchers have developed new research tools, including the development of a ‘strength-
 growth-resilience’ framework based on a narrative-appreciative methodology (O’Leary & Green,
 2020), the Criminal and Social Harm Ladders (Green & Pemberton 2017) and the Square of
 Memorialisation and Resilience (Green, Kondor & Kidd 2020) to understand the experiential,
 sensorial and agentic dynamics of the victim experience for the purposes of enhancing victim
 support provision and empowering victims by helping them understand their own strengths and
 resources to cope with violence and harm.

 Key Projects
 Cultures of Victimology: Understanding Processes of Victimisation Across Europe
 (Green, O’Leary: EC COST Action (CA18121)).
 Giving Voice to Victims (O’Leary, Calverley, Green: The British Academy/Leverhulme).
 Victims of Serious Violence in England and Wales, 2011-17 (Brennan: College of Policing).
 An Exploration and Domestic Abuse Patterns and Service Provision in Humberside
 (O’Leary, Burton, Brennan: Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner for Humberside).

 Contemporary Slavery and Exploitation
 The Wilberforce Institute (Allain, Bales, Kidd, Wilkinson), awarded the Queen’s Anniversary
 Prize in 2015, is world leading in the measurement of historical and contemporary slavery, using
 the past to raise awareness of the modern slavery issue and to lobby for new national law and
 international standards to protect those vulnerable to exploitation. This interdisciplinary approach
 uses critical historical methods to provide new knowledge and insights into the history of
 transatlantic slavery. This research is deployed to raise awareness about the extent and
 perpetuation of these practices in contemporary society. It has directly informed government
 strategy on modern slavery, domestically and across the world. We work with national and
 international charities, NGOs, and governments to improve understanding of the extent and
 nature of contemporary slavery. We engage with schools, children and the public via a series of

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awareness campaigns and learning packages. In international collaboration, researchers (Bales)
 have led the development of the Global Slavery Index, measuring the presence of slavery in 167
 countries. In 2018, Kidd received a High Sheriff’s award in recognition of service to the
 community in relation to work on modern slavery and she was recognised by the BRE
 Group/Sustain Worldwide as one of the UK’s top 100 Corporate Modern Slavery Influencers.

 Key Projects
 The Anti-Slavery Usable Past (Bales: AHRC).
 The Anti-Slavery Knowledge Network: Community-led Strategies for Creative and
 Heritage-Based Interventions in Sub-Saharan Africa (Oldfield: AHRC/GCRF).
 Prime Minister’s Modern Slavery Centre (Oldfield, Kidd, Wilkinson: Partnership led by the
 Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law, 2019 – present UKRI / AHRC).
 Mapping and Identifying Modern Slavery Vehicular Activity: A Proof-of-Concept Study
 (Brennan with West Yorkshire Police and Lancashire Constabulary: N8 Police Research
 Partnerships).

 Theme three: Health

 Living with Long-Term Conditions
 Bell, Magadi, Price, Reeve, Walker theorise chronic illness, health and the experience of
 diagnosis, integrating this with empirical studies and evaluations of health, social work and social
 care provision, benefiting patients and service users. This research is supported by the
 Academy of Primary Care (Reeve) and the interdisciplinary research group SPARC (Social
 and Psychological Research into Long Term Conditions; Walker). Researching the lived
 experiences of long-term illnesses, including autoimmune conditions, HIV, dementia and their
 specific application to social work practice and primary care is a central strand of this work.
 Research on the impact of fluctuating and invisible conditions on employment and access to
 welfare benefits in this context has been extended (Price, Walker). Reeve offers a
 contemporary approach to self-care and the organisation of services for people living with long-
 term conditions, using new outcome measure tools to reduce the burden of care for individuals
 living with multimorbidity. The experience of LGBT* individuals living with dementia builds on a
 body of research on LGBT carers (Price). Social prescribing, a key element within the NHS
 long-term plan, is a key focus of work in this theme (Bell, Reeve).

 Global Health (Magadi, Walker) is an emerging interdisciplinary research network in our UoA,
 bringing together social policy, epidemiology and nursing. Research undertaken in the areas of
 maternal and reproductive health and HIV/AIDS contributes to public debates and informs
 continued national and international efforts to address key global health challenges. To help
 develop this emerging area, projects have been supported through the University’s internal
 GCRF QR pump-priming funds.

 Key Projects
 Building Critical Mass, Increasing Scale and Impact for Palliative Care through
 International Collaboration (Walker: Research England I3).
 Transitions to Illness: The Lived Experience of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (Walker,
 Price: Lupus UK).
 Employers’ Support in the NHS for Complex Long-Term Conditions (Price, Walker:
 Addenbrooke’s Charitable Trust).
 About Face: Experiences of Dental Reconstruction (Price: British Academy of Cosmetic
 Dentistry).
 An Evaluation of Local Social Prescribing Initiatives (Bell: The Hull NHS CCG).
 Taking on the World, Four Strings at a Time: Hull Older People’s Ukulele Orchestra (Price:
 HEIF).
 Optimising a Whole-Person Centred Approach to Stopping Medicines in Older People
 with Multimorbidity and Polypharmacy: The Tailor Medication Synthesis (Reeve: NIHR
 HTA).
 Addressing Mental Health Inequalities: Integration of a Non-Medical Mental Health Model

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into Primary Care (Reeve: NIHR Innovation, Excellence and Strategic Development Fund).
 Evolving HIV/AIDS Epidemic in the Most Affected Communities of Eastern and Southern
 Africa: Understanding the Role of Culture and Global Civil Society (Magadi, Walker: UoH
 GCRF QR).
 A Community-Based mHealth Approach to Improving Adolescent Sexual/Reproductive
 Health in Homabay County of Western Kenya (Magadi: UoH GCRF QR).

 Professional Practice, Young People and Mental Health
 The concept and practice of professional curiosity in social work supervision is central to this
 strand (Burton, Revell). Researchers explore the effectiveness of children’s and young people’s
 multidisciplinary team working, specifically with complex cases, to improve mental health
 outcomes (Bell, Revell).

 Research on young people’s mental health (Bell) contributes to local policy and commissioning
 planning for accessible adolescent mental health services. Research on suicide prevention has
 contributed to WHO Guidelines on media reporting of suicide in addition to informing local and
 regional suicide prevention strategies. The role of social media, and other digital practices, to
 manage grief after traumatic loss in the context of research in contemporary death, dying and
 bereavement, continues as a central research strand (Bell). The place of religion and spirituality
 in professional practice has also been a developing focus of enquiry (Humphrey).

 Key Projects
 An Ongoing Evaluation of The Effectiveness of Children and Young People’s Multi-
 Disciplinary Team Working Specifically to Improve Mental Health Outcomes (Bell, Revell:
 The East Riding of Yorkshire Council and DfE).
 Suicide Prevention and Social Media: Safe Responsible Social Media Use in the Aftermath
 of a Suicide (Bell: UoH Impact Acceleration Fund).
 SMASH: Social Mediation and Self-Help for Young People (Bell: Big Lottery and Hull City
 Council).
 Creating Strong Communities: Signs of Safety and Restorative Practices with Children
 and Families (Bell: DfE and North East Lincs. Council).
 Access to Adolescent Mental Health Services (Bell: Hull NHS CCG).
 Facebook and Death (Bell: Wellcome Trust).
 An Exploration of Barriers and Attitudes toward Sexuality and Reproductive Health
 Education in Primary Schools in Malawi: A Pilot Study (Magadi: GCRF).
 Schools’ Health Promotion Project (SHP) in Jigawa State, Nigeria (Magadi: GCRF).

 1.3 Future Strategic Aims and Goals Our research depth and infrastructure, achieved since
 2014, has positioned us to respond to local, regional, national and international strategic
 priorities. Our overarching aim is to meet these challenges through producing relevant, high-
 quality research, extend and deepen research capacity and sustain strategic research
 partnerships delivering impact to key beneficiaries. During the next REF period we aim to:

    o   Deliver applied, impact-driven research in our core research themes of vulnerability,
        harm and health.
    o   Continue to build interdisciplinary, collaborative research networks.
    o   Strengthen research capacity through promoting a sustainable research environment
        that encourages skill development for all staff whilst prioritising our commitment to
        equality, diversity and inclusion.
    o   Increase cohorts of PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and early career
        researchers in our identified research themes.

 1.3.1 Applied Impact Driven Research
 We will deepen research in areas of core strength: modern slavery and exploitation, policing
 and community safety, offender supervision, surveillance and punishment, victimology,
 harm and resilience, and health, social work and social care, particularly relating to children
 and young people and long-term conditions. We will focus on key funder priorities such as the

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ESRC’s, ‘innovation in health and social care’, ‘mental health’ and ‘exploitation of administrative
 data’, engaging our current expertise in these areas, in order to achieve our primary aim of
 building ‘real world’ solutions to core social problems and strategic priorities.

 1.3.2 Collaborative Research Networks
 We will strengthen local, regional, national and international collaborative networks, increasing
 opportunities for research, knowledge exchange and staff development. Our strength, for
 example, in responding to and challenging contemporary slavery and exploitation through the
 Wilberforce Institute is an exemplar of building powerful, broad-based networks to raise
 awareness of the extent and nature of contemporary slavery and produce world leading
 research. ICAHR, for example, has facilitated collaboration among criminology, nurse addiction
 specialists and Hull University Teaching Hospitals to study the impact of alcohol related
 admissions on A&E in local areas. The Wilberforce Institute, ICAHR and the new Humberside
 Police-Academic Collaboration will continue to draw together researchers to support research
 citizenship, impact activities and build new areas of expertise.

 1.3.3 Sustainable Research Environment
 We aim to nurture excellent researchers while promoting an inclusive and respectful research
 culture. We have a dynamic research events and skills programme that supports ECRs. We
 have built a ‘pipeline’ for staff development through a number of research activities. ICAHR
 hosts a fortnightly seminar series, alongside a ‘Pop up Papers’ series giving ECRs the
 opportunity to present early versions of grant applications and research papers for supportive
 review and development. The ‘Rising Stars’ programme of Criminology seminars brings an
 interdisciplinary range of emerging scholars to the University to present their research. In
 Criminology, PGRs and ECRs are encouraged to present ‘Brown Bag’ seminars in a supportive
 and constructive environment. In 2020/21, the introduction of ‘support slots’ in ‘Rising Stars’ talks
 give ECRs opportunities to present to an external audience, providing a progression route from
 internal seminar talks to external conference and keynote presentations.
 Our research environment is strengthened by the participation of research collaborators - health,
 social care and criminal justice practitioners and service users. In 2019, ICAHR established a
 Public/Patient Involvement Group, ‘Involve Hull’, which actively involves service users in setting
 research priorities in health and social care and undertaking effective research.

 1.3.4 Increase PhD students in our Identified Research Themes
 Our PhD completion rate has doubled from 24 in the previous REF period to 51.8. The PhD
 student community has grown in strength, through a combination of externally funded PhDs, e.g.
 UKRI/AHRC funded Heritage Consortium and University funded PhD scholarship clusters. Since
 2018, UoA 20 has been awarded scholarships in the following themes: ‘Bridging the Divide:
 Living with Multimorbidities’; ‘Homeless Health in Hull’; ‘Better Policing, Safer Communities’;
 ‘Child Trafficking, Transnational Crime and Human Rights’ and ‘Living with the Consequences of
 Slavery’. In 2019/20, one in four internal PhD scholarships awarded across the University was in
 policing, modern slavery or homelessness, indicating a strong commitment to quality and
 continued growth of research in these areas.
 The University PhD cluster model has been particularly successful in strengthening research in
 these core areas. We will continue to extend this approach, focusing our attention on applying
 for additional external PhD funding e.g. NIHR Doctoral Fellowships.


 2. People

 2.1 Our staffing strategy is underpinned by a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion.
 This strategy is led by the University Inclusion and Campus Community Team. Diversity and
 Equality Training is mandatory for all academic staff and Dignity and Respect Advisors are
 available to support students and staff. The University has strong inclusivity networks such as
 the LGBT* staff network and proactively celebrates key dates such as Black History Month, and
 Disability History Month. University wide, double-blind recruitment processes are being adopted

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to ensure inclusivity and diversity. The University has a Bronze Athena SWAN award as has the
 School of Health and Social Work (FHS). A steering group, comprising representatives across
 faculties, oversees the adoption of the Concordat supporting the career development of
 researchers.

 The REF cycle has seen a rapid period of staff change following the retirement and promotion to
 other institutions of 17 staff including 6 Professors/Readers. This has enabled appointments to
 be made at different levels: 1 Lecturer in Criminology, the appointment of an ECR on a fixed
 term contract (Criminology), and a Senior Lecturer in Policing. Four new staff have been
 appointed in Social Work. Our staffing strategy has also been to actively promote the career
 development and progression of staff including ECRs. We have addressed historic imbalances
 in gender: now 60% of staff returned in this UoA are women. Three staff have been promoted to
 Professor (2 in Criminology and 1 in Social Work - 2 of these appointments are women); 1
 promotion to Reader (Criminology); 4 promotions to Senior Lecturer (Sociology, Criminology and
 Social Work); 6 Postdoctoral Research Associate appointments. As part of a wider
 Transformation Programme, the University has developed an Academic Careers Framework
 (ACF) designed to support education, knowledge exchange and research excellence. In the
 ACF, staff are aligned to a domain which best reflects their job role. All staff on the research
 domain have between 20-40% of time allocated for research and are all returned in the relevant
 REF UoA.

  2.1.2 Staff development is central to our staffing strategy. Staff are supported by research
 mentoring at both individual and group levels. The annual Staff Performance Development
 Review (SPDR) includes workload review in addition to setting research goals and objectives.
 CPD funding is available to support staff training needs and conference attendance. FACE has
 appointed an Early Career Academic Lead and offers a dedicated forum to support ECRs. The
 ECR forum holds regular workshops covering topics such as REF preparation, VITAE’s
 Researcher Development Framework (RDF) and bid development. Staff join research centres to
 further develop their research and develop networks. There are 4 research groupings within this
 UoA: the Centre for Criminal Justice (CCJ); Social and Psychological Aspects of Research into
 Long-term Conditions (SPARC), The Academy of Primary Care (APC), Global Health Network
 and 2 University Institutes: The Wilberforce Institute and ICAHR. REF Leads, in conjunction with
 Departmental and Faculty Research Directors, support academic staff with research impact
 development, research dissemination and regular assessment of outputs. Staff are also
 supported to complete higher degrees: two Social Work staff members have completed PhDs in
 this REF period, significantly extending social work research and supervision capacity.

 2.2 Research Students
 Postgraduate students benefit from a research culture underpinned by five key principles:
 Support, Community, Progression, Employability and Recognition.

 2.2.1 Recruitment
 Our UoA has a strong postgraduate research community including home/EU and international
 students. Since 2014, 51.8 students have completed PhDs, compared to 24 in the previous REF
 cycle and 85% of staff submitted in REF2021 have supervised PhD students in this period.
 Since 2014, the University has invested (£21 million) in funding PhD scholarships which have
 been allocated through a highly competitive process. Our UoA has been successful in being
 awarded over 20 interdisciplinary scholarships since 2012. The PhD clusters have provided an
 excellent framework for research training and peer support. PhD students have group
 supervision, monthly journal clubs and attend peer-led training and development workshops.
 Faculties, and the Doctoral College provide financial support for PhD students’ conference
 attendance.

 In 2019/20, the University supported our partnership with Humberside Police, awarding six PhD
 scholarships in the theme 'Better Policing, Safer Communities' (led by Brennan) and the
 HEIF-funded Police-University Network of Knowledge (PUNK) project (£240,000; 2019–2021,
 led by Green). These concurrent projects create a critical mass of researchers whose interests

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 span many disciplines but converge around policing. The PhD projects involve a combination of
 academic and police supervisors, twelve weeks of placement with Humberside Police and
 annual presentations to the Force’s senior leadership team.

 Our UoA (Clisby PI) hosted the Gender and Cultures of In/Equality in Europe (GRACE)
 project (€3.7 million Horizon 2020, Marie S. Curie European Training Network grant of (MSCA-
 ITN-2015-ETN, 675378) October 2015 – October 2019). This project provided an ‘Innovative
 Training Network’ for doctoral education, significantly increasing the independence and
 employability of the Early Stage Researchers (ESRs) involved. It developed a model for doctoral
 training which has been shared with education institutions across the world. GRACE was the
 largest cross-European collaboration of its kind, involving 8 academic and 2 non-academic
 partners across 6 European countries. Full employment within home institutions, as ESRs,
 enrolled as doctoral candidates, provided financial and institutional security for the duration of
 the programme. Each ESR had a 4-person academic supervisory team and employability
 mentors were attached to each partner institution to support their career development. ESRs
 also benefited from training in new non-academic skills through the development of a digital app
 (Quotidian) and video production. These cultural outputs formed part of an online exhibition,
 Footnotes on Equality.

 Clisby led the creation and development of the Erasmus Mundus Masters in Women’s and
 Gender Studies GEMMA from 2006 – 2018 (€12 million – Erasmus Mundus and Scholarship
 funding from the EC). This is a double Masters delivered in partnership with 7 European
 universities and is recognised as a programme of Excellence by the European
 Commission. In 2019, the European Commission voted the GEMMA programme one of the
 top 10 Erasmus+ projects that have contributed most to progress in gender equality and
 empowering women.

 From 2017 to 2019, Johnston (followed by Green, 2020) was Director of the Heritage
 Consortium: UKRI/AHRC funded Centre for Doctoral Training. It was established in 2014
 and was led by the University of Hull with six partner institutions (£1.898,599,92 total funding to
 2020). The Heritage Consortium generated significant research capacity building in all
 participating HEIs, building generative partnerships with heritage practitioners and heritage-
 facing organisations.

 The newly revised MSc in Social Research supports the ESRC White Rose DTP students with a
 dedicated pathway. The programme is designed to meet ESRC requirements for non-subject
 specific masters-level research training, alongside DTP requirements for subject-specific and
 interdisciplinary training. Hull subject areas have qualified to recruit to five of the seven
 interdisciplinary thematic pathways within the DTP. The programme meets the benchmarks for
 the ESRC Postgraduate Training and Development Guidelines (2015) enabling staff to include
 PhD studentships in ESRC grant applications.

 The launch of the Doctoral College (previously the Graduate School) in 2019 has greatly
 enhanced the experience of PGR students through integrating postgraduate activity across the
 University. It offers a wide range of research training activities including writing retreats, PhD
 writing boot camps and the creation of networks of support and recognition. The Post-
 Graduate Training Scheme (PGTS), aligned with VITAE’s RDF, provides a range of modules to
 support students’ research training. Many students go on to achieve a Postgraduate Diploma in
 Research Training. Throughout the COVID period this research training framework has
 continued online. Additional measures have been put in place to support PGR students. These
 include financially supported extensions where appropriate, regular assessment of COVID
 impact on research and mitigation plans and increased pastoral support.

 2.2.2 Supervision of PGR Students
 Faculty Graduate Research Directors are responsible for processing admissions, arranging
 interviews for PGR applicants and appointing PhD supervisors. The University requires all
 doctoral students to have a principal and 2nd supervisor. In addition to monthly supervision,

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progression is monitored 6 monthly and formal annual reviews are conducted by an
 independent chair. PhD supervisors are required to update their training annually.

 2.2.3 Postgraduate Research Culture and Facilities
 The University has invested significantly in facilities for PGR students in the refurbished
 University Library, the new Allam Medical Building and the Wilberforce Institute, located in the
 center of Hull. PGR students have access to writing, working /computer spaces, IT facilities and
 support. Where possible, these facilities have remained open throughout the pandemic,
 providing access to library materials and COVID-secure working environments.

 There is a lively postgraduate culture in FACE and FHS. Together with the Doctoral College,
 both Faculties launched the first Research Culture and Community Seminar with PGR-led
 discussion of ‘Coping with Covid’ followed by PG and academic research papers. PGR students
 also have full access to the ICAHR interdisciplinary research event series held fortnightly in
 addition to masterclasses on research methodology and subject specialist areas such as Frailty
 and Alcohol /Substance use. Between June and November 2019, for example, we hosted 18
 seminars and masterclasses. The ICAHR seminar series has continued online in the Covid
 pandemic. The FHS hosts PhD spotlight conferences where students are invited to present their
 research. In 2015, The Centre for Gender Studies (FACE) held a conference on the theme of
 ‘Gender and Happiness’ attended by more than 70 students.

 Social Work benefits from collaborating with a Lived Experience Group, which is nationally
 recognised for its collaborative and innovative work with students, academics and practitioners.
 The Lived Experience Group has contributed to regional and international conferences,
 providing keynote speeches and workshops. The Group contributes to research development,
 providing service user advice in grant applications and PhD research. Our research environment
 for PGR students has also been strengthened by the ICAHR Public/Patient Involvement Group,
 ‘Involve Hull’.

 PhD student employability is enabled by support for CV and interview preparation. Success in
 this context is evidenced by the fact that 9 students who have completed their PhDs in the past 5
 years now work as full-time, continuing, academics in 5 universities. Other students are working
 in the charitable, NGO, government sector. PhD supervisors have also supported students to
 publish their research. PhD student research also contributes to non-academic research impact.
 For example, one student, who recently completed their thesis on bereavement experiences of
 male prisoners, delivered a 90-minute training session with prisoners who undertake peer
 support within prison.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 The UoA has achieved successful income generation, more than doubling its grant income from
 £865,000.00 in REF 2014 to £2,128,006 from 52 awards in 2021. Despite a reduction in the
 number of FTE being returned (n=24.5 2014 / n= 18.8 2021), we have exceeded our planned
 targets in this REF period and improved our quality profile. In line with our income strategy,
 funding has come from diverse sources reflecting our strong interdisciplinary focus and
 increased success with UKRI awards. The following exemplify the breadth of the awards
 achieved:

    •   2016-2020 H2020 MSCA ITN: Gender and Cultures of In/Equality in Europe (GRACE)
        £507,939
    •   2015-2017 AHRC: The Antislavery Usable Past £218,015
    •   2014-2016 Hope for Children Australia: Walk Free £304,971.50
    •   2014-2016 EC: Building Bridges: Restorative dialogues between victims and offenders
        £60,799
    •   2019-20 Leverhulme Trust: English Prisons at War £42,630
    •   2016-2019 AHRC: Remember Me: The Changing Face of Memorialisation £300,868

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   2019-20 NIHR HTA: Optimising a whole-person centred approach to stopping medicines
        in older people with multimorbidity and polypharmacy: The Tailor Medication Synthesis
        £60,278

 3.2 PhD Completions
 During this REF cycle our PhD completion rate has increased from 24 in REF 2014 to 51.8. This
 upward trajectory reflects the University’s investment in PhD scholarship clusters which
 commenced in 2016. We are recruiting high calibre PhD candidates who are actively seeking the
 supervisory knowledge and expertise of our staff in, for example, victimology, human trafficking,
 and long-term conditions. This strength in PhD completions is further reflected in timely
 completion rates and the publication of high-quality student-led output, evidenced by the
 inclusion of 3 outputs in our REF submission.

 3.3 Departmental and Faculty Research Context
 Staff are involved in four research centres and two research institutes. Each department has a
 research lead and each faculty is led by an Associate Dean for Research, convening the
 relevant Faculty Research Committee. The research priorities for faculties are represented
 directly through the Associate Dean for Research on the University Research Committee,
 convened by the PVC Research and Enterprise.

 Across both Faculties, staff may apply to a consolidated departmental research fund to pump-
 prime new initiatives including research visits, publication charges and preliminary research
 toward larger grant applications. The budget varies annually, averaging in excess of £125K.

 Institutional Infrastructure

 3.4.1 Library Investment
 The University has invested in a significant (£28 million) refurbishment and redesign of the
 library. In addition to dedicated PhD work space, there is increased access to networked
 computers and extensive journal/book collections. In 2019, the University spent £1.75 million on
 annual journal subscriptions and full text databases. Extensive archival collections are also
 available through the Hull History Centre, a purpose-built city centre location managed as a
 shared partnership between the University and Hull City Council.

 3.4.2 VLE: Canvas
 The University uses Canvas, which provides an interactive, contemporary, learning and teaching
 environment.

 3.4.3 Professional Staff Support
 Staff in this UoA have benefitted extensively from substantial investment in the Research
 Innovation and Funding Office, including the appointment of Research and Innovation
 Development Team (RIDT) in Social and Health Sciences and an extended REF Management
 Team. The RIDT facilitates interdisciplinary research grant development and cross Faculty
 research events to identify research priorities, e.g. Mental Health Research Day and Digital
 Health Research Masterclasses, in addition to providing guidance for researchers on responding
 to specific grant calls, driving up the quality of applications. Researchers have had the
 opportunity to draw on internal university GCRF QR, HEIF and Impact Acceleration Funding to
 support research impact activity and pump-prime research projects and networks. FACE and
 FHS have invested significantly in their research administration, with the appointment of
 research managers and dedicated support for grant submission, post-award management and
 PGR and Ethics coordination.

 Research Ethics and Integrity
 In the REF period, the University has updated guidelines and policy for granting ethics approval.
 All PGR and staff ethics application approval takes place at Faculty level, where full ethics
 committee panels consider high-risk applications. All staff are required to complete the
 University online training module on Research Ethics and Integrity. Staff benefit from research

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ethics seminars run in individual Faculties and by the University Research Governance Office.
 All staff receive training in data management and storage in accordance with the 2018 GDPR
 requirements. All researchers conduct their research in accordance with the UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity. We also utlise the resources of UKRIO. UKRIO staff, for example,
 have delivered dedicated seminars on research ethics. All staff comply with the University Open
 Access policy.

 3.4.4 Hull Health Trials Unit (HHTU)
 In the past 3 years, the University has invested in the establishment of the HHTU which has the
 expertise to lead and support high quality clinical research studies. The HHTU gained
 provisional registration to the UK Clinical Research Collaboration registered clinical trials unit
 network within 12 months. It employs 8 specialist staff, including an Information Systems
 Manager, and Operations and Trials Managers, to deliver a range of practical and specialist
 support throughout the research process. The Unit provides regulatory compliant Information
 Systems which allow for the management of data, including data cleaning, exporting data for
 reporting and analysis. HHTU provides a data capture framework and offers the provision of safe
 and secure storage for datasets requiring compliance with NHS information governance toolkit
 standards. HHTU supports studies within the UoA, for example, the FASTer study
 (Brennan/Phillips) which explores access to alcohol treatment with the aim of reducing the need
 for repeated emergency department admissions and the Evaluation of Violence Reduction Units
 (Brennan), which evaluates their impact on criminal justice and health-related outcomes.

 3.4.5 Institute for Clinical and Applied Health Research (ICAHR)
 ICAHR (led by Walker) is an interdisciplinary centre of excellence which brings together a wide
 range of expertise to address key health and social care challenges. The University has made a
 substantial investment in ICAHR attracting high calibre staff (15+ posts) including 4 recent
 Professorial appointments. The Institute supports a range of specialist research groups,
 providing a research infrastructure, including a Methods Hub and the HHTU. Since its launch in
 March 2019, it has been successful in fostering collaborative, interdisciplinary and multi-
 professional health research, for example, in the lived experience of multi-morbidity research
 programme, which involves 6 health and social science disciplines.

 3.4.6 The Wilberforce Institute
 The Wilberforce Institute is an interdisciplinary research centre, founded in 2006, which
 undertakes research in historical slavery while researching and advocating for the end of
 modern slavery. A number of UoA staff (Green, Kidd, Wilkinson, Brennan) contribute to the
 research, dissemination and impact activities at the Institute. It is a focal point of the University’s
 longstanding commitment to social justice and supports several professional and other research
 positions. The Institute is a member of the Arts and Humanities Research Council Modern
 Slavery and Human Rights Policy and Evidence Centre; is connected to community and local
 efforts to eradicate modern slavery, such as the Humberside Modern Slavery Partnership and
 has been awarded a number of high-profile research grants focusing on the intersection of
 heritage and commemoration of slavery in Europe and Africa.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Following our strategic aim of strengthening the applied, impact-driven, focus of our research,
 colleagues across the UoA have built strong collaborative partnerships, research, exchange and
 practice networks which aim to respond to, and alleviate, the high-levels of socio-economic
 deprivation and inequality in our region. We have demonstrated an area of strength and a
 particular contribution through the Humberside Academic Police Collaboration and our focus on
 building safer communities; the Humberside Modern Slavery Partnership; Developing Practice in
 Safeguarding Adults; and working collaboratively to develop regional Suicide Prevention
 Strategies and Interventions.

 We have contributed to, and strengthened, the wider research base of our disciplines, including,
 criminology, social and health policy, social work, mental health, health studies, and gender

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies, both individually and collectively. This commitment to deepening our contribution to
 our disciplines is demonstrated in over 200 published outputs (including PGRs, ECRs,
 PDRAs) of which 13 are books, during the REF period.

 4.1 Primary Non-academic Collaborations and Contributions to Economy and Society

 Humberside Police-Academic Collaboration
 The Humberside Police-Academic Collaboration, led by Brennan and Green, is a multi-
 disciplinary collaboration of fifty academics across 4 faculties and 2 research institutes with
 Humberside Police. This Police and University Network develops knowledge exchange and
 research capacity.

 Humberside Violence Reduction Unit: Brennan is a founding member of the Humberside
 Public Health Approach to Violence Group. This multi-agency team, led by the Officer of the
 Police and Crime Commissioner for Humberside, works together, developing and implementing
 a long-term strategy for reducing violence and improving outcomes for young people in the
 region. The activity of this group is, in part, informed by Brennan's role as evaluator of the Home
 Office Violence Reduction Unit’s initiative and his experience in using multi-agency data sharing
 to inform the allocation of violence resources.

 Brennan, O’Leary and Burton’s work with Humberside Police (‘An Exploration of Domestic
 Abuse Patterns and Service Provision in Humberside’ (2016)) researches the policing of
 domestic abuse and coercive control. O’Leary is an Invited member of the Independent
 Domestic Abuse Scrutiny Panel for Humberside Police/OPCC/Humberside Criminal Justice
 Board (July 2018 – present). Wilkinson is an active member of the Humberside Office of the
 Police and Crime Commissioner Diversity Panel and sits on the Humberside Police Out-of-Court
 Disposals Scrutiny Panel, Humberside Police Use of Force Scrutiny Panel, HMP Full Sutton
 Prison Equalities Forum, HMP Hull Use of Force Scrutiny Panel and the Humberside Stop and
 Search Scrutiny Committee. In June 2019, Wilkinson received a certificate of recognition for
 outstanding contribution and commitment to the Humberside Diversity Panel.

 The Beverley Road Corridor Project
 The BRCP is a place-based multi-agency collaboration designed to improve health and social
 outcomes for the residents of one of Hull's most deprived and ethnically diverse communities.
 Brennan is chair of the project's evaluation sub-committee and a member of the project board.
 In addition to changing the mechanism of service delivery, the project acts as a vehicle for the
 development and sustainability of multi-agency data sharing within the city, which will yield new
 practice and research opportunities.

 Brennan is a member of the Youth Endowment Fund Expert Panel, which will distribute £200m
 between 2019 and 2029 to improve the evidence base of what works to reduce violence in early
 adolescence (aged 10-14 years). He is a member of the Home Office Virtual Academic Expert
 Panel, which contributed to the UK Government Serious Violence Strategy. He is a board
 member of the College of Policing Vulnerability and Violent Crime Programme, which allocated
 £1.5m to evaluate promising police-led violence prevention initiatives and he is a board member
 of Campbell Collaboration UK and Ireland. He is also a member of the Victims’ Commissioner
 Research Advisory Board.

 Humberside Modern Slavery Partnership
 The Wilberforce Institute is at the forefront of research and leading awareness into historical and
 contemporary slavery. Kidd has been Vice Chair of the Humber Modern Slavery Partnership
 (HMSP) since 2016. The HMSP works with over 60 partners across the four Local Authority
 areas of Humberside to help prevention efforts, increase identification rates, and improve
 support for victims of modern slavery. As part of this work, training needs have been analysed
 and packages of training developed and delivered to front line professionals across the region.
 Public awareness campaigns have been rolled out, with another wave in progress. Businesses
 have also engaged with the work, to offer support and to be recipients of tailored training -

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 linking with the Knowledge Exchange work undertaken by the Risk Assessment Service at the
 Wilberforce Institute.

 Since the inception of the HMSP in 2015, the Humberside region has seen an increase in
 potential victims of modern slavery being identified and referred through the National Referral
 Mechanism – from 8 in 2015, to 94 in 2019. In 2019, Kidd secured funding through the Office of
 the Police and Crime Commissioner for Humberside to host the role of Co-ordinator of the
 HMSP at the Wilberforce Institute. This makes the HMSP more robust, as it previously relied on
 volunteers to undertake the work as part of their full-time job, or in addition to it.

 Safeguarding Adults
 For many years, a multi-disciplinary research team at the University (Marsland, White) has
 worked on the Abuse in Care project, which sought to respond to ongoing evidence of abuse in
 residential care services. This work was based on an understanding that cultures within care
 services can increase the risk of abuse occurring or, conversely, may contribute to the protection
 of vulnerable adults. The research has identified ‘early indicators’ of abuse. The findings have
 been used to develop evidence-based resources for practitioners, which enable them to record,
 reflect upon and report evidence of concern about risks to residents. The resources have been
 used within a number of local authorities, including Croydon; Sutton; Cumbria; Camden;
 Dundee, and by care providers such as Choice Support.

 The research team were approached by the Care Quality Commission (CQC) to inform their
 work programme producing guidance for their inspectors (in response to the recent abuses
 reported at Whorlton Hall, a service for people with learning disabilities and autism) in respect of
 ‘closed environments’. This guidance will be used by CQC inspectors during relevant hospital
 and care service inspections. This work was published in November 2019.

 Suicide Prevention Strategies
 Bell is a member of the Humber Coast and Vale Suicide Prevention Board (HCV SPB). She is
 lead for the Training and Awareness Task and Finish Group and is currently involved in
 commissioning suicide prevention training packages for practitioners and professionals working
 in collaboration with public health leads in the 6 local authorities in the HCV area. She is also
 involved in the commissioning and evaluation of a new regional suicide bereavement service
 (2020), which is the first of its kind in the area, in line with the National Suicide Prevention
 Strategy for England. With colleagues, she has developed evidence-based training for the
 workforce in the HCV Suicide Prevention service and other professionals whose work involves
 supporting those who are affected by suicide, e.g. emergency responders, mental health
 professionals, pastoral care providers from schools, colleges and universities, third sector and
 voluntary organisations.

 4.2 Disciplinary Contributions
 Colleagues in the UoA have contributed to the disciplinary research base through participation
 in, and contribution to, conferences, networks and international collaborations.

 Conferences, Public Lectures, Workshops Hosted
    • Hull Annual Domestic Abuse Conference, 2019 (Burton)
    • Hull Joint Adult & Children Safeguarding Conference, 2017 (Burton)
    • Access to Mental Health Services: Exploring the Barriers and Facilitators to Helping
       Distressed Young People, Hull, 2017 (Bell)
    • The Journey to Creating Safer Communities, UoH 2018 (Bell)
    • East Riding Child Safeguarding Conference, 2019 (Brennan)
    • International Death Online Research Network, UoH 2018 (Bell)
    • British Society of Criminology, Yorkshire & Humberside Regional Group Conference
       (2018), UoH (Johnston)
    • Understanding Victim Resilience Workshop, 2019 (O’Leary)
    • Police Leadership Then and Now, CCJ and Hull History, 2016 (Johnston)


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   COST Action Conference, Athens, 2020 (Green)

 Keynote/Invited Presentations
    • Society or Evidence-Based Policing Annual Conference, April 2020 (Brennan)
    • A new model for supporting victims: the strength-growth-resilience framework, APAV
       Pro-Victims Conference: The Role of the Public Prosecution in the Promotion of Victims’
       Rights, Lisbon, September 2020 (Green)
    • Memory and Spirit: The neoliberal, new-age victim of crime, Inaugural COST
       Conference, Athens, January 2020 (Green)
    • Towards a Taxonomy of Victimisation: primary, secondary and tertiary victimisation,
       Victim Support Netherlands Summer School, Amersfoort, June 2019 (Green)
    • Story-telling and Memorialisation: suffering, resilience and victim identities, (invitation
       only) workshop on: Practices of Memorialization and the Process of Social
       Reconstruction after large-scale Human Rights Abuses and Violations, Institute
       International de Sociologie Juridique, Onati, Spain, May 2018 (Green)
    • Realising Restorative Potential: language, politics and ritual, European Forum for
       Restorative Justice, Leiden, Netherlands, June 2016 (Green)
    • Keynote addresses: Medical generalism in the UK: more of the same won’t do, WONCA
       Asia Conference Kyoto, Japan May 2019 (Reeve)
    • Key note address: Time to retire Evidence Based Medicine, The annual Carl Moore
       Lecture, McMaster University, Canada, May 2017 (Reeve)
    • The quiet revolution: revitalising generalist practice, Celebration of Educational
       Scholarship annual meeting, Toronto, January 2019 (Reeve)

 Editorial Boards Membership in the Review Period
 All UoA staff are active in editorial and review work as editors, members of Editorial Boards, and
 as academic reviewers across multiple interdisciplinary publications. Twelve members of the
 UoA serve on the Advisory Boards of high impact journals including: British Journal of
 Criminology; Howard Journal of Criminal Justice; Criminology & Criminal Justice; African
 Studies; African Population Studies Journal; BMC Health Services Research; Journal of
 Biosocial Science and Law, Crime, Justice and Society.

 Reviewing for Research Funders
 A significant majority of UoA members review grant applications to major funding bodies,
 including:
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer Review College; ESRC; Wellcome Trust; NIHR (HSDR,
 HTA, PGfAR, RfPB and SDO programmes); the NIHR School for Primary Care Research; the
 Scottish Office and charities including Arthritis Research UK, the Dunhill Trust, BMA Foundation
 for Medical Research and Northcott Devon Medical Foundation. International panels include
 TBM Fonds Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek, Brussels; Health Research Council of New Zealand.

 National Networks and Committees in the Review Period
 Staff in the UoA enjoy a wide range of national and international collaboration, ranging from
 formal institutional research networks to collaborative research projects with academic
 colleagues and a variety of public and third sector organisations.

    •   Education and Training work stream lead for the Humber Coast and Vale Suicide
        Prevention Board (Bell)
    •   Humber Coast and Vale Suicide Prevention Board member and Postvention work stream
        (Bell)
    •   Child Bereavement UK (CBUK) North England steering group (2016 to present) (Bell)
    •   Associate Fellow of British Psychological Society; Member, British Society of
        Criminology/ European Society of Criminology (Brennan)
    •   Co-Chair of British Society of Criminology Regional Group, Yorkshire & Humberside
        (Johnston);
    •   Steering Committee member, British Society of Criminology (Johnston)

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Historical Criminology Network / Committee Member of British Crime Historians Network
        /Fellow of Royal Historical Society (Johnston)
    •   The British Society of Criminology Victims Network (Green)
    •   Co-Chair of British Society of Criminology Regional Group, Yorkshire & Humberside
        (Green)
    •   British Society for Population Sciences – Council member (Magadi)
    •   Nationally elected member of Council for Royal College of General Practitioners (Reeve)
    •   Non-executive member of the Royal College of GPs Innovation & Research Board
        (Reeve)
    •   Executive member of Royal College of GPs Midlands and Humber Faculty (Reeve)
    •   Panel Chair, NIHR In Practice Fellowship scheme (Reeve)
    •   Invited Chair, Study Steering Committee Group for NIHR HSDR funded GP Teams
        project (Reeve)
    •   ECLIPSE Study Steering Committee, NIHR / RIGHT (Walker)
    •   SAPC Northern Powerhouse Co-chair (Reeve)

 International Networks in the Review Period
     • Member of the IASP Postvention task force, IASP Suicide and Media task force (Bell)
     • COST Associate Vice-Chair and Management Committee member (funded EU network
        of 26 countries) (Green)
     • The International Institute for the Sociology of Law (Onati) (Green)
     • The European Society of Criminology Victimology Working Group (Green)
     • National Advisor Italian Observatory on Prison Conditions (Santorso)
     • Member of the World Health Organization (WHO) Regional Advisory Panel for the
        Department of Reproductive Health and Research for Africa and the Eastern
        Mediterranean regions (Magadi)
     • Member of the WHO Department of Reproductive Health and Research - Research
        Projects Review Panel (Magadi)
     • International Union for the Scientific Study of Population (Magadi)
     • Tropical Institute for Community Health (TICH), Kisumu, Kenya (Magadi)
     • Population Association of America (Magadi)
     • Associate Fellow of the African Development and Policy Institute (AFIDEP), Nairobi,
        Kenya (Magadi)
     • Visiting scientist, Tropical Institute for Community Health (TICH), Kisumu, Kenya,
        (Magadi)
     • Member of the NAPCRG International Committee working to promote an international
        network of academic primary care membership North American Primary Care Research
        Group Special Interest Group on Advancing Generalist Expertise (Reeve)

 Awards and Special Recognition
 i) Wilberforce Institute awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015 for ‘Slavery: the
 historical origins and contemporary resonances of a global problem’ ii) Bales awarded the
 ESRC International Impact Prize (2018) for his 2014 work with Sir Bernard Silverman to
 develop the Multiple Systems Estimation (MSE) technique which provided the first reliable
 estimates of modern slavery iii) Wilberforce Institute named as partner in the Prime Minister’s
 Modern Slavery Centre (2019) (iv) McCahill awarded the Surveillance Studies Network Book
 Prize in 2015 (v) Price and Walker’s book ‘Chronic Illness, Vulnerability and Social Work:
 Autoimmunity and the Contemporary Disease Experience’ was one of four books shortlisted in
 2016 for the Sociology of Health and Illness Book Prize.




                                                                                          Page 15
