Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 The Philosophy Unit at the University of Hertfordshire (UH) is in the School of Humanities and
 comprises 11.2 FTE (12 staff); 3 Professors, 3 Readers, 1 Senior Lecturer, 4 Lecturers, and 1
 Research Fellow. There are 5 early career researchers (ECRs), all appointed in this cycle.

 Notable improvements and successes for the Unit in comparison with REF 2014 are:

    •   18% increase in staff FTE with100% staff submission
    •   400% increase in ECR staff FTE
    •   45% women FTE compared to 5% in 2014
    •   87.5% increase in overall number of doctoral awards from 4 to 7
    •   Positive 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey response with 95% satisfaction
        for supervision, 88% for research skills and progression and 86% overall satisfaction.

 Strategy
 The Unit strategy has been to recruit staff who help develop its well-established expertise in
 Wittgenstein and ethics (Balaska, Sandis and Tejedor), Philosophy of Mind (Egerton and Liu),
 and religion (Kirkpatrick, Malcolm and Plunkett), as well as emerging strengths in Philosophy of
 Fiction (Caddick Bourne, Moyal-Sharrock, Plunkett); Philosophy of Religion (Coleman,
 Kirkpatrick, Larvor, Lippitt, Malcolm, Plunkett, Tejedor) and philosophy through its history
 (Balaska, Kirkpatrick, Larvor, Lippitt, Moyal-Sharrock, Plunkett, Sandis, Tejedor). In addition, 11
 new Visiting Research Fellows were appointed between 2016 and 2020 to further to enhance
 the research vitality of the Unit and allow for productive exchanges on shared research interests
 with Unit members: Beale, Caddick Bourne, Cohen, Dolby, Giombini, Ground, Grenberg,
 Mihalik, Rathgeb (at UH on a Swiss Government funded post-doc, 2019-2021), Robjant, and
 Rudd).

 As a result of the above strategy, with guided support from the School of Humanities’ Dean and
 Associate Dean for Research, the Unit has succeeded in building up emerging areas of shared
 interest into areas of expertise. This approach has enabled it to combine grant bids focused on
 individual projects (often monographs) with explorative collaborations both inside and outside
 the Unit. An example of the latter is the Forum for Virtue and Understanding (FVU), launched in
 2019). Another is Mind Readings, a recently established reading group in the Philosophy of
 Mind.

 The School of Humanities (which is responsible for staff development and much of the
 institutional infrastructure) receives QR in proportion to the earnings of its Units and makes this
 funding available to those Units for strategic investment based on their centrally approved
 research plans and priorities. Philosophy also participates in several of the six University level
 cross-cutting Research Themes which provide a framework for inter- and cross-disciplinary
 research. For example: FVU research (e.g. Larvor on Mathematical Cultures) largely falls under
 the theme of Heritage, Cultures, and Communities (HCC); Sandis’ research with Microsoft under
 Information & Security (I&S), much of Coleman’s research on mind falls under Health and Well-
 being (H&W), and Moyal-Sharrock and Sandis’ Alphawood project under both HCC and H&W.

 Four main strategic aims identified in the REF 2014 submission were pursued by the Unit over
 this period:

 Develop its contribution to the discipline in its areas of expertise refreshed by the
 addition of new permanent staff: This objective has been achieved through the 17.9%

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increase of staff FTE, accompanied by the strategic appointment of Visiting Researchers, in
 ways which ensure that the Unit strengthens and develops its research as efficiently as possible.

 Continue an ambitious grant-seeking strategy: This objective has been achieved through the
 Unit being awarded two Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowships (Lippitt, Coleman), a
 Mind Association Research Fellowship (Caddick Bourne), a Microsoft Collaborative Studentship
 Award (Sandis), a funded Visiting Professorship from Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB) (Larvor),
 and a research grant from the Alphawood Foundation (Moyal-Sharrock, Sandis).

 Continue with the programme of fortnightly research seminars, British Wittgenstein
 Society events and Francis Bacon Lectures and increase the level of its public
 engagement: This regular programme of research activities is a well-established part of the
 Unit’s culture. In this cycle, Francis Bacon Lecturers have included such high-profile
 philosophers as Raimond Gaita, Angie Hobbs, Onora O’Neill, and Jonathan Wolff. The Unit
 continues to host the British Wittgenstein Society (BWS), which organises an annual conference
 (that merges with the ‘Hinge Epistemology’ Conference in alternate years) and biannual public
 talks. A new series of public engagement events has also been introduced, Why Philosophy
 Matters (WPM) (see section 3).

 Continue links with non-stipendiary visiting researchers: Long-term collaborations continue
 with other existing non-stipendiary overseas-based Research Fellows submitted to REF2014
 (Rudd, Stokes).

 Interdisciplinary Research
 The University’s six key research themes (Health and Well-being; Global Economy; Heritage,
 Cultures and Communities; Information and Security; Food; Space) provide structured support
 for interdisciplinary research. The research themes have facilitated collaborations between
 members of the Philosophy Unit and researchers in Classics, Computer Science, Drama,
 Education, English Literature, Film, Law, Mathematics, Medieval Studies, Neuroscience,
 Psychology, Psychotherapy, Politics, Theology and Religious Studies. Interdisciplinary
 collaborations and research initiatives in this cycle have included:

 Literature: through Caddick Bourne’s co-editing the Routledge Companion to Shakespeare and
 Philosophy and organising two international ‘Shakespeare and Philosophy’ conferences (2014,
 2016), an international network has been created of those working on Philosophy and
 Shakespeare in Classics, Politics, Drama and Theatre Studies, as well as different traditions of
 Philosophy. The network includes academics from Belgium, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark,
 Hungary, Israel, Italy, Poland, Slovenia, South Africa, Switzerland, UK, and USA. Moyal-
 Sharrock edited a symposium of essays on F. R. Leavis in the journal Philosophy and Literature
 and organised a public debate on ‘Why Literature Matters’ (New College of Humanities, 2017).
 Speakers included high-profile public intellectuals such as Howard Jacobson.

 Mathematics and Education: through an award from the International Council for Science, and
 working on behalf of the International Mathematics Union, the International Commission on
 Mathematical Instruction and the International Union for the History and Philosophy of Science,
 Larvor and Löwe (Amsterdam/Hamburg), coordinated research into the cultures of mathematical
 research training. This project identified cultural opportunities and barriers to new
 mathematicians, especially those from populations that are at present poorly represented among
 mathematicians. Larvor also co-authored papers with mathematics educationalists from VUB
 and Toronto and is preparing a grant application to develop cultural approaches to mathematics
 education with an educationalist at Middlesex University.

 Psychology, Neuroscience and Psychotherapy: Ongoing collaborations arising from
 Coleman’s AHRC-funded Phenomenal Qualities Project which completed in 2015 have
 expanded to incorporate work with computer scientists and physicists. Through his membership



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Sussex Cognitive Science Institute, Coleman collaborates with cognitive scientists,
 neuroscientists and psychologists.

 Theology and Religious Studies: Collaborations in this area have included Lippitt’s co-editing
 an interdisciplinary collection, Narrative, Identity and the Kierkegaardian Self (2015);
 participation in WPM ‘Why Forgiveness Matters’, a day conference organised in association with
 St Albans Cathedral Study Centre, featuring contributions from Philosophy, Theology and
 Psychology (2017); and co-organising ‘Screening the Virtues’, a workshop on representations of
 virtue and vice in film, featuring participants from Film Studies as well as Philosophy, Theology &
 Religious Studies (2017).

 Other interdisciplinary collaborations: Malcolm is working with Kirkpatrick on establishing a
 cross-disciplinary network of researchers with interests in the experiences of students with
 religious commitments. The BWS bi-annual Conferences always have interdisciplinary focus.
 For example, the 10th anniversary conference in 2017 included sessions with invited keynote
 speakers from Primatology, Psychology, Communications Technology and Education as well as
 Philosophy. Sandis organised the 2017 interdisciplinary European Society for Philosophy and
 Psychology conference. He also has an ongoing research collaboration with risk analyst Nassim
 Taleb, associate attorney Aryeh Younger, and investment manager Elias Korosis.

 Impact Strategy
 The Unit’s approach to impact has been to increase the significance and reach of its research
 through:

    •   engagement with practitioners leading to an impact on policy (e.g. advice to senior police
        officers on ethical issues in policing; cultural heritage practitioners)
    •   engagement with industry (e.g. Microsoft)
    •   engagement with schools (e.g. teaching of philosophical approaches to Shakespeare in
        schools; the role of mathematical cultures in the training of mathematics teachers)
    •   public engagement (e.g. media appearances, public lectures and debates, talks and
        festivals).

 The Unit’s approach is to use institutional contacts often facilitated by the University’s Enterprise
 and Business Development team to seek possible research users and to respond
 enthusiastically to approaches from potential partner organisations who have recognised the
 value of the Unit’s research. For example, the Unit’s local and national profiles in ethics and the
 philosophy of action/understanding led to approaches from Hertfordshire Constabulary and
 Microsoft Research respectively that were the catalyst for its two impact case studies. These
 describe how Unit research has made a difference to the ways in which Microsoft researchers
 are thinking of how to design artificial intelligence (AI) so that its behaviour is made more
 intelligible to humans and also how the national police Code of Ethics has been understood and
 implemented within Hertfordshire Constabulary and nationally.

 Impact potential has also been a key factor in new appointments, such as that of Sandis in 2015.
 Relationships with relevant organisations have then been developed, for example by supporting
 Sandis’ Visiting Professorship at Microsoft Research in Cambridge both financially and through
 teaching relief.

 QR funding has been targeted towards developing specific areas of impact for this REF cycle.
 Staff have also been encouraged to apply for internal University funds and several (Caddick
 Bourne, Larvor, Lippitt & Sandis) have succeeded in securing competitive funding from the
 University’s Small Grants for Impact (typically £4k-£8k) initiative. Most staff have also
 participated in either School or University-wide workshops (or both) on impact development. A
 workshop was organised for all Unit members which provided useful feedback to impact case
 study authors and served as a staff development opportunity for junior colleagues new to the
 impact agenda. Through a combination of QR and central University funding the Unit has


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported Sandis’ visiting professorship, Lippitt’s development of ethics training for police
 officers and staff, and the preparation of materials for Caddick Bourne’s Schools Shakespeare
 Adaptation Project. Impact is a standing item at research meetings: colleagues are encouraged
 to discuss plans and projects concerning the potential impact of their research to share good
 practice and monitor developments.

 Open Research Environment and Integrity
 All staff showcase their research via their online profiles through the University’s Research
 Information System (RIS) and Research Archive (UHRA) and platforms such as Philpapers and
 academia.edu. Staff publish their work in open access journals where possible (e.g. Nordic
 Wittgenstein Review, Parrhesia, Enrahonar), and use University OA funds to enable gold open
 access publishing. To enable Unit public engagement activities to reach a wider audience, most
 talks from BWS, WPM, and the Francis Bacon Lecture events have been made available online
 since 2014.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat on Research Integrity and there is centrally
 provided mandatory training on research integrity for all researchers, including workshops and
 an annual seminar, in addition to bespoke training on the Doctoral College’s Researcher
 Development Programme. Lippitt (2010-18) and Sandis (2018- ) have served on the Ethics
 Committee for Studies Involving Human Participants (ECSHP); Larvor on the Ethics Committees
 with Delegated Authority for the Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities (ECDA) (since 2012; vice-
 chair since 2017).

 Future Strategy
 The Unit aims to grow research and impact momentum through the following strategies:

 Research Network Development: Time and resource will be invested into developing
 infrastructure, research networks and professional activities that nurture collaborative research
 within and beyond the Unit.

 The recently launched Forum for Virtue & Understanding (FVU) provides a research community
 for staff and Visiting Research Fellows in Philosophy working on related projects. For example,
 Manifest Virtue (Larvor, Lippitt), Why the Virtues Matter (Plunkett, Lippitt), and the Philosophy of
 Understanding (Sandis’ book How to Understand Others is under contract with Yale University
 Press.) The Forum sits with the University’s Heritage, Culture and Communities research theme,
 but also relates to certain aspects of the Health and Well-being theme. Initially supported by Unit
 QR funds, FVU provides a vehicle for larger, collaborative, grant applications (e.g. from the
 Templeton Foundation) and leveraging the range of the Unit’s national, international and
 interdisciplinary collaborations. FVU will develop new international partnerships with the Institute
 for Ethics & Society at Notre Dame (Sydney) as well as with identified universities in Japan.

 The University will host the 2021 Joint Session of the Aristotelian Society and the Mind
 Association (16-18 July). This is the outcome of a competitive process that reflects the Unit’s
 reputation within the UK and beyond. It is expected that the event will strengthen the Unit’s ties
 to various UK institutes, generate multiple opportunities for future international research
 collaborations, and provide a platform for showcasing the Unit’s research. Sandis will deliver a
 keynote presentation.

 Coleman and Sandis joined the Royal Institute of Philosophy Council in December 2020. Sandis
 was also appointed to the Executive Committee and the editorial boards of the Institute's
 journals, Philosophy and Think, all of which will provide opportunities for network development.

 People: The staffing strategy for the next cycle is two-fold: (i) to use the FVU and the Unit’s
 networks more generally to secure funding for PhD and Post-doctoral positions relating to its
 research strengths and (ii) to ensure that future growth advances equality and diversity within
 the Unit.[TEXT REMOVED FOR PUBLICATION]. A fully funded BAME PhD scholarship,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported by the School of Humanities, has also been created in the Unit. The successful
 applicant, who began their doctoral programme in 2021, will be working on issues in the
 Philosophy of Religion relating to FVU’s research remit. Both (i) and (ii) are indicative of
 approaches that the Unit plans to extend throughout the course of the new REF cycle.

 Research Income: the Unit will make further funding applications for monograph-related
 research grants to major grant-awarding bodies such as Leverhulme and the British Academy. In
 addition, specific grant clinics will be organised supported by the University Research Office to
 facilitate bids for larger awards from Horizon Europe, ERC, AHRC and ESRC and new
 sustainable partnerships will be forged with business, industry, enterprise, and charitable
 foundations e.g. Microsoft, Hermes PGE, We & AI, and the Alphawood Foundation.

 Public Engagement: the Unit’s already extensive range of public engagement activities will be
 enhanced and further developed. For example, the BWS, which already has an event planned
 for May 2021 to celebrate the centenary of his Tractatus, will emphasise Wittgenstein’s
 importance to 21st century concerns, with potentially large interdisciplinary conferences on
 Wittgenstein and Artificial Intelligence (2022) and Law (2024). Themed events will also be
 hosted by WPM that will be free and open to all (held locally, as well as online). Future themes
 will include glass ceilings, mathematical cultures, and consciousness together with the related
 book series with volumes on Indian Philosophy, Chinese Philosophy, Camus, Darwin, Data and
 Delusions. Unit members will continue to make their research accessible in publications such as
 The Conversation and The Philosophers’ Magazine.

 Research Impact: future QR and central funds will be used to develop engagement activity
 which will support research impact, especially work related to the University Research Themes.
 This will include growing the Unit’s activity with Hertfordshire Constabulary and its extension to
 Cambridgeshire and Bedfordshire constabularies; extending Sandis’ work on Intelligible AI both
 within and beyond Microsoft; and further developing Caddick Bourne’s Schools Shakespeare
 Adaptation Project. In addition, the following areas will be explored:

    •   Coleman’s research on the possible existence of unconscious pain and suffering in a
        medical context
    •   Malcolm’s research on faith, developing resources for use by religious groups to enhance
        their self-understanding
    •   Sandis’ research on action and intention under uncertainty, following initial development
        in collaboration with (a) risk analyst Nassim Taleb and (b) the Head of Strategy and
        Environmental Investing at Hermes GPE (Elias Korosis) to create an ethical framework
        for financial organisations investing in companies that intend to generate social and
        environmental impact
    •   Moyal and Sandis’ research with transgender communities and LGBT+ groups.

 Many of the above activities will be integrated within the newly approved University-wide Centre
 for Future Societies Research (CFSR) which links to all research themes with the aim of carrying
 out interdisciplinary investigations into complex ways of making the future world a better place.


 2. People

 The Unit’s staff FTE is a balance of senior academics (19.6% Professors), mid-career
 academics (26.8% Readers; 8.9 % senior lecturers), and ECRs (35.7% Lecturers; 8.9 %
 Research Fellows). The overall ECR staff FTE has increased by 400% since 2014.

 Every opportunity is taken to help all staff progress their careers, with development needs
 ascertained through mentoring and twice-yearly appraisal monitoring. Promotions are based
 exclusively on quality criteria evaluated by extensive external peer review. After such review
 Caddick Bourne, Coleman and Moyal-Sharrock were all promoted from Senior Lecturer to
 Reader during this cycle, with Moyal-Sharrock being further promoted to Professor. These

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotions brought the Unit membership with the rank of Reader or Professor to 5.2 FTE
 (46.4%), a reflection of the Unit’s research standing.

 The Unit recruitment policy is to ensure building research capacity is central to every new
 appointment, with evidence of stakeholder engagement and the ability to translate research into
 impact also important for the senior appointments. The vitality and sustainability of the Unit is
 developed and maintained through such strategic staff renewal. In cases where members of the
 team have transferred to other institutions, collaborations with Unit members continue. For
 instance, Lippitt and Stokes have co-edited a book and spoken together at one of the Unit’s
 WPM events and Tejedor actively collaborates with Moyal-Sharrock and Sandis in research on
 Wittgenstein.

 Staff Development
 Mentoring of new staff is formally the responsibility of the Subject Leader, who in practice shares
 it with other senior colleagues. All academic staff in the Unit have significant responsibility for
 research and full-time staff receive at least a 0.2 FTE research workload allocation (0.3 FTE and
 0.5 FTE for Readers and Professors respectively). ECRs typically have a reduced teaching load
 and/or are exempt from significant administrative duties. ECRs are also supported through
 internal funding to present their research at conferences. Malcolm was appointed to a University-
 supported Vice Chancellor’s ECR Fellowship and has a research workload allocation of 0.8 FTE.

 All staff benefit from twice-yearly appraisals incorporating a 6-month review. New staff
 participate in central and local induction and can access the University’s centrally provided
 Researcher Development programme (see Institutional Statement). ECRs also receive career
 development advice, consistent with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. New staff are encouraged to take advantage of the University’s ‘Skill Up!’
 programme, a Research Skills Development Fund available to ECRs. Kirkpatrick and Malcolm
 successfully secured funding from this source for their project investigating the experiences of
 students of faith in a secular university culture.

 Over the REF cycle the Unit has invested the QR funding returned to the Unit in those elements
 that will best sustain and enhance its research environment, i.e. staffing and support for
 research sabbaticals; conference attendance; public engagement events; and impact
 development. Early in the cycle a rolling programme of semester-long sabbaticals, ordered
 strategically in time to enable permanent staff to focus on their research and complete high-
 quality outputs, was introduced. This policy allowed each permanent member of staff to have at
 least one semester of research sabbatical time in this REF cycle in addition to any research
 leave arising from external grant funding. Several of the outputs submitted are the result of this
 policy. The Unit has also used QR funding to provide additional, strategically timed impact leave
 for projects in development: for instance, Sandis was freed from all teaching for a semester to
 take up his visiting fellowship at Microsoft Research (Oct-Dec 2018).

 Staff are encouraged to apply for internal University competitive research grants, several
 different schemes being available to staff with different levels of experience. For example,
 Caddick Bourne (2016, 2017), Lippitt (2015, 2017, 2018) and Sandis (2018) received support
 from the University’s Small Grants for Impact scheme, which has enabled them to develop their
 respective impact case studies. In addition, ECR staff have also benefited from pump-prime
 funding to further develop specific research projects.

 Research Students
 The number of PhD awards has increased by 87.5%, from 4 to 7 (37.5% women, 6.5% above
 the national average in the discipline). This both reflects the rising reputation of the Unit and the
 individual philosophers within it, and the result of concentrated efforts including funding from
 research grants and the Unit’s MA by Research pathway. PhD students have been funded by
 various means, including small bursaries and five full-support scholarships: four from the
 Phenomenal Qualities Project and the Towards an Embodied Science of Intersubjectivity

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 projects (see section 3), and a further one from a collaborative Microsoft studentship award
 obtained by Sandis.

 The mandatory research methods course for MA students is offered to all postgraduate research
 (PGR) students, ensuring that they receive an introduction to philosophical research which
 complements the Researcher Development Programme (RDP) provided by the Doctoral College
 and focusses studies on their individual projects. The Unit is strongly committed to widening
 participation to research students from a variety of backgrounds. Full-time or part-time study
 options are available: several of the Unit’s PhD students have been mature students and
 studying part-time. A distance-based option is also available. All the Unit’s PGR activities are
 scheduled to fit the needs of part-time students, while campus facilities such as the Learning
 Resources Centre are open 24/7. If a student declares a disability, they are put in touch with
 Student Wellbeing at the point of enrolment. If a student needs to suspend their studies, they are
 invited to meet with the School Research Tutor on their return, to ensure a smooth transition
 back into their programme of research.

 Each PGR student is supervised by a team of 2 or 3 supervisors who must have two successful
 doctoral completions between them. Supervisory training is mandatory for all inexperienced
 supervisors. As well as regular meetings with their principal supervisor, a full-time student meets
 with the full supervisory team at least three times per year. Progress is subject to both regular
 and annual monitoring, with Registration and Progression conducted under the auspices of an
 experienced assessor outside the supervision team, to ensure that the programme of research is
 properly supported. The Unit encourages all supervisors regularly to refresh their training, and to
 follow the Good Practice Guide produced by the Doctoral College. All students can obtain
 additional support from a dedicated School Research Tutor. Communication between students
 and supervisors, and overall progress reports together with progression and final assessments,
 are recorded by all parties on the Doctoral College online Research Student Management
 System implemented in this REF cycle.

 Each PGR student, advised by their supervisors, selects appropriate sessions from the Doctoral
 College RDP, which extensively covers areas highlighted by the Researcher Development
 Framework in all four complementary categories: knowledge and intellectual abilities; personal
 effectiveness; research governance and organisation; engagement, influence, and impact. The
 RDP includes mandatory online courses and offers a spring and summer school. Unit staff
 regularly contribute to this programme.

 In addition to participating in University Doctoral College networking and social events, such as
 its annual PGR student conference, students also present work-in-progress at a dedicated
 annual School of Humanities PGR conference, at which career talks are also provided. Events of
 interest to Philosophy PGR students are advertised regularly on the dedicated Humanities
 Postgraduate Forum. They are further supported by the School of Humanities social programme,
 whose events are open to both taught postgraduate and research students, to facilitate a wider
 postgraduate community. The Philosophy Unit also runs a series of seminars at which PGR
 students present their work-in-progress in a supportive atmosphere.

 The Unit’s team supervisions, plus this range of regular research activities, afford fruitful
 interaction between PGR students and staff, inculcating professional norms and standards. The
 Unit fosters a collegial research culture that brings academic staff, postgraduates and interested
 undergraduates into regular contact. Examples include fortnightly Philosophy research seminars
 and Philosophy Society talks, an annual residential Philosophy Weekend at Cumberland Lodge
 (providing opportunities for PGR students to present their work), postgraduate work-in-progress
 meetings; staff/postgraduate reading groups, and research events enabling PGRs to network
 with both PGRs and staff from other institutions.

 All PhD students are given opportunities to teach, capped at a maximum of four hours per week
 to avoid interfering with their research. All students who wish to teach are required to attend the
 University’s nationally accredited CPAD teacher-training programme, which leads to Fellowship

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Higher Education Academy status. Research students are also coached and supported
 practically and financially to take their first steps into professional research careers. For
 example, each research student is allotted funds to attend external conferences to network and
 present their work.

 Recently graduating PhD students have enjoyed various kinds of success that help sustain the
 discipline. Within academia, Rittberg has been hired as a postdoctoral researcher at the Centre
 for Logic and Philosophy of Science at Vrije Universiteit Brussel. Ruzinska has taught at Leiden
 and Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and been hired as a postdoctoral researcher at the Polish
 Academy of Sciences on a project in Cognitive Science and Philosophy. O’Hara published a
 book based on his PhD with Palgrave Macmillan (Moral Certainty and the Foundations of
 Morality) and Zardai runs philosophyofaction.com, a website which collects tools and information
 for anyone interested in the philosophy of action and related topics.

 In the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) the University was ranked 4th for
 research culture, 15th for research supervision and 21st for overall student satisfaction out of 103
 UK HEIs (UH response rate 62%). Locally, PGR students in History and Philosophical Studies
 were similarly positive concerning the research environment expressing 95% satisfaction with
 their supervision, 88% with the development of their research skills and their progression, and
 with 86% overall satisfaction.

 Equality and Diversity
 It is widely recognised that there is a discipline-wide problem in the under-representation of
 women in Philosophy. The Unit as submitted to REF2014 was no exception; indeed, only one
 staff member was a woman (5% by FTE, well below the national average). The Unit sought to
 correct this imbalance by seeking a gender-balanced shortlist for all new posts advertised in the
 current cycle. Typically, at least equal representation of women on the shortlist has been
 achieved from an overall field of applicants heavily dominated by men. Five of the seven
 appointments made in the current cycle were women, including the recent appoint of Liu, who
 also identifies as BAME. Currently 5.0 FTE staff are women; 45% of the Unit which is 21%
 above the national average.

 The Unit has signed up to the ‘Good Practice Scheme’ launched jointly by the British
 Philosophical Association and the Society for Women in Philosophy. The scheme ‘assists UK
 philosophy departments in ensuring that they have policies and procedures to encourage the
 representation of women in philosophy’. It includes policy documents on a range of issues
 including conferences and seminar series concerning gender bias and sexual harassment.

 The Unit is also committed to supporting Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students who
 are currently underrepresented at postgraduate research level. Across the sector, BAME
 individuals account for only 5.5% of academics in Philosophy. To encourage BAME students to
 consider academic research careers in philosophy, the Unit has advertised, and successfully
 recruited to, a BAME-only 3-year, centrally funded PhD studentship in Philosophy, which
 commenced in March 2021.

 The School of Humanities secured the Athena Swan bronze award in 2017. The Unit made a
 significant contribution to this success, especially through the involvement of Tejedor and Larvor
 on the School of Humanities Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (SAT), which reviewed the
 gender, equality and diversity strategies of the School. Tejedor's responsibilities
 included designing the staff consultation survey on gender equality and diversity in the School;
 reviewing the support given by the School to academic staff for career promotion
 and career development; and its support to students for academic career progression. Following
 the Bronze Award, the SAT was reconstituted as the School’s Equality and Diversity
 Improvement Team (EDIT). Larvor serves on the EDIT and since 2019 has been the School’s
 Athena Swan champion, which involves leading preparation for and writing future submissions,
 as well as membership of the University-level Athena Swan SAT. Moyal-Sharrock is a member


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the University Women and Professors+ Network, which aims to provide a community for
 discussion, information-sharing and mutual support.

 Unit research and impact activity focuses on equality and diversity issues. Noting the religious
 diversity of the University community, and of the importance of Religion and Belief as a
 protected characteristic, the Unit made a successful bid for one of University’s competitively
 awarded five-year Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellowships, leading to the appointment of
 Malcolm as Research Fellow in Religious Cultures and Diverse Identities. Part of this post’s brief
 is to develop a philosophical account of the challenge of integrating diverse dimensions of
 identity: gender, class, religious faith or background, and participation in critical academic
 culture. Malcolm’s project explores free speech, and conflicts of identities, particularly those of
 religious and sexual orientation, and the role and influence of policy on these conflicts. These
 concerns arose from one of the aims of the Manifest Virtue project (Larvor, Lippitt), which has
 been to consider the impact of forms of philosophical discussion on different participating
 groups, and to attempt to ensure that the Unit does not engage in practices that are off-putting to
 under-represented groups.

 Moyal-Sharrock and Sandis’ grant from the Alphawood Foundation supports research for a
 monograph elucidating the concept of being trans and arguing for the default authenticity and
 reliability of gender self-identification. They are collaborating with University LGBT+ groups and
 LGBT+ communities in France, the UK and the USA. Lippitt’s work with police officers includes
 sitting on Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire Constabulary’s Professional
 Standards Department Scrutiny Panel, giving advice on ethical issues arising from the
 investigation of whether BAME officers, staff and members of the public are disproportionately
 represented in complaints registered, investigated or upheld.

 The Unit has an increasing international staff mix: its members originally hail from China,
 Germany, Greece, Morocco, the USA and the UK. Since adopting the BPA/SWIP guidelines the
 Unit has ensured an equal gender balance in invited research seminar speakers and Francis
 Bacon Lecturers. Relatedly, the time period between the research seminar and the
 undergraduate-run Philosophy Society has been devoted to the Philosophy Tea, a staff-
 student networking and intellectual community-building event held in an alcohol-free
 environment, which is designed to promote inclusivity and diversity. Caddick Bourne’s recent
 Cast and Casting conference also took a strategic decision to have an equal male-female
 balance and 25% BAME speakers on its schedule, as well as incorporating papers on gender
 and race casting. The Unit also participates in a School-wide reading group on contemporary
 racial injustice.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The Unit received £591,000 in external research income over the course of the REF2021 cycle,
 equivalent to £52,768 per FTE and an annual average of £84,429. It has also increased the
 diversity of its funding sources with significantly larger proportions of income coming from EU
 and UK-based charities than in REF2014.

 The strategy for improving the quality of the Unit’s research grant applications has been to
 supplement the long-standing ‘second reader’ system of bids in development, where bids can be
 submitted only after having been subject to critical appraisal by at least one experienced
 colleague, with Unit-specific workshops critiquing such bids in a group. This approach accepts
 that a large grant application is a significant piece of intellectual work. Staff with extensive
 experience of grant application peer review, such as those with AHRC Peer Review College
 experience (Caddick Bourne, Coleman, Larvor, Lippitt), routinely provide additional advice on
 bids in development.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Two large funded projects awarded in the previous REF cycle were completed: the Phenomenal
 Qualities Project (PQP) (AHRC, £296,588) and Towards an Embodied Science of
 Intersubjectivity (Marie Curie Actions ITN, £463k to the Unit, £3.0M total to network). Two key
 PQP outputs appeared during this cycle. First, Coleman and Coates’ edited book Phenomenal
 Qualities: Sense, Perception and Cognition (Oxford University Press, 2015). Both had chapters
 in this interdisciplinary study of consciousness by philosophers, cognitive scientists, and
 neuroscientists. Second, Philip Goff (a PQP postdoctoral researcher) published a highly praised
 monograph Consciousness and Fundamental Reality (OUP, 2017) then a bestseller Galileo's
 Error: Foundations for a New Science of Consciousness (Penguin 2019). Goff featured on BBC
 Radio 4’s Today programme and appeared on Russell Brand’s Under the Skin podcast.

 The long-term value of the Unit’s strategy has been demonstrated by its successes in winning
 several prestigious new grants during the current cycle. While the previous cycle grants
 predominantly focused on networking collaborations and edited volumes, in this cycle the Unit
 used the resulting infrastructure as a basis from which to focus on grants that would facilitate the
 publication of authored monographs and articles that are indicative of its research strengths.
 Hence the grant capture success for individual monographs underlining this approach includes:

    •   Two Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowships (Love’s Forgiveness, £92k, 2018-
        20, Lippitt; Consciousness as Bystander: Exploring the Mostly Unconscious Mind, £86k,
        2019-21, Coleman). These grants enabled Lippitt and Coleman to develop monographs.
        Lippitt’s Oxford University Press book, Love’s Forgiveness (2020) proposes novel
        answers to key questions about interpersonal forgiveness centred on the image of
        forgiveness as a work of ‘care-agapic’ love. Coleman’s project (also for OUP) aims to
        develop an original model of the mind inspired by Freud's twin suggestions that most
        mentation occurs unconsciously, and that the unconscious mind is just like the conscious
        mind except for the absence of consciousness.
    •   A Mind Association Research Fellowship (Truth in Fiction: A Contextualist Account,
        £21,115, 2019-20, Caddick Bourne). Caddick Bourne is developing three journal articles
        on an account of truth in fiction which utilises a contextualist account of knowledge-
        ascriptions. He argues that what is true in a fiction depends on which possibilities for
        fictional worlds and characters have been ruled out, and which have been
        properly ignored, something that can vary across different contexts.
    •   A Microsoft Collaborative Studentship Award (Microsoft, £72k [£48k to Unit], 2014-
        17, Sandis). Sandis’ project involved co-supervision (with Sandis as principal supervisor)
        of a PhD student on the topic of ‘Why do we communicate?’ Its focus was to question the
        ICT assumption that information-conveying is the purpose of all communication, with the
        aim of influencing future ICT design. The student (Behrens) received her PhD in 2018,
        having undertaken a three-month internship at Microsoft Research, Cambridge.
    •   A Funded Visiting Professorship (Vrije Universiteit Brussel, £25k, 2015-16, Larvor). As
        a strategic research initiative, Larvor was invited to spend a year within the logic and
        mathematical practices research group at VUB.
    •   An Alphawood Foundation grant (‘Lived Gender’, £77k, 2019-22, Moyal-Sharrock,
        Sandis) on gender identities (see Section 2).
    •   Further awards of up to £10,000 each have been received from the Templeton
        Foundation (for Coleman’s Russellian Monism Project New Directions in the Philosophy
        of Mind, 2016-17 [£10,000], and Pantheism and Pantheism Project [£1,000]), the Mind
        Association and the British Society of Aesthetics (both Caddick Bourne).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Unit uses the research support offered at School and University level from the Research
 Office and the Doctoral College such as attending events on impact development and public
 engagement organised with external expert speakers. The Research Grants Team in the
 Research Office provides other vital infrastructural support: major award winners receive training
 in project management and support with budgetary accounting.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research infrastructure – library and IT resources and support – is provided centrally and locally
 through School budgets. The University Library’s Philosophy holdings include an estimated
 11,412 books and e-books and 799 journals. All staff and research students are provided with
 office space, up-to-date laptop/ desktop computer and School social and bookable meetings
 space.

 As part of its scholarly infrastructure supporting research the Unit’s Philosophy research seminar
 meets fortnightly during term, and is usually attended by all staff, research students and some
 undergraduates. Among the regular conferences, workshops and colloquia is the European
 Society for Philosophy and Psychology (ESPP) organised by Sandis in 2017 and attended by
 over 150 delegates. Other significant international conferences the Unit has organised with
 staff/research student attendance include:

    •   Living in Uncertainty: Kierkegaard and Possibility, London, 2019 (Plunkett).
    •   Casts and Casting: perspectives from aesthetics and philosophy of art, UH, 2018
        (Caddick Bourne).
    •   Russellian Monism: Time for the Details (keynote: David Chalmers), Budapest, 2017
        (Coleman).
    •   Shakespeare the Philosopher I and II, UH (2014, 2016) (Caddick Bourne)
    •   Two conferences on Leavis, Cambridge 2015, 2016 (Moyal-Sharrock)
    •   Two meetings funded by the International Council for Science, Brussels, Hamburg, 2015
        (Larvor).
    •   The Third Mathematical Cultures conference, London, 2014 (Larvor).
    •   Forum for Virtue and Understanding Launch event (Keynote by Quassim Cassam), UH
        2019 (Sandis).
    •   Virtues in the Classroom, FVU/Eton (Larvor & Beale, Zoom 2020).

 The Unit’s senior staff also provide support for colleagues making promotion applications in the
 University annual round, advising on the process and critiquing draft applications, as in the case
 of the four successful applications for Readerships/Professorships in this cycle.

 Another important aspect of the scholarly infrastructure is the BWS, which has been hosted by
 the Unit since its foundation in 2007. It now has over 900 registered members worldwide, 2700
 registered Facebook friends, and an average of 3000 unique website visitors per month. BWS
 activities include an annual conference at a UK university, each with ten speakers of
 international renown and whose proceedings have historically been published as special issues
 in international journals (but will now be part of Anthem Studies in Wittgenstein); a twice-yearly
 Wittgenstein Lecture Series; financial aid to graduate student conferences and other
 Wittgenstein-related conferences in UK universities; and the creation and maintenance of the
 BWS Comprehensive Annotated Wittgenstein Bibliography wiki. The four members of its
 Executive Committee have Unit affiliations: Moyal-Sharrock (President), Ground (Vice-
 President), Sandis (Secretary), & Jonathan Beale (Treasurer). BWS conferences during this
 cycle have focussed on Wittgenstein and: Epistemology (2014); the Social Sciences (2015);
 Ethics and Religion (2016); and Education (2018). The 2017 tenth-anniversary conference
 - Wittgenstein in the 21st Century - was hosted by UH and featured Professors Louise
 Barrett, Peter Hacker, Peter Hobson and Ray Monk. The BWS has become a world-wide hub
 promoting interaction between students, academics and a broad public interested in
 Wittgenstein's life and philosophy. It was an invited nominating body for REF2021.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research networks have been built by the Unit through a wide range of international
 collaborations. Philosophy staff collaborate with partners in Australasia, North America, and
 throughout Europe. Notable examples ( also see Section 1 ‘impact strategy’) include:


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Moyal-Sharrock co-created the burgeoning field of hinge epistemology through her
        scholarship on Wittgenstein’s On Certainty and its application to contemporary
        epistemology. This has led to international biennial hinge epistemology conferences
        (Paris 2019; Lisbon 2021; Toronto 2023) and related volumes of essays including
        scholars such as Duncan Pritchard, Annalisa Coliva, Pascal Engel, John Greco, and
        Martin Kusch;
    •   Lippitt gave workshops at Deakin (2016, 2020) and continues to collaborate with Stokes,
        whose primary appointment is at Deakin (e.g. the co-edited book they published together
        in 2015);
    •   Coleman’s collaboration with a postdoc funded for two years by the Czech Institute of
        Sciences (2019-21);
    •   Plunkett’s collaborations with Czech colleagues on a Collected Edition of new
        translations of the work of Jan Patočka into English (funded by the Czech Ministry of
        Culture, the Secure SEKYRA Foundation and Jan Michalski Foundation);
    •   Malcolm’s collaboration on a large Templeton Foundation project hosted at Boston
        College (The Philosophy, Theology, and Psychology of Christian Trust in God);
    •   Sandis was a Senior Member of the Spanish Research Council project: Hegel’s
        Philosophy of Action: Logical and Ontological Aspects (2014-2017, £30k), Moyal-
        Sharrock and Sandis are currently members of the Research Working Plan Group for
        Intercultural Understanding, Belonging and Value: Wittgensteinian Approaches, Spanish
        ministry for Science, Innovation, & Universities (PI Tejedor: 2019-2022, £23k);
    •   Sandis’ essays on action & ethics have been translated into French as Raisons et
        responsabilité Essais de philosophie de l’action by Rémi Clot-Goudard (Grenoble) and
        are being published in paperback by Ithaque in March 2021 (2020 publication was
        delayed due to COVID-19), with a Preface by Bruno Gnassounou (Nantes);
    •   Lippitt collaborates with psychotherapists and has organised workshops for trainee
        therapists on forgiveness (2015) and is co-conducting a series of Inner Circle seminars
        for therapists on Kierkegaard’s Fear and Trembling (2018-present);
    •   Balaska has written (with Ben Ware) on the existential impact of the pandemic in our
        daily lives, for the Los Angeles Times.

 Staff in the Unit have co-authored with colleagues in Australia, Belgium, Canada, the Czech
 Republic, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Spain, and the USA.

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 Public engagement and research impact both feature as natural elements in the Unit’s overall
 research strategy. Its industry and policy partnerships include Sandis’ collaboration with
 Microsoft Research on AI intelligibility and the right to explanation and Lippitt’s collaboration with
 Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire Constabularies on the ethics of policing. Other
 external organisations with whom the Unit engages include cultural heritage bodies and
 numerous schools and colleges. Activities with non-academic audiences also include developing
 CPD for groups of professionals including mathematics teachers (Larvor) and schools’ outreach,
 including judging school essay and performance competitions (Caddick Bourne). Sandis served
 as a member of the British Committee for the Restitution of the Parthenon Marbles for a decade
 (2009-19) working with distinguished Hellenists and public figures such as Paul Cartledge, Edith
 Hall and Victoria Hislop.

 Public engagement activities include:

    •   The annual Sir Francis Bacon Lecture, sponsored by the Royal Institute of Philosophy,
        delivered at UH by a prominent philosopher of international standing which regularly
        attracts audiences in treble figures. This series has been running for over a decade and
        spotlights the valuable contribution philosophy makes beyond the academy.
    •   Why Philosophy Matters (WPM), a regular series of public talks, run by the Unit since
        2015, by prominent philosophers featuring debates, and head to head discussions at
        venues in London (in association with Bloomsbury Academic) and St Albans (in

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        association with the Cathedral Study Centre). Topics have ranged across literature,
        journalism, desire, Europe, forgiveness, humility, Kierkegaard, and painting. WPM also
        has a large social media presence (e.g. +5k Twitter followers and +3.8k Facebook
        followers).
    •   The British Wittgenstein Society (BWS) which celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2017
        and holds numerous public lectures in Bloomsbury (and, since 2020 on Zoom). It has a
        large public profile and social media presence (e.g. over 2.8k Facebook group
        members).
    •   The Friends of Patočka Network (Plunkett) brings the Czech thinker’s ideas to a broad
        audience through international conferences and public engagement workshops in the
        Czech Republic and beyond.
    •   Engagement with schools including running an annual mini-conference at UH for sixth
        formers from local schools. More distinctively, Caddick Bourne’s Schools Shakespeare
        Adaptation Project aims to provide an innovative way of getting secondary-school
        students to engage with both philosophy and Shakespeare, through thinking creatively
        about ways to adapt Shakespeare, in order to explore philosophical ideas. Secondary-
        school students are invited to create their own adaptations of Shakespeare’s works, by
        using a bespoke activity pack and by attending a workshop run at their schools to
        engage them in thinking about the philosophical questions raised by their adaptations.
        Prizes are awarded for the best submissions.
    •   Broadcast media; print and online magazines. Unit staff have made a range of radio
        appearances on subjects such as cultural heritage and cultural appropriation on various
        radio stations (Radio 3, Radio 4, Radio Oxford, Radio Scotland, LBC, Herts Radio, and
        Sveriges radio) stations. Sandis is a consultant for Radio 3’s Free Thinking programme
        and has also appeared on The Moral Maze. The Unit contributes to online and print
        magazines, including Los Angeles Times, The Church Times, The Conversation, The
        Monocle Weekly, Four by Three, Optima, Times Literary Supplement, The Oxford
        Philosopher, Forum For Philosophy Essays, Philosophy Now, Police Professional,
        Reform Magazine, Times Higher Education, The Vegan Society, Medium, and The
        Socrates Almanac. Since 2017, Sandis has written a quarterly opinion column for The
        Philosophers' Magazine and took part in Philosophy by Postcard, while Coleman is one
        of the philosophers on the American AskPhilosophers website, which fields and replies to
        questions posted by the public. Kirkpatrick’s 2017 article on de Beauvoir on love on the
        Institute of Art and Ideas blog received over 7500 shares on social media.
    •   Unit members have also participated in various public debates, such as the Battle of
        Ideas at the Barbican and Oxford Fashion Week (Sandis) and given various invited talks
        to church and community groups (Kirkpatrick, Larvor, Lippitt). Sandis has given public
        talks and published article on AI Intelligibility and veganism.

 Unit public engagement events are advertised on the UH website, as well as UH-related
 Philosophy’s Facebook, Twitter, & Instagram accounts, and often publicized via the UH
 Research Blog and by the UH Marketing & Communications and Media teams. For instance,
 Larvor, Lippitt and Sandis have all written about aspects of their work for the UH Research Blog;
 Lippitt’s work with Hertfordshire Constabulary was one of the areas chosen for publicity in the
 research videos produced for the UH website.

 Contributions to Sustainability of Discipline
 Unit staff are active contributors to the discipline and the wider research base:

 Journal Editorships: Members of the Unit are on various editorial and advisory boards
 including Hegel Bulletin, Philosophical Explorations, InterAction, International Journal for the
 Study of Skepticism, Forum for Philosophy Essays, Philosophy Now, the Rowman and Littlefield
 New Kierkegaard Research book series, Philosophical Investigations, Nordic Wittgenstein
 Review, Philpapers, Oxford Handbooks Online, Revista de Filosofia, and Wittgenstein Studien.
 Sandis is the series editor for Philosophers in Depth (Palgrave), Why Philosophy Matters
 (Bloomsbury), and Anthem Studies in Wittgenstein (Anthem).

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Participation on grants committees: Unit staff have conducted promotion and tenure reviews
 for universities in Australia, Denmark, Finland, and the USA, as well as peer review for research
 councils in Canada, Israel, Norway, Poland, and the ERC, as well as in the UK.

 Fellowships and Prizes: Larvor’s Visiting Professorship at Vrije Universiteit Brussels (2015-16).
 Lippitt’s resident fellowships at the Hong Kierkegaard Library, St Olaf College (2018, 2019) and
 Intensive Seminar at the Centre for Ethics as a Study in Human Value at Pardubice University
 (2019), as well as his Honorary Professorship at Deakin University (since 2014). Sandis’ Centre
 for Ethics and Public Affairs [CEPA] Faculty Fellowship at the Murphy Institute, Tulane University
 (2017-18) and his permanent Research Associate status at Le Centre de recherche en éthique
 (CRE), University of Montreal (since 2015, invited researcher in residence, 2018-19) and
 Waterloo Institute for Hellenic Studies (Canada).

 Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees:
 Professional activity includes memberships of the AHRC Peer Review College during the cycle
 (Caddick Bourne, Coleman, Larvor, Lippitt), the British Philosophical Association Executive
 Committee (Larvor), the Academic Committee of the Forum for Philosophy (Sandis), the
 Directive Committee of the Association for the Philosophy of Mathematical Practice (Larvor), The
 Royal Society of Arts (Sandis), and the Royal Institute of Philosophy Council (Lippitt).

 Invited keynotes, talks, or conference chair roles: Unit staff have contributed to over one
 hundred keynotes or invited talks at venues around the world including Athens, Austin, Basle,
 Bergen, Boston, Brussels, Cambridge, Grenoble, Heidelberg, Helsinki, Hiroshima, Konstanz,
 Lisbon, Melbourne, Montreal, Nancy, New Orleans, New York, Nuremburg, Oslo, Oxford,
 Pardubice, Paris, Prague, Sao Paulo, Singapore, Taipei, Toronto, Valencia, Vancouver, Yale,
 Zagreb and Zurich. See section 3, Infrastructure and Facilities for conference chair roles.

 Refereeing activities: Unit staff have refereed for dozens of journals including American
 Philosophical Quarterly, Analysis, Australasian Journal of Philosophy, British Journal for
 Philosophy of Science, Erkenntnis, Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, European Journal of
 Philosophy, Faith and Philosophy, Mind, Mind and Language, Minds and Machines,
 Philosophical Studies, Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, and Philosophical Quarterly
 and numerous presses including OUP, CUP, Routledge, Palgrave, Anthem Press, MIT Press,
 and Open Book Publishers.

 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training: as part of his VUB award
 Larvor organised research and training activities for VUB research students, writing two papers
 jointly authored with VUB staff. Sandis and Behrens are collaborating with a researcher at
 Microsoft X-Box on the agency of non-player characters and have published a shorter piece
 together for The Philosopher’s Magazine (Nov 2020). A collaboration has been established with
 the Aristotelian Society for PGR student research training at the 2021 Joint Session of the MIND
 and Aristotelian Society.




                                                                                           Page 14
