Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: C19

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The goal of the School of Government and Public Policy (GPP) is to produce internationally-
 leading research and world-leading innovation and impact. Strathclyde has a proud heritage as a
 socially engaged university, founded in 1796 by John Anderson to be “a place of useful learning
 and liberality of sentiment”. As such, our mission is “to reach outside the University to make the
 world better educated, prosperous, healthy, fair and secure”.

 The School of Government and Public Policy builds on its traditional strength in the area of the
 empirical analysis of political behaviour and governance, as one of the 8 founding members of the
 European Consortium for Political Research. GPP researchers have excelled in the study of public
 opinion and its representation, especially through survey research and other areas of systematic
 analysis. Research by members of our staff into public opinion in the UK – particularly that of Sir
 John Curtice – is well known. However, as a socially engaged university we apply the same
 academic rigour to a much broader range of questions. Examples include Robert Mattes’ work on
 public opinion in Africa, Anthony McGann’s measurement of gerrymandering and voting rights
 abuses in the United States, Stefanie Reher’s research on the political representation of disabled
 people, and Narisong Huhe and Mark Shephard’s experiments on the spread of fake news in Sri
 Lanka.

 In line with its commitment to socially relevant research, the University has invested in applied
 research in public policy. The School has policy research centres that address two of the most
 pressing issues of the day. The European Policy Research Centre undertakes research on public
 policy in the context of the European Union. The Centre for Energy Policy (CEP) provides
 evaluation of energy policy, particularly with regard to meeting the UK’s targets for reducing carbon
 emissions and tackling the climate crisis. These centres are inter-disciplinary and serve to co-
 ordinate research from across the University.

 Many of the most urgent questions we face as a society require research that cuts across
 traditional disciplinary boundaries, and both the School and the University have moved in this
 direction. For example, Energy is one of the University of Strathclyde’s strategic research themes.
 Our Centre for Energy Policy is part of a concerted programme of research that also involves the
 physical sciences and engineering. The school now has several staff (detailed later in the section)
 whose primary training is in another discipline, including economics, engineering and computer
 sciences, as well as many others who have some inter-disciplinary background. This process is
 not only transforming the School, but in conjunction with our historical strengths, opening up a
 range of new possibilities in the areas of basic and applied research, research funding, policy
 impact, and postgraduate study.

 The organisation of the School of Government and Public Policy follows from these priorities.
 Formally, the School of Government and Public Policy is made up of three units:

 1. The Department of Politics. This has 22 research staff. In addition to undertaking research, it
 teaches undergraduate and research students.

 2. The European Policy Research Centre (EPRC). This is a specialised research unit that conducts
 applied research in public policy in the context of the European Union. It recently opened a branch
 at TU Delft in the Netherlands, as part of its continued commitment to research in the EU. It has

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 14 research and knowledge exchange staff, and is led by Professor John Bachtler and Professor
 Fiona Wishlade.

 3. The Centre for Energy Policy (CEP). This has six research staff, including three postdoctoral
 positions. It is led by Professor Karen Turner. The Centre undertakes research on the evaluation
 of energy policy, with a particular emphasis on general equilibrium modelling.

 The Department of Politics is organised as a traditional academic unit where self-directed
 academics engage in free inquiry and organize themselves into flexible teams, both within the
 school and beyond. This allows us the flexibility to respond quickly to new issues and priorities, as
 well as addressing agendas that may have received insufficient attention from the mainstream of
 the discipline. Our policy research centres, on the other hand, represent a focussed commitment
 to address key areas of public policy. This allows us to develop long-term relationships with policy-
 makers and other stakeholders and mobilise resources as part of a University-wide research
 strategy. We have ensured that there are staff who connect these three units. In the Department
 of Politics there are several staff specialising in European Politics who have worked on joint
 projects with EPRC. We also have two Chancellor’s Fellows in Politics whose specialisation is in
 energy policy, in addition to the staff of CEP.

 Research and Impact Strategy for Current and Previous Period

 Our strategy is to concentrate resources to create focussed research clusters and centres, and
 thereby maximise impact. This allows a sufficient concentration of researchers working on similar
 problems to form collaborative research teams. The three concentrations in the Department of
 Politics are:

 1. Public opinion and its representation (including elections, parties and interest groups).
 2. Governance, public policy and political economy.
 3. International relations and international organization.

 Our two policy research centres conduct applied, policy-relevant research in their respective
 areas. We actively seek synergies between the three units, as will be seen in our impact case
 studies and staffing policies.

 The current strategic direction of the School can be traced back to the period before REF2014. In
 2010, the School of Government and Public Policy was formed from the School of Government
 and the EPRC, and embedded in the newly formed Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences.
 This period brought in a new generation of staff, with 15 new hires in the period 2008-2013. This
 resulted in a revitalised school with a more international perspective. The combination of a
 dynamic, ambitious staff publishing world leading research and policy centres with established
 relationships with decision-makers resulted in a strong showing in REF2014, in which the School
 was ranked 11th overall.

 In our submission to REF2014, we stated that, “The overarching objective is to develop further
 research that is both academically strong and of practical use to policy makers and those engaged
 in governance.” We planned to achieve these goals by prioritising empirical research in the areas
 where the School has been traditionally strong: (1) public opinion and its representation; and (2)
 public policy and governance. In addition, we planned to expand our research to address
 questions of internationalisation and globalisation, and also take account of new methodologies
 and theoretical approaches. At the same time, the University committed to large investments to
 produce public policy research and disseminate it to the relevant end users. A final objective was
 to increase the number of doctoral students from 7 to 20.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School and the University has successfully fulfilled these plans. We have continued to invest
 in new staff in our traditional core areas of research with four new positions (Professor Mattes, Dr
 Greene, Dr Alexiadou and Dr Reher). This has allowed us to produce a stream of academically
 strong research that is published in leading international journals and top university presses, as
 demonstrated by our outputs submitted to this REF. It has also allowed us to produce research
 with impacts on policy and society, over and above the case studies submitted to this assessment
 (see Section 4).

 Over the period of the REF assessment, the School has substantially increased the number of
 post graduate research students. As a result of internal funding and participation in the Scottish
 Graduate School in Social Science (SGSSS), our current enrolment of doctoral students is 24,
 which exceeds our target of 20.

 Our ambition to address questions of internationalisation and globalisation has led to international
 relations (IR) becoming one of our core research focusses, alongside public opinion and
 representation, and public policy and governance. To this end, we added four new positions in
 international relations (Professor Scotto, Dr Huhe, Dr Gallup and Dr Bayer). At time of writing, we
 are conducting interviews for a professorial position in IR to replace Professor Scotto, who
 departed in 2020. Our new academics have also allowed us to acquire competence in a broader
 range of methodological and theoretical approaches, such as text analysis (Dr Greene), social
 network analysis (Dr Huhe) and game theory (Dr Gallup). Our new staff have also extended our
 range of geographical expertise. For example, Professor Mattes is a leading scholar of public
 opinion in Africa, while Dr Huhe researches politics in China.

 During this REF period, the School has successfully integrated the CEP, led by Professor Karen
 Turner. Previously this centre had been part of the Strathclyde International Public Policy Institute
 (IPPI). However, the various centres that made up IPPI were devolved to various schools within
 the University, with each centre being embedded in the School where its research is most relevant.
 The advantage of this approach is that it allows close links between the centre and the school,
 which allows us to fully exploit the synergies between academic and applied research. This is
 essentially the model the School was already successfully using with the EPRC.

 To realise these synergies, the School and the University have invested in new staff whose
 research and training bridges the Department of Political Science and the two research centres.
 For example, the School hired three staff, through the University’s Chancellor’s Fellows scheme
 (see Institutional statement), whose research is focussed on European politics (Dr Alexiadou, Dr
 Greene, Dr Reher) and interfaces naturally with the work of EPRC. As part of the University’s
 focus on energy as a strategic theme, we have hired two Chancellor’s Fellows in energy policy (Dr
 Ford, Dr Bayer). These belong to the Department of Politics (Dr Bayer has already been mentioned
 above), but their research overlaps naturally with the CEP. We have also hired staff whose training
 allows more effective collaboration with other parts of the University. Dr Rebecca Ford is an
 engineer by training and holds a joint appointment with Electronic and Electrical Engineering.
 Professor Scott Cunningham has a background in computer science and public policy.

 All three of our impact case studies have an interdisciplinary element. When the CEP considers
 the economics of the uptake of electric cars, this requires input from engineers and the physical
 sciences (for example, for the impact on the national power grid). Similarly, the EPRC has staff
 with expertise in geography (Bachtler, Davies, den Hoed) and in economics and law (Wishlade).
 Professor McGann’s research on gerrymandering and electoral law draws on a network of
 scholars in law, geography and political philosophy.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our approach to impact flows naturally from our research strategy and our values. As a socially
 engaged university, we view research as something to be harnessed for socially progressive
 purposes. We consider dissemination and engagement as a normal part of the research cycle,
 and knowledge exchange is one of the four areas assessed for all academic promotions. As a
 result, the number of staff producing significant impact is far greater than what is reflected in the
 case studies, as is shown in Section 4.

 We use different approaches to turn excellent research into impact on the world beyond academia.
 Sometimes we work closely with end users to develop the research programme and deliver
 precisely the research they need. This is the approach generally used by our policy research
 centres, although it is not limited to them. For example, the EPRC has worked with the EU over
 many years to evaluate the effects of its cohesion policy – policies that address the economic
 disparities between regions. Likewise, the CEP has worked with the Scottish and UK governments
 on how to meet “net zero” carbon targets. At other times impact grows out of research projects
 that started out as purely academic, such as our case study of McGann’s research on
 gerrymandering in the United States. However, once the potential for impact was identified,
 McGann and his team engaged with legal scholars, practitioners and citizen groups, as well as
 writing in non-academic outlets.

 For people to make use of our research, they must first be able to access it. Therefore, we follow
 University open access policy (green open access via the University’s PURE database for all
 journal articles, gold open access for research funded by UKRI and ERC, as well as through “read
 and publish” deals with certain publishers). We also make all datasets publicly available via our
 PURE server. In addition, we actively engage with people who wish to make use of our work.

 For our research to have impact it needs to be trusted. For that reason, we expect the highest
 levels of research integrity. Of course, this is generally guaranteed by adherence to professional
 norms. Nevertheless, the University has a robust institutional framework. All research is covered
 by the University of Strathclyde Research Code of Practice, which is compatible with UUK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012) and the RCUK Policy and Guidelines on
 Governance of Good Research Conduct (updated July 2015). To allow verification, this requires
 all researchers to make the data they collect or generate freely available for use by others
 wherever possible, unless there is an overwhelming legal or ethical reason not to.

 Research and Impact Strategy for the Coming Period

 We plan for the School to grow in a sustainable manner. We have added a considerable number
 of staff in the previous two REF periods, and have been extremely successful in retaining both
 new and existing staff. Future hires will be targeted in the research areas that we introduced and
 developed in the last period. These areas include international relations, political economy and
 energy policy. As in the previous period, we are particularly interested in hiring people who can
 either provide a bridge between these areas and the work of our policy centres, or who can extend
 our existing research strengths into new geographical areas, for example Africa or Asia.

 We will further integrate the research of the Department of Political Science and our research
 centres. These represent different organisational principles – traditional academic values on one
 hand emphasising freedom of inquiry, flexibility and self-organisation on one hand, and co-
 ordinated, directed research oriented towards the end user on the other. However, there are many
 synergies between the two approaches, as we have found in joint projects such as COHESIFY
 (Horizon2020 project The Impact of Cohesion Policy on EU Identification: Europe in a Changing
 World). We are planning more such joint projects, particularly in energy policy.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our impact strategy will remain broadly similar. The research programmes in our impact case
 studies will continue to generate impact. The need for the research of the CEP will only increase
 as target dates for carbon reductions come closer. The EPRC has opened a branch at TU Delft
 that will allow it to continue to bid for EU research funds, regardless of future UK participation in
 European research funding. Gerrymandering and electoral justice will continue to be an issue in
 the USA, and Professor McGann already has a book in press on gerrymandering at the state level.
 The expertise of Sir John Curtice will continue to be relevant. In the next REF period there will be
 at least one UK General Election, two Scottish Parliament elections and possibly referendums.
 We also have a considerable number of other projects that are either producing impact or are
 expected to in the future (see Section 4).

 As the School develops over the next six year period, it must become more representative in terms
 of gender and other protected characteristics across all ranks. We have made considerable
 progress in this regard over the last six years. Our staff is now considerably more representative
 and we have female professors leading our two policy centres. However, there is still considerable
 work to be done. One way to ensure our staff becomes more representative at the more senior
 levels is to ensure that we continue to retain our junior staff and promote them through the ranks.
 Equally importantly, we will also ensure that all recruitment follows best practice enabling us to
 draw from the broadest possible pool.

 We will continue to develop and expand our PhD programme, using a combination of internal
 funds, support from the SGSSS and other funding sources. We will develop new courses for our
 PhD programmes including modular courses in specialist methodologies, to supplement training
 provided though SGSSS.

 We are committed to this strategy in spite of the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
 The long-term need for research into the key problems we face as a society, for example the need
 to reduce carbon emissions to net zero, will remain. The University continues to invest in staff as
 planned – at time of writing the School is interviewing for one professorial and one Chancellor’s
 Fellow position. While the transition to online teaching has undoubtedly eaten into research time,
 the School has provided additional funding for collaborative projects involving postgraduate
 students, and other projects such as pandemicpolitics (a multi-university project that surveys
 public attitudes during the pandemic).

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our staffing strategy facilitates the career development of all staff in line with the 2008 and 2019
 Concordats to Support the Career Development of Researchers and applies equally to permanent
 and fixed-term staff. As shown below, we make very limited use of fixed term positions. This is in
 line with the recommendation in the 2008 Concordat that fixed-term contracts should be limited to
 cases where a clear justification can be provided. When a fixed-term contract is appropriate, staff
 development is treated in the same way as with permanent staff. Staff attend the same annual
 Accountability and Development Review and have access to the same training and mentoring
 services. Through a combination of training, attendance at professional conferences and outward
 facing knowledge exchange, staff comfortably exceed the 10 days of professional development
 training required by the 2019 Concordat.

 Between 2008 and 2013 there was considerable turnover and 15 new members of staff. Since
 then we have been extremely successful in retaining this staff, so recruitment has been focussed
 on sustainable growth. We have added four new Professors (one from within Strathclyde), four

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chancellor’s Fellows and two lecturers in the review period. Four of these hires were in the new
 International Relations concentration, two within energy policy and three within European political
 behaviour/political economy. In particular, we have hired staff who can bridge different areas of
 existing expertise and who can integrate the work of the policy centres with that of the rest of the
 School, including Dr Rebecca Ford who works on energy policy and has a joint appointment with
 Electronic and Electrical Engineering.

 The School’s staffing strategy has produced a staff that is well balanced. This is shown in Table 1
 below. We have been extremely successful in retaining our staff – only five permanent members
 of staff have departed during the REF period, including retirement. As a result, we have a stream
 of people developing in their careers who will be equipped to fill leadership positions in the future.
 An example of this is Fiona Wishlade, who was promoted to Professor in this REF period and is
 now Co-Director of the EPRC.

 Table 1. Distribution of Staff by rank

  Rank                 Dept of Politics                                     EPRC        CEP
  Professor                   5                                               2          1
  Reader                      1
  Senior Lecturer            10            Senior Research/KE                 6
                                           fellow
  Lecturer                     3           Research/KE fellow                 3           2
  Postdoctoral                 3                                              2           3

 All the staff in the above table are on permanent contracts, with the exception of the postdoctoral
 researchers. All Category A staff have permanent contracts – we offer academic staff permanent
 contracts after a one year probation period. The research-only staff in the EPRC and CEP
 (Research/Knowledge Exchange Fellows) are also employed on permanent contracts not tied to
 specific projects.

 We started the review period with many staff who had been recently recruited. Over the review
 period this staff has matured, which is reflected in promotions. As already mentioned, Dr Fiona
 Wishlade was promoted to Professor and became Co-Director of EPRC. In the Department of
 Politics, Dr Gabriela Borz, Dr Sebastian Dellepiane-Avellaneda, Dr Fabrizio de Francesco, Dr
 Zachary Greene, Dr Richard Johnson, Dr Stratos Patrikios, Dr Stefanie Reher and Dr Jun Sudduth
 were promoted to Senior Lecturer. In the EPRC, Dr Sara Davies, Dr Carlos Mendez and Dr Heidi
 Vironen were promoted to Senior Research Fellow, while Dr Stefan Kah was promoted to Senior
 KE fellow.

 As the majority of our staff were recruited in lecturer positions or equivalent, the long-term
 development of our staff is essential to achieving our research and impact goals. For this reason,
 we ensure that all our staff have the time, resources, mentoring and training needed to reach their
 full potential.

 This process starts with the annual Accountability and Development Review, in which the Head of
 School meets each member of staff to jointly work out a written professional development plan.
 Additional mentoring is provided to early career staff through an assigned mentor from within the
 School, while all staff may participate in mentoring@strathclyde which gives access to senior
 mentors from other schools.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our workload model ensures that Category A staff have sufficient time to do independent research.
 The School operates a progressive variant of the 40-40-20 workload model, with the teaching
 component for research active staff on standard contracts without leadership roles expected to
 teach three 20 credit modules per academic year, supervise approximately 5 honours and 2-3
 postgraduate taught dissertations annually. Early career academics who join the University
 through the Chancellor's Fellows Scheme receive a 6 module reduction over 4 years and partial
 relief from service related activities. We grant one semester of sabbatical leave to all academic
 staff every three years, including those working part-time.

 The school ensures that all staff have the resources they need to conduct research. The faculty
 research and knowledge exchange team (RaKET) and the University research and knowledge
 exchange service (RKES) provide staff with support for applying for external funding. The School
 has provided funding so that all staff members can attend two conferences a year. Alternatively,
 this money can be used to fund other research expenses. The University provides funding so that
 newly recruited academics can establish their research programmes at Strathclyde. Staff recruited
 though the Chancellor’s Fellows programme receive a budget of £10,000, while new professors
 are allocated £25,000.

 We provide continuing training for staff throughout their careers. The University’s Organisational
 Staff Development Unit provides a full range of course professional development through the
 Strathclyde Programme in Academic Development, Researcher Development and Knowledge
 Exchange (SPARK). Training also takes place at the School level. The EPRC and CEP run their
 own training programmes tailored to their particular research and knowledge exchange needs.
 The Department of Politics holds regular short courses in advanced methodological skills that are
 attended by both staff and students. Of course, as in any well-functioning, collegial department, a
 great deal of staff development also takes place by informal means, as staff draw upon the
 experience and expertise of their colleagues.

 We pay particular attention to the development of our early career researchers. All early career
 researchers and new lecturers are assigned a senior member of staff as a mentor and adviser on
 career development. They also participate in our Academic Career Development Framework.
 which is a three-year programme where new researchers complete a series of postgraduate
 certificate courses on educational practices and researcher development. While many new
 lecturers come to us as accomplished researchers with publication records, this programme allows
 them to acquire a well-rounded set of professional skills.

 The placement record of postdoctoral posts at the School demonstrates that these positions
 provide a solid basis for developing a career. Some postdoctoral fellows have gone on to
 permanent positions at Strathclyde. Dr Gioele Figus (Research Associate at CEP) became a
 Lecturer in the Department of Economics, while Dr Oluwafisayo Alabi and Dr Antonios Katris are
 now research fellows at CEP. Dr Carlos Mendez (Research Associate EPRC) is now a Senior
 Research Fellow at EPRC. Others have taken permanent positions at other institutions. Dr Javier
 Sajuria (Department of Politics) took a lectureship at the University of Newcastle, while Dr Arno
 van der Zwet (EPRC) became Lecturer at the University of the West of Scotland.

 Research Students

 Over the REF period, we have increased our PhD programme from just four students in 2014 to
 a healthy 24 PhD students in 2019/20, with between four and seven new PhD students entering
 each year over the five-year period. PGR funding is available through competitive School, Faculty
 and University-level awards, and through our membership in the Scottish Graduate School of
 Social Science (SGSSS). Over the past three years, we secured four full ESRC studentships (two

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 +3 and two 1+3 awards). Currently 20 out of 24 PhD students have been successful in securing
 studentships.

 Since 2014, PhD students at the University of Strathclyde complete 60 credits towards a
 Postgraduate Certificate in Professional Researcher Development. Credits are accumulated
 through participation in internal and external research training courses, tutoring, presentation at
 conferences, funding applications and research experience.

 In addition to this pioneering PG Certificate, the School of Government and Public Policy has
 expanded and intensified its internal skills and research training for PhD students. All new PhD
 students attend three 10-credit courses at School level during their first year of study: One class
 on Research Design which has been provided for doctoral students since 2016; one class in
 Advanced Quantitative Methods, developed since 2018, which consists of five one or two-day
 workshops each academic year (e.g. network analysis, data visualisation, Bayesian statistics,
 computer-assisted text analysis); and one reading class in coordination with their supervisory
 team, to guide them in developing their systematic literature review during year 1.

 Through our membership in the SGSSS, the Scottish ESRC Doctoral Training Centre, our
 students also have access to Scotland-wide interdisciplinary and disciplinary training events, such
 as summer schools and annual science festivals.

 PhD students are integrated into the School research environment through (a) regular participation
 in the Government and Public Policy Departmental Colloquium, (b) paid research assistant work
 for staff members (almost all current PhD students have been RAs on at least one such project),
 and (c) co-authoring with supervisors or other staff members.

 During the current REF period, graduates from our PhD programmes have secured permanent
 lecturer positions (Andy Judge, University of Glasgow), Alan Convery (University of Edinburgh),
 post-doctoral research positions (Fraser McMillan, University of Glasgow), full-time positions in
 the UK or Scottish Civil Service (Alba Smeriglio, DFID, Kenneth Stevenson, ScotGov) or with the
 European Commission (Sylwia Borkowska-Waszak).

 Equality and Diversity

 As an international university, we have an extremely diverse staff, and we take the responsibility
 to ensure every member of this staff is treated equally and equitably extremely seriously. The
 majority of our staff were not born in the United Kingdom. The largest part of our staff come from
 the various countries of the European Union, but we also have staff from Argentina, Canada,
 China, Japan, Nigeria and the United States.

 We have made considerable progress towards having a gender balanced School in the last REF
 period, although we are still a considerable way from this goal. Women make up 35% of our
 Category A staff for REF2021, as opposed to 25% for REF2014. Our permanent staff is now 39%
 female (36% of all staff including fixed-term postdoctoral positions). Two women now hold
 professorial positions in the School, and lead our policy research centres.

 We ensure that the recruitment process provides equal treatment to all applicants, and that we
 draw from the widest candidate pool possible. In line with best practice, we ensure that all
 applications from underrepresented groups receive full consideration. All posts are advertised
 widely using national and international professional bodies. A considerable number of hires involve
 university-wide competitions, such as the Chancellor’s Fellows programme. For these positions,
 the School has paid for them to be advertised as if they were politics positions in the venues most

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 likely to be seen by recent political science PhDs. As a result, we receive a far larger and more
 diverse candidate pool. Three out of the five staff who have joined the School through the
 Chancellor’s Fellow programme are women.

 We ensure that there is equal opportunity in the promotion process. The University has transparent
 and objective written criteria for promotion. These criteria embody the principle of equal treatment,
 and make full allowance for factors such as career breaks and caring responsibilities when stages
 are expected to be in set periods of time (such as the three year development framework for new
 lecturers). During the review period, women have been promoted at approximately the same rate
 as men. Of the thirteen promotions during the REF period, seven have been women, including the
 one promotion to professorial level.

 The School is committed to helping staff to balance the competing demands of family and career.
 The University provides four months of family leave at full pay, with the option of taking up to a
 year with a combination of statutory maternity leave and unpaid leave. In the review period, two
 members of staff have taken maternity leave, two paternity leave and one adoption leave. We
 provide Family Friendly Research Leave to allow staff to re-establish their research trajectory.
 Returning staff can take an additional three month of leave where they have no teaching or
 administrative duties. Three members of staff returning from family leave (2 women, one man)
 were promoted in the review period.

 The School supports part-time and flexible working. Formal flexible working hours can be
 negotiated with the Head of School or Centre Director. However, informal flexible working is far
 more common, and encouraged by the University’s Agile Working Policy. Academic staff are
 typically issued with a laptop and can work from home whenever their presence on campus is not
 essential. This was the case even before the COVID-19 pandemic. All University meetings are
 scheduled between 10am and 4pm.

 The University has an Athena Swan Bronze award at the institutional level, and the School is in
 the process of revising its submission. The self-assessment process and the conversations it
 provoked have had a significant effect on the way we operate. For example, we realised that the
 informal management structure of the School did not always foster inclusion. As a result, we have
 instituted a formal committee system where each leadership position has an associated
 committee, so that staff can familiarise themselves with the various roles and responsibilities can
 be rotated more widely.

 The School has worked with the University REF Team, in line with the University’s REF Code of
 Practice, to ensure that the processes related to this submission have been equitable and
 inclusive. Nevertheless, we are extremely aware of the possibility of unconscious bias at various
 stages of the process. For this reason, all staff with REF responsibilities participated in training in
 recognising and avoiding unconscious bias. We ensured that the School’s output review panel
 was representative in terms of seniority and gender, and that one of our two external reviewers is
 female.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The funding strategy of the School reflects the research and knowledge exchange strategy laid
 out in Section 1. Our two policy centres produce specialised, policy-related research, and they
 cultivate close working relationships with end-users, from whom they seek long-term funding.
 Members of the Department of Politics, in contrast, generally pursue support from research
 councils and other funders for individual projects in the broad area of governance and political
 behaviour, which allows the flexibility to develop independent research agendas and pursue new

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research questions. And where appropriate, we have also won grants for projects that require the
 respective skills of scholars from both the School and one or other Centre, as well as part of larger,
 interdisciplinary consortia.

 This strategy has been very effective. With £10.1 million in total income, and £7.9 million from over
 50 research awards for the current REF period, GPP’s research income is extremely impressive,
 both in terms of overall total, and in income per staff member.

 The European Policy Research Centre (EPRC) has won repeated funding from the European
 Commission. It has received nine European Commission grants over the review period to research
 issues ranging from the effect of financial instruments on cohesion, to rural development policy.
 The COHESIFY project, which is part of one of our impact case studies, is illustrative. It combined
 the EPRC’s experience in EU cohesion policy, with the public opinion expertise of scholars in the
 Department of Politics. The EPRC assembled and led a consortium of 8 universities and 2 private
 organisations in this €2.4 million project. The project evaluated how effective EU Cohesion policy
 was in terms of how people see the EU. The policy findings of the project were presented to the
 European Commission at a conference in Brussels. It also produced a series of papers that are
 now under review at journals such as the Journal of European Public Policy.

 To protect its ability to bid for European Commission funding, regardless of whether the UK
 participates in these schemes having left the EU, the EPRC has established a centre at TU Delft
 in the Netherlands. The EPRC’s future viability is also ensured by its ability to win funding from
 diverse sources. During the review period, this includes government agencies in Austria, Finland,
 France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden, as well as the European
 Investment Bank and the Caribbean Community (CARICOM).

 The Centre for Energy Policy (CEP) has also won several major grants. In November 2014, just
 as the Centre launched, it was awarded £302,477 from the Engineering and Physical Sciences
 Research Council (EPSRC) for research on the economic effects of energy saving innovations.
 Since 2017 it has won over £500,000 (in a series of linked projects) from the Scottish
 Government’s ClimateXChange programme for a series of post-doctoral researchers working on
 devolved climate policy issues. In 2019, it won £510,596 from the Children’s Investment Fund
 Foundation (CIFF), granted through the Bellona Foundation, for research on the political
 economics of industrial decarbonisation. As with EPRC, the CEP has a diverse portfolio of funders,
 including government agencies in Scotland, the Research Council of Norway, UK Research
 Councils and industry (SSE and SPEN).

 Although external funding for the Department of Politics is generally based on the individual
 project, there are notable examples of recurring funding for work done by the Department of
 Politics. The work of Professor Sir John Curtice at the National Centre for Social Research and
 Scottish Centre for Social Research has been supported by the ESRC. Dr Wolfgang Rüdig has
 been the UK representative of the Comparative Candidate Survey in the UK since its inception in
 2005, which the ESRC has supported through the Representative Audit of Britain project. The
 Department of Politics has also won funding from a diverse range of sources, including the ESRC
 (Dellepiane-Avellaneda), NORFACE (Greene), private sector funding from sources such as
 WhatsApp (Huhe, Shephard) and the Volkswagen Foundation (Scotto), and charities such as the
 Carnegie Trust.

 Small grants are extremely important to our research strategy. Although they form only a small
 part of our research income, they are crucial in allowing researchers to set new agendas and
 investigate new questions. For example, small grants from the Carnegie Foundation and the
 British Academy allowed Dr Jun Sudduth to compile a comprehensive dataset of military and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 civilian purges under autocracies from 1980-2010. This is the basis of a stream of research,
 including a paper now published in the Journal of Peace Research. Similarly, a Carnegie Grant
 has allowed Dr Zachary Greene to hire research assistants to develop a coding schema for a
 database of party conference speeches. Grants from the Carnegie Foundation and Whatsapp
 have allowed Dr Narisong Huhe to investigate social networks and internet use in China, as well
 as the dissemination of fake news in Sri Lanka.

 Small grants can also provide the foundation for larger projects. For example, a Carnegie grant
 allowed Dr Stefanie Reher to conduct a survey experiment on public attitudes toward disabled
 candidates for public office. This served as proof of concept for the larger comparative project
 supported by Dr Reher’s ESRC New Investigator Grant. Dr Greene’s Carnegie grant allowed him
 to develop some of the techniques that underlie the NORFACE funded project Willingness and
 Capacity for EU Policy Action in Turbulent Times. Similarly, EPSRC Impact Accelerator, EPSRC
 UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre (UKCCSRC) and small public sector projects
 (Scottish Enterprise and Crown Estate Scotland) between 2017 and 2019, all contributed to lay
 the foundations for the CEP’s £510,596 CIFF-Bellona award in late 2019.

 GPP’s record of success rests on robust strategies and procedures for generating grant
 applications. First, all staff discuss evolving funding strategies and yearly goals as part of the
 Accountability and Development Review process. Second, potential grant applications undergo
 an extensive process of internal peer review at School and Faculty level. In line with the
 University’s ethos of collaborative work, staff are encouraged to put together teams with different
 skill sets to make bids more competitive, including staff located in other schools and faculties
 across the University.

 The School enjoys support of the University’s office of Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Services (RKES), and the Faculty’s Research Knowledge Exchange Team (RaKET), who help
 staff identify and respond to funding opportunities, assist with budgets, review and edit drafts of
 proposals, and manage projects. The comprehensive support provided by the School and the
 Faculty has allowed our junior staff to develop the skills necessary for successful grant
 applications. Dr Stefanie Reher, for example, received an ESRC New Investigator reward, and the
 majority of junior staff received some kind of award, whether individually or as Co-PI (in some
 cases PI) of a larger team.

 The University provides digital infrastructure to ensure that the data and research outputs
 produced by the School are preserved, curated, searched and accessible by both the scientific
 community and interested public. The physical infrastructure available to GPP is modern, with
 well-equipped offices and seminar rooms, and the technical infrastructure in the form of computing
 facilities and IT support is of a high standard. Moreover, the University is currently investing over
 £1 billion in a further upgrade of the quality and scope of teaching and laboratory facilities. GPP
 enjoys access to excellent library facilities with full subscription to all relevant journals, both in print
 and online form, as well as a full array of research databases. GPP representatives provide regular
 feedback to the library on current research needs. The library also makes all of the School’s
 research outputs available in open access, digital form. The School’s staff also have access to the
 library at the University of Glasgow. The University also has facilities to host significant
 conferences, especially in its new Technology and Innovation Centre, which the School has used
 to host several international conferences including the Political Studies Association Annual
 Conference in 2017.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                                                                    Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In line with Strathclyde’s heritage as “a place of useful learning”, our research is policy-relevant
 and contributes to our society. We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline in many ways,
 including supporting major collaborative projects such as British Social Attitudes and
 Afrobarometer, and hosting events such as the 2017 PSA conference. We reach out to end users
 and the broader community in the design of much of our research, and engage with society
 through our extensive media work. We do research – in addition to that already summarised in
 our case studies – that has an impact on society by both informing policy decisions and the public
 debate.

 Collaboration and contribution to the discipline

 The staff of the School are engaged with a wide range of national and international research
 networks and participate in numerous collaborative research projects.

 Professor Sir John Curtice has worked for many years with the National Centre for Social
 Research. He is Co-Director of the British Social Attitudes and Scottish Social Attitudes surveys.
 These are essential, publicly available research resources that provide annual data on public
 opinion in the UK and Scotland for over 30 years. They have been used not only in countless
 academic articles, but also widely in public debate and the media. Professor Curtice is a Fellow of
 the Royal Society of Arts, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the British. He is also President of
 the British Polling Council.

 Professor Robert Mattes is the Co-Founder and Senior Adviser of the Afrobarometer project,
 which has over the last 20 years collected regular data on political social and economic attitudes
 in over 30 African countries. This has also involved collaboration with other international projects
 in comparative politics such as the Comparative Study of Electoral Systems and the Comparative
 National Elections Study. He serves as the Co-PI on the South African National Elections Study
 and is Co-Founder and Co-PI on the African Legislatures Project. Along with Dr Zachary Greene,
 he is developing the Political Parties in Africa project with collaborators in South Africa and Malawi.

 In the area of International Relations, Professor Tom Scotto took a key role in developing the
 SecEUrity Project including 16 academics from across Europe awarded €1 million from the
 Volkswagen Foundation to study elite and mass attitudes towards European Defence integration.
 Dr Jun Sudduth collaborates on an international project co-ordinated by the Peace Research
 Institute Oslo and funded by the Norwegian Research Council entitled “Street-level Autocrats”. In
 comparative politics, Dr Wolfgang Rüdig is UK representative of the Comparative Candidate
 Survey research group, a 29 country study of parliamentary candidates, while Dr Zachary Greene
 organizes the Party Congress Research Group, which has collected data on the content of party
 speeches in 7 countries.

 The School and the University put in place a number of programmes supporting effective
 collaborations and partnerships. The University’s Global Engagement Fund allows travel to
 promote engagement with the University’s International Strategic Partners. GPP scholars used
 these funds to visit University of Texas, Houston (Shephard) and TU Delft (Greene). The University
 Erasmus+ programme has funded training opportunities within Europe between 2 days and 2
 months up to €1100. These programmes supplement the support for travel outlined in Section 2
 (support for two conferences for all Category A staff, additional funds for some positions such as
 Chancellors’ Fellows).

 Another way the School promotes national and international collaboration is through its regular
 colloquium series. Between 2016 and 2020 the School invited 57 speakers from 13 countries, with

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the invitees also being balanced in terms of rank (51% postdoc or lecturer) and gender (58%
 female). This has led to numerous productive collaborations, including Greene and Lühiste’s
 (2017) work on the differential media coverage of women and men during election campaigns,
 which resulted from Dr Lühiste’s visit in 2016. GPP staff have also been invited to give many
 similar presentations at other institutions (staff give an average of about one invited talk per year,
 excluding Sir John Curtice).

 The School and its staff are active in numerous professional bodies. The School was a founding
 member of the European Consortium for Political Research. Most academic staff are members of
 multiple professional associations, including the Political Studies Association, the European
 Political Science Association, the American Political Science Association and the International
 Studies Association. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, staff on average have attended between 2
 to 3 professional conferences per year, and most have attended at least one virtual conference
 since then. School staff have also served as the section heads at the conferences of the American
 Political Science Association (Greene 2020), European Political Science Association (Alexiadou,
 2015, Reher 2020), and International Political Psychology Conference (Greene 2019).

 The School also promotes collaboration across the discipline by hosting conferences. In 2017 the
 School hosted the annual meeting of the Political Studies Association. This was attended by over
 750 participants and featured a keynote address from the Scottish First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon.
 Avnish Patel of the PSA wrote: “The PSA’s 67th Annual Conference was ambitious in terms of
 attendance, scale, content, public engagement and impact and epitomised the energy and vision
 of the convenor, Dr Mark Shephard, Senior Lecturer in Political Science at the University of
 Strathclyde.” In 2019 the School hosted the conference of the PSA Elections, Public Opinion and
 Parties Section, with Dr Greene, Dr Brandenburg and Dr Reher as co-conveners. This has 215
 registrations, the largest to date for this conference. The School has also hosted numerous smaller
 conferences.

 We encourage our staff to engage fully with peer review process. The average GPP staff member
 does an average of 8 journal reviews per year. The vast majority of staff have also refereed at
 least one book and one grant proposal over the review period, and some considerably more.
 Professor Cunningham is Associate Editor of Technological Forecasting and Social Change. Dr
 Mark Shephard was Deputy Editor of Journal of Legislative Studies. Professor McGann and Dr
 Greene are Associate Editors of Political Research. Professor McGann has served on the editorial
 board of Political Research Quarterly, while Professor Mattes is a member of the editorial board
 of The International Journal of Public Opinion Research and Politikon: South African Journal of
 Political Studies. Professor Scotto is editing a special issue of International Studies Perspectives
 on academic freedom from non-US perspectives, as part of a project sponsored by the
 International Studies Association Academic Freedom Committee.

 School staff have also contributed to collective efforts in PGR education. Dr Heinz Brandenburg
 has served as Pathway Leader for Politics in the SGSSS. Staff members have taught in many
 summer schools including the Essex Summer School for Data Analysis (Dellepiane, Scotto),
 AQMen (Shephard), EITM Torino (Bayer), EITM Duke (Gallup), University of Amsterdam
 (Cunningham), Afrobarometer Summer School (Mattes) and Scottish Graduate School for Arts
 and Humanities (Eschle). Staff have also served as external examiners in numerous UK and
 international universities.




 Outreach to end users and broader society


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Reaching out to end users and the broader community is a core part of our research model,
 particularly in the case of our policy research centres. The CEP has responded to the need of the
 Scottish and UK government to find ways to meet carbon emissions targets. It has informed the
 Energy Efficient Scotland Programme, and Professor Turner was invited to be Commissioner on
 the Scottish Just Transition Commission. The EPRC worked with the European Commission to
 design the COHESIFY programme to address pressing questions about public support for the EU
 in light of regional economic differences. The EPRC has created other initiatives to bring together
 academics and policy-makers, such as IQ-Net, a biannual meeting of academics, civil servants
 and EU structural fund managers to debate EU regional policy.

 Professor Mattes work with the Afrobarometer project involves extensive consultation with African
 governments and third sector groups. The 2019 Afrobarometer conference at Strathclyde opened
 with a presentation by the former Nigerian President, Olusegun Obasanjo, and included
 participants from a variety of non-academic institutions such as the UK Department for
 International Development and the South African Institute for Justice and Reconciliation. Dr
 Reher’s project on the political representation of disabled people involved lengthy consultations
 with the UK Government Equalities Office and the Scottish Deaf Parliament. Dr Catherine Eschle
 has carried out interviews and participant observation of the Peace Camp community outside
 Faslane Naval Base.

 When the School hosts conferences, we follow the same approach of promoting participation
 beyond the academic community. For example, the programme for the 2017 PSA conference
 overseen by Dr Mark Shephard had panels including members of the UK, Scottish and European
 parliaments, clerks from the House of Commons, as well as the former head of polling firm
 YouGov, Peter Kellner. The 2019 PSA EPOP conference had panels focused directly on election
 administration including presentations from the Electoral Commission on pressing topics including
 voting age and voting identification laws.

 We make sure that our research is accessible to as broad an audience as possible. The websites
 whatsocotlandthinks.org and whattheUKthinks.org, overseen by Professor Sir John Curtice, make
 the results of all available public opinion surveys available to everyone, without the need for
 statistical software. They also provide regular commentary. Many members of the School have
 contributed blogs to these sites.

 Virtually all members staff have published short blogs in venues such as LSE Blogs, the
 Conversation and PSA blogs summarising their research, while some have contributed regularly.
 Some of these blogs have been carried by mainstream media sources such as the Washington
 Post and Newsweek. Professor Narisong Huhe’s work on social media and fake news has been
 covered in Wired magazine. The majority of staff now use Twitter to publicise their research.

 Members of the School have made frequent contributions to the public debate in newspapers,
 television and radio. Most notably, Professor Sir John Curtice has made hundreds of television
 appearances on the BBC and various overseas broadcasters. However, other members of staff
 are frequently sought for media work. Professor Tom Scotto has made frequent TV and radio
 appearances on BBC, BBC Scotland, STV and LBC. Many members of staff have made at least
 one media appearance. We have also contributed to a variety of international broadcasters such
 as National Public Radio (US), Bloomberg (US), Al-Jazeera, France24 and Romanian National
 TV.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to Economy and Society

 As a socially engaged University, our research makes a contribution to society by informing policy
 choice and political debate. Whether they involve providing public policy solutions for the Scottish
 and UK governments to meet carbon reduction targets, improving EU regional economic policy,
 or detecting electoral abuse and defending voting rights in the USA, our case studies reflect this.
 However our broader contribution to society goes far beyond these cases.

 In addition to informing the public debate through his media work, Professor Sir John Curtice has
 provided independent advice on public attitudes to a number of UK and Scottish parliamentary
 committees. This includes advising House of Lords select committees on public opinion towards
 devolution and Brexit. He also gave written evidence to the Scottish Parliament on attitudes
 towards the Marriage and Civil Partnership (Scotland) Bill and concerning prejudice towards the
 Gypsy/Traveller community. As President of the British Polling Council, he has had considerable
 influence over the public opinion industry and the establishment of best practice in polling. The
 Curtice-Firth exit poll methodology has used been by multiple broadcasters with impressive
 accuracy in their coverage of the 2015, 2017 and 2019 General Elections.

 Various members of our School have been invited to provide their expertise to government policy
 makers. The Afrobarometer is a unique tool for assessing public opinion across the African
 continent, particularly with regard to attitudes on democracy and development. Professor Bob
 Mattes has been asked to provide testimony to the African Union Commission, the US Senate
 Foreign Relations Committee and a variety of international development organizations (UK
 Department for International Development, USAID, World Bank, Sweden International
 Development Agency). Professor Tom Scotto has been asked to provide advice to the Downing
 Street Policy Unit, DfID and the Ministry of Defence on public opinion towards foreign policy on
 issues such as the Syrian crisis and foreign aid. Dr Patrick Bayer has advised The Department of
 Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy on carbon markets. Professor Scott Cunningham has
 advised the government of Indonesia and the Amsterdam city government. Dr Dellepiane-
 Avellaneda has worked closely with the Institute for Government on housing policy.

 Dr Patrick Bayer also conducted a DfID-funded field experiment on the effects of the adoption of
 solar lighting in India. In addition to the value of the research, the experiment provided energy
 access through solar grids to 1,100 households.

 Dr Mark Shephard’s work on civility and standards of behaviour in public life has been used by
 various parliamentary committees and also by Education Scotland. He has given testimony to ‘The
 Roundtable on the Intimidation of Parliamentary Candidates’ held by The Committee on Standards
 in Public Life, and to The House of Lords Select Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagement.
 He has also submitted evidence on comparative ministerial codes which was published by the
 Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Select Committee. Dr Shephard’s TedX talk on
 online standards of behaviour was turned into a classroom resource by Education Scotland, and
 Dr Shephard has also presented similar work to the Scottish Parliament.

 We also have a number of projects in development that have the potential to produce significant
 impact. One example is Dr Narisong Huhe and Dr Mark Shephard’s project on the dissemination
 of fake news in China and Sri Lanka. They have already submitted preliminary results to and been
 cited by the House of Lords Select Committee on Political Polling and Digital Media. Dr Stefanie
 Reher has consulted closely with the Government Equalities Office on her project on the political
 representation of disabled people.



                                                                                             Page 15
