Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 26: Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 This submission presents the research undertaken by the Department of Modern Languages
 (ML) and the Department of Welsh and Celtic Studies (WCS). Both Departments sit within the
 Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) at Aberystwyth University and this overarching
 Faculty structure supports the Departments to collaborate closely and effectively as an
 interdisciplinary and research-led UoA. In terms of language, both as a focus and medium for
 research, our expertise encompasses a unique combination of the contemporary and historical
 forms of French, German, Irish, Manx, Scottish Gaelic, Spanish and Welsh. In this, we achieve
 and sustain considerable linguistic and chronological diversity for a unit of our size, whilst also
 maintaining distinctive areas of vitality in research and practice in two main Research Focus
 Areas: A) Linguistics, Translation and Language Studies and B) Literature, Creative Writing and
 Culture.

 Structure
 During the assessment period, a strategic integration of the research environment for Modern
 Language and Welsh and Celtic Studies has reinforced its two main Research Focus Areas (as
 outlined above) and provided a foundation for a single submission in REF 2021. This strategic
 development was strengthened by new organisational structures within the University in
 response to systemic challenges described in REF5a, and designed to consolidate the
 sustainability of our research endeavour: the Institute for Languages Literature and the Creative
 Arts (ILLCA 2013–16), renamed Institute of Arts and Humanities (IAH, 2016) and subsequently
 the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS from 2018). Such structural integration has
 facilitated a shared research environment through annual lectures, seminar series,
 interdisciplinary research centres, as well as Institutional support and monitoring for research
 and impact. FASS constitutes the culmination of a strategic shift from narrow disciplines towards
 broader interdisciplinary collaboration. This suits the UoA well as its Research Focus Areas
 profit from engagement with related areas in other departments within the Faculty: English and
 Creative Writing; Theatre, Film and Television Studies; Art; Education; History and Welsh
 History; International Politics; and Law.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 In REF 2014 we made separate submissions to the two sub-panels in UoA 28: Modern
 Languages and Linguistics; Celtic Studies. The integration of our research environment during
 the REF 2021 assessment period and the preparation of a combined submission has shaped the
 elaboration of a unified strategy for research and impact that incorporates the objectives outlined
 independently in REF 2014. These include ensuring leading-edge research and quality outputs;
 enhancing the international profile of its research; embedding impact into research and public
 engagement activities; securing grant income and new research opportunities; and encouraging
 innovation and sustainability through training postgraduate researchers (PGRs).

 Since REF 2014 we have evolved our strategic aims through the development of, and
 engagement with University strategy, including the University’s Strategic Plan (2018–2023) and
 Research and Innovation Strategy (2019–2024), as outlined in REF5a. Consequently, our
 strategic aims also align with the principles of ambition, confidence, integration, inclusivity, and
 collaboration laid out in these Institutional documents. During the assessment period we
 achieved our aims by concentrating on our two main Research Focus Areas and through
 collaborative and individual efforts that were supported by Faculty structures and processes, as
 well as central support from the Department of Research, Business & Innovation.

       Staff have received support to achieve leading-edge research and high-quality
        outputs resulting in the publication of one online Dictionary, 7 monographs, 53 journal

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        articles and 25 book chapters, as well as 5 edited books and 3 creative writing outputs
        during the assessment period. Across the two Research Focus Areas regular research
        seminars, occasional lectures, and conferences provide valuable platforms for staff and
        invited speakers to discuss their work and, in the case of invited speakers, to foster
        existing and new collaborative relationships, such as Ó Muircheartaigh’s symposium with
        colleagues from the University of Glasgow (2019). Developments since REF 2014
        include an allowance for research active staff for research-related expenses (up to
        £1,000 per capita per annum), and a Faculty-led process for ensuring research leave for
        1 semester in 8. During the assessment period, colleagues within the UoA have worked
        on monographs during research leave, as well as substantial articles and UKRI
        applications. Annual monitoring of staff research, at Departmental level and by the
        University’s Research Monitoring Group, allow for discussion, development and support
        for research projects. Monitoring, alongside a culture of peer review (through the UoA’s
        REF Reading Committees), training opportunities, and a Faculty-based mentoring
        system for early and mid-career colleagues, are key to ensuring high quality outputs.

       Enhancing the international profile of the UoA’s research: The research culture
        within the unit has always been international in outlook and impact, whilst engaging local
        communities and speaking to the needs of Wales. The UoA has enhanced its
        international profile and the impact of its research by building strong connections
        between different cultures and languages in a Welsh, UK, European and international
        context. Staff have collaborated with colleagues in France, Ireland and North America;
        delivered talks to conferences and institutions in Cuba, France, Finland, Spain, the USA,
        and Russia; and hosted visiting scholars from the USA, Ireland, Denmark and Japan.
        Researchers in the UoA have engaged with poets in India and the Basque Country,
        hosted Cuban film-makers, curated exhibitions in Germany, and held visiting positions at
        Université de Bretagne-Occidentale, Brest and the National University of Ireland Galway
        (See Section 4). Together, these projects speak to the international relevance and profile
        of our research, as well as the global reach of our research networks in the disciplines of
        Modern Languages and Welsh and Celtic Studies. To this end, the UoA has facilitated
        international exchange from its own research budget and external funds.

       Embedding impact into research and public engagement activities: the UoA fosters
        an environment that advances research while also realizing the broader strategic aim of
        achieving international recognition and, through its impact agenda, shows the relevance
        of its research to contemporary society (see Section 4). Colleagues have been equipped
        to achieve and evidence research impact through engagement with Departmental away
        days, centrally employed impact officers, an online impact toolkit, as well as through
        centrally funded impact research leave and an Impact Acceleration Fund. Our research
        agenda focuses on a range of beneficiaries and stakeholders in the areas of Cultural Life
        and Education, including literary and historical societies, local groups and charities,
        creative practitioners, and schools. We engage beneficiaries through talks to societies
        and festivals, outreach events and workshops. The UoA’s formidable profile in Wales is
        achieved through the commitment of staff to public engagement events with local groups
        (AberAid and Plastic-Free Aber), local and national eisteddfodau, Welsh and English-
        language radio and television, and also through sustaining the annual programmes of
        literary and historical societies across Wales, often under the auspices of Literature
        Wales’s ‘Writers on Tour Funding’.

        The submitted case studies illustrate the efficacy of our strategies to promote impact,
        since both the responsible researchers received Departmental and Institutional support
        for their impact activities. Salisbury received impact research leave (2019) and impact
        acceleration funding (2020), and Hammel received impact acceleration funding (2018–
        19) and responsive impact research leave 2019). They also share best practice within
        the UoA in order to build a strong culture of research with in-built impact.



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Securing grant income and new research opportunities: These strategic activities are
        discussed and planned through Personal Research Plans (PeRPs) and annual staff
        appraisals (Effective Contribution Scheme), in Departmental board meetings,
        Departmental and Faculty research away days, and during bi-annual research monitoring
        by the Research Monitoring Group. PeRPs were introduced in the wake of REF 2014
        and are conducted at a Departmental level by Directors of Research (DoRs) and Heads
        of Department (HoDs). HoDs and DoRs are supported by the Faculty Dean for Research
        and Innovation, as well as a dedicated Research Development Officer for the Arts and
        Humanities. Following the retirement of senior colleagues, the UoA has proactively
        fostered expertise in grant capture amongst all colleagues in order to grow vitality in this
        area. UoA staff have attended a broad range of events arranged at Departmental level
        and by Research Business & Innovation: research away days; guest speakers at
        Departmental board meetings; information events by UKRI and European funding
        bodies; an in-house Grant Factory and grant-writing workshops; one-to-one development
        sessions with the Research Development Officer for the Arts and Humanities. The
        success of succession planning in this respect can be measured by the external funding
        awarded to The Anglo-Norman Dictionary and to smaller projects by Le Mair (2019), Ó
        Muircheartaigh (2020) and Rodway (2014–15, 2018–19) (See Section 2: Income).

       Encouraging innovation and sustainability through training PGRs: The UoA trains
        new researchers with a view to integrating them fully into its research environment and
        preparing them for careers in the academy and beyond. PGR research builds on staff
        expertise in the main Research Focus Areas and is supported from a range of funds.
        Since Autumn 2013 Aberystwyth University has been part of the AHRC South, West and
        Wales Doctoral Training Partnership, which was reaccredited in 2018 (SWW DTP &
        SWW2). Rodway (2015–2018) and Charnell-White (2018–2021) supervise PhDs funded
        by the AHRC Consortium, in partnership with Bath University and Cardiff University
        respectively. PGR study has also been supported by studentships from Aberystwyth
        University’s AberDoc competition, the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, and EU-funded
        Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) programme. A total of 15.5 PhDs were
        awarded in the UoA in the REF 2021 assessment period: factoring in the longer duration
        of REF 2021 this is a 38% increase on the 8 PhD awards during the REF 2014 period. In
        an administrational capacity, Charnell-White and Ó Muircheartaigh were subject leads for
        Celtic Studies and Hammel was a reviewer for German Studies in the AHRC
        Consortium’s first iteration (SWW 2013–2018). Hammel and Huws have acted as
        reviewers and moderators for Doctoral Training Programme studentships for the
        Consortium in its current iteration (SWW2 2018–), and Charnell-White was panel
        member for the SWW2 Collaborative Doctoral Awards (2019).

 The delivery of the research and impact strategy has enabled the consolidation of an integrated,
 vibrant and sustainable environment in which excellent research has flourished, both in areas
 projected in the REF 2014 submissions and along new trajectories. In Research Focus Area A,
 ‘Linguistics, Translation and Language Studies’, the successful renewal of the Anglo-Norman
 Dictionary project was a fitting tribute to the vision of its architect, the late Professor David
 Trotter, and continues to be a major activity. In Research Focus Area B, ‘Literature, Creative
 Writing and Culture’, Chapman’s monograph on Welsh literary history c.1740–2010, Gelléri on
 travel writing, and Jewell on Saunders Lewis and Gracia Deledda, have continued the UoA’s
 established focus on literature and literary culture, social and cultural history. In their focus on
 translation theory and discursive language, Jewell’s monographs combine both themes and
 bridge both Departments within the UoA. Development in new research areas include Huws’s
 monograph on T. H. Parry-Williams. Charnell-White’s work on Welsh-language women’s poetry,
 part of the Leverhulme-funded project ‘Women’s Poetry in Ireland Scotland, and Wales 1400–
 1800’, will be published by Cambridge University Press in 2022, and her anthology of historical
 weather literature will be published in 2021.

 The UoA has engaged with the open research agenda and is committed to open access
 publishing. In line with University policy outlined in REF5a, staff are required to deposit copies of

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 author final manuscripts on acceptance with the Aberystwyth Research Portal repository for
 ‘green’ open access release after publishers’ embargo periods. ‘Gold’ open access publishing is
 available in journals covered by JISC agreements to which Aberystwyth University is a signatory.
 The Anglo-Norman Dictionary is entirely open access. On a smaller scale, Chapman, Charnell-
 White, Huws and Jewell contributed records to the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol’s open access
 Esboniadur Beirniadaeth a Theori (Expositor of Criticism and Theory); Rodway edited the e-book
 Llawlyfr Hen Gymraeg (2016) by Alexander Falileyev which is hosted on the Coleg Cymraeg
 Cenedlaethol’s open access e-learning portal Y Porth; Huws, in collaboration with the National
 Library of Wales, secured the digitisation of ‘Llyfr Melyn Oerddwr’, a manuscript in private hands.
 Research in the UoA is subject to University procedures to protect research integrity and assess
 issues of ethics in research with human subjects, as described in REF5a. Ethics assessment
 and approval is required for all projects: initial review occurs at Departmental level, and
 proposals that raise concerns or which do not conform to the University’s framework are
 considered by the University Research Ethics Panel.

 Objectives for the next REF period
 We have developed the objectives for the next REF period through the Faculty Research
 Committee, Departmental committees and research away days. These include maintaining the
 vitality of our research environment by supporting staff to undertake cutting edge research and
 produce high quality outputs. We will also expand and intensify research in both Research
 Focus Areas along inclusive thematic lines, e.g. Translation in Practice, Language and
 Creativity, Disease and Old Age in Medieval Wales, Celtic Britain and Ireland, the development
 of the Celtic languages, as well as a further revision of the Anglo-Norman Dictionary (AHRC
 Funding applied for in October 2020) and the NHLF-funded project on Refugees from National
 Socialism in Wales as part of the Second World War and Holocaust Partnership Programme led
 by the Imperial War Museum and follow-on projects. Building on the success of the newly-
 launched Centre for the Movement of People, we will facilitate the sustainability and international
 profile of our research and impact by developing other research centres around the themes
 outlined, above, and by empowering researchers’ ambition to develop larger research projects.
 These research centres and themes will strengthen impact activities on an individual and
 collective basis, and will strengthen emerging projects as potential impact case studies, e.g.
 Jewell’s work on simultaneous translation in the justice system. Training PGRs is crucial to an
 innovative and sustainable research culture, and we aim to refresh the research base by
 developing collaborative projects with partners and building a clear pathway to PhD research
 from the Welsh-medium MA in Professional Translation Studies.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The UoA aims to embed the vitality of research across the two Research Focus Areas by
 appointing, developing and supporting excellent researchers, and to secure the sustainability of
 the research environment through strategic recruitment and the training of postgraduate
 researchers. There have been a number of staff changes in both Departments since REF 2014,
 through anticipated retirements (Sims-Williams (2014), Haycock (2015), Mahon (2015), Hincks
 (2015), Morgan (2015), Hughes (2016), Davies (2018), Sibona (2018) and through the death in
 service of Professor David Trotter (2015). New strategic appointments strengthened both
 Research Focus Areas A and B, including Ó Muircheartaigh (September 2015, Focus A & B
 Language & Culture), Salisbury (September 2015, Focus B Culture and Creative Writing) and
 Mueller (January 2019, Focus B Culture). Le Mair joined as Marie Skłodowska Curie Fellow in
 October 2019 (Focus A Language).

 Internally, Chapman was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2016. Following these changes, at the
 REF 2021 census date, the UoA comprised one Reader (Hammel), four Senior Lecturers
 (Baron, Chapman, Charnell-White, Huws), seven Lecturers (Goňi Pérez, Gelléri, Jewell, Ó
 Muircheartaigh, Mueller, Rodway, Salisbury) and three Post-Doctoral Researchers (De Wilde, Le
 Mair, Pagan).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic recruitment for a Chair of Welsh at the end of the assessment period saw the
 appointment of Professor Mererid Hopwood in October 2020. Her expertise in Welsh, German,
 translation and creative writing bridges the broader disciplines within the UoA as well as its
 Research Focus Areas. She will be key in developing interdisciplinary projects and implementing
 the research strategy in the next assessment period.

 The UoA has dealt positively with the loss of senior profiles. Through the leadership of mid-
 career staff in key roles, Heads of Department (Baron and Charnell-White) and Directors of
 Research (Charnell-White and Hammel), the unit now has a strong cohort of both early- and
 mid-career researchers who are building reputations in their fields and developing internal
 leadership roles of their own, such as Senior Research Development Lead, research centre
 directorship, acting HoD (2018), impact leadership, and Welsh Crucible (2015). Key
 achievements include promoting a research culture that encourages all colleagues to develop
 ideas and projects for grant capture, experience of external peer review, developing colleagues
 in internal roles, as well as academic awards and honours. These positive results have been
 largely achieved through strategic investment in the two Research Focus Areas and the support
 provided for staff in their professional development at Departmental, Faculty and University
 levels.

 Staff Development and Support
 HoDs Baron and Charnell-White manage research activity through the annual staff appraisal
 process and through the Workload Allocation Model that allocates up to 550 hours per annum to
 staff on teaching and research contracts. HoDs and DoRs also plan research activities
 strategically with staff through the Personal Research Plans discussed as part of annual
 appraisal interviews (Effective Contribution Scheme). These provide DoRs and HoDs with an
 overview of the UoA’s overarching research programme, including the timing of conferences and
 grant submissions. Research-related workshops, talks and away days are also arranged at
 Departmental level to support impact activity and grant writing. Research monitoring takes place
 annually at an Institutional level through the Director of Research Excellence and Impact, as well
 as Research, Business & Innovation’s REF and Research Monitoring Manager.

 The UoA is committed to equality and inclusivity with regard to research monitoring. Good
 practice and parity of opportunity was ensured by opening the Departmental REF Reading
 Committees (RRC) that undertake peer review for research monitoring purposes to all research
 active staff. This arrangement ensures transparency and quality control at the point of
 submission to REF. Going forward, the UoA aims to develop the committees to provide peer
 review feedback for work in progress. Training was provided at Departmental and University
 levels for the RRCs, and both Departments collaborated on the terms of reference for the UoA’s
 RRC and sought agreement from all staff on the final document. Similarly, the UoA has worked
 with all staff to develop a Research Sub-strategy as part of a strategic objective to build
 awareness of research process and share good practice, as well as ensuring that early career
 researchers (ECRs) build expertise and leadership opportunities, e.g. Ó Muircheartaigh’s
 appointment as Co-Chair for the University’s Concordat for Research Excellence Group, and
 subsequently the Faculty ECR Concordat Champion (2019–).

 Faculty structures and roles provide additional support for the UoA through the historical role of
 Faculty-level Director of Research (2013–2018) and the current role of Associate Dean for
 Research, Knowledge Exchange and Innovation (2018–). Three new Senior Research
 Development Leads (2020–), including Hammel, provide further support for colleagues within the
 Faculty and reinforce our collaborative research endeavour. The Associate Dean for Research,
 Knowledge Exchange and Innovation chairs the Faculty Research Committee that comprises of
 Departmental Directors of Research. The Senior Research Development Leads strategically
 mentor research activity, encourage funding proposals and review funding applications. At
 University Level, a dedicated Research Officer for the Arts and Humanities (based in the
 Department of Research, Business & Innovation) has regular contact with the Faculty and its
 Departments through the quarterly Faculty Research Committee. The Research Officer also
 supports Departments and individuals with grant applications, through one-to-one meetings,

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bespoke training sessions, information sessions, and talks at away days. All research active staff
 since REF 2014 have access to an allowance for research-related expenses and a regular
 pattern of research leave is established.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The UoA is committed to building an inclusive research environment with respect to issues of
 equality and diversity reflected in recruitment, promotion and staff development policies;
 opportunities and support for research; research monitoring and REF selection; postgraduate
 recruitment and supervision; and impact and engagement activities. Our research community is
 diverse and representative of the society in which we work, including the target of achieving a
 gender balanced team. Women within the unit have also been appointed to leadership roles:
 Charnell-White is HoD (2013–) and DoR (2015–20) of WCS, Hammel is DoR of ML (2019–) and
 has also been Institute Director of International Affairs. She is also on the University-wide REF
 Strategic Advisory Group and has been appointed a Senior Research Development Lead for the
 Faculty. Hammel, Charnell-White, and Jewell are currently serving as mentors for the Female
 Academic Mentoring Pilot Programme (2020), and Charnell-White is a mentor on the Women in
 Universities Mentoring Scheme (2020).

 The UoA has very active Equality and Diversity Champions (Charnell-White, Woods) who attend
 University network meetings. Members of the UoA have worked with the Diversity and Inclusion
 Manager on International Women’s Day initiatives, initiatives for Black History Month, and
 recently helped write the Institutional Athena Swan award submission. A number of colleagues
 within the UoA also participate in the institution’s voluntary scheme ‘Cyfeillion Enfys Aber/Aber
 Enfys Allies’, making a visible effort to make the University an LGBT+ friendly workplace. The
 commitment of the UoA and Aberystwyth University to equality and diversity is further
 recognised by Disability Confident Employer accreditation and inclusion in Stonewall’s Top 100
 UK Employers for a LGBT+ friendly workplace. All staff complete Equality and Diversity Training
 and a number of networks promote equality issues and provide support for researchers,
 including the BAME Network, LGBT Network, Disability and Wellbeing Network and the Women
 in Research Network, which allows female staff from across the institution to feed into executive
 level decision-making and strategic planning.

 Principles of equality and inclusion have been incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process,
 as outlined in the University’s Code of Practice, with all members of the REF Reading
 Committee and supplementary reviewers required to have completed unconscious bias training.
 The Departmental REF Reading Committee has also included an independent member from a
 cognate department in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences to monitor fair practice.
 Applications for output reductions for Individual Staff Circumstances are assessed through an
 anonymous process, with decisions made outside the Department.

 WCS have a long tradition of publishing research in the minoritised languages that they study:
 Welsh, Irish and Scottish Gaelic. In this, especially with regard to the Welsh language, they are
 fully supported by Aberystwyth University whose sector-leading Welsh Language Policy is
 implemented across academic and service departments. As a result, all processes and
 documentation are available bilingually and our Graduate School has a broad Welsh-medium
 provision for PGRs that equals its English-language provision.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 The number of postgraduate research students in the UoA increased through the assessment
 period, as a strategic priority to strengthen the vitality of the environment and contribute towards
 its long-term sustainability by training the researchers of the future. Inclusion in the AHRC South,
 West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership is an important indicator of the quality of PGR
 training in the UoA, and Charnell-White and Rodway have both co-supervised PhD students in
 the DTP. Four postgraduate research students were funded during the assessment period by
 the EU/Welsh Government Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship programme, with an
 emphasis on the emerging Welsh-language digital economy. These collaborative projects have
 had social and cultural impact, and provided opportunities to strengthen links with new and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 existing project partners: Books Council of Wales (MPhil 2015); Golwg360 (PhD 2016); Menter
 Maldwyn and Geosho Mapping and Mobile Planning (MPhil 2016); Urdd Gobaith Cymru and the
 National Library of Wales (MPhil 2019).

 All PGRs have a principal supervisor whom they meet every fortnight and a second supervisor to
 provide additional support and advice. All staff with significant responsibility for research
 undertake the supervision of postgraduate research students. For quality assurance purposes
 colleagues undertake training in research supervision and, where possible, are required to act
 as second supervisor, bringing a thesis to successful completion before taking the lead as main
 supervisor. All staff who chair viva voce examinations are required to undertake in-house
 training. PGR supervision and training happens at a Departmental level (bespoke training such
 as editorial skills through supervisors) and at an Institutional level through the Graduate School.
 Staff in the UoA also examine research theses as Internal Examiners and External Examiners
 within their respective disciplines.

 PGRs work to agreed work plans and development targets and are monitored annually through
 Faculty processes, in accordance with their funders’ requirements. Through the Graduate
 School, PGRs have access to a broad range of Welsh- and English-language training modules,
 and bespoke training from project partners was integrated into KESS/KESS2 MPhil and PhD
 projects. Charnell-White, Chapman, Goňi Pérez, Hammel and Pagan contribute to the Graduate
 School’s research training modules. PGRs have access to appropriate office space in both
 Departments, as well as Departmental collections, the University’s Hugh Owen Library, and the
 National Library of Wales. PGRs attend and contribute to Departmental and Faculty research
 seminars, and Welsh-medium PGRs also have access to training and research seminars
 organised by the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol. PGRs have an input into the speakers who
 present at Departmental research seminars, and from 2015–17 the research seminars for WCS
 were administered by PGRs. PGRs are also integrated into our wider research networks and
 attend seminars organized by the Aberystwyth-Bangor Institute for Medieval and Early Modern
 Studies, seminars in the University of Wales Advanced Centre for Welsh and Celtic Studies, and
 the National Library of Wales’s lunchtime lectures series. PGRs are also given financial
 assistance from the UoA’s research budget to attend conferences and present papers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Following changes to the senior staffing profile, we have cultivated expertise within the UoA
 during the assessment period and embedded a culture of grant capture accomplished through
 the annual staff appraisal process and PeRPs, and alongside Faculty and central infrastructure.
 The UoA encourages applications for funding from UKRI research councils, charities and other
 sources to support primary research as well as engagement and impact activities such as
 conferences, workshops and exhibitions. That colleagues at all career stages have received
 grants during the assessment period is evidence of the success of the UoAs strategy for
 expanding the culture of grant capture to all research active staff.

 More than 90% of the UoA’s £1.56M research income in the assessment period has been from
 UKRI and the British Academy. De Wilde and Pagan were awarded £748,146 from the AHRC
 for the latest instalment of the prestigious Anglo-Norman Dictionary project (2017–2021). This
 fourth instalment (AHRB 2003, AHRC 2008 & 2012) attests to the project’s vitality. Rodway was
 awarded £2,500 by the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol to work on an online edition of Llawlyfr
 Hen Gymraeg (1 April 2014–30 March 2015), and a £9,999.54 British Academy Small Grant for
 ‘MS Q: A transcript of the Welsh Law manuscript that escaped the 1858 Wynnstay fire’ (1 April
 2018–30 March 2019). This new linguistic and textual research is complemented by the long-
 running project of Emeritus Professor Sims-Williams (retired 2014), ‘Datblygiad yr iaith Gymraeg
 / the Development of the Welsh Language’, which has been awarded a second tranche of British
 Academy conference funding (2020–25).



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the assessment period, the UoA has targeted European funding to refresh the research
 base and enable knowledge exchange with institutions in Europe. Le Mair was awarded a Marie
 Skłodowska Curie Individual Fellowship to work on ‘Subjecthood in Old Irish, Old Welsh, and
 Middle Welsh’ with Rodway (2019–21) and Ó Muircheartaigh is taking a secondment to work on
 his MSCF, ‘An Icelander among the Gaels’, at Copenhagen University (2020–22).

 External funding has also supported public engagement and impact activities through which
 the UoA contributes to society. Under Hammel’s leadership, the UoA was awarded funding to
 the value of £50,000 by the National Heritage Lottery Fund, becoming one of eight regional hubs
 within the Second World War and Holocaust National Partnership spearheaded by the Imperial
 War Museum London. This will have a variety of outcomes and impacts including an exhibition
 on Refugees from National Socialism in Wales to be shown at the Aberystwyth Arts Centre and
 online. The project will contribute to the new Holocaust and Second World War Galleries at the
 Imperial War Museum London. Hammel received a total of £6,500 from the Adverse Childhood
 Experience Support Hub at Public Health Wales to study the adverse childhood experiences
 among historic child refugees to aid our understanding of contemporary challenges, thus
 emphasizing the relevance of the UoA’s research for contemporary society.

 Grants have helped to facilitate conference organisation, including from Society of
 Renaissance Studies, Royal Historical Society, the Modern Humanities Research Association,
 and the Andrew Mellon Foundation for Gelléri’s project on travel writing. Hammel was awarded
 £5000 from the Butterfly Foundation (Holocaust Education) for the Kindertransport Conference
 in London (January 2019), £5300 from Martin Miller and Hannah Norbert-Miller (January 2016)
 for an Exile Studies conference in Aberystwyth, and £2800 from the Helene Rheinfrank Fond for
 a postgraduate workshop at the Jahrestagung für Exilforschung in Aberystwyth (June 2018).

 Internal research funds have contributed to building research capacity and shaping research
 agendas within the UoA. Ó Muircheartaigh’s pilot project, ‘Register and Religion: A pilot linguistic
 corpus of Irish religious prose’ (£3,422.83, June 2019-January 2020), and Jewell’s project with
 colleagues from the disciplines of Law and Psychology on The Welsh Language and Translation
 in the justice system (2019), were both funded from the University Research Fund.

 The University’s central funding has also enabled impact activities that have shaped the UoA’s
 impact case studies with a total of £21,189 being awarded for activities, including: Hammel
 received a total of £4073 from the Impact Acceleration Fund for travel and activity related to the
 Kindertransport Impact Case Study; Salisbury received Impact Research leave (February–June
 2019) to plan and deliver ‘Talwrn y Beirdd Ifanc’ and also made use of the Impact Travel Fund to
 attend collaborative workshops with the poet Sampurna Chattarji in Mumbai (January 2020).
 Furthermore, the Hughes Parry and HEFCW funds have supported publication costs of
 University of Wales outputs by Huws and Jewell during the current assessment period. Hammel
 was awarded £1650 with a colleague in English and Creative Writing for a project on the re-
 assessment of the post-memory concept.

 Colleagues in the UoA have benefitted from the support of the University’s Department of
 Research, Business and Innovation with all practical aspects of the application process during
 the grant-writing process (see REF5a). In addition, the University’s collegiate environment
 means that colleagues across Faculties provide feedback and internal peer review on proposals.
 This practice was formalised during the assessment period, and three Senior Research
 Development Leads, including Hammel, were appointed to share their expertise and support
 colleagues within the Faculty. Membership of peer review panels also provides valuable
 experience and support for the unit as a whole in this respect. Equality and inclusion in access to
 research grant income is addressed through targeted measures including an annual sandpit
 event for ECRs to develop projects, providing access to seed-corn funding for small-scale and
 pilot research from ring-fenced pump-priming funds, and ‘Women doing Research’ workshops in
 the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, as well as access to the University Research Fund (Ó
 Muircheartaigh, 2019–20).


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure & Facilities
 The UoA is outward looking and enjoys rewarding collaborations on local, national and
 international fronts that enrich the research and impact that it undertakes. It achieves these
 through Erasmus+ staff exchanges, Departmental and Faculty seminars, special lectures,
 conferences and outreach events with literary and historical societies, and through subject-
 defining journals that are edited by colleagues (see Research and Impact Strategies, below).
 The University offers research support and facilities such as the Hugh Owen Library, whose
 archive and ‘Welsh and Celtic Collection’ offer a comprehensive resource in Celtic Studies in
 terms of books, journals, and theses. Departments are allocated a discrete budget for research
 that allows them to invest in library stock that strengthens their research active subject areas. A
 broad range of electronic resources are also available to researchers through the University’s
 website: EBO, ECCO, The Hathi Trust, ODNB, Electronic Enlightenment. Occasional exhibitions
 linked with research/archives have also enriched research and public engagement events
 organised by the UoA: Syr John Rhŷs Centenary Conferences co-organized with the National
 Library of Wales (2016); Gwilym Williams (1899–1917) Memorial Exhibition (May 2017),
 Snowdonia National Park (2017). All members of staff benefit from the University’s physical
 proximity to the National Library of Wales (NLW). As a copyright library, it is a valuable addition
 to the Welsh and Celtic Collection of Aberystwyth University’s own Hugh Owen Library, and the
 extensive manuscript collection forms the basis of much of the textual scholarship undertaken by
 colleagues in WCS and have been explored in conferences held in collaboration with NLW.

 Research is stimulated and transmitted through special lectures and regular research seminar
 series. The annual David Trotter Memorial Lecture is gaining an international reputation in the
 field of lexicography. Speakers to date include Frankwalt Möhren (former Director of the
 Dictionnaire Étymologique de l'Ancien Français, Heidelberg), Philip Durkin (Deputy Chief Editor
 of the Oxford English Dictionary), and Laura Wright (Cambridge). This provides a forum for
 focused research on language, and has replaced the broader Institute Annual Lecture as a
 space for collaborative and interdisciplinary discussion in our disciplines. Institute Annual
 Lectures for the UoA were presented by Ruairi Ó hUiginn (formerly of Maynooth University) and
 Angela Kershaw (University of Birmingham). Opportunities for exchange and discussion with
 wider arts and humanities scholars are also facilitated through interdisciplinary seminar series
 with external and internal speakers. The UoA has hosted researchers from the Technical
 University Berlin, CAWCS, University of Copenhagen, Europa- University Viadrina, NUI Galway,
 Shizuoka University, Trinity College Dublin, the University of Glasgow, Université de Bretange
 Occidentale (Brest), and the University of Vienna.

 The research infrastructure in our ‘Literature, Creative Writing and Culture’ Focus Area has been
 further consolidated by the recent establishment of the interdisciplinary Centre for the Movement
 of People (CMOP), led from the UoA by Hammel and funded by the Faculty. CMOP encourages
 research, dissemination and engagement on different forms of human mobility, from fleeing
 persecution to travelling for leisure, using a wide range of methodological and disciplinary
 approaches. It operates to further collaborations within the Faculty, Aberystwyth University,
 nationally and internationally. Its aim is to research the past, shape the present and improve the
 future by engaging with all possible publics inside and outside academia by organising
 distinguished speaker events, capacity-building workshops for ECRs and PGRs, and
 international conferences. Several members of staff of the UoA serve on its working group.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 The UoA fosters a research environment that is collaborative and outward looking. We work with
 others – within the University, nationally and internationally – to enhance the vitality of our
 research and achieve critical mass, and to facilitate the exchange of ideas, and strengthen
 sustainability by forming relationships that lead to opportunities for new research and impact.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within Aberystwyth University, our researchers work across the two Research Focus Areas in
 the UoA and with colleagues in other departments to bring an interdisciplinary dimension to our
 research. Charnell-White, Hammel, Jewell and Salisbury have collaborated in international
 translation workshops organised through the Centre for Cultural Translation (2013–16) that, in
 close collaboration with Literature Across Frontiers, included practitioners from India, Poland and
 Turkey, and primed Salisbury’s ongoing creative collaboration with the poet Sampurna Chattarji
 discussed in the impact case study. Creative writing and translation is also an area in which staff
 in the UoA have collaborated during this assessment period, notably between Edwards (left
 2014), Salisbury, Roberts (left 2017) and Sibona (retired 2018).

 The Centre for the Movement of People is an important vehicle for developing
 interdisciplinary engagement within the University, involving participants from Education,
 Human Geography, International Politics, and Law and Criminology, building on earlier
 collaborations both within and beyond our Faculty. Baron co-authored a peer-reviewed article for
 The Bulletin of Latin American Research with colleagues in Psychology. Charnell-White and
 Salisbury collaborate with an interdisciplinary research network on historical climatology that
 includes colleagues from Aberystwyth University’s Department of Geography and Earth Studies;
 they have collaborated on seminar papers, conferences, and public engagement activities with
 the National Library of Wales (2018), Llên Natur and Wici Cymru (2017). Jewell’s project with
 colleagues in Law and Criminology and Psychology has already attracted the attention of HM
 Courts and Tribunals Service, and the team presented their initial findings on the role of
 simultaneous translation in the justice system to the Welsh-language Commissioner in
 September 2020. Hammel is working with colleagues from English and Creative writing on a
 project on post-memory.

 Collaborations with colleagues in other Welsh HEIs have been productive for the UoA in the
 advancement of its research and impact agendas. The Institute of Medieval and Early Modern
 Studies is a long-standing collaborative venture between Aberystwyth University and Bangor
 University whose video conferencing seminars have been opened up to researchers from other
 HEIs in Wales. Co-Directed by Trotter and, subsequently, Gelléri, it is also a venture that brings
 colleagues from ML and WCS together, by attending the regular video-conference seminar
 series and giving research papers.

 Members of the UoA also collaborate with researchers in other parts of the UK and
 internationally, including the Anglo-Norman Dictionary project’s close collaboration with OED:
 Oxford English Dictionary, DEAF: Dictionnaire Étymologique de l'Ancien Français (Heidelberg
 Academy of Sciences and Humanities), DMF: Dictionnaire du Moyen Français (Université de
 Lorraine, Nancy), and ANTS: Anglo-Norman Text Society (Oxford). Baron has working
 relationships with both the University of Havana in Cuba and the University of San José in Costa
 Rica, where he was invited as a visiting lecturer, and Goňi Pérez collaborates with McGill
 University, Bergamo University and Valladolid University. Charnell-White is part of the team for
 ‘Women’s Poetry in Ireland, Scotland and Wales 1400–1800’ (Leverhulme Trust funding 2013–
 2017), led by Professor Sarah Prescott (Trinity College Dublin, formerly Aberystwyth University),
 and comprising colleagues from NUI Galway, and Edinburgh University. Ó Muircheartaigh
 collaborated with the Royal Irish Academy and colleagues in Glasgow University on a one-day
 conference: ‘Eighteenth-century manuscript culture in the wider Gaelic world’ (2019). Hammel
 works with colleagues from the Institute for Modern Languages Research (University of London)
 on a project relating to refugees from National Socialism, the second generation and exile
 writing.

 Research collaborations are supported by international networking and exchanges. The UoA
 has hosted international visiting scholars from University of Limerick, NUI Maynooth, DIAS, NUI
 Galway (Erasmus+ staff exchange), Copenhagen University (funded by Leverhulme Trust),
 University College Dublin, and Shizuoka University (recurring annual research visit, 2013-17,
 under the auspices of Japan Society of Promoting Scientific Research), and a Fulbright PhD
 scholar (University of Pennsylvania, 2014–15). Members of the UoA have, in turn, held visiting
 positions in international institutions, including Ó Muircheartaigh as a Fellow at NUI Galway’s

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Moore Institute (2017), a Library Fellowship at the University of Glasgow Library (2020), and a
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellow at Copenhagen University’s Arnamagnæan Institute
 (2020–22), and Rodway at the Université de Bretagne-Occidentale, Brest (Erasmus+ staff
 exchange). Gelléri was guest lecturer at École des Hautes Études des Sciences Sociales in
 Marseille (Spring 2018). Mueller is part of a British Academy sponsored international network of
 workshops that have so far taken place in the US and Finland.

 Collaboration with non-academic partners has been key to realizing the UoA’s impact
 agenda with charities, NGOs, cultural and literary societies, as well as the general public. Huws
 collaborated with Snowdonia National Park and the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol for his
 conference on book culture in Snowdonia, ‘Diwylliant y Llyfr yn Eryri’ (April 2018). Charnell-
 White worked with Llên Natur and Wici Cymru in a conference and Wici workshop (May 2017)
 expanding her work on ecocriticism. Research students funded by KESS/KESS2 have worked
 with partners including the Wales Book Council, Golwg360, Menter Maldwyn, Geosho Mapping
 and Mobile Planning, Urdd Gobaith Cymru and the National Library of Wales. Other examples of
 engagement with non-academic partners are described in the section below on contributions to
 the economy and society.

 Contribution to the research base
 As well contributing to the research base through collaboration, the unit contributes towards the
 vitality and sustainability of its disciplines through editing journals, peer review and
 adjudication. Subject-defining journals are edited by colleagues that provide a shared platform
 for new and established researchers: Dwned is co-edited by Huws (1995–) and Rodway edits
 the Journal of Celtic Linguistics and is on the editorial board of the MHRA’s Library of Medieval
 Welsh Literature. Charnell-White is co-series editor of Clasuron Cymraeg Honno, the Welsh-
 language Classics Series published by Honno Welsh Women Press (2008–) and is also on the
 editorial board of Llên Cymru (2001–); Ó Muircheartaigh is on the editorial board of the journal
 ComharTaighde (2018–). Goňi Pérez has been Chief Editor of Siglo diecinueve (Literatura
 Hispánica), is on the Editorial Board of Editorial de la Universidad de Cantabria, and is on the
 Advisory Board of Universitas Castellae Publishing House, Verdelís Publishing Company,
 Valladolid and of Anejos de Siglo diecinueve. Hammel is series editor of the Exile Studies -
 Exilstudien series at Peter Lang and a member of the editorial board of the Yearbook of the
 Research Centre for German and Austrian Exile Studies (Brill). Baron is a contributing editor of
 Mediático, a media and film studies blog.

 Our researchers are highly respected as frequent peer reviewers for a broad range of
 national and international academic journals and publishers, including Bulletin of Latin
 American Research, Bulletin of Spanish Studies, Caribbean Studies and Arizona Journal of
 Hispanic Cultural Studies, The Huntingdon Library Quarterly, Welsh History Review, Modern
 Languages Open, Austrian Studies, Humanities, Holocaust Studies: History and Culture, Life
 Writing, Auto / Biography Studies, Sartre Studies Internationa, Celtica, Proceedings of the
 Harvard Celtic Colloquium, ComharTaighe, Scottish Gaelic Studies and The Journal of Celtic
 Linguistics and publishers Palgrave Macmillan, Central European University Press, Liverpool
 University Press, Manchester University Press, Peter Lang and Tamesis.

 Members of the UoA also contribute to shaping research in the discipline and maintaining
 excellence as peer reviewers for grant-awarding bodies, assessors for prizes and advisors
 to research organizations. Charnell-White (2016–), Hammel (2016–) and Ó Muircheartaigh
 (2020–) are members of the AHRC Peer Review College. Charnell-White has also reviewed for
 Crwsibl Cymru / Wales Crucible (2018, 2019) and, together with Huws, adjudicated the
 University of Wales’s Ellis Gruffydd Prize (2016). Hammel has peer reviewed research grant
 applications for the Czech Science Foundation, the Martin Miller and Hannah Norbert-Miller
 Trust (London), Deutsche Forschungsgesellschaft (Germany), and the British Academy.
 Hammel is also on the Committee of the Research Centre for German and Austrian Exile
 Studies (Institute for Modern Languages Research) and on the Beirat of the Gesellschaft für
 Exilforschung. Goňi Pérez was President of the Association of Hispanists of the 19th Century,
 2016–2020, and Mueller has been a Committee member for the UK Sartre Society since 2014.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA has hosted or organised a number of significant academic conferences in the
 assessment period, including hosting the Borders and Crossings Travel Writing Conference in
 Aberystwyth (2017), the annual conference of the Society for Exile Studies (2017) and co-
 organising two international conferences with the National Library of Wales (NLW) to mark the
 centenary of the birth of Syr John Rhŷs, the ‘father’ of Celtic Studies (March and December
 2015). Members of the UoA have also organised several Welsh-medium research conferences
 with funding from the Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol: ‘Y Gymraes a’i Llên 1986–2016’ (Charnell-
 White, National Library of Wales, January 2016), co-organised with Siwan Rosser of Cardiff
 University, was the stimulus for co-edited special issue of Y Traethodydd: Merched a
 Llenyddiaeth 1986–2016, CLXXII, no. 720 (January 2017); ‘Diwylliant y Llyfr yn Eryri’ with
 Snowdonia National Park (Huws, April 2018); ‘Cymraeg yn y Gweithle’ (May 2017) and ‘Cymru
 ar Lwyfan y Byd: Cyfieithu ac Addasu yn y Theatr Gymraeg’ (Jewell, with colleagues at the
 University of South Wales and Bangor University respectively); ‘John Morris-Jones ac Ifor
 Williams’ (Rodway with Bangor University, November 2018).

 Additionally, the UoA regularly hosts two open textual reading groups for Old Welsh and Irish
 that have been attended by participants from Edinburgh, Copenhagen, Harvard, the
 Netherlands, and Ireland. During the pandemic, we successfully moved our research seminars
 and textual reading groups online, further broadening the international profile of attendees.

 Awards and prizes provide recognition for the contribution of members of the UoA to the
 research base and academic excellence. Chapman (2016) and Huws (2018) were elected
 Fellows of the Learned Society of Wales, and Chapman became a Fellow of the Royal Historical
 Society (2019). Huws’s monograph Pris Cydwybod… (2018) received The University of Wales’s
 Ellis Gruffydd Prize (2019). Jewell’s monograph, Her a Hawl Cyfieithu… (2018), has won two
 prestigious prizes: The Learned Society of Wales’s Dillwyn Medal (2018) and The University of
 Wales’s Ellis Gruffydd Prize (2018). Ó Muircheartaigh won the Zeuss Prize (2016), and the
 Royal Irish Society’s Charlemont Award (2018).

 Contributions to the Economy, Society and Culture
 Staff in the UoA contribute towards society through impact and public engagement activities,
 notably with schools, literary and historical societies, and the media. In particular, the
 Department of Welsh and Celtic Studies has a long-standing and distinctive place in Welsh
 culture and society, and current staff continue this responsibility with significant contributions to
 cultural institutions, including the National Eisteddfod (adjudicators and invited speakers), Books
 Council of Wales (Council & Exec; Welsh Grants Panel), Literature Wales (Director), Wales
 Book of the Year (adjudicator). Huws’s work with postgraduate research students on the
 emerging Welsh-language digital economy has contributed to the development of cultural
 industries in Wales.
 The reach of the UoA’s impact and contribution however extends internationally, with an
 important emphasis on informing public understanding of cultural histories and connections, and
 facilitating inter-cultural exchanges. Hammel’s paradigm-shifting research on child refugees to
 England, Scotland and Wales in the 1930s has been recognised in the UK and Germany, and
 also informs a new report supported by Public Health Wales (June/July 2020). She co-curated
 an Open-Air exhibition on this work in Berlin in autumn 2019, which is subsequently touring
 Germany, and has co-curated a further exhibition at the German National Library. Salisbury’s
 work engages practitioners and audiences in India and the Basque Country, and he hosted two
 poetry sessions with internationally renowned poets Louis de Paor and Ifor ap Glyn for the
 UNESCO ‘Our Voice in the World’ Conference co-organised by Aberystwyth University and
 Welsh Government (2019). Cuban filmmakers were invited to the Wales One World Film Festival
 as a result of Baron’s work on Cuban film (2014).

 All academic conferences organised by the UoA during the assessment period were also open
 to the public, for example, the annual David Trotter Memorial lectures are attended on average
 by well over 60 people, and the annual conference of the sector-leading MA in Professional
 Translation Studies bridges both research and practice and attracts an average of 40 delegates.
 Our contribution to the University’s Civic Mission in Wales (see REF5a) has also involved the

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivery of lectures and talks to a broad range of literary and cultural societies in Wales and
 beyond: Cyfeillion Amgueddfa Lloyd George, Cyfeillion Plas Hendre, Cymdeithas yr Aelwyd,
 Cymdeithas Lyfryddol Caerdydd, Cymrodorion Aberteifi, Cymdeithas Lenyddol Caernarfon a
 Gwyrfai, Cylch Llenyddol Llŷn, Cylch Llenyddol Penllyn, Cymdeithas Lenyddol y Garn,
 Cymdeithas Lenyddol Bro Ddyfi, Cymdeithas Meddygon Myddfai, Cangen Plaid Cymru Dyffryn
 Nantlle, Cymdeithas yr Henllys, Cylch Llenyddol Llanfairpwll, Cylch Llenyddol Maldwyn,
 Cymdeithas Lenyddol Gymraeg Lerpwl (Liverpool), Cylch Darllen Llanfarian, Cymdeithas Hanes
 Sir Gaernarfon, Cymdeithas Ddeintyddol Cymru, Cylch Llenyddol y Faenol Fawr, The
 Honourable Society of Cymmrodorion (London). This activity not only promotes better
 understanding of specialist fields in the public arena, but also sustains the societies themselves,
 sometimes contributing to their very survival.

 Our work also reaches wider audiences through the media and social media. Baron, Hammel
 and Rodway have published in The Conversation; Hammel’s piece was picked up by The
 Western Mail and Rodway’s piece appeared in Wales Online. Charnell-White has appeared on
 BBC Radio4; Hammel has appeared on BBC Radio Wales Today, Eye on Wales and The
 Sunday Supplement and on German radio; and Chapman, Charnell-White, Huws, Jewell,
 Rodway and Salisbury regularly contribute to Dei Tomos’s weekly magazine programme on BBC
 Radio Cymru, and have also appeared on S4C (Prynhawn Da). Salisbury and Charnell-White
 were invited to record programmes for the Eisteddfod’s alternative programme of online events
 for the cancelled eisteddfod of 2020, ‘AmGen’ (July 2020).




                                                                                             Page 13
