Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 English at Queen Mary University of London (QM) is a large department working to expand the
 boundaries of English studies. QM’s history as an institution dedicated to improving educational
 opportunities for women and for the communities of East London informs our mission to build
 sustainable connections between the local and the global, and to pursue equality, diversity and
 inclusion through our research and teaching. Our vision of English studies as an inclusive
 scholarly practice has evolved over thirty years, and continues to be shaped by the feminist and
 historicist scholarship of Jardine, Boffey, Shiach, Rose, and Barrett.

 QM English’s interdisciplinary research offers vital perspectives on literature from the medieval
 through the contemporary, from Renaissance manuscripts to digital writing and graphic novels.
 ‘English studies’ as we practice it is a global field which locates Anglophone writing practices
 within histories of empire, diaspora, and decolonisation. Our emphasis on marginalised identities
 and radical writing is driven by a commitment to our students, to our locality, and to the future of
 a discipline whose historically nuanced strategies of interpretation are urgently needed in an
 increasingly fragmented world.

 Since 2014, we have pursued a strategy of building on our strengths while responding to global
 challenges with bold interdisciplinary initiatives. We have expanded our staff by 34%
 (headcount) to 59, increased our grant income (expenditure) by 69% to £8.5m, ensured public
 engagement and impact dimensions of research are recognised as core academic functions
 within mentoring, appraisal and promotion systems (2 of our 4 impact case study (ICS) leaders
 were promoted to professorships during the REF period), and established a new creative writing
 research group. Our staff lead Living with Machines (LWM; PI Ahnert), a £9M project to apply
 artificial intelligence to historical research, and Creativeworks London (CWL; PI Shiach), a £4M
 project to enhance collaborative research potential in Arts and Humanities and the creative
 economy. We have financed over 100 projects through the Strategic Research Initiative (SRI),
 helping researchers (particularly ECRs) to develop new fields of inquiry, obtain external funding,
 and engage with external partners. We have invested in the next generation of researchers,
 securing grants for 9 CDAs and CDPs, 8 PDRFs, and 9 PDRAs. Wasafiri, the eminent global
 literature magazine, has returned to the Department; under the leadership of its Founding Editor
 Susheila Nasta we have redoubled our commitment to world writing. In addition to collaboration
 with other HE institutions, we have developed partnerships with the creative industries, museum
 and heritage sector, and local communities. Our ICSs demonstrate how our research has
 effected real change in the creative economy (Shiach), public perceptions of migration (Valman),
 disability (Rubery), and Britain’s place in the world (Brotton).

 1.2 Unit Context and Structure
 QM English is part of the School of English and Drama (SED) in the Faculty of Humanities and
 Social Sciences (HSS). English is divided into 4 Subject Area Groups (SAGs):

 The Medieval and Early Modern SAG takes a lead in digital humanities and textual
 scholarship. Researchers specialise in material text and manuscript studies (Atkin, Boffey,


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colclough); verse and prose (Boffey, Brady, Colclough, Raymond); drama (Atkin, Schalkwyk);
 history of ideas (Boutcher, Brotton, Colclough, Phillips, Preston); cartographies (Brotton, Hiatt,
 Rajsic, Raymond), and networks (Ahnert, Raymond). Since 2014, researchers in this group have
 published 11 monographs, 5 edited collections, 2 scholarly editions, 27 journal articles and 46
 book chapters. Interdisciplinary work in this period is co-ordinated through the Centre for
 Renaissance and Early Modern Studies (CREMS) and the Global Shakespeare Centre. Major
 interdisciplinary publications from this SAG include Boutcher’s 485,000-word study of The
 School of Montaigne in Early Modern Europe. Brotton’s project Mapping the Global Renaissance
 has made a significant contribution to the Department’s impact strategy.

 The Eighteenth Century, Romanticism, and Nineteenth-Century SAG has expertise in:
 Romantic poetry (Bowers, Clemit, Duff, Gamer, Hamilton, Vigus), history of political thought
 (Clemit, Duff, Hamilton, Reid, Taylor), history of science (Coulton, Ellis, Taylor), history of ideas
 (Hamilton, Rivers, Taylor, Vigus), material culture (Coulton, Ellis, Ingleby, Mauger, Maxwell,
 Rubery), book history (Coulton, Duff, Ellis, Gamer, Mauger, Reid, Rivers, Rubery, Whitehouse),
 media history (Ellis, Rubery), urban studies (Ingleby, Valman), disability studies (Rubery, Tilley),
 epistolary networks (Clemit, Whitehouse), and literature and religion (Rivers, Valman, Vigus,
 Whitehouse). Since 2014, researchers in this group have published 12 monographs, 2 edited
 collections, 32 journal articles, 40 book chapters, and 1 scholarly edition. Interdisciplinary work is
 co-ordinated through the Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies, the London-Paris Romanticism
 Seminar and the Queen Mary Centre for Religion and Literature in English (QMCRLE). The
 group’s research has culminated in 2 impact case studies: Revealing East London’s Immigrant
 History Through Literature (Valman), and The Audiobook Revolution (Rubery).

 The Modern and Contemporary SAG specialises in: contemporary fiction (Atia, Ahmed, Currie,
 Dinnen, Gilmour, McBean, Marsh, Salmi, van der Vlies), modernist studies (Barrett, Halliday,
 Hobson, Howarth, McCracken, price, Shiach), critical and cultural theory (Barrett, Currie,
 Fleming, Macdonald, McBean, McCracken), multiculturalism (Ahmed, Gilmour, Schwarz,
 Valman), American literature and culture (Dinnen, Halliday, McBean), WWI (Atia, Barrett), and
 contemporary poetry (Brady, Howarth, Ramayya). A key strategic aim since 2014 has been to
 develop interdisciplinary research in digital and visual cultures (Dinnen, McBean, Salmi). Since
 2014, researchers have produced 8 monographs, 6 edited collections, 35 journal articles, and 33
 book chapters. This group is responsible for the impact case study on Creativeworks London
 (Shiach).

 The Creative Writing SAG was established in this REF cycle. Since 2017, QM English has
 made 4 permanent appointments, bringing expertise on the novel and short fiction (Flanery,
 Hughes), creative non-fiction (Dillon), and poetry (Ramayya), a genre in which Brady
 specialises. In 2020, the group was joined by Leverhulme ECF, playwright and performance
 poet, Hannah Silva. Book-length outputs in this REF period comprise 4 novels, 6 works of non-
 fiction, 2 collections of poems, and a play. Their first CW doctoral student (Karina Lickorish
 Quinn) has been appointed to a lectureship at Leeds.

 Alongside the SAGs, QM English fosters cross-cutting research specialisms which help us fulfil
 our strategic aim to generate world-leading, interdisciplinary research:

 Textual Scholarship. QM English hosts several ongoing multi-volume editing projects: Oxford
 William Godwin Letters (Clemit), Cambridge Ann Radcliffe (Gamer), Oxford Dorothy Richardson
 (McCracken), Oxford Thomas Browne (Preston), and Oxford Henry Crabb Robinson (Vigus).
 Bowers is an editor of Longman’s Annotated Poems of Percy Bysshe Shelley. Colclough is

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Deputy General Editor of the Oxford Sermons of John Donne. Ellis is an Editor for Elizabeth
 Montagu Correspondence Online. Raymond edited the 2-volume Latin Defences for the Oxford
 Complete Works of John Milton. Schwarz is General Editor of Stuart Hall’s Writings. Many of
 these editions involve digital components, strengthening the Department’s role in shaping Digital
 Humanities protocols.

 Race, Empire and World Literature. This large group draws on all SAGs (Atia, Ahmed, Barrett,
 Brotton, Gilmour, Hiatt, Ellis, Nasta, Ramayya, Salmi, Schwarz, van der Vlies) and on Wasafiri.
 The QM Postcolonial Seminar (convened by Ahmed, Atia, and Salmi) involves collaboration
 across 3 Schools. QM Library has a nationally recognised collection of postcolonial writing,
 developed by the Department over 40 years, in association with Wasafiri. The importance of this
 area for the future direction of QM English is signalled by our advertisement of an appointment in
 Global South studies in January 2021.

 Wasafiri is the leading British magazine of international contemporary writing founded by Nasta;
 Atia and Ahmed are associate editors. The magazine was based at QM in 1992-2004 and
 returned to the university as part of our creative writing strategy in 2017. Since 2012, Wasafiri
 has received £59k annually from Arts Council England as a National Portfolio Organisation; total
 income from all sources over the REF period is roughly £490k. Since 2009 it has run an annual
 New Writing Prize, now funded by HSS. Wasafiri has received funding from the British Council
 for launches and research in Hong Kong and east Africa, and regularly partners with public
 cultural centres and festivals. Since 2017 it has programmed live events at the British Library,
 Tate Modern, the OGM Bocas Festival in Trinidad, the Mathrubhumi Festival in Kerala, and the
 Unbound Book Festival.

 In this REF cycle, fulfilling our aim to foster collaboration between English and Drama, we
 instituted the Sexual Cultures Research Group (Atia, Maxwell, McBean, McCracken, and van
 der Vlies). Funded by the SRI, SexCult fosters interdisciplinary conversations about sexuality,
 gender, identity, intimate and public cultures, in relation to race and ethnicity, class, dis/abilities,
 gender, and trans* lives and experiences. The group hosts numerous public lectures and
 reading groups within SED, and foregrounds diversity and inclusion in its creative and critical
 approaches.

 1.3 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research is central to QM’s strategy (REF5a Section 2 and 4). The diverse
 disciplinary framings used by staff in English are brought together through reading groups,
 seminars and workshops, supported by the contributions of visiting researchers. Collaboration
 with researchers from cognate disciplines is also encouraged through Faculty research centres
 and multidisciplinary projects. We have identified 23% of our submitted outputs (28/122) as
 interdisciplinary.

 Researchers collaborate across historical periods, investigating the intersections between
 literature and: gender and sexuality (Atia, Barrett, Brady, Shiach, Barrett, McBean, McCracken,
 Taylor, van der Vlies); cartographies (Brotton, Hiatt, Ingleby, Raymond); science (Coulton, Ellis,
 Halliday, Preston, price, Shiach); religion (Ahmed, Colclough, Hobson, Howarth, Rivers,
 Valman); material culture (Atkin, Phillips, Preston); cultural studies (Schwarz, Shiach, Barrett);
 history (Taylor); philosophy (Hamilton, Macdonald); critical theory (Currie, McBean); classical
 studies (Fleming); sound studies (Halliday); digital cultures (Dinnen, McBean); and digital
 humanities (Ahnert, Bowers, Coulton).


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty, University and Cross-University Research Centres bring together scholars to host
 research projects, seminar programmes, networks and events. They help us fulfil our aim to
 provide training and mentorship, and to extend international collaborations. QM English staff
 lead the Centre for the History of the Emotions and CREMS (with History), and the Centre for
 Eighteenth-Century Studies, as well as the following:

 Network: QM Centre for the Creative and Cultural Economy (Shiach) worked with Hackney
 and the London Legacy Development Corporation to develop research on social inclusion and
 sustainability in Hackney Wick and Fish Island, as part of the successful bid for a Creative
 Enterprise Zone designation. Network has been involved in projects in China and Brazil. Shiach
 collaborated with the British Council on cultural policy for creative hubs in Thailand, and the
 economic impacts of the Durga Puja Festival in West Bengal. Network is also a knowledge-
 exchange partner on the AHRC-funded project Digital Platforms in the Craft Economy in China
 and the UK (PI Bryan-Kinns, EECS), 2019-20.

 The Raphael Samuel History Centre (Valman, Taylor, Schwarz), established in 1996, is a
 research and outreach centre supported by Birkbeck, Queen Mary (English and History) and
 History Workshop Journal with a special interest in public, interdisciplinary and experimental
 history. The RSHC works with universities, museums and libraries and runs a large programme
 of public lectures, seminars, and research projects. Valman is its co-director, and its team of
 organisers includes established, early-career and student historians. Seminar series include:
 History Acts, History of Sexuality, History of the Environment, Solitudes Past and Present.
 Decolonising Europe. Public festivals included London at War (May 2014), Radical
 Histories/Histories of Radicalism (July 2016), and AIDS Histories and Cultures (July 2018).

 The QM Centre for Religion and Literature in English (Rivers and Whitehouse), launched in
 2016, is a collaboration between SED and History, with external Visiting Fellows and Associates.
 It holds annual study days with LERMA at the University of Aix-Marseille, on whose Advisory
 Board Rivers sits; runs a Seminar in Religion and Literature; held an interdisciplinary conference
 in 2018 on ‘Religion and the Life Cycle, 1500-1800', with proceedings in press with Manchester
 UP; and hosts the ongoing Dissenting Academies Project.

 Initially established as a collaboration with Warwick University, the Global Shakespeare
 Research Centre (Schalkwyk) investigates Shakespeare as a global multimedia cultural
 phenomenon. In 2016 the Centre produced a festival of ‘Indian Shakespeares on Screen’, with
 an exhibition from the National Film Archive of India. Between 2017 and 2020, in collaboration
 with Anərkē Shakespeare, the Centre hosted a series of experimental productions and academic
 symposia in 3 countries and 4 cities. In 2019 Shakespeare scholars at QM and the University of
 Verona signed an MOU committing to collaborative teaching, research, and PG training.

 The Centre for Poetry (Brady, Rudy) generates new research on poetry and performance,
 sound, and feminist and queer poetics. The Centre was launched with a 3-day international
 Globe Road Poetry Festival in 2015. It hosts Salon, a series of performances by experimental
 women writers; the Queer Poetics Research Network; and The Archive of the Now, an open-
 access digital collection of more than 200 contemporary poets performing their own work.

 1.4 Research objectives since 2014 and 2020-2025
 The Department’s Research Strategy stresses excellence, interdisciplinarity, collaboration,
 research-led teaching, public engagement, and a commitment to the lesser-studied aspects of
 the discipline.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The objectives we set out for REF2014 were:
    a) to generate world-leading, interdisciplinary research in our areas of excellence in English
        studies through new appointments, funded projects, and research centres
    b) to support emerging areas of excellence and develop provision of training and
        mentorship, especially in digital research practices
    c) to continue to invest in doctoral and post-doctoral research, especially from non-UKRI
        sources, and early-career researchers
    d) to extend international collaborations with global partners, and establish new connections
        to business and the creative industries.

 Our aims over the next 5 years are:
    • to implement QMUL’s ‘People, Culture, and Inclusion Enabling Plan’ (2020-2030) to
        support research and its impact; including strategies to address the impact of the Covid
        pandemic on the arts, career progression, and research culture, and especially its EDI
        implications, with investment and targeted support
    • to distribute investment in staff FTE and research projects across the full historical and
        interdisciplinary range of English studies, including new research hubs for digital cultures
        and for creative and critical writing
    • to represent through our research a compelling public argument for the value of the
        Humanities in a conflicted world
    • to engage a wide range of partners, including non-governmental funders, artists, writers,
        and community groups, in order to increase the impact of our research
    • to support colleagues to extend the reach and significance of their research, moving from
        smaller SRI-funded projects to larger grants (including a higher proportion of non-UK
        funding) in strategically important areas.

 Strategic Planning. QM English’s research strategy is devised co-operatively, and aligned with
 Faculty and University strategic plans for research (REF5a Section 2). The SED Research
 Committee, which includes the Head of School (HoS), the Heads of English and Drama, the
 School Director of Research (DoR), and the Chair of the EDI Committee reports to the School
 Board and the English Departmental Board. The Committee is chaired by the DoR for the
 School, who is supported by a DoR for English, DoR for Impact, DoR for REF, and the SED
 Research Manager.

 The SAGs help set priorities for investment and expansion. The DoR organises annual surveys
 of research activity to identify opportunities for collaboration and maximise staff achievement.
 Research Away Days help to discern emerging areas of research strength and opportunities for
 collaboration. In the REF period, new research themes in network analysis, digital cultures,
 digital humanities, religion and literature, modernism and contemporary writing, and sound
 cultures have been supported in this way.

 Support for Open Access and Research Integrity
 QM English is committed to making research findings accessible to the widest possible public,
 and implements Open Access (where appropriate) by the Green route (REF5a Section 2).
 Authors self-archive their work in the QM repository. Since April 2016, we have ensured 100%
 compliance with UKRI’s open-access policy through workshops for staff, guidance in the School
 Handbook, and semi-annual reminder messages.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 QM research is aligned with the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity (REF5a Section
 2). Following HSS policy, research projects with a value of between £35k and £350k are
 reviewed in the School; high-value research projects are reviewed within the Faculty by its own
 Peer Review College. All research projects involving human subjects are submitted to the QM
 Ethics of Research Committee for approval.

 1.5 Impact strategy
 Reflecting QM’s commitment to ensuring that its research benefits diverse communities outside
 the academy (REF5a Section 2), and our 2014 objective (d), QM English’s impact activities
 reflect the importance of making sustainable and transformative connections with local, national
 and international communities for the co-production of research. Since 2014, we have enhanced
 our impact strategy with targeted initiatives such as training workshops led by impact-
 experienced colleagues in SED, the Impact Co-ordinators, and external partners. Impact is
 supported financially through the School’s SRI fund. Staff can draw on Faculty funding such as
 the HSS Collaboration Fund (Shiach received £23,000 to work with Brazilian creative
 businesses in the favelas of São Paulo through this fund) and QM Professional Services (REF5a
 Section 4). In the REF period, QM English researchers have been awarded £9,200 from HSS
 funding specifically for capturing impact. Network also provides a voucher scheme to support
 impact.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment strategy
 Since 2014, QM English has pursued its objectives (a) and (b) through strategic appointments.
 The Department has expanded by 34% (headcount) from 44 (41.13 FTE) to 59 (48.95 FTE)
 members of staff. These appointments have sustained existing strengths in early modern and
 medieval manuscript studies (Rajsic), early modern studies (Grossman, Preston, Schalkwyk),
 Romanticism (Clemit, Duff, Gamer, Bowers), Victorian studies (Dunstan, Ingleby, Tilley), textual
 scholarship (Clemit, Gamer, McCracken, Preston), Modernism (McCracken), contemporary
 literature (Marsh), postcolonial and world literature (Ahmed, Nasta). They have built new areas
 of research strength in creative writing (Dillon, Flanery, Hughes, Ramayya), queer studies
 (McBean), disability studies (Tilley), digital cultures (Dinnen), and contemporary visual cultures
 (Salmi). Bowers, recruited through the IHSS Strategic Lecturer initiative (REF5a Section 2),
 brings expertise in Romanticism and digital humanities. Recruitment is aligned with the QM
 staffing strategy (REF5a Section 3).

 In REF 2014, the Department submitted 98% of eligible staff, which demonstrates our long-
 standing commitment to supporting research across all staff at all levels. Since then, our aim has
 been to expand our research base while maintaining a balance between senior, mid-career, and
 early-career researchers and between post-1900 and pre-1900 research. We have appointed 8
 Professors (Clemit, Dillon, Duff, Flanery, Gamer, McCracken, Nasta, Schalkwyk), 1 Reader
 (Preston), and 10 Lecturers (Ahmed, Bowers, Dinnen, Hughes, Ingleby, McBean, Marsh, Rajsic,
 Ramayya, Salmi). 19 staff have been hired on fixed-term replacement contracts funded by
 research grants, of whom 3 were in post at the census (Grossman, Dunstan, Tilley). At the
 census date, 97% FTE of staff in English were on teaching and research or research-only
 contracts.

 Also at the census date, the Department had 29 Professors, 3 Readers, 11 Senior Lecturers, 13
 Lecturers, and 3 Postdocs. The high proportion of Professors reflects our staff development


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy of mentoring early-career and junior staff to early promotion, and of giving equal weight
 to different types of research-led contribution. There are 27 men, 31 women, and 1 nonbinary
 staff members in the department; 54 are white, and 5 are Black, Asian and People of Colour. As
 of 2020, 19 of 137 SED employees declared a disability (14%).

 2.2 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 Research in QM English aligns with QM’s Equality Objectives (REF5a Section 3), and SED’s
 statement of principles: SED aims to foster equality and inclusivity, to challenge all forms of
 discrimination, and to ensure that all staff and students are treated with dignity and respect.

 In accord with institutional governance structures for EDI (REF5a, section 3), EDI policies are
 coordinated by the School Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee (EDIC), and
 implemented by the HoS and Head of English. The committee includes the HoS, DoR, and
 representatives of staff, UG, PGT, PGR, and postdoctoral communities. It collects HR data on
 staff and PGR recruitment, promotions, and the gender pay gap, for an annual report which
 guides School policies on research, PGR recruitment and supervision. EDI is a standing item on
 all School and Departmental committee agendas. The Co-Chairs (always including the HoS)
 also sit on the School Research Committee.

 EDI plays an essential role in recruitment practices. Interview panels are always mixed-gender.
 All staff involved in recruitment are given unconscious bias training and trained in fair selection
 practices by the QM Academy (QMA).

 Preparations for REF included rigorous EDI audits. Outputs were selected through internal and
 external dry runs; outputs in the 3 upper/4 lower band were ranked in 2020 by a gender-
 balanced panel recruited across the SAGs. The DoR analysed outputs in relation to gender,
 ethnicity, and seniority, correcting for an imbalance in the selection of additional high-scoring
 outputs in terms of gender. In the final selection, 46.7% of the outputs are by men (who
 constitute 45% of all researchers), 53.3% by women (55%); 95% by white researchers (92.4%),
 and 5% by Black, Asian and People of Colour (7.6%).

 The School provides travel costs for staff with disabilities and long-term health conditions. Other
 EDI initiatives include supporting costs to make research and public engagement events
 accessible. Event programmers are encouraged to ensure diversity of representation when
 booking speakers.

 2.3 Support for all career stages
 QM English is committed to the principles outlined in the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, in accordance with the QM Research Strategy. That commitment
 has been ratified by the HR Excellence in Research Award since 2012.

 Workload management. The Department manages workloads to protect staff research time
 equally for ECRs and Professors. All research staff including those on fixed-term contracts
 assign 1 day a week as dedicated research time. A 2-month summer period is designated as
 research-intensive, during which email communication and meetings are minimal. All staff,
 including those on fixed-term contracts, are eligible for sabbatical leave of 1 semester
 (annualised to 6 months) every 7 semesters.

 Staff on parental leave receive a remission of 2 teaching contact hours/week in the semester
 after they return, and can apply to departmental funds for costs associated with restarting their

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. Events are generally organised within core hours. In this REF period, 13 employees in
 English took a total of 16 periods of parental leave.

 During the first Covid lockdown, and in recognition of its significant EDI implications for carers,
 the Department invited all staff to identify specific impacts they were experiencing and to agree
 mitigating actions. These impacts are documented in statements co-signed by the HoS, which
 researchers can draw upon in probation, promotion, and grant applications. The QMA also
 provided one-to-one support sessions, workshops, focus groups, and town halls with senior
 leadership during this period.

 Recognising the diversity of staff’s personal and career circumstances, QM English supports
 those researchers who elect to take up part-time contracts, whether temporarily or permanently;
 this applied to 18 members of staff at the census point, 7 of whom are early or mid-career.

 Support for postdoctoral researchers. The Department recognises the vital contributions of
 both Postdoctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs) and Postdoctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs) to
 its research culture. This contribution, and our aim to provide training and mentorship, are
 acknowledged in REF2014 objectives (b) and (c).

 The DoR works closely with applicants for PDRFs, who are assigned mentors to refine their
 applications. A gender-balanced committee selects applications, paying due attention to the
 implications of research projects in relation to EDI and social impact. These strategies have led
 to a continued healthy recruitment of PDRFs in English since 2014; numbers taken at the
 census date for 2014 and 2020 show a 200% increase. The Department included 6 PDRFs
 during the REF period (Taneja, Auger, Dhital, Ossa-Richardson, Phillips, and Silva). 2 further
 PDRFs have joined QM English (Jones and Stainthorp) since the census date.

 QM English also included 9 PDRAs during the REF period (Virani, Terracciano, Dima, O’Neill
 and Briscoe on CWL; Phillips and Williams on Thomas Browne; Ryan on Networking Archives;
 and Parker through Gamer’s BA Global Professor award).

 PIs receive training in good practice for the supervision of PDRAs and PDRFs. PDRFs and
 PDRAs can access staff development and training opportunities provided by the QMA and the
 Department. Networking Archives hosted a 3-part training school for 18 colleagues to develop
 skills in data preparation, network analysis, and using quantitative approaches. CWL also ran a
 series of events to develop knowledge exchange expertise within its PDRA cohort. These
 measures equip PDRFs and PDRAs to move successfully into a range of academic and
 research positions: Auger to a permanent post at Birmingham; Ossa Richardson to
 Southampton and then UCL; Taneja to Newcastle; Virani to UWE; Dima to Brunel; Briscoe to
 Glasgow School of Art. Terracciano works as an interdisciplinary artist/researcher, O’Neill as an
 opera director.

 Support for early-career researchers. The recruitment and mentoring of ECRs is reflected in
 our REF2014 objectives (b) and (c), and aligned with the national Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. Permanent ECR appointments since 2014 are Ahmed,
 Bowers, Hughes, Ingleby, Marsh, McBean, Ramayya, and Salmi.

 All ECRs, including postdoctoral researchers, are given probation targets and assigned a mentor
 who meets with them regularly to discuss progress and career development. ECRs on probation
 are reviewed by the School Promotions Committee annually and given feedback on progress

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 towards targets. ECRs are given smaller administrative loads so that they have time to develop
 their research. Additional teaching relief is available for grant applications and project
 management.

 Permanent ECRs must complete the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice offered by
 the QMA (which includes modules in research grant preparation and researcher development)
 as a condition of passing probation. Staff enrolled on PGCAP or similar receive an additional
 remission of 2 teaching contact hour/week in 1 semester. HSS also organises an ECR network
 to offer peer support and networking opportunities.

 The success of support structures for ECRs can be seen in Salmi’s British Academy/Global
 Challenges grant (£152,091) and McBean’s Humboldt fellowship. Salmi is helping to shape the
 future of ECRs, as a member of the core group lobbying the British Academy and the Royal
 Society to help found a UK-wide Young Academy for ECRs. The YA movement is gaining
 momentum globally, with over 40 national Young Academies as of 2020.

 Support for fixed-term research staff is also a key element of the School’s EDI agenda. SMG
 and the School Research Committee ensure that best practice is followed for all fixed-term
 research staff, including induction, setting probation targets, assigning a mentor, conducting
 annual appraisals, and ensuring that fixed-term staff are well integrated into the Department. All
 fixed-term research staff are allocated an annual Career Development Allowance of £1,000 (pro
 rata) to fund training or other aspects of their research.

 Career progression. All staff, fixed-term and permanent, participate in the School’s annual
 appraisal process. In conversation with their appraiser, staff set research objectives and reflect
 on long-term plans. Reviews are conducted by the HoD and senior members of the Department,
 or by the project PI. Mandatory training for appraisers provided by QM includes EDI
 accountability.

 Promotion processes operate through a process of self-application. HoDs hold review meetings
 with all staff who have been 3 years at Lecturer or 5 years at Senior Lecturer/Reader. Annual
 faculty promotion workshops ensure that staff understand criteria and know how to present a
 case. SED operates a ‘dry run’ each November, where draft applications are reviewed by a
 gender-balanced School Promotions Group. Of the 59 submitted Category A staff employed on
 the REF census date, 27 were not eligible for promotion (21 because they were already
 Professors, and 6 because they were fixed-term staff on probation). Of the remaining 32 staff
 members, 24 were promoted during the current REF cycle, including 4 women who were doubly
 promoted through from Lecturer to Reader or Professor (Ahnert, Atkin, Gilmour, Valman).
 Promotions in the current cycle include 13 to Senior Lecturer (Ahmed, Ahnert, Atia, Atkin,
 Coulton, Dinnen, Hobson, Macdonald, Mauger, McBean, price, Vigus, Whitehouse), 4 to Reader
 (Atkin, Gilmour, Valman, van der Vlies), and 11 to Professor (Ahnert, Boutcher, Brady,
 Colclough, Gilmour, Hiatt, Howarth, Preston, Rubery, Valman, van der Vlies). Of these 28
 promotions, 18 went to female and non-binary people.

 Mentoring. Staff nominate a mentor, separate from their appraiser, who they feel will best
 support their research development, and whom they meet 2 or 3 times a year. Mentoring is also
 available beyond the School with dedicated QM schemes for women, LGBTQ+, and BAME staff
 (REF5a Section 3). Applications for external income are supported by internal and external peer
 review systems. Targeted workshops are organised to coincide with the deadlines of UKRI and


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other funding bodies. The QM Researcher Development team supports researchers at all levels
 to excel.

 Recognising and Rewarding Research and Impact. During this REF period, QM has made
 research impact a criterion for promotion. QM also recognises impact through awards such as
 the Hawking Award for Developed Understanding of Public Engagement, won by Valman in
 2018. CWL also won a QM Engagement and Enterprise Award in 2017.

 2.4 Support for PGRs
 PGR Recruitment. Since 2014, with strong support through the QM PhD growth strategy
 (REF5a Section 2), we have sought to recruit PGRs from a diversity of backgrounds, including
 international students. 55 students are currently enrolled (47 FTE: 30 f-t, 16 p-t, 9 writing up).
 Recruitment is consistent, with 11 FTE admitted in 2014-15 (7 f-t, 8 p-t), 11 FTE admitted in
 2015-16 (9 f-t, 4 p-t), 12 FTE admitted in 2016-17 (11 f-t, 2 p-t), and 10.5 FTE admitted in 2017-
 18 (8 f-t, 5 p-t). Of the 71 PhD completions in the REF period, the gender balance was 41%
 male, 59% female.

 In REF2014 we aimed (c) to invest in PGR, especially from non-RCUK sources. QM is a
 member of the London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP), an AHRC-funded Doctoral
 Training Partnership with King’s College London, School of Advanced Study, University College
 London, and the London School of Economics & Political Science. The LAHP is ‘committed to
 increasing diversity and inclusion in its student cohorts’. Funding is also available from the
 Leverhulme Trust Mobile People Doctoral Training Centre.

 The Faculty dedicates approximately £1M per year to fund PhD studentships, including 2 fully-
 funded studentships for UK applicants from a BAME background which offer an annual stipend
 of £17,000. SED supported 5 new PGRs (3 in English, 2 in Drama) annually via fee waivers. The
 BAME scheme, which ran from 2017 to 2020, has widened to include other groups that are
 under-represented in our PGR community, helping to make PG study accessible to applicants
 whose circumstances – such as caring responsibilities or financial hardship – do not allow them
 to undertake full-time study.

 QM English has also secured funding for 9 CDA and CDPs during the REF period, in
 collaboration with the V&A Museum, the British Library, the National Portrait Gallery, the Geffrye
 Museum, the National Maritime Museum, the RNIB, the Oxford Botanic Garden and Arboretum
 (awarded 2019 – student commenced January 2021), Natural History Museum (2020; student to
 commence October 2021). Coulton’s SRI-funded ‘Remembering James Petiver’ conference led
 to an LAHP CDA on ‘Decolonising the Sloane Herbarium’ in collaboration with the Natural
 History Museum. Of those who have already completed, Hannah Stockton (NMM CDP) is
 curator at Royal Museums Greenwich; Rebecca Unsworth (V&A CDP) is Research Assistant at
 Birmingham Museums Trust; Georgia Haseldine (NPG CDP) is Public Engagement Fellow at
 V&A.

 PGR Supervision and Completions Strategy. Supervision practices are consistent with the
 QM Code of Practice for Research Degree Programmes, and closely monitored by the Director
 of Graduate Studies (DGS). All PhD students are supported by supervision teams of at least 2
 members of staff. Early-career staff develop skills in doctoral supervision and examination
 through close mentoring by senior staff. All staff new to supervision undertake training. All staff
 attend refresher training every 5 years.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New PhD students participate in induction sessions at both Department and School level, and
 have an introductory planning meeting with their supervisors to discuss arrangements for
 supervisions and to set targets. Each student attends a minimum of 10 supervisions per year.
 Progress and goals are tracked in online reports. Every year, students also complete an annual
 review: supervisors and an independent reviewer provide written and verbal feedback on a draft
 chapter, a CV, a thesis plan, and a timeline for completion.

 The DGS holds weekly office hours for PGRs, and arranges support for students with specific
 needs. The Department implements QM’s policy on equal opportunities support for PGRs,
 including advice available through the QM Advice and Counselling Service, the Disability and
 Dyslexia Service, and the Access to Learning (Hardship) fund, supporting students with specific
 learning differences and those who need to interrupt or return to research.

 The Department's proactive PGR supervision and completions strategy has ensured a sub 4-
 year submission rate above 90% in each of the last 16 years. In the REF period there were 71
 PhD completions in English. A further 7 PhDs due for submission in 2019-20 were delayed due
 to Covid and granted an agreed extension or interruption.

 PGR professional training. In line with QM’s strategic aim to enhance the research and training
 environment for PGRs (REF5a section 3), QM PhD students participate in LAHP training, to
 which QM staff contribute. In addition, there is a comprehensive programme of QM research
 training, writing retreats, and career development organised by SED, the Doctoral College, and
 QMA. Research students build a repertoire of skills through training activities that accrue credits
 (210 credits over 3 years) in knowledge and intellectual abilities, personal effectiveness,
 research organisation, and engagement and impact.

 All PGR students are offered the opportunity to work as Teaching Associate (TA) in the second
 year of study. TAs are mentored in pedagogy and assessment by experienced module leaders,
 who also observe them in the classroom and offer written feedback which is discussed in
 person.

 In their first and second years, PGRs give research presentations at a Graduate Conference to
 their cohort and supervisors, with an invited academic respondent. PGRs are mentored in
 preparation for conference presentations, applications for post-doctoral fellowships, interviews,
 and job applications. In 2020 these activities went online, enabling PGRs to access
 supervisions, training, seminars, and other activities internationally.

 PGR Support: finance and space. PGR facilities include the Graduate Centre, a newly-built
 study, social, and seminar building; postgraduate workrooms; and a Research Reading Room in
 the Library. Financial support for PGR research includes £700 per student for travel to
 conferences and archives, with further sums available on application to the QM Research Fund
 and Doctoral College Initiative Fund.

 PGR Research Culture. QM English regards PGRs as a key part of the staff research
 environment, and involves them in research events at all levels. It offers financial support and
 guidance for conferences and workshops organised by postgraduate researchers. One PGR-led
 project is ‘Decorating Dissidence: Modernism, Feminism and the Arts’, run by English PGRs
 Jade French and Lottie Whalen. The project has produced 2 conferences (2017 and 2018), 2 art
 exhibitions, an online journal, and a special issue of Woman: A Cultural Review (2021). PGRs
 also organised conferences on ‘Grace in English Literature’ (2015), ‘The Life of Testimony’

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2016), and ‘Redefining Allegory’ (2016). Such activities equip PGRs with organisational,
 budgeting, and funding application skills, and opportunities to present their work to a wider
 audience.

 PGR students programme the fortnightly English Postgraduate Seminar and organise reading
 groups and seminars including the Eighteenth-Century Reading Group, the Writing Materials
 group, the Medieval/Early Modern Texts and Contexts group, the Theory Reading Group, and
 cross-institutional groups such as the London Studies Reading Group. QM English PGRs are
 active at seminars held at the Institute of English Studies and Senate House, and a large
 contingent presented their work at English Studies: the State of the Discipline (2015), which
 resulted in a published volume in 2016.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Fulfilling our REF2014 aim (a), to generate world-leading, interdisciplinary research through
 funded projects, the total value of HESA reported research income (expenditure) has increased
 to £8.5 million, including £1.2 million from UK Research Charities, £823k from non-UK research
 funding bodies, and £6.4 million from UK government funders (primarily AHRC and BA). This is
 up from £5 million in REF 2014, an increase of 69%, and from £2.18 million in RAE 2008.
 Research income was higher during the first three years of the cycle (£1.8, £1.9, £1.9 million,
 respectively), which were the final years of CWL. The subsequent rise to £873k in 2019-20
 shows the success of our strategy in supporting a wide range of applications to UK government
 funders and research charities, and to some non-UK funders, in accordance with REF2014 aim
 (c), to diversify away from UKRI funding. In the current cycle there is an increase of 360% of
 income from non-UK sources.

 The total awards involving QM English researchers over the REF period amounted to £21.5m.
 Our largest active grants and awards during this period are given below.
    • Living with Machines (PI Ahnert; AHRC; £8,994,959; value to QM £406,928)
    • Networking Archives (Co-I Ahnert; AHRC; £808,704; value to QM £272,040)
    • Creativeworks London (PI Shiach; AHRC; £3,939,587)
    • London Creative and Digital Fusion (Co-I Shiach; ERDF £3.5m; value to QM £690,000)
    • The Dorothy Richardson Scholarly Editions Project (PI McCracken; AHRC; £966,466,
        collaborative grant, £340,000 through QM English)
    • The Complete Works of Sir Thomas Browne (PI Preston; AHRC; £929,680)
    • Pathologies of Solitude (PI Taylor; Wellcome; £881,862; £421,000 allocated to QM
        English)
    • Romantic Melodrama: Feeling in Search of Form (PI Gamer; British Academy; £749,000)
    • Fictions of the Real: Investigative Journalism and the Novel, 1840-1930 (Co-I Rubery;
        Swedish Research Council; SEK4,400,000 [£388,645]; value to QM SEK2,603,913
        [£230,000])
    • Visualising Gender-Based Violence in Graphic Awareness Campaigns in Nepal (PI
        Salmi; British Academy/Global Challenges Research Fund; £152,091)
    • The Untold Story of the Talking Book (PI Rubery; British Academy; £94,232)
    • News Networks in Early Modern Europe (PI Raymond; Leverhulme; £74,088)




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the REF period, QM English researchers won 28 funded fellowships, 11 of which were
 overseas, for a total of £1,481,603 in income.
     • 11 Leverhulme fellowships (Atkin, £49,471; Atia, £52,986; Barrett, £49,184; Brady,
         £42,742; Hobson, £54,934; Howarth, £44,994; price, £41,464; Raymond, £38,679;
         Schwarz, £50,000; Taylor, £47,250; Valman, £54,883) = £526,587
     • 1 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Maxwell, £105,812)
     • 1 Philip Leverhulme Prize (James, £70,000)
     • 1 AHRC Early-Career Fellowship (Ahnert, £181,101)
     • 3 BA mid-career fellowships (Gilmour, £114,799; Rubery, £117,790; Valman, £116,296)
         = £348,885
     • 3 National Humanities Center Fellowships (Brady, $49,000; Rubery, $46,500; Schwarz,
         $50,000) = £101,850.00
     • 1 National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship (Rubery, $50,000) = £35,000
     • 1 Stanford External Faculty Fellowship (Ahnert, $70,000) = £49,000
     • 1 Humboldt fellowship (McBean, €40,000) = £35,368
     • 1 visiting Fellowship at the Hutchins Center, Harvard University (Schwarz, $40,000) =
         £28,000

 QM English researchers have also been awarded non-stipendiary visiting fellowships at
 Australian National University (Atia, AUS12,000), Marsh’s Library, Dublin (Atkin, value €800),
 Folger Shakespeare Library (Atkin, value $3,500; Ellis), Huntington Library (Atkin; value $3,500),
 University of Copenhagen (Currie), École Normale Supérieure (Duff, value €500), Gakushuin
 University Tokyo (Ellis), Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study (Flanery), MacDowell Colony
 (Flanery; value $10,000), and Stony Brook University, NY (McBean). QM English has hosted a
 Leverhulme Visiting Professor (Garrett Stewart, University of Iowa; value £19,731) and a
 Fulbright US Scholar (Steven Rozenski, University of Rochester).

 QM English supports colleagues in the effort to gain research awards through grant-applications
 training, post-award mentoring, and pre- and post-award administrative support. The School has
 invested in 3 new administrative posts for support for research and PGRs in the REF period: a
 Research Manager who assists in the preparation of research grant bids, conference planning
 and administers research grants; an e-Strategy manager; and a Web and Marketing Manager.
 Centres with specific operational needs have also employed technical officers. The School
 works closely with QM research support services such as the Business Development Unit and
 Joint Research Management Office. This support has proved critical to the rise in research
 income since REF2014.

 3.2 Infrastructure
 Departmental funds. QM invested QR funding during the REF cycle in the relevant unit of
 assessment, granting the Department considerable freedom to pursue strategic goals. The HoS,
 DoR and DGS manage funds for academic staff and postgraduate research, including personal
 research allowances, research expenses, and strategic investments. Staff research and
 professional development are supported with £1,200 of annual departmental funding, topped up
 for large-scale events such as conferences and other activities.

 One of SED’s most successful initiatives is the SRI fund, which has awarded a total of £151,300
 in this REF period (up to £35,000 per annum). In accordance with REF2014 objectives (b) and
 (c), to support emerging areas of excellence, especially ECRs, the fund allows colleagues to
 initiate projects, outputs, impact activities, or collaborations. All staff on research-related

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contracts are eligible to apply for up to £2000 per year. Group applications are also considered,
 to encourage collaborations. Its top priority is to assist researchers making substantial (over
 £40k) external research funding applications. 3 rounds of the peer-reviewed internal application
 process run each year, with a full application form defining the criteria used in assessing
 applications. The gender-balanced assessment panel is drawn from the research leadership
 team across English and Drama. Projects funded in this way include:

  •   Atia organised a symposium on literature of the Middle East, which enriched her current
      monograph project, Global Literature and the Middle East, and 3 journal articles. She went
      on to secure Leverhulme funding for her project ‘Reimagining Iraq: Representations of
      Home in Iraqi Writing’.
  •   Brotton’s funding allowed for the transcription of materials for a Bodleian exhibition
      catalogue Talking Maps, and for scoping research on his next book project, Decolonising
      Discovery. The SRI grant also supported the exhibition of the sacred cave of Kamukuwaká
      at Factum Arte in Madrid, and workshops with invited participants including indigenous
      leaders. In December 2020, a SED team including Brotton were awarded £50k from the
      British Council to work with Factum Foundation and the Waujá tribe to develop a VR
      interface for the Kamukuwaká Cave.
  •   McBean attended a conference in Estonia during the early stages of her current project on
      ‘Queer Networks’ and travelled as a visiting scholar to Stony Brook University NY, where
      she developed a successful application for the Humboldt Experienced Researcher
      Fellowship in Berlin.
  •   price created a finding aid for the Science Museum’s newly-acquired J.W. Dunne papers.
      This research into Dunne’s cultural and scientific networks was the seeds of a Leverhulme
      research fellowship, during which price finished a monograph.
  •   Raymond transcribed a newly-discovered manuscript version of Milton’s Defence of the
      English People, to be published as 2 volumes of The Oxford Edition of the Complete Works
      of John Milton in 2022; the project was further funded by the Leverhulme Trust.
  •   Rubery hosted a grant-writing workshop which resulted in a successful application in 2017
      to the European Union Joint Programming Initiative in Cultural Heritage and Global Chance
      for a project entitled ‘READ-IT: Reading Europe Advanced Data Investigation Tool’, for
      which he is an Associate Partner.
  •   Valman developed 2 podcasts about the nineteenth-century East End, which formed the
      basis for a chapter in her new monograph Literary East London. This research led to a
      series of guided walks for the Migration Museum Project, and to a successful AHRC
      Research Grant on ‘Making and Remaking the Jewish East End: Language, Space and
      Time’ (2021-3).

 Distinguished Visiting Fellowships. This scheme contributes to our REF2014 aims (a) and
 (d), generating interdisciplinary research and international collaborations. It provides housing
 and administrative support to distinguished established scholars, policy makers, representatives
 of business and industry, artists, and writers, enabling them to pursue research in London and
 participate in research activities in HSS for a period of up to 4 weeks. 24 fellows were appointed
 in the current REF period. Examples of their contributions include: Prof. Daniel Vitkus (UC San
 Diego) delivered public lectures at QM and the Rose Theatre, where he worked on developing
 collaborations with Global Shakespeare; Prof. Jay Clayton (Vanderbilt) offered a lecture on
 literature and genetics, and shared his expertise as Director of Vanderbilt’s Curb Center for Art,
 Enterprise, and Public Policy; Prof. Amy Hungerford (Yale, now Columbia) worked with the



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pathologies of Solitude project postdoctoral team; Bernard Schwartz (92Y)’s visit led to 2 years
 of events at the LRB Bookshop featuring the Y’s archival recordings.

 In this REF period, Barrett secured a Newton Mobility Grant to fund a visiting fellowship for Dr
 Lucy Graham, University of the Western Cape (British Academy, £10,000). The same scheme
 funded Brotton’s collaboration with Professor Mercio Gomes at the Federal University of Rio,
 leading to work with the Kuikuro tribe in the Upper Xingu of Brazil, and the BBC Radio World
 Service programme ‘Voices from the Forest’ (written and presented by Brotton). Van der Vlies
 was Co-I on a British Newton Advanced Research Fellowship project on South African orature
 that included a workshop in Grahamstown (2015) and an international conference (QM 2016).

 Faculty and University support. The Faculty and University provide a number of funding
 streams for supporting research, including the Large Grant Seed-corn Fund, Early Career
 Workshop Funding, the HSS Collaboration Fund, the Collaboration Fund, and small and large
 grants from the University’s Centre for Public Engagement (REF5a Section 2 and 4). The
 Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences (IHSS) supports interdisciplinary research; its
 current themes are mobility, work, democracy and medical humanities (REF5a Section 2).

 3.3 Facilities
 Libraries and archives. The QM Library has significant archival resources, particularly for
 postcolonial studies (discussed above); library spend on English books and electronic resources
 for 2014-20 was £137,672. Senate House Library, of which all staff and students are members,
 has a collection of over 3 million books, including rare books and manuscripts. Both libraries
 offer staff high-quality electronic research tools.

 Research spaces. The School provides staff with individual offices, IT equipment and support.
 Staff have access to spaces across the campus in which they can hold conferences, seminars,
 and workshops. Funded projects are provided with research facilities and spaces to assist team
 working.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1 Effectiveness of Research Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships
 Our REF2014 aim (d) to extend international collaborations with global partners, and establish
 new connections to business and the creative industries, has seen staff increase involvement in
 academic and non-academic collaborations, networks, and partnerships. Our Impact Case
 Studies (REF3) evidence the effectiveness of our strategies. QM English’s transformation of
 research, networks, and collaborations into impact is directly enabled through targeted support
 and seed funding. Applications are encouraged from all staff, enabling pathways to impact at
 different stages of research development, from preliminary networking meetings with potential
 research partners, to mentoring and administrative support. 2 projects run by ECRs who
 benefitted from this support are:

 Living with Machines. Ahnert is PI of this £9M AHRC-funded project based at the Alan Turing
 Institute. She leads a 23-person team across 6 institutions, including 1 English PDRA (Ryan)
 and 3 in History, bringing curators, historians, geographers and computational linguists together
 with data scientists. The project applies data science and artificial intelligence to historical and
 cultural resources, producing tools and software to analyse digitised collections. Ahnert’s role in
 this world-leading project is an example of how QM English aims to support researchers from


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the inception of a new form of research, through mentoring and material resources, to large-
 scale innovations. Ahnert’s AHRC fellowship developed new methodologies for analysing early
 modern social, religious, and political networks through letters. Outputs included both
 conventional publications and an interactive data visualisation (tudornetworks.net). She is also
 Co-I on Networking Archives, a £1M project dedicated to assembling and analysing a meta-
 archive of correspondence, 1509-1714. These successes, cemented by an AHRC-QM English
 conference, enabled Ahnert to foster important cross-disciplinary and multi-institutional
 collaborations. As a result, she was invited to represent the humanities in the first collaborative
 conversations between the Alan Turing Institute and the British Library, which led to the
 successful bid for LWM, directed by Ahnert (now professor), one of the largest AI and
 humanities investments in UK history.

 Visualizing Gender-based Violence in Graphic Awareness Campaigns in Nepal. Salmi’s
 Global Challenges Research Fund project collaborates with 3 non-HE organisations
 (Empowering Women of Nepal, Sattya Media Arts Collective, and Social Science Baha) to
 explore how visual storytelling, street art, and graphic narratives can raise awareness around
 GBV in Nepal. Salmi was mentored by English and by Drama’s People’s Palace Projects,
 receiving funding from the Global Policy Institute for a workshop in Rio. She then won a
 £152,000 British Academy Sustainable Development grant, and £19,900 from the Brazil
 Accelerator Fund (QM, FioCruz and FGV) for a related project on ‘Violence against Women:
 Health and Justice in the Complexo da Maré, Rio de Janeiro’, involving researchers and
 community partners in Brazil and the UK (postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic).

 3 other examples of QM English scholars leading disciplinary developments with strong impact
 beyond the academy are:

 Pathologies of Solitude. Taylor (English and History) leads a Wellcome-funded project
 (£860,670) investigating how historical understandings of solitude yield insights into this complex
 contemporary health challenge. A multidisciplinary research network of 125 participants from 57
 institutions, with 3 PDRAs at QM, has hosted a seminar series, 4 major colloquia, and numerous
 forums and workshops with distinguished visiting fellows and collaborating research projects. It
 has produced an 8-part podcast series, consulted on a major Radio4 series, and created a
 Covid-responsive blog series and archive of crowdsourced ‘solitude testimonies’. In collaboration
 with Ramayya (also an ECR), the project won additional funding of £21,192 for work on
 loneliness and migrant and refugee experience, in partnership with Praxis, a charitable
 organisation.

 Reading/Writing Multilingualism. Funded by £31,900 from the QM Access Agreement and QM
 Innovation funds, Gilmour led this 3-year literature and creative writing project in 2 schools in
 Tower Hamlets. Informed by research in contemporary literature, multilingualism, and the
 migrant histories of London's East End undertaken for her British Academy Mid-Career
 Fellowship (£114,799), Gilmour produced open-access teaching resources, project films, artwork
 and writing anthologies, which was shared online and through the National Association for the
 Teaching of English.

 Barrett’s research on commemoration of the First World War, supported by the SRI, uncovered
 a systematic failure of the British War Graves Commission’s principle of equality of treatment, in
 not individually commemorating African soldiers and carriers in East Africa. In 2019 her research
 formed the basis of a Channel 4 documentary, The Unremembered - Britain's Forgotten War


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heroes, presented by David Lammy MP. The research and film have produced a change in
 policy by the CWGC, who now actively seek to recognise the African war dead.

 4.2 Relationships with Key Research Users and Beneficiaries
 Members of staff share their research expertise as trustees and advisory board members with
 cultural organisations such as the Rationalist Association (Hobson); the Foundling Museum, the
 Rimbaud and Verlaine Society, and Poet in the City (Reynolds); Beyt el Kottab, the Beirut
 Writers’ House (Brady); and the Bordeaux Municipal Library Scientific Committee (Boutcher)
 responsible for entering the Bordeaux copy of Montaigne’s Essais on the UNESCO World
 Heritage register. Nasta was a member of the Advisory Steering Board for the British Library
 Windrush exhibition ‘Songs in a Strange Land’ (2018), and ‘Get Up, Stand Up Now’ at Somerset
 House (2019). Valman is a member of the advisory board for the Heritage Lottery Funded
 project ‘House of Life’, which opened the Willesden Jewish Cemetery in 2020 as a space for
 education and reflection.

 QM English encourages and supports research collaborations with galleries and museums, to
 develop new interdisciplinary methodologies that shape programming, curation, and public
 understanding. Museums and other cultural institutions benefit in turn from new ways to
 understand their assets and to attract new audiences. Collaborations include: Clemit with the
 V&A and the Maryland Institute for Technology in the Humanities to make key manuscripts of
 William Godwin available to the public; Dillon with the Tate as curator of Ruin Lust (2014); and
 Flanery with SMAC Gallery in South Africa to produce catalogues and films; Brotton with the
 Biblioteca Nacional in Madrid (2017). The QM History of Tea project (Coulton, Ellis, Mauger)
 worked with Compton Verney Art Gallery on their major summer exhibition in 2019, A Tea
 Journey. Duff led 3 international symposia in Paris and London, including Romanticism at the
 Royal Institution (2019). Howarth hosted a series at the LRB Bookshop in collaboration with the
 New York 92nd Street Y. Reynolds shares her expertise with The Metropolitan Opera,
 Glyndebourne, Opera North, and the Royal Opera House. Maxwell acted as historical advisor for
 the independent film Sea Without Shore. Coulton secured $22,000 for ‘Picturing the Flora of
 China’, a research collaboration with the British Library and Natural History Museum which
 digitised paintings and manuscripts, commissioned Chinese translations, and held a workshop.

 Several projects resulted directly from seed-funding from the HSS Collaboration Fund. Raymond
 was Co-I on ‘Contemporary Narratives Lab’, in collaboration with QM Drama, the Financial
 Times, and Battersea Arts Centre. The project explored how new technologies change
 journalists’ and artists’ investigative and storytelling practices, and culminated in a series of
 performances at BAC. Valman’s ‘Point of Arrival’ project studied Tower Wharf as a point of
 arrival for immigrants to London in the nineteenth century, resulting in an academic article and,
 with the artist Karen Crosby, an event in 2019 with wall projections using materials from the
 Tower archives. Whitehouse was Co-I on the award-winning permanent exhibition at the Ragged
 School Museum, ‘Ragged Children, Mended Lives?’ (2015). She also developed a methodology
 with Codasign creative technologies company for child-led historical investigation. The resulting
 Making Friends project hosted Idea Forum sessions with professionals in museum and gallery
 curation and education, policy, education, outreach, and arts administration.

 4.3 Research Networks
 QM English has made a wide range of contributions to the national and international
 infrastructure of the discipline over the REF period. Staff with leading roles on major research
 networks include: Ahnert (LWM); Boutcher (Histories: Assessing the role of the Aesthetic in the
 Historical Paradigm, Danish Velux Foundation); Currie (The Alea Project); Hiatt (Cartography

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between Europe and the Islamic World 1100-1600, Leverhulme); McCracken (New Modernist
 Editing, AHRC), and Raymond (International News Networks in Early Modern Europe,
 Leverhulme). McCracken organises the London-Paris Modernism network, which facilitates
 collaboration between the British Association of Modernist Studies and the Société d’études
 modernistes. With funding from the SRI, the network hosted events in London and Paris, which
 led to 2 special issues and a collection of essays. Ramayya is co-organiser of Race & Poetry &
 Poetics in the UK, a network which since its foundation in 2016 has hosted conferences,
 readings, and public workshops. The RAPAPUK conference in Cambridge in 2019 led to the
 establishment of the Scottish BAME Writers Network, who won a Creative Edinburgh award.
 Rubery is Partner on ‘The SpokenWeb: Conceiving and Creating a Nationally Networked
 Archive of Literary Recordings for Research and Teaching’, Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council, and Associate Partner on ‘READ-IT: Reading Europe Advanced Data
 Investigation Tool’, European Union Joint Programming Initiative in Cultural Heritage and Global
 Chance. Shiach is a member of the advisory board for ‘Literary Knowledge (1890-1950):
 Modernism and the Sciences in Europe’, an initiative of the MDRN research lab of the University
 of Leuven; of the Advisory Board for the AHRC-funded project ‘Understanding and Supporting
 Creative Economies in Africa: Education, Networks and Policy’ (2017-18); and served as Chair
 of the Irish Humanities Alliance Review Group (2017-18). Shiach has also led on Faculty-level
 strategic research relationships with Renmin, Sichuan and Beijing Foreign Studies Universities.

 The Department also sustains formal collaborations with the Universities of Oxford, Birmingham,
 Leuven, Waterloo, Humboldt University, Aix-Marseille, and the Sorbonne.

 4.4 Sustainability of the Discipline
 In their efforts to encourage interdisciplinary exchange and to contribute to the flourishing of new
 ideas in English studies, QM English researchers have organised 32 conferences and colloquia.
 12 were hosted at QM, including ‘Arthur Morrison and the East End’ (2013), ‘Tudor Networks of
 Power’ (2017), ‘Researching and Teaching New Media’ (2017), ‘Race at the Juncture’ (2018),
 ‘The Heresy Conference’ (2018), and ‘Reimagining Britain’ (2019). Others were held at the
 Whitechapel Gallery (2017), Linnean Society (2018), and the Royal Institution (2019). QM
 English researchers organised major conferences for disciplinary societies, including the British
 Association for Contemporary Literary Studies (Dinnen, 2018) and the British Association for
 Modernist Studies International Conference (Hobson, 2014 and 2019). Several involved
 international collaborations, including ‘Innovation and Co-Creation’ (São Paulo, 2017), ‘Creative
 Economy Networks: Research, Policy, and Exchange’ (Shiach, QM 2018, collaboration with
 PPP, British Council Brazil, and Creative Wick), and ‘Brut in New Troy’ (Rajsic, 2020, Notre
 Dame London, $18,700 funding). Nasta held a symposium at the University of Münster (€18,000
 funding) for contributors to Cambridge History of Black and Asian British Writing (2016).

 Research Seminars organised by QM English include Medieval and Early Modern Texts and
 Contexts (Atkin, Boffey, Hiatt, Rajsic), the Postcolonial Seminar (Ahmed, Atia, Salmi), and
 Eighteenth-Century Studies (Duff, Ellis, Bowers). Researchers also run cross-institutional
 seminars such as the IHR/IES/Warburg History of Libraries seminar (Rivers), the Media History
 Seminar (Rubery), the Modernism seminar (Hobson, McCracken), and the London-Paris
 Romanticism Seminar (Duff).

 Our investment in the next generation of English studies researchers also leads us to examine
 doctorates for other institutions in the UK and Europe, at the universities of Aberdeen, Bergen,
 Copenhagen, Pisa, Bath Spa, Birmingham, Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Exeter, Glasgow,
 Keele, Kent, Leicester, Leeds, Oxford, Manchester, Newcastle, Nottingham, Open University,

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Roehampton, Southampton, Sheffield, Sussex, Warwick, Ulster, York, and across the University
 of London.

 QM English researchers have also helped to shape the discipline through participation in
 appointment committees, promotion and tenure reviews at Boulder, Birkbeck, Cambridge,
 Deakin (Australia), Edinburgh, Georgetown, Glasgow, Harvard, Kingston, Leeds, Leuven,
 Lingnan (Hong Kong), Manchester, Maryland College Park, Minnesota, Münster, Oxford, North
 Carolina Chapel Hill, NC State, SUNY Albany, SUNY Stony Brook, Sussex, Rice, Warwick,
 Washington State, Westminster, and Wesleyan.

 4.5 Grants committees, Research Council and Other Committee Memberships
 Collaboration and contribution to the research base also arise from the School’s role in
 national and international networks of research councils. Researchers lend their expertise to
 the Carnegie Trust (Ahmed), the Alan Turing Institute and the Austrian Academy of Sciences
 (Ahnert), the Early English Text Society (Boffey), the Dutch Research Council (Boutcher), the
 Belgian Fund for Scientific Research (Brady), the British Association of Contemporary
 Literary Studies (Dinnen, Marsh), the Australian Research Council (Ellis), Postcolonial
 Studies Association (Gilmour), the Royal Society for Literature Council (Nasta), the Comité
 Scientifique d’Etudes Epistémè (Raymond), the Royal Society for the Encouragement of
 Arts, Manufacturing and Commerce, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada (Rudy), the British Academy’s Committee for International Engagement
 (Salmi), the University of Oxford’s Research and Innovation Committee (Shiach), the
 National Research Foundation of South Africa (van der Vlies), and the AHRC Peer Review
 College (Ahmed, Brady, Preston, Rivers, and Tilley). Boffey served as President of the
 Society for Study of Medieval Language and Literature. Hobson was Chair of the British
 Association of Modernism (2016-18) and is a member of its executive committee. Duff is
 Chair of the Common English Forum and Deputy Chair and Trustee of the English
 Association. Taylor is a Founding Scholar at the British Psychoanalytic Council.

 4.6. Editorial Positions and Reviewing
 QM English has encouraged staff to fulfil editorial positions for academic journals and
 publishers, facilitating the development of new knowledge and setting agendas in the discipline.
 Staff serve on the editorial boards of 17 peer-reviewed academic journals. Gilmour is editor of
 Journal of Commonwealth Literature. McCracken is editor of Pilgrimages: The Journal of
 Dorothy Richardson Studies. Valman was editor of Jewish Culture and History. Staff have
 refereed for 70 journals in the discipline, and assessed manuscripts for more than 20 publishers
 including Cambridge, Columbia, Duke, Oxford, Stanford, and Yale.

 4.7 Prizes and Awards
 Since 2014, colleagues have won 6 book prizes and awards: Waterstones non-fiction book of
 the year and Historical Writer’s Association Prize for Non-Fiction (Brotton); British Association of
 Contemporary Literary Studies (Dinnen); the London Hellenic prize (Hughes; Country was also
 shortlisted for the EU Prize for Literature); European Society for the Study of English (Maxwell);
 British Society for Literature and Science (Preston); Association for Recorded Sound Award of
 Excellence (Rubery).

 2 QM English researchers received outstanding lifetime achievement awards during this period.
 Clemit was given the Keats-Shelley Association of America Distinguished Scholar Award for
 2016. In 2019, Nasta won the Royal Society of Literature’s Benson Medal in recognition of her
 contribution to literature.

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.8 Keynotes, Lectures, Conference Chair Roles
 Members of QM English have delivered hundreds of invited keynotes and plenary addresses to
 conferences and research colloquia. These include major international disciplinary conferences,
 such as the Modern Language Association, American Subject Associations, the International
 Society for the Study of Narrative, the Modernist Studies Association, the Association for the
 Study of Arts of the Present (including 36 papers by postgraduate students), and more specialist
 events.

 Staff are frequently invited to share their research in lectures at universities and literary festivals
 around the world. As well as UK institutions, staff have lectured in Europe (Aix, Bamberg,
 Belgrade, Bergen, Berlin, Bern, Coimbra, Cologne, Copenhagen, Dublin, Frankfurt, Ghent,
 Gottingen, Greifswald, Hamburg, Krakow, Leuven, Lisbon, Mainz, Padua, Paris Sorbonne, Pisa,
 Prague, Tours, Trieste, Trondheim, Turku, Uppsala, Utrecht, Vienna, Warsaw), Middle East
 (Beirut, Israel Science Foundation), South America (Santiago, Valparaiso, Porto Alegre, Rio de
 Janeiro), North America (Berkeley, Boise, Boulder, Chicago, Columbus, Cornell, CUNY, Duke,
 Eastern Michigan, Folger Institute, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Louisville, Madison, New York,
 Notre Dame, Pittsburgh, Princeton, Trinidad, UCLA, Virginia, Wake Forest, Yale), Africa
 (Stellenbosch, Western Cape, Witwatersrand), Asia (Ahmedabad, Kathmandu, Shanghai,
 Tokyo), and Australia (Canberra).

 4.9 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
 QM English PGRs can access training (through LAHP) in languages, IT skills, academic
 seminars, and placement opportunities with 32 cultural partners. They benefit from access to co-
 supervision arrangements with colleagues in History and Modern Languages. The Art of Arts &
 Humanities research programme offers skills in public speaking, conferences, funding
 applications, publishing, academic and other careers. In collaboration with The 1752 Group and
 Farzana Khan, Atia and Dinnen delivered a 2-day workshop for PGRs on ‘Imbalances in Power:
 Classroom and supervision dynamics’ (2019), focussing on sexual misconduct and race as part
 of the power imbalances that doctoral students must negotiate as researchers, supervisees and
 teachers. Funded by an NEH (US) grant (value to the Folger: $170,000), Ahnert co-directed a
 two-week intensive institute at the Folger Shakespeare Library for 18 participants, entitled Early
 Modern Digital Agendas: Network Analyst (2017). She was invited to be an expert facilitator in
 the Getty Advanced Workshop, Network Analysis and Digital Art History in 2018.




                                                                                                 Page 20
