Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 Our unit supports research and practice in the full range of literary studies from Ancient Greek to
 contemporary literature and we foster a distinctive emphasis on the interface of creative and
 critical work. We are a vibrant body of award-winning poets, writers, and critics, including a
 substantial community of doctoral students, and we maintain a breadth of research unusual for a
 unit of medium size (32.5 FTE category A staff). Since a restructure in 2019 our unit contributes
 to the research agenda of the School of Humanities, and now includes researchers in Classics.
 This structural change also underpins our new strategic focus on the ‘engaged humanities’, that
 is, work that contributes to public life by addressing social, civic and ethical problems. Through
 our leadership of Research Centres in Victorian Studies, Poetic Research, Reception of Greece
 and Rome, with our collective commitment to supporting secondary education, and by
 generously resourcing curiosity-driven scholarly research we have developed new research
 strengths. These include the civic dimension of our work via community collaborations,
 partnerships with heritage organisations, and creative projects in the fields of health and
 wellbeing. We have expanded research and impact initiatives across educational sectors to
 support the future of the discipline of literary studies in partnership with secondary educators.
 New investment in posts in Digital Humanities and World Literatures forms part of our long-term
 commitment to disciplinary extension and contributes to a strategic emphasis across the College
 in digital innovation and internationalisation.

 With the explicit support of the College research strategy, we continue to sustain risk-taking
 lone-scholar research and writing that are key to our international reputation. Additionally, our
 diverse composition and chronological breadth provide opportunities to promote collaboration
 and exchange. As a result, we move across perceived boundaries of periods, disciplines and the
 creative-critical border. We have set up new mechanisms to develop expertise in collaborative
 grant applications and research project leadership. We are developing our capacity for
 interdisciplinary and challenge-led research by building on School peer review mechanisms and
 recent UKRI grant capture through a mid-career Research Incubator scheme. Recent projects
 such as ‘Group Identity and the Early Medieval Riddle Tradition’ and ‘Provincialism: Literature
 and the Cultural Politics of Middleness in Britain, 1800-1900’, were enriched by timely
 consultations between Early English specialist Neville and Centre for Victorian Studies staff on
 the instrumentality of literary genres in community formation. Major, common interests have
 emerged that characterise our Unit: literature as knowledge; literature and human rights;
 creativity and health; literary heritage and human flourishing; eco-poetics and formal responses
 to environmental/ existential crises.


 1.2 Research Structures
 Within the Unit we identify new areas of research shaped by individual risk-taking innovation as
 well as by broader institutional agendas. The Research Lead and Head of Department conduct
 annual research interviews with all Category A staff to track emerging projects. The outcomes of
 these conversations have fostered new collaborations, fed into our investment in partnerships for
 impact, and fuelled our research strategy for 2021-26. Three Research Centres are resourced
 by the School of Humanities: The Centre for the Reception of Greece and Rome, the Poetics
 Research Centre and the Centre for Victorian Studies. In line with the research strategy of the
 College, the Centres play a vital role in facilitating collaborative and interdisciplinary research, in
 securing ECR Fellowships, and in encouraging PGR recruitment, funding, and research culture.
 The Centres also foster key aspects of our public engagement and impact initiatives through
 public-facing programmes and partnerships with cultural organisations.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2019, the School of Humanities has brought advantages in scale, resource and
 interdisciplinarity, advancing collaboration and innovation. The School facilitates long-standing
 arrangements, such as contributions from English and Classics staff to the Holocaust Research
 Institute and the close collaboration in Medieval and Early Modern studies between History and
 English, further enhanced by a new joint post in Early Modern English and History. Colleagues
 also contribute to the College Humanities and Arts Research Institute, the Centre for Oratory
 and Rhetoric, the Centre for GeoHumanities and to the University of London’s School of
 Advanced Studies, in such areas as rhetoric, the visual arts, mobilities, place and heritage, and
 numerous research seminars. The School will foster new research outputs from shared
 interests, for example, between World Literature and translation, reception and adaptation
 studies with Languages, Literature and Culture (LLC).

 1.3 Research Objectives, 2014-2020
 Reviewing the objectives, as set out in REF 2014, we highlight our key achievements:

 i. To raise the proportion of our outputs in the world-class category
 A new internally resourced sabbatical system was introduced in 2015, providing leave for two
 out of twelve terms of service. This has had a transformative effect on completion of major
 research outputs. For this submission, 54% of our outputs are creative or critical monographs; in
 2014, they were 33%. Nine outputs have been awarded major international prizes, ranging from
 two James Tait Black Prizes (Markovits 2016; Williams 2018) to African Studies UK Fage &
 Oliver Prize (Ochiagha 2016).
 ii. To develop the subject at national and international level
 Through work with subject associations, secondary education providers, and national bodies we
 enhanced the future of the discipline. This includes Eaglestone’s leadership in the English
 Shared Futures initiative and Chomse’s work with the Roman Society. Our success in sustaining
 the vitality of our disciplines has been recognised by the election of five colleagues to
 Fellowships of the English Association (Varty 2014; Armstrong 2015; Eaglestone 2017; Livesey
 2020; Olsen 2020) and six colleagues as Fellows of the Royal Society of Literature (Greenlaw,
 Lalwani; Markovits; Roberts; Williams, Mohamed).
 iii. To enhance our research environment and ensure sustainability
 In addition to the new sabbatical system, consistent funding from the School for Research
 Centres and for individual research support and engagement has facilitated a sustainable
 environment. Enhancing the Research Centres led to growth in funded doctoral research and
 emerging success in postdoctoral research associateships, building the next generation of
 researchers.
 iv. To increase and diversify successful bids for external funding
 As well as securing three UKRI/ERC grants (Livesey (£199,552 2018 AHRC), Neville (Co-I
 £199,224 2019 AHRC); Duffy (£147,080 Marie Curie) and two Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowships in strategic priority areas (Matore £84,487 2018; Kirkby £93,000 2019) we have
 secured numerous smaller grants. We have developed initiatives such as Grant Incubator
 Workshops and are working towards more ambitious targets, drawing on the expertise of AHRC
 & UKRI FLF Peer Review College members Eaglestone, John, and Livesey.

 v. To be outward-looking by maintaining and building research partnerships across the
 University and with other HEIs and non-HEIs
 Partnerships around cities, tourism, urban renewal and literature for all have been cultivated,
 with joint exhibitions and events with the Dickens Museum, Nuneaton Museum and Art Gallery,
 and Poet in the City; Pope’s Grotto Preservation Trust; Ditchling Museum; and the Polish
 Cultural Institute. Our work supporting the future of the discipline of English at a time of falling ‘A’
 Level enrolment has been formulated in partnership with the English and Media Centre and
 Harris Schools Federation supporting the demands of recent curriculum reform. This success
 has led to our new strategic focus on the civic dimension of literary studies.

 vi. To maintain a dynamic research environment that involves and supports staff at all stages
 of their career as well as PGR students


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership of the AHRC techne Doctoral Training Partnership has transformed PGR research
 development since 2014. We have grown success in securing funded studentships with
 applicants mentored by Research Centre leads, developing supervisory teams pairing staff at
 different career stages, across disciplines and with Collaborative Doctoral Awards with external
 partners where appropriate. Techne funded research streams (‘Confluxes’) bring together
 doctoral students and staff in areas of common interest cross-cutting our Research Centres.

 1.4 Research and Impact Objectives 2021-26
 Through reviewing these objectives, and by integrating the College’s Core Principles of
 creativity, excellence, collaboration, fairness, and freedom we have identified ambitious new
 research objectives. These principles reflect the School’s emphasis on engaged humanities and
 intersect with College investment in research Catalyst fields, especially Catalyst 1: ‘Digital
 Futures in the Creative and Cultural Industries’ via a strand focused on democratising culture and
 heritage access and Catalyst 2: ‘Living Sustainably: Equal Opportunities in Education.’

 i. Develop the civic dimension of literary studies:
 We will support communities, heritage organisations, human rights and human flourishing
 through the work of writing and the critical evaluation of the past. A new emphasis in our
 research and impact will focus on co-creation and co-curation of literary heritage with end users.
 We will promote human rights through our creative and critical engagement.

 ii. Provide leadership to the discipline as it evolves:
 In addition to fostering the next generation of scholars through a critical mass of doctoral
 researchers, our Research Centres will be set objectives involving collaboration with secondary
 education partners. We will sustain the vitality of teaching literature through sharing our research
 on texts and contexts core to the secondary curriculum whilst continuing to advocate the
 diversification of that canon through our work with examination boards.

 iii. Build our research with support of grant income and UKRI awards:
 Our new mid-career Research Incubator scheme will foster grant development. Strong outline
 proposals will be awarded marking relief and mentoring by Peer Review College members over
 the summer. College investment in Research Catalysts will support individuals in fields well-
 matched to challenge-led grant calls, e.g. GCRF. Research Centres will be expected to develop
 at least one grant application a year.

 iv. Sustain a research culture that recognises and rewards the full range of literary
 scholarship and practice:
 Institutional commitment to blue-skies, curiosity-driven research ensures the vitality and
 sustainability of our individual research outputs. The School has also affirmed the continuation of
 internally-resourced two out of twelve-term sabbaticals after a hiatus in 2020-21 and the value of
 individual fellowships and prizes.

 v. Extend our strengths at the interface of critical scholarship, creative writing and
 practice-based research by investing in encounters between creative and critical practice and
 interdisciplinary collaborations in life sciences and health and well-being. Arts-based
 interventions will contribute to debates on sustainability and the climate emergency.

 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Research Centres support programmes beyond the single discipline, encouraged by the College
 funding structures. This has led to new research collaborations, led by academics in English,
 that introduced innovative approaches to research across the Humanities. Poetics Research
 Centre staff led ‘Nature and Other Forms of That Matter’, a project funded by the Humanities
 and Arts Research Institute (2016-17), that applied experimental writing techniques to address
 the crisis in our relationship with nature. The Centre for Victorian Studies collaborated with the
 Centre for GeoHumanities on the series ‘Provincialism at Large’ (2019). The Holocaust
 Research Institute brings together history, literary and language studies, film and media studies,
 philosophy and sociology to improve public understanding of the holocaust and genocide and to

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inform public policy. Significant outcomes include publications by Eaglestone (2014, 2017). A
 series of School-based workshops, ‘Interdisciplinary Encounters’, has aligned scholars in
 different disciplines working in Digital Humanities (Regan), on LGBTQ+ rights (Bussey-
 Chamberlain), exoticism in fashion (Ochiagha) and cultures of consumption (Hawley).

 1.5 Enabling impact
 The structures that support research also review, support and enable Impact. Impact and public
 engagement are integral to research activity and research design, and all research is assessed
 for potential pathways to impact. Our impact case studies are outcomes of a strategic focus on
 developing engaged humanities. They have, in turn, helped define our research and impact
 strategy for 2021-2026: 1) enhancing heritage through the civic dimensions of literature
 (‘Remembering the Victorians’); 2) disciplinary leadership beyond HEIs towards future
 sustainability (‘Curriculum Reform’); 3) promoting well-being and human flourishing through
 intersection of creative arts with health sciences (‘Shapcott’).

 ‘Curriculum Reform’ was supported by the College Research Strategy Fund and departmental
 resourcing for colleagues to serve on A Level examination boards. We resourced TeacherHub
 Forum, a steering group of teachers that identified pinch points in the curriculum and ways the
 Unit’s research could address them. Shapcott worked with medical practitioners at
 Addenbrookes and elsewhere to increase the understanding of the experience of sickness. At
 institutions such as Keats’ House and the National Gallery, she created new artistic works that
 reinterpret their collections. Shapcott’s case study was enriched by the outward-facing and
 engaged networks facilitated by our central London base in Bedford Square and the work of the
 Poetics Research Centre. For ‘Remembering the Victorians’, colleagues collaborated with
 museums to enhance heritage preservation and interpretation. ‘Remembering the Victorians’
 received support from the College Research Strategy Fund and the AHRC and represents a
 collaborative outcome of the Centre for Victorian Studies and its long-term engagement with
 civic museum partners, the National Productivity Investment Fund and heritage development via
 the Techne Doctoral Training Partnership. The case studies which originated in our Research
 Centres represents a successful outcome of the new emphasis on the embedding of pathways
 from research to impact within our structures.

 A Director of Impact oversees the achievement of these aims and collaborations. Impact as a
 priority is embedded through structures including Away Days and Annual Research Reviews and
 sabbatical applications. The School Director of External Engagement facilitates impact
 partnership development events by hosting ‘meet the partner’ events. Techne Doctoral Training
 Partner ‘hothouse’ events and initiatives focused on localised civic heritage partnerships have
 opened new collaborations. To incentivise impact, teaching buyout is available when pathways
 to impact are identified and applications to the College Research Strategy Fund are encouraged.
 The College provides a toolkit designed to record user feedback and footfall and uses public
 engagement and impact as criteria for promotion.

 1.6 Sustaining an open research environment and reproducibility of research
 The Unit has an active and robust Open Access policy, designed in collaboration with the
 College, which results in research being disseminated in a way that exceeds the requirements of
 REF2021. Colleagues are pioneers in using web platforms to disseminate research and
 interacting with non-academic audiences. Typical of the creative/critical interface in our
 research, Roberts blogs on both SciFi and Coleridge. Colleagues also serve as champions for
 the open dissemination of research through committee membership and advocacy for the Open
 Library of the Humanities (Eaglestone); MODSNET (Armstrong); and dynamic use of social
 media (Smith). Bennett’s edition of Piers Plowman A will be freely available on-line (North
 Carolina, SEENET). The digitization of Elizabeth Jesser Reid’s correspondence (McGettigan)
 will be on Open Access. Shapcott recorded numerous new poems for the free digital resource,
 Poetry Archive (2016), a major resource founded by Motion. The National Poetry Library
 purchased a copy of all works exhibited by staff and students of the Poetics Research Centre at
 the Small Publishers Fair (2019), available to visitors at the South Bank Centre, London. College
 strategy and structures for Open Access research are highlighted in regular briefings at research

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Away Days. All colleagues now deposit pre-publication copies of required items in the
 institutional repository.

 1.7 Research Ethics and Integrity
 Training in ethics is embedded in student and staff training supplied by the College. Research
 staff and PGR Supervisors are alerted by email to guidance and training on issues of research
 integrity to ensure compliance with the UUK 2012 Concordat. Colleagues sit on the College
 Research Ethics Committee and review requests for ethical approval. When working directly with
 patients in clinical settings, or with members of the public on sensitive subjects, Borodale has
 received ethical approval from Arts and Health trusts and bodies such as the BBC and Arts
 Council who have a rigorous procedures.

    2. People

 Research is a prime consideration in recruitment and staffing in the Unit and new appointments
 reflect and shape our strategy for 2021-26. With the departure of several senior staff since 2014
 we rebalanced our demographic profile and investment in the future of the discipline through
 recruiting early-career staff. We have a holistic approach to staffing reflected in the number of
 early career researchers who proceed through doctoral training or ECR Fellowships into
 permanent contracts in the Unit (Bussey-Chamberlain; McGettigan; Williams; Whitwham). Our
 research environment offers development opportunities for PGRs and staff across all career
 stages and fields of research and practice. All category A staff are on permanent contracts apart
 from externally funded postdoctoral fellows. Currently, 12 of the 32.5 FTE Category A staff are
 professors (6 women, 6 men). There are 5 Readers (3 women, 2 men), 10 Senior Lecturers (6
 women, 4 men), 8 Lecturers (5 women, 3 men) and two Leverhulme ECR Fellows (1 woman, 1
 man).

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Staff Recruitment
 The Annual Planning Round requires the HoD to make a case all new appointments in relation
 to the strategic research aim of the Unit in conjunction with College strategy of supporting world-
 leading research. We have invested in posts in innovative critical poetics with an interest in
 health humanities and wellbeing across career stages, to enrich our new strategic aims in this
 area (Greenlaw; Bussey-Chamberlain; Borodale) [Research Objective v]. Appointments in
 world literatures – both classical and contemporary - (Chomse; Ochiagha) build on the strong
 postcolonial work of novelists in the Unit, including new appointments (Mohamed, Lalwani)
 [Research Objective ii]. Appointments in digital humanities (McGettigan; Regan) mark an
 emerging research area for the UoA. Both McGettigan and Regan combine this innovative
 methodological expertise with strong historicist interests, enriching the Centre for Victorian
 Studies with new collaborative projects and heritage partnerships [Research Objective i].

 Staff Development
 The Unit provides incentives for research development and reviews these as the research
 landscape and the demographic alter. The generational shift in staffing profile since 2014 has
 been an opportunity to innovate support structures across all career stages. Recent Emerita and
 senior Professors are paired as research mentors to early and mid-career staff for smooth
 succession and a sustainable environment. New appointees are closely mentored during their
 probation. The Unit is guided by the institutional implementation of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. We strive for inclusivity in our research structures;
 transparency in our decision making around research support; annual reviews and advice on
 recognition and reward for research via promotions; the integration of research into all aspects of
 management of Departmental priorities.

 Supporting Early Career Researchers
 The Unit’s 2014 strategy focused on the production of world-leading outputs and has been
 facilitated by significant investment in probationary staff. New appointees have reduced teaching
 and administrative loads during probation and complete the College ‘Advance’ researcher

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development programme. ECRs have research mentors for the development of work in
 progress, book proposals and grant applications and to facilitate integration into our research
 community. Newman built on his experience as an ECR by establishing a College-wide peer
 mentoring network for ECR staff. On completing probation, six colleagues were awarded a two-
 term sabbatical to accelerate the next phase of their career development. Mentoring by the Unit
 Research Lead led to internal grant capture from the College Research Strategy Fund and
 College Humanities and Arts Research Institute in addition to external grant success in
 international fellowships (McGettigan 2019 £1,000 British Association for American Studies;
 Newman 2019 Harry Ransom Center Research Fellowship in the Humanities $2500; Pierpan
 ‘Serial Eyes’ (Deutsche Film- und Fernsehakademie Berlin) programme fellow, 2020). Chomse
 was given additional support to complete publications and mentored in grant writing via an early
 career grant writing initiative (Humanities and Arts Research Institute, 2019). To gain leadership
 experience, she worked with a senior Professor on organising a major international conference
 and public engagement project.

 The Unit’s focus on sustainable futures for our discipline led to a strategy to grow ECR
 Fellowships. Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Matore 2018, Kirkby 2019) are embedded in
 School research structures and receive the same support as probationary staff. Fellows are
 offered teaching and funded to complete Higher Education Association qualification (CAPITAL).
 Through the Humanities and Arts Research Institute and the Unit’s three Research Centres,
 fellows form an interdisciplinary network of early career scholars across our three participating
 Schools. Success in developing the research leadership potential of these ECRs can be noted in
 the appointment of Kirkby as co-lead of the Nineteenth-Century Studies Research Seminar at
 the Institute of English Studies and Matore as co-founder and Director of the new Philosophy
 and Literature seminar strand in the School of Humanities from 2020 onwards. Developing staff
 capacity for ECR mentorship is also part of our strategy. McGettigan transitioned from a
 Leverhulme fellowship to a permanent role in 2017 and joins Livesey in Kirkby’s mentoring team.

 We support the research development of Teaching Fellows and Non-Established Teaching staff
 by including them in formative initiatives. Feedback on proposals is offered to Teaching Fellows
 by the Unit Research Lead and Heads of Department. Since 2019, Non-Established Teaching
 Staff approaching the end of contracts are paired with senior staff to prepare a nomination for
 Honorary Research Associate affiliation with the Unit. This status offers access to resources and
 development for early career staff in precarious employment.

 Policies for research Sabbaticals
 Mentors work alongside structures designed to enable and reward curiosity-driven research and
 monograph completion: most notably the Unit’s role in piloting a generous two out of twelve-term
 sabbatical system from 2015. The Unit provides internal feedback on draft sabbatical
 applications prior to the School panel. School policy underlines the eligibility of proposals with a
 range of activities, including completing major outputs, designing new projects, and substantial
 impact programmes. Since 2019 colleagues returning from parental leave can apply for
 accelerated sabbatical.

 Recognition and Reward
 The Unit sustains and rewards staff development in mid to later career stages, in addition to our
 early career programmes. Annual Performance Development Reviews set objectives and
 identify training needs with a view to the reward and recognition criteria of the College
 promotions process. Annual Research Reviews consider 3–5-year plans for post-probation staff
 and identify opportunities to develop impact and secure additional support. These focussed
 conversations direct colleagues to internal seed-fund grants (Research Strategy Fund;
 Humanities and Arts Research Institute Fellowships) and inform the Head’s planning in relation
 to strategic marking reductions in the summer term. School research structures facilitate
 research spending beyond conference attendance (co-funded by College Organisational
 Development) to provide up to £600 pa for projects – including impact work - as part of a pivot
 away from strictly output-focused research development. The Unit has identified growing project
 leadership capacity as a new priority for staff development from 2019. In 2020, the Unit launched

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a new mid-career Research Incubator scheme This year-long programme trains post-
 probationary staff in grant writing and project design, drawing on the experience of Livesey and
 others in relation to UKRI leadership initiatives (AHRC, RLF; UKRI FLF). It will mesh with
 College programmes such as Women Advance, Mandela and Athena Swan to support career
 trajectories to further recognition and reward.

 The Unit’s strategic focus on disciplinary futures leads us to emphasise staff development in
 relation to doctoral supervision. Royal Holloway led the AHRC TECHNE Doctoral Training
 Partnership (2013-2018) and grew its funding and scale with the £18m technē DTP2 (2019-
 2024). This enhanced resource positions the Unit at the forefront of interdisciplinary research
 futures. The pivot to developing supervisory teams, pairing senior and ECR staff as well as staff
 with expertise in critical and creative pathways has been key to our success in creating a thriving
 environment for researcher development for supervisors and students. Supervisors also work
 with non-HEI collaborative Partner staff (Dickens Museum; Watts Gallery). As Associate Dean
 for the Doctoral School Livesey co-created a new termly College-wide Supervisor Expert Forum
 and Supervisor Training course sharing elements of best practice from the Unit.

 2.2 Research Students
 Recruitment
 Developing the future of the discipline with our PhD students is key to the implementation of our
 research strategy. Recruitment, training and supervision of PhD students has been transformed
 by Royal Holloway’s leadership of the TECHNE/technē AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership
 since 2013. Between 2014-2019 67 PhD students in the Unit received TECHNE AHRC
 scholarships or were designated TECHNE associates through College match-funded
 scholarships. This represents more than 60% of successful PhD completions in the Unit since
 2014. Diversity in recruitment has been a focus of Techne initiatives, in keeping with College EDI
 strategy. Unit PhD cohorts are around 60% White; 40% BAME/other and around 50% 34+ age:
 considerably more diverse than disciplinary norms nationally.

 Support and Monitoring
 Research students receive pastoral and academic support via their supervisors and advisors.
 The College provides additional support for well-being and addresses IT needs. The transition to
 new School structures has led to the recognition and adoption of the former English department
 developmental reviews for PGR students by all four departments. The programme of formal
 upgrade and annual reviews across two days every June, coupled with a Colloquium at which
 students can test their work was commended in the institutional PGR Annual Review as best
 practice (2014, 2019). All PGR students are entitled to up to £300 for expenses when presenting
 a conference paper in addition to any UKRI allowances. Additional funding is being offered to
 those whose research is affected by Covid-19, with College scholarships matching the extension
 provisions put in place by UKRI.

 Skills Development and Careers
 A training needs analysis is part of the upgrade and annual review process, attended by
 supervisor(s), advisor and PGR Lead. A programme of Research Skills Training is offered by the
 School of Humanities and complements a comprehensive generic programme in the Royal
 Holloway Doctoral School (founded in 2019). Practice-Based students attend the School-run
 Practice-Based workshops in which members of the unit play a leading role. Classics students
 take part in training events at the Institute of Classical Studies, on topics such as public
 engagement and the job application process. Classics students regularly present and run
 sessions at the national Classical Association conference. Two students ran a panel at the
 Congress of the Fédération internationale des associations d’études classiques and the
 Classical Association 2019, more than 1000 delegates). 34 PhD students in the Unit have
 completed the HEA accredited teaching training programme, inSTIL, since 2014 with 7 currently
 awaiting completion.

 Staff and doctoral students in the Unit co-create training offered through Techne: a consortium
 defined by a commitment to work at the creative/critical interface and projects with a strong

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emphasis on civic impact and human flourishing. Staff secured Doctoral Training Partnership
 funding for networks nurturing impact (John CVS Colloquium (2015)); heritage partnerships
 (Livesey Object in Focus (2014)); and civic questions of environmentalism and decolonisation
 (Olsen, How Like a Leaf (2018)); Chloe Osborne ( PhD commenced 2019; ‘Recording the
 Intangible’ 2020); offered specialist training to the consortium Congresses (Olsen, Publishing
 Practice-Based Research; Hampson, The Future of the Monograph); a series of ‘Exchange’
 events hosted by non-HEI partners for knowledge exchange and impact experience for doctoral
 students (Livesey, TECHNE deputy director, 2015-18). Students have secured international
 placements through the College exchange programme with Yale (Losasso, 2018; Moore, 2019);
 AHRC International Placements Scheme (Osborne, Huntington Library 2021); Fellowship at
 Delaware Art Museum (Reeve 2020); internship at the Peggy Guggenheim Collection (Losasso,
 2020); an International James Joyce Foundation scholarship was secured by a visually impaired
 PGR student (Morey, 2020).

 We attract a critical mass of PhD students to our Research Centres, building research
 leadership across career stages. Our structures support co-direction of Centres by staff and
 students. Doctoral students exploring avant-garde and interdisciplinary forms of art writing
 sustain the programming of the Poetics Research Centre. Student work is showcased at the
 Runnymede Festival and Small Publishers Fair in London each year. Since 2016, multiple
 events have been curated by current research students mentored by Poetics Research Centre
 staff (Praxis at Parasol Unit and Café Oto: Pomery; and Crested Tit Collective at the Poetry
 Society Café: Chong, Hughes). Current PhD student Rowe led the TECHNE-funded conference
 on Poetry and Science Fiction (2019). Our success in developing PhDs in Creative Writing is
 marked by several distinguished alumni (e.g. Perry 2013; O’Riordan 2017). The Centre for
 Victorian Studies has been co-directed by a PhD student each year since 2016 with funding via
 DTP stipend extension funding for researcher development. The annual residential London
 Victorian Studies Colloquium attracts PhD students from across the country and from countries
 such as Japan and Spain. The Colloquium offers training in research collections (V&A, National
 Archives), public engagement and impact. It is aimed at researcher development and community
 building in a more relaxed context than standard conferences. TECHNE funding has also been
 invested in training days for the London Victorian Studies Colloquium (£1000 in 2018, £1200 in
 2019) and the British Association for Modernist Studies (£200, 2018). This is in addition to
 funding secured from the British Association of Victorian Studies (£650, 2018)).

 Students associated with the Centre for the Reception of Greece Rome staged seminars and
 conference events, some in association with the Institute of Classical Studies. These include
 workshops on contemporary philosophers and the Classics (Turner and Kahane), Celts,
 Romans and Britons (Kaminski-Jones), Women Writing the Classics (MacDonald, Kaminski-
 Jones, Spentzou), Drawing on the Past (Van Broeck and Kamash). These all developed
 interests in Classical reception with particularly innovative engagements in Women Writing the
 Classics which brought together contemporary female authors who deploy Classical narratives
 or use historical fiction within their practice and Drawing on the Past focusing on comic books
 and graphic novels.

 Our success in developing PGR students is visible in their subsequent careers. Creative Writing
 graduates Robinson, Williams, Bussey-Chamberlain, Ramayya and Chan have published
 significant, prize-winning, collections and secured HEI roles (UEA, RHUL, Queen Mary, Oxford
 Brookes). Bulgin (2020) is Content Leader of the Holocaust Gallery at the Imperial War Museum.
 Edwards (2019) has a five-year fellowship at the Queen’s College, Oxford after a period as
 Research Coordinator at Shakespeare’s Globe. O’Gorman’s PhD was published by Palgrave
 Macmillan in 2015 and is Vice Chancellor Research Fellow in English Literature at Oxford
 Brookes. Sangster (2014) was appointed to a permanent lectureship at Glasgow (2016); Oliver
 (2017) at Liverpool, Clayton (2019) at Warwick and Chiba (2017) has secured a Leverhulme
 Fellowship at the Shakespeare Institute. The novel written by Taneja (2014) for her PhD has
 been published in four languages and adapted as a television series. PhD theses on modernism
 by Van Mierlo (2017), Periyan (2018) and Morsia (2020) have all appeared in Bloomsbury's
 Historicising Modernism series. Periyan's won the International Standing Conference for the

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History of Education first book award for 2019. PhD theses by Dale (2015) and Warren (2017)
 have been published by Brewer and Borowska by Edinburgh (2014).

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 A clear strategy backed by robust systems ensures that recruitment and promotion are
 underpinned by values of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). Since 2020, EDI has been a
 standing item on all School committee agendas to focus collective action across teaching,
 research and staffing. The College strives to go beyond the public sector duty placed upon us by
 the Equality Act 2010 and has devoted staff and resources to that end, including a Departmental
 BAME representative (Mohamed) and a School Equalities and Diversity Lead. Recruitment
 panel members and Heads of Department complete unconscious bias training. John was an
 Athena Swan mentor and was on the College’s Gender Pay Gap Working Group. Successive
 Heads of Department have been proactive in nominating colleagues for College-wide initiatives,
 such as the Women’s and the BAME Promotion Workshops (eight women participated in this
 scheme 2014-17), the Royal Holloway Stonewall Diversity Champion scheme and the Mandala
 Programme. Reports such as the Council of University Classics Departments investigation into
 diversity are discussed at Departmental meetings. The Unit also supports equality and diversity
 initiatives through the Women’s Classical Committee. Awareness and action on LBGTQ+ issues
 and their impact on staff development has been a more recent initiative, with staff attending Safe
 Space training and key projects led by Bussey-Chamberlain that work through from student
 experience to research collaborations on the subject. School initiatives on decolonisation and
 planned staff workshops (2020) on whiteness will facilitate deep reflection on the internalisation
 of privilege and how it operates across academic careers.

 Supporting career pathways
 The Unit has an open annual process around flexible working requests, supported by expert HR
 guidance. The Unit supports College-wide initiatives in relation to flexible working, career breaks,
 movement from full to part time and back and accelerated sabbatical in the aftermath of parental
 leave. Staff on parental leave make use of paid ‘Keep in Touch’ days for research and
 development activities; those returning from periods of absence can have a phased return to
 work. Colleagues have made extensive use of these provisions leading to an inclusive research
 culture.

 The impact of these policies, which are sustained through annual research interviews and the
 implementation of a transparent, School-wide workload model in 2016 is clear:

 • 3/5 of all internal promotions to Professor since 2014 were women female colleagues
 • 10/15 new appointees are female; 6/10 new ECR appointees are women
 • 3/6 new appointees made in 2018 are BAME

 As well as increasing ethnic diversity, English has achieved gender parity at professorial level.

 Enabling equal opportunities for promotion and enhancement
 The accessibility of mentoring, internal support for funding applications, and research leadership
 roles is ensured by the transparency of School and College structures and communication from
 Unit Research Leads and the School Director. All staff are introduced to these schemes through
 probation. The Unit’s research leadership activities are scheduled in Athena Swan hours and
 there is a sustained emphasis on valuing the quality of research and engagement, recognising
 that volume can be affected by ill health, disabilities, and caring responsibilities.

 Supporting wellbeing
 Ensuring staff and research student wellbeing is an even more urgent concern in 2020. The
 institution has invested extensively in student advisory and wellbeing and its services are well
 used and appreciated by PGR students. Regular sessions focusing on mental health during
 doctoral studies are offered by the Doctoral School. An employee assistance programme is
 offered by the College with referrals for counselling and other online resources. Heads of


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department work with named HR partners to ensure staff facing particular challenges can be
 guided to professional assessments, support and working adjustments requests.

 Equality and Diversity and the REF Submission
 Staff were advised that they could confidentially submit evidence of personal circumstances
 such as career breaks, caring responsibilities or disabilities that adversely affected their
 research. The unit subsequently received a substantial reduction in the size of the output pool.
 The process for selecting outputs for submission to the REF was conducted in accordance with
 the College’s Code of Practice as was acknowledged at meetings of the selection panel. The
 panel composed of senior members of the Unit, was gender-balanced and represented the
 different research areas in the Unit. Each item under consideration was read by two internal
 reviewers; external reviewers were brought in to adjudicate in the case of split scores or offer
 expert opinion in areas not represented by the panel. Quality of the output was the criteria of
 selection and this produced a balanced submission of 32 outputs by women and 31 by men, of
 whom six were by BAME colleagues.

        3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Strategy
 The strategy 2014-2020 was to capture income for the completion of significant outputs whilst
 growing expertise and leadership in UKRI grants. Colleagues secured 16 fellowship awards from
 international research institutions, libraries, learned societies and charitable trusts. This is in
 addition to £629800 awarded by UKRI, EU Marie Curie, British Academy and Leverhulme.
 Securing esteemed, short-term awards for the completion of major outputs sits alongside longer-
 term development in research project leadership. The organisational infrastructure of the College
 Research Strategy Fund supported pilot studies totalling £17,442 in the areas of heritage and
 disciplinary leadership leading to larger projects (‘Curriculum Reform’ ICS; Livesey £199,553
 AHRC ‘Provincialism’).

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure
 Research Centres in the Unit are internally resourced as catalysts for income generation.
 Strategic emphasis on creativity, well-being and human flourishing in the face of global
 challenges is led by the Poetics Research Centre in dialogue with critical projects. Olsen’s
 collaboration on the £12,000 AHRC Techne ‘How Like a Leaf’ environmental humanities project
 enabled her to win the DARE Art Prize 2020-21: a £15,000 multi-media commission working with
 Opera North, the National Science and Media Museum and the BioDar insect research
 programme. Markovits’s £20, 000 Eccles Centre Fellowship (2015), supported completion of his
 novel, A Weekend in New York, reflecting on families, (un)happiness and flourishing in America.
 Eaglestone secured funding to support work on contemporary literature, trauma and political
 crisis (Leverhulme £39,735) and enable collaboration with Maudsley Hospital. Fordham’s
 exploration of culture on the verge of a global war in 1939 was awarded £9195 by the British
 Academy.

 Income generation for collaborative research and impact projects with heritage and cultural
 partners is led by the Centre for Victorian Studies. In addition to John’s National Productivity
 Investment Fund award with the Dickens Museum (£176,586), the Centre’s focus on civic
 infrastructure was enriched by visiting professorships (Rainsford, BA £15375), Leverhulme ECF
 (Kirkby, £92,166) and Leadership Fellowship Livesey (AHRC £199,552). Shared expertise in
 heritage and impact enabled Neville to secure £199,222, Co-I, AHRC ‘Group Identity and the
 Medieval Riddle Tradition’.

 Interdisciplinary projects on the mobility and transmission of literature are the focus of the
 Centre for the Reception of Greece and Rome. Unit staff have secured income exploring
 disciplinary intersections across the Humanities. Eaglestone’s work with Duffy (Marie Curie
 Fellowship £147080) examines the Holocaust and Francophone literature; Matore’s
 ‘Contrapuntal Modernism’ (Harvard $3,500; Leverhulme £84,487) is a literary history of
 modernism, music, and technology. McGettigan’s £28,990 Leverhulme Fellowship on

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 transatlantic textual circulation has been followed by seedfunding of £1,000 from BAAS for a
 project on transatlantic children’s literatures informing the Curriculum Reform ICS.

 Our strategy to enhance the civic dimension of literary studies, through the work of writing
 and the critical evaluation of the past has been supported by organisational infrastructures and
 external fellowships. ‘Vote100 at Royal Holloway’, chaired by Hawley, funded innovative
 creative/critical public engagement for the anniversary of suffrage extension: Olsen/Livesey
 £4,000 and AHRC Research in Film best film nominee 2018; Varty, Emily’s Dream £2,100;
 Bussey-Chamberlain, Queer Archives, £600; Clayton, £2,450. Projects on migration, global
 literatures and human rights include Hampson (BA £3,199); Mohamed (ECR GCRF Seedfund,
 Red Sea Cultural Centre, Hargeisa £5,000), Lalwani (Leverhulme ‘You People’ £53,366).

 A strategic aim to support the full range of literary scholarship and practice is facilitated
 through mentoring and recognition for individual fellowships and grants: these include Hawley
 (Lewis Walpole Library 2017 £2,500); Newman (Folger 2018 $7500; Harry Ransom Research
 Center 2019 $2,500); Rankin (2016 £2,000); Mohamed (Society of Authors, 2019 £1600);
 Lalwani (Society of Authors 2019 £1,600); Williams (Society of Authors, 2017 £3,000). Income
 from collaborative projects with other HEIs include Rankin 2014-16 £15,000; Rankin 2016
 £20,000; Varty 2016 £2500. Smaller grants are recognised and rewarded in promotions
 structures as appropriate to our discipline.

 All staff applications for grants are supported by an internal peer review process led by the
 School Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange. Calls for funding schemes are circulated
 to all staff and opportunities such as postdocs on external email lists to encourage access to a
 diverse audience. Organisational structures including Annual Research Reviews, mentoring, the
 sharing of AHRC peer review expertise by PRC members Eaglestone, John, Livesey and the
 new two out of twelve-term sabbatical system provide formative opportunities to develop major
 research grant proposals. Our new mid-career Research Incubator scheme will incentivise timely
 completion of such applications.

 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 The Unit positions itself at the heart of the University of London whilst developing partnerships
 and collaborative spaces local to its Egham campus. Our identity in the University of London is
 integral to our research infrastructure, adding critical mass to the activities of colleagues in
 smaller research clusters. Colleagues organise core research seminars of the Institute of English
 Studies and School of Advanced Study at Senate House (Armstrong; Nall; Gilmartin; Hampson;
 Kirkby; Fordham), support its summer schools (Livesey) and lead high-impact public lecture
 series (Lalwani, The Liberty Lectures, IES). The English Department, in turn, provides £9000 a
 year towards IES activities. The Classics Department contributes to running national hub, the
 Institute of Classical Studies, supplying leadership in public engagement initiatives, in Classical
 Reception and organising the Classical literature seminar (Lowe). We support a London
 research environment through Royal Holloway’s Bloomsbury Campus with hot-desking and
 meeting rooms in the refurbished Bedford Square building and free, bookable seminar rooms in
 Senate House, available to staff and PGR students alike. These facilities enable us to host
 events for a wider and more diverse public and connect us with metropolitan creative industries,
 heritage and business partners via initiatives such as the techne ‘Hothouse’ events with major
 cultural partners.

 Developments on the Egham campus include the Boilerhouse Auditorium (2014), the first space
 on campus tailored for performance which supports Practice Based Research. An investment of
 £57m in The Emily Wilding Davison library (2017) resulted in a major enhancement of research
 collection access, including the college archives. It also offers PGR students dedicated spaces
 for individual and group work, plus exhibition space for public engagement activities and a new
 exhibition space. Staff and PGR students in the Unit have co-created significant works with
 archival and curatorial staff since College invested in a new Curator and exhibitions assistant for
 the Victorian Picture Gallery (2013; 2017) which hosts events with the Centre for Victorian
 Studies. A more fully developed interdisciplinary Doctoral School was launched in 2019.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research is further facilitated by dedicated liaison librarian support, a significant investment in
 electronic library resources and a departmental library budget of £67000 which gives ease of
 access to a wealth of databases and e-journals. This investment in electronic resources
 supports our expansion into digital humanities.

 Our facilities offer a flexible multi-site approach to research and impact development.
 Interdisciplinary collaborations between the Centre for Victorian Studies and the Centre for
 GeoHumanities combined public lectures in the Picture Gallery and collaboration with the
 Geography Department’s Landscape Surgery seminar in Bedford Square. The CVS and the
 London Screenwriting Seminar, directed by the Media Arts Department, also ran a joint event in
 Bedford Square. The Poetics Research Centre sustains collaborations through events based
 initially at the Centre for Creative Collaboration at Acton Street (PolyPly 2014-16) and latterly at
 arts venues across London (e.g. Parasol Unit Foundation, Café Oto (Praxis, 2016-18)).

 3.4 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit ensures opportunities for income for research and impact are shared with all staff.
 Internal funding is allocated through a competitive but transparent process of peer review. New
 initiatives, such as the mid-career incubator, are designed to demystify UKRI process and
 establish a formal process for internal allocation of strategic marking relief. School Research
 Committee includes EDI as a standing agenda item to reflect on its own processes. Expertise
 around unconscious bias and safeguarding peer review is a new focus for staff development
 within the School. Internal funding is available to support accessibility of research resources for
 staff with physical disabilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 To further its engagement with academics, stakeholders and diverse audiences, the Unit has
 developed collaborative partnerships, contributed to public debate on urgent concerns, served
 on bodies that maintain academic excellence and significant public engagement in the media in
 order to deliver our objectives of putting world-class research to work for the benefit of others.
 The contribution of our three Impact Case Studies on well-being, heritage and the sustainability
 of the discipline are supported and enhanced by the activities of our Research Centres. Our
 strategy is to seek engagement with a range of partners to enhance the civic dimension of our
 work and to provide leadership to the discipline as it evolves in new and diverse ways. As a
 consequence, our staff and research students enjoy national and international recognition for
 their academic leadership, wider disciplinary engagement and public service through trusteeship
 and committee membership.

 4.1 Relationships with research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 The Unit develops the School ‘engaged humanities’ strategy through diverse partnerships,
 bringing the benefits of research and practice to civic society in the sphere of human rights.
 This has been strengthened by recent appointments (Bussey-Chamberlain, Mohamed, Lalwani,
 Williams). Colleagues have promoted civil rights, social justice and free speech through active
 membership of PEN (Markovits; Bussey-Chamberlain and Williams supported writers at risk
 around the world at PEN UK Festivals 2016, 2018). Colleagues support the rights of LGBTQ+
 communities around the world (Williams: Amnesty International Imprisoned Writers Series
 2018). As a trustee of the human rights organisation LIBERTY, Lalwani organises the annual
 Liberty lecture co-created by Royal Holloway and the Institute of English Studies. Genocide,
 trauma and forced migration have been addressed by Eaglestone, Hampson, Woolley and
 Mohamed. Eaglestone is an advisor to the Holocaust Education Trust and gives keynote
 lectures on the Holocaust and its legacy (e.g. University of Turku, Finland 2014; Holocaust
 Memorial Day, Teesside University 2018). Hampson participates in the Polish/British Belvedere
 Forum Network on shared cultural pasts and political futures (Foreign Office, 2018; Warsaw
 Castle 2019). Mohamed uses creative writing to give voice to migrants and survivors (Hayaat
 Women Trust/ Butetown Arts and History Centre: Writing Our Lives’, 2014). She collaborates
 with the Red Sea Cultural Centre in Hargeisa, Somaliland, leading workshops for writers from


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Somaliland, Kenya, Rwanda and Nigeria (2014, 2017, 2019). Roberts has inspired prisoners to
 write at HMP Erlestoke (2017) and HMP Grendon, awarding its ‘reading challenge’ (2014).

 4.2 Contributions to the economy and society
 Our shared work on creativity and human flourishing shapes public debate around health
 and wellbeing. Collaborations with medical professionals brings the insights of the arts and
 humanities to bear on the practice of medicine. Eaglestone led a book group on Hannah Arendt
 at the Maudsley Hospital (2018) and taught Heidegger’s Being and Time to psychiatrists (2017,
 2018, 2019). Varty developed a research network on the legacy of William Hunter’s Human
 Gravid Uterus (1774) with Susan Bruce (Keele), supported by the Research Strategy Fund
 (2016). Shapcott and Greenlaw help to shape the agenda of Medical Humanities. As founding
 Patron and Advisory Board Member of Medicine Unboxed, an organisation which promotes the
 understanding of medicine through the arts and humanities, Shapcott organised and participated
 in events on poetry and medicine (2010-17). Both Greenlaw and Williams have appeared at
 events run by Medicine Unboxed (2016, 2018). Greenlaw not only responds to medicine and
 science, her work has also been presented to front-line NHS staff. Her short film about
 dementia, The Sea is an Edge and an Ending, was shown at medical and neuroscience
 conferences (2016-17) and used by Hackney Dementia Services as a training aid. The concept
 of ‘dark listening’, developed by Greenlaw as part of Audio Obscura commissioned by Artangel
 and Manchester International Festival (2011), is deployed in psychological research at the Open
 University into listening to child victims of abuse. Borodale has been appointed ‘guiding poet’ by
 Cambridge University Hospital Arts, working with Addenbrooke’s Hospital for project ‘Beyond the
 Mask’ responding to the experience of PPE (2020). Spentzou has developed a resource
 exploring the therapeutic narrative potential of myth: ‘Finding your voice with Eurydice’ is
 designed for work with silenced voices in schools. She works with Lively (University of Bristol) to
 use the myth to support medical professionals and sufferers of chronic illness to develop
 narrative practices and voice.


 Collaboration with cultural heritage partners to create new work has been led by the Poetics
 Research Centre and Centre for Victorian Studies. Olsen’s collaboration with Ditchling Museum
 of Arts and Craft resulted in new work co-produced by Olsen and PGT students in response to
 its collections. The Unit has collaborated with charity Poet in the City since 2015, bringing new
 audiences to poetry and literary heritage: Hawley on Pope, Twickenham 2015; Varty on
 women’s poetry of the First World War, London 2015; Montgomery on Frank O’Hara and music,
 Manchester and London 2016. Poet in the City commissioned new work by Greenlaw (2018)
 and by Shapcott (2017), who is a Patron of the organisation. In addition to work featured in the
 ICS, Livesey has collaborated with Writing West Midlands and writer in residence Anna
 Lawrence on new short stories responding to the 2019 George Eliot bicentenary.

 We contribute to the knowledge base and we support the economic sustainability of cultural
 organisations. Cultural and heritage organisations benefit from our engagement with local
 communities through our research. Hawley is a Trustee of Pope’s Grotto Preservation Trust
 (2016-) and helped secure Heritage Lottery Funding towards a c£500,000 restoration. New work
 on Grottoes was subsequently commissioned from Williams by Orleans House Gallery (2019).
 Greenlaw was a trustee and fellow of the Royal Society of Literature and Chair of the Fellowship
 and Awards Committee. Greenlaw was also artistic advisor to 14-18 Now, the government’s
 cultural programme commissioning art in response to the centenary of the First World War, that
 reached millions of people. As Co-I on the AHRC funded ‘Group Identity and the Early Medieval
 Riddle Tradition’ Neville will bring a fresh understanding of the Medieval period to a wider
 audience through an Open Access website and engagement with partners such as the National
 Trust and the Birmingham Museums Trust.

 4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Our aim to provide leadership to the discipline and sustain diverse literary futures is
 evident in work with key stakeholders at KS5, in Higher Education, and in the field of creative
 writing. Internal resource for TeacherHub>English since 2014 reflects our commitment to

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 building knowledge exchange with a network of English teachers. To date our 36 expert videos
 supporting the A Level curriculum have been viewed more than 79000 times. Colleagues work
 with A Level Examination Boards (Eaglestone, John, Ryan, Varty) and professional development
 organisations (NATE and English and Media Centre: Eaglestone and Varty; The Prince’s
 Teaching Institute: Hawley, John, Livesey, Varty; McGettigan). Eaglestone served on the
 advisory board of the University of London Institute of English Studies 2013-2018; Bussey-
 Chamberlain joined this board in 2018. Varty co-chaired the successful international campaign to
 save the IES 2014. Varty, John and Livesey served as External Assessors on Departmental
 Periodic Reviews and REF submission exercises across British universities supporting the
 national work of the discipline. Neville supports the breadth of the discipline by serving on the
 executive committee of Teachers of Old English in Britain and Ireland. Nall’s work with the
 Historical Association influences the teaching of Medieval history in schools. The regional
 Practice-Based Research network was co-produced by the Unit 2014-16 and Hampson served
 on the Foundational Steering Group Practice Research Advisory Group (2018-20). The creation
 and leadership of the Women’s Classical Committee has been one of the most significant
 contributions to the disciplinary base. Originating in the Classics Department’s work on gender
 studies, funded by Royal Holloway and by the Institute of Classical Studies, this interdisciplinary
 campaign explores broadening the curriculum, academic culture and intersectionality.

 The Unit sustains the future of the discipline through decisive work in international
 partnerships, consortia and networks. This service to the discipline is shared by all
 colleagues from medieval studies (Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for the
 History of Emotions, Europe 1100-1800, Nall) through early modern (MACMORRIS (Mapping
 Actors and Contexts: Modelling Research in Renaissance Ireland in the Sixteenth and
 Seventeenth Century: Rankin: Distinguished Visiting Scholar 2019); nineteenth-century
 (Dickens Universe, University of California, Santa Cruz (Livesey, John); Dickens Society of
 America (John: Trustee); H.G. Wells Society (Roberts: Vice President); British Association for
 Modernist Studies (Armstrong: Chair 2018-); to the contemporary: British Association for
 Contemporary Literary Studies (Eaglestone: Founding Chair 2016). Staff also play a part in
 leading interdisciplinary networks (RAPPT: Research in Amateur Performance and Private
 Theatricals: Hawley: Co-Founder and Co-Director); Forum for European Philosophy
 (Eaglestone: Executive Committee); British Association for American Studies (McGettigan:
 Executive Committee 2013-2018); Historical Fictions Research Network (Lowe); The Roman
 Society (Chomse: Executive Council 2019-).

 Our international perspective is enhanced by academic visitors, including Dr Helena Duffy
 (Uniwersytet Wrocławski, Poland 2016-17); Prof Ling Liu (Nankai University, Tianjin); Prof Qi
 Chen (SISU, Shanghai 2019); Prof Dominic Rainsford (Aarhus University, Denmark, 2018/19);
 Dr María Elena Jaime de Pablos (University of Almeria, Spain); The Poetics Research Centre
 regularly collaborates with the Contemporary Innovative Poetry Network, Paris. These ensure
 staff support world-wide academic exchange and debate.


 4.4 Contribution to the research base

 Staff peer review extensively and edit journals and book series: an essential contribution to
 the development of the research base. Editors include Bennett, Yearbook of Langland Studies,
 2012-2019; Livesey, Journal of Victorian Culture, 2009-2015; McGettigan, Symbiosis, YWES;
 Williams, Jungftak, 3am. Colleagues serve on journal editorial boards including Journal of
 Postcolonial Writing; 19: Interdisciplinary Studies in the Nineteenth-Century; Journal of Literature
 and Trauma Studies; European Journal of American Culture, Writing Technology;
 Victoriographies; Complutense Journal of English Studies; Modernist Networks; James Joyce
 Quarterly; New Formations; Conradiana. Staff influence the direction of research by editing book
 series including: Routledge Critical Thinkers; Edinburgh Critical Studies in Modernist Culture;
 Liverpool University Press Texts and Studies; Palgrave Modern and Contemporary Poetry and
 Poetics; Palgrave Studies in Mobility, Literature and Culture; Glyph SF Storyworlds; Boydell and
 Brewer: The Fifteenth Century; Cambridge Edition of Joseph Conrad; U Mass Press, Becoming

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Modern; Copy Press; Key Popular Women Writers; New Paths in Victorian Fiction and Culture;
 Modern and Contemporary Poetry and Poetics (Palgrave); The Penguin Edition of James Joyce.

 Staff offer research leadership to the discipline through contributions as peer reviewers and
 panellists for national and international funding bodies. Ochiagha works for the British
 Academy Visiting Fellowships Scheme. Eaglestone, John, Livesey and Varty are members of
 the AHRC Peer Review College, moderation panel members and chairs and recipients of gold
 standard awards for service. Livesey is a panellist and chair for the UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship scheme, supporting prospective applicants via AHRC town hall events. International
 review contributions include Australian Research Council (Hawley); National Science Centre,
 Poland (Hampson; Livesey); Marsden Fund, NZ (Eaglestone); European Science Foundation
 (Hampson), Ministry of Education, Romania (Fordham). Since 2014 colleagues have been
 responsible for examining c. 85 PhDs, shaping the next generation of scholars through advice
 on publication and career development and mentoring postdoctoral applications.

 To promote the highest standards of academic excellence across the diversity of the
 discipline as it evolves, we support numerous book prize competitions. Armstrong judged
 British Association for Modernist Studies and British Society for Literature and Science book
 prizes. John was Presiding Judge Robert Lowry Patten Book Prize 2016; Ochiaga was judge for
 the African Studies Association UK Fage and Oliver Prize 2018. Judging literary prizes is an
 important part of the contribution of our creative writers to the future of the discipline,
 guaranteeing the cultural capital of new writing on a global stage. Colleagues have judged over
 25 literary prizes, including the Koestler Trust writing prize (Cowie); Best Short Form TV Drama,
 Writers’ Guild Awards 2016 (Pierpan); The Kitschies (2018-2019 (Roberts); The Encore Prize
 2019 (Lalwani and Williams); Arvon (Williams); The Faber Academy (Williams); Griffin
 International Poetry Prize (Canada) 2014-20 (Shapcott); Keats-Shelley Prize 2017, 2018
 (Shapcott); The Folio Prize 2014 (Greenlaw); Listowel Poetry Prize (Ireland) 2016 (Greenlaw);
 Resurgence Poetry Prize 2017 (Greenlaw); The White Review Poetry Award 2018 (Greenlaw).

 By organising over thirty conferences, study days and public readings, we contribute to the
 development of the disciplines of Classics, English and Creative Writing. Beyond the
 regular programmes of our research centres, new research areas emerging through our events
 include a programme on the amateur and performance (Hawley 2014-16); field-changing
 interventions in the future of the discipline: English: Shared Futures (Eaglestone 2017, 2020);
 and a series on Violence and the Early Modern Stage (Rankin 2015-2017).

 Our reach and influence are indicated by over 55 keynote lectures, including in universities in
 Australia, Canada, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Japan, New
 Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and USA. Our Creative Writers have
 presented their work in Canada, Colombia, Croatia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland,
 India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lithuania, Norway, Peru, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Somaliland, Spain
 and USA.

 We use broadcast, print and online media as pathways to impact and have strong relations
 with key research users in the national media. Staff inform cultural debate via fBBC Radio 4
 flagship programming: ‘In Our Time’ (Eaglestone, Hawley, McGettigan, Bennett), ‘Front Row’
 (Greenlaw) and ‘Start the Week’ (Greenlaw, Hawley, John, Livesey). Hawley had a shaping
 influence on ‘Voices from the Old Bailey’ (BBC Radio 4), ‘The Invention of Free Speech’ (BBC
 Radio 4), ‘The Novels that Shaped our World’ (BBC 2 series), ‘The Making of Us’ (BBC 2 series)
 and Lucy Worsley’s documentary, ‘Jane Austen Behind Closed Doors’ (BBC 2). Smith writes on
 contemporary politics in print and on-line journals including Independent, City AM and Jacobin
 Magazine. Lowe has written extensively on Science Fiction (and the Classical) and has a long-
 running, award-winning film review column (‘Mutant Popcorn’) in Interzone. We also reach a
 wide public through initiatives such as the Runnymede International Literature Festival which
 since 2014 has been directed by Hampson and The Paper Stage – a public experiment in
 reading Renaissance Drama in locations across the UK and in Canada led by Newman.
 Fordham’s scholarship on Finnegans Wake engages diverse audiences including ‘Free Thinking

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Landmark’ (BBC Radio 3) and the Burning Man Festival (Nevada 2018). Our new focus on
 creativity and human flourishing to the benefit of civic society will give further direction to our
 contributions to the research base and our engagement with diverse beneficiaries and
 audiences as we look to build out from existing forms of cultural capital into emerging
 disciplinary forms.

 4.5 Covid-19 has decelerated our research activity. Sabbaticals for 2019-20 were postponed,
 conferences cancelled and archives closed. However, by embracing the digital, our research has
 been able to reach larger and more diverse audiences online. Highlights include ‘Reading Silas
 Marner in Lockdown’ (Livesey in collaboration with the ‘Exploring Eliot’ project team at Nuneaton
 Museum); public lecture series such as Twickenham Luminaries (Hawley in partnership with
 English Heritage and Pope’s Grotto Preservation Trust); Black Writers Series; English Shared
 Futures (Eaglestone).




                                                                                                 Page 16
