Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: AECC University College

 Unit of Assessment: 03 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 1.1.1 AECC University College as a Higher Education Institution
 AECC University College was designated as a Higher Education Funding Council for England
 funded institution in March 2016. Subsequently, in May 2016, we were awarded Taught Degree
 Awarding Powers (TDAP) admitting all new students to our own degrees from September 2017,
 the same year we received our University College title. AECC University College has not taken
 part in the Research Excellence Framework exercise at any time previously and is only
 submitting one Unit of Assessment. Elements of this submission necessarily therefore comprises
 a description of the University College research environment as a whole, comprising as they
 do, central components of the environment upon which the Unit of Assessment is
 predicated. Hence       the research    and     impact strategies articulated     here    are    at
 an institutional level where a new institutional focus of building institutional research capacity,
 activity and output is centred.

 AECC University College mission is A healthier society through education, research and clinical
 care which is underpinned by our institutional strategy. The institution is dedicated to excellence
 in education, clinical training, and research. We have a unique history and are proud of our
 heritage within the field of musculoskeletal healthcare noting our considerable recent investment
 in expanding our educational offering within the field of health sciences. AECC University College
 is a Specialist in Health Sciences institution and offers undergraduate and post graduate training
 in a number of Allied Health or registered health professions. The institution consists of three
 academic schools. These are the School of Radiology, the School of Psychology, Sport and
 Physical Activity and the School of Chiropractic. The University College currently offers seven
 undergraduate courses and 12 postgraduate courses, including pre-registration programs for
 health professionals. We also offer a range of continuing professional development courses to
 support healthcare professionals. In 2019-20 our total consolidated income was £9.16m with 202
 employees comprising 50 Academic staff and 96 Professional Staff. As of 2018-19 our total
 student numbers comprised 777 registered students.

 1.1.2 Institutional Strategy
 The institution has undergone considerable change since gaining its designated higher education
 institution status, where the focus on research activity, output, and funding has shifted
 significantly as we transitioned fully into our new position. We have recently (2017/18) expanded
 into 3 schools and appointed new executive level staff at Vice Chancellor (Professor Lesley Haig)
 and Deputy Vice Chancellor (Professor Kevin McGhee) who bring a renewed focus on building
 research activity and capacity building. From our institutional level strategy, we developed an
 internal Research Strategy (2018-2021), which focused on development of an institutional
 research culture. We envisaged that our research would broadly focus on addressing existing
 and emerging health challenges in our community and society at large and would seek to
 contribute to supporting better health for all. Such research would also serve to centrally inform
 and drive the programs of study we deliver. To do this we aimed to provide an infrastructure and
 culture that inspired and supported our faculty and students’ research aspirations and it was
 clear that to achieve this, growing research capacity was key and the efforts put in place to do
 this needed to range across multiple levels of the institution. Our 2018-21 institutional strategic
 review centres around two main strategic projects that were seen as drivers of the development
 of research staff and capacity. Firstly, a commitment from the institution to submit to the
 Research Excellence Framework for the first time. Secondly, focusing on supporting and
 upskilling individuals to become research active, provision of opportunities to collaborate with
 external institutions, creation of career progression pathways linked to research activity, and
 increased institutional funding to support research activity. To support research activity, in 2018
 the institution created three additional research groups to add to the existing Centre of

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biomechanics, to highlight, support and encourage the current research activity. The institution
 also developed research pathways for academic staff, and integration of research activity into
 the institutional workload model. Additionally, the open access institutional repository was
 developed to house research productivity, increasing the visibility and impact of research activity,
 enhancing the profile of research active staff.

 1.2 Structure
 1.2.1 Submitted staff
 In the REF reporting period 2013 to 2020, between 2013 and 2016 the institution lacked
 University College status and was effectively a monotechnic delivering training to a single health
 profession. As such, the majority of staff are focused on teaching, with scholarship to support the
 development of teaching. The nine staff included in the Unit of Assessment have a variety of
 teaching, research, management, and clinical roles within the institution. For example, MELLOR
 works as a superintendent radiographer and BREEN Ax is responsible for quantitative
 fluoroscopy and radiation protection. Of the submitted staff, seven staff teach on pre-registration
 courses and four staff teach on postgraduate courses. Staff also have leadership roles for the
 delivery of teaching including BELCHAMBER as course lead for the MSc Physiotherapy and
 HOLMES as Postgraduate Framework Lead for the School of Chiropractic. Staff also have
 responsibilities within our Senior Management Team with NEWELL as Director of Research and
 OSBORNE as Director of Clinic. The Unit of Assessment also includes two full Professors
 (BREEN A, NEWELL)

 1.2.2 Research centres
 We currently have a small group of 11 Category A submittable staff (9.9 full-time equivalent)
 active research academic staff within the institution. Only 9 individuals are included here as 2
 staff constituted a small additional Unit of Assessment which was excepted by REF from our
 submission. The individuals included here are associated with research activity that is formally
 constituted as four broad research centres, which consist of: Clinical and Applied Service
 Provision Research, Health, Exercise, and Sports Science Research, Biomechanics Research,
 and Health Professions Education Research. Each centre is a focus of defined research activity,
 with aspirations to foster and encourage staff, disseminate research findings, contribute towards
 knowledge exchange and the research environment, and assist in generating income. Each of
 these research centres has a convenor who is a contact for internal and external engagement
 with the centre who also provide a route for research productivity to be collated and to work with
 the Director of Research (NEWELL) for planning and strategy purposes. BREEN Ax, HOLMES
 and TAYLOR, have roles as convenors of the Centre for Biomechanics Research, Centre for
 Clinical and Applied Service Provision Research, and Centre for Health, Exercise, and Sports
 Science Research, and respectively.

 The two research centres which make up this Unit of Assessment are the Centre for Clinical and
 Applied Service Provision Research and Centre for Biomechanics Research. The Centre for
 Clinical and Applied Service Provision Research focuses on research to improve patient
 outcomes and delivery of health services. Research themes within this centre include: 1)
 developing and using patient-reported outcome measures within routine clinical practice, 2)
 understanding patient experience of illness, health services, and self-management, and 3)
 developing and evaluating health service delivery in specialist areas including paediatrics, pain
 management, and rehabilitation. The Centre for Biomechanics Research has expertise in
 medical physics and clinical biomechanics. Research themes within this centre include: 1)
 developing tools for the measurement and interpretation of dynamics and stresses in the
 musculoskeletal system, 2) conducting research into biomechanical measures for the diagnosis
 of musculoskeletal pain and disability, and 3) generating subject specific measures of inter joint
 biomechanics through quantitative imaging biomarkers.

 1.2.3 Research Governance
 Research activity, governance and support are the responsibility of the institutions Research and
 Innovation Committee which meets 3 times per annum and reports to the institutional Academic
 Board. The Research and Innovation Committee is chaired by the institutional Director of

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research (NEWELL), who reports to the Deputy Vice Chancellor. The Research Innovation
 Committee comprises a substantive proportion of the submitted staff in this UoA including
 convenors of three of the four research centres (HOLMES, TAYLOR, and BREEN AX),
 University College Professoriate (Including BREEN A and NEWELL), Head of Library and
 Learning Services, Executive Director of Finance, Director of Clinic (OSBORNE), and two
 student representatives. Together, this interdisciplinary team makes recommendations regarding
 research activity, productivity and governance, have oversight of research integrity, delegate
 authority of research ethics activity and oversee planning and delivery of researcher
 development training.

 The Research and Innovation Committee is responsible for the development and implementation
 of the Research Ethics Policy and Procedures, formally reports proceedings of the institutional
 research ethics subcommittee, and has oversight of all ethical approvals from staff, postgraduate
 taught students, and postgraduate research students. The Research and Innovation Committee
 is also responsible for the annual Research Integrity Statements reported annually to the
 University College Board of Governors as part of the University Colleges commitment to a
 research culture centred on integrity and ethics as articulated by the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity. In line with the principles of the concordant, the University College has a
 Research Misconduct Policy and Procedure, as a transparent and timely framework for dealing
 with any allegations of research misconduct by AECC University College staff and postgraduate
 research students. The Research and Innovation committee has responsibility for the oversight
 of the Open Access Policy. The University College is committed to an open research
 environment, making research freely accessible to all, improving dissemination and facilitating
 engagement with research. The University College has an open access institutional repository
 for staff to deposit their final peer-reviewed journal articles and also supports Gold Open Access
 (where the output is openly available on the publisher’s website) where appropriate funding is
 available to meet the costs of open access article processing charges. Although AECC University
 College has limited funding to support Gold Open Access, staff are encouraged to include article
 processing charges in their funding applications, even if it is not a prerequisite of the funder, to
 allow for publishing in open access journals.

 1.3 Research and impact strategy
 The AECC University College institutional strategy is currently being revised for the next five-
 year period. This will include the institution’s operational plan for research, centred around a core
 institutional theme of Discovering and Sharing knowledge which is part of a vision to deliver
 research in health and related fields of expertise of national and international importance. This
 strategy sets out the major considerations oriented toward achieving key goals that will underpin
 an institutional conversation regarding vision, goals, plans and resource implications for the
 consolidation, expansion and embedding of a generation of high-quality research within the
 institution. It is intended to act as a focus to ensure that research contributes centrally to AECC
 University College vision, voice, objectives, and institutional school plans. We intend to be an
 institution that works toward building a recognisable reputation for health focused high-quality
 research of national and international standing. This research would broadly focus on addressing
 existing and emerging health challenges in our community and society at large, inform student
 learning within the health sciences, and would seek to contribute to supporting better health for
 all. We envisage a number of key strategies to underpin this aspiration:
 • To support and develop existing staff to succeed and progress with research activity
      (currently ongoing, through an overview of workload modelling, and development of new
      academic framework),
 • To develop further capacity of research active staff, through recruiting and retaining
      individuals with high research expertise and skills, and provide advanced training for staff on
      research methods, research skills, and research development.
 • To develop and validate an AECC University College PhD program in partnership with
      another University (currently ongoing in discussion with a local University), working towards
      Research Degree Awarding Powers.
 • To construct and validate an AECC University College Masters of Research (MRes)
      framework in line with the three academic Schools.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   To continue to conduct and publish high quality research in our areas of expertise, supporting
     research active staff in obtaining external research funding, and generate research that has
     national and international impact.
 • To support the implementation of research into practice by committing to open access
     publishing, disseminating research at external events, and communicating to our
     collaborative networks via our website, newsletters, events.
 • To develop our collaborative networks by improving our working partnerships and
     collaboration with external partners and networks (both locally, nationally, and
     internationally).
 2. People

 2.1 Staff
 2.1.1 Staffing strategy
 In line with the Research Strategy, the institution has focused on two strategies for staffing
 research activity. The first is to provide support for applications of research active individuals and
 the second is to support current staff with their research activity. As noted previously, until 2016
 the institution focused on education of a single health profession with predominance of staff
 recruitment being focused on teaching. However, since gaining our University College title, we
 are progressing toward more explicitly supporting research activity as part of our recruitment
 expectations. During the assessment period, three new lecturers with significant research
 experience associated with this Unit of Assessment were recruited: HOLMES, MELLOR, DU
 ROSE and BELCHAMBER. To support current staff with their research activity, in 2018, two
 broad categories of research responsibility were added to the AECC University College workload
 model: Research Responsibility (RR) and Developing Research Responsibility (DRR). The
 workload model identifies activities normally undertaken by academic staff and agrees a time
 allocation to each activity. These two categories were designed to formalise a recognition and
 investment in individuals’ research, based on prior achievements, through apportioning defined
 research time in the institutions’ workload model. Academic staff who wish to apply for
 categorisation do so in their annual appraisal documentation, which is then discussed with their
 line manager in their annual appraisal. The Research Responsibility pathway is for academic
 staff engaged in independent research activity, including the planning, delivery and
 dissemination of research. The Developing Research Responsibility pathway supports staff who
 are at a more nascent stage of their research activity and wish to engage more formally. This
 pathway specifically supports an ongoing strategy to build research capacity. Further, in 2018,
 NEWELL was promoted to Professor of Integrated Musculoskeletal Care

 2.1.2 Commitment to equality and diversity
 AECC University College is fully committed to having a diverse and inclusive culture which offers
 equality and opportunity for all as laid out in the institution’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Policy. The Chair of all interview panels must have completed the University College’s
 Recruitment and Selection training and Unconscious Bias Training. We encourage effective
 annual appraisal to ensure that staff are supported, and opportunities for mentorship, training
 and promotion are identified. In 2019-2020 100% of University College academic staff had an
 appraisal. All line managers involved in appraisals receive training in the principles of equal
 opportunity in employment, acknowledging the effect that circumstances can have on individual
 researcher productivity, and ensuring that individuals do not receive less favourable treatment
 on the grounds of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy
 and maternity, race, religion or belief, or sex and sexual orientation. As of the HESA return 2020,
 there were 53 academic staff, with 53% male, 94% white, mean age = 47 (28-76). The submitted
 staff are reflective of the wider pool of category A eligible staff, with 56% male, 88% white, mean
 age = 50 (30-76). The Senior Management Group is responsible for annually reviewing staff
 employment data on recruitment, pay, and training to monitor equality and diversity within staff.

 2.1.3 Staff development
 Many of the institution’s category A eligible staff are practising professionals in their specialism
 (for example: chiropractors, physiotherapists, radiographers), providing an insight into current
 clinical practice and shaping their field of health science. As part of the work of the convenors

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and advised by the Research and Innovation Committee, BREEN Ax, has worked on creating a
 long-term plan for continual development and upskilling of staff in terms of research skills. As
 part of this, the committee are offering free internal and external driven workshops, webinars,
 resources, and mentorships. In discussion with their line manager, staff also have the opportunity
 to apply to attend continuing professional development courses to improve their skills in areas
 identified in their appraisal, in line with the strategy of the School and the institution. In the past,
 submitted staff have attended courses such as: Research Design Service Grant Writing
 Workshop, NCRM Research Methods Festival, and attendance at conferences for staff
 development. Further, AECC University College allows for staff to apply for support to complete
 award-bearing courses.

 As an institution, AECC University College has engagement with several external bodies to
 support the professional development of our research active staff. In December 2020, AECC
 University College joined Vitae, a non-profit programme supporting the professional development
 of researchers, to access support and best practice for research active staff. Through Vitae, staff
 have access to support and training as part of the Vitae website. The University College is in the
 process of signing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 commits the University to the principals that underpin early researcher development particularly
 early career researchers. As part of this commitment the University College intends to apply for
 the HR Excellence in Research Award run by Vitae which will require an institutional gap analysis
 against the principals of the concordat and an action plan to address gaps. The University
 College is also a member of GuildHE Research, the research consortium for smaller and
 specialist higher education institutions. This organisation is a collegiate peer-to-peer network of
 30 comparable institutions that supports its members to embed a positive research culture,
 develop robust research and innovation strategies, and establish appropriate infrastructure
 through which they can drive forward their ambitions. It provides researchers of all stages with
 opportunities to network and collaborate with peers across the UK and from a broad range of
 disciplines, facilitating activities face-to-face and virtually, including an annual doctoral summer
 school, training events, and opportunities to forge new projects and communicate their research.
 Staff are encouraged to attend meetings held by GuildHE, and NEWELL and HOLMES have
 attended regular meetings since inception of membership in 2018.

 2.2 Students
 AECC University College are engaged in the process of seeking validation of a Post Graduate
 Research program as the first step toward Research Degree Awarding Powers through
 partnership with an existing Higher Education Institution who already hold Research Degree
 Awarding Powers. We are presently in negotiations with a local University (initiated in 2018) and
 aim to have validated a postgraduate research program by 2021/22 with the opportunity to start
 to build a post graduate research school. The University College is committed to research
 supervision, collaborating with other institutions to supervise postgraduate research students.
 Three submitted staff are currently supervising six postgraduate research students who are
 based at other institutions. NEWELL is supervising four students, two of whom are exploring the
 role of contextual factors in therapeutic encounters, one based at Bournemouth University and
 another at the University of Southampton. A further student at Southampton University is
 exploring the role of acupuncturists in supporting behavioural change of patients in relation to
 healthy living choices and one student is based at Teesside University, developing a postural
 measurement smartphone app. BREEN Ax is supervising a student exploring the biomechanical
 effects of spinal manipulation at Bournemouth University and DU ROSE is supervising a PhD
 student exploring the relationships between cognitive decline and spinal pain at the University of
 South Wales. Furthermore, since 2013, five submitted staff (NEWELL, BREEN A, BREEN Ax,
 OSBORNE, TAYLOR) have supervised ten students to completion at multiple UK HEIs including
 University of Portsmouth, Bournemouth University, University of Southampton and King’s
 College London. Additionally, staff act as expert advisors to external PhD projects and as
 external examiners for PhDs. For example, in 2020, BREEN Ax was involved in a collaborative
 research project and application for a travel grant from the Canadian Society of Biomechanics,
 for a PhD student from Memorial University Newfoundland to travel to AECC University College
 to collect and analyse data using quantitative fluoroscopy and motion capture. In addition,

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NEWELL and BREEN A have also externally examined a total of 12 PhDs with 7 of these
 internationally.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 Historically, being both a small specialised institution and one with a necessary focus on a single
 profession constituting its major undergraduate and post graduate activity, the reported research
 income reflects the size of the institution, the historical focus on vocational healthcare training,
 and the narrow scope of profession-based funding sources. However, recent changes have seen
 both an increase in scope and diversity of recruited research active staff and changes to develop
 research staff through defined internal research pathways as articulated elsewhere. We are as
 an institution at the beginning of a journey to expand and diversify our research expertise and
 culture and consequently we have demonstrated a modest income for research during the REF
 census period. However, AECC University College were only recently required to submit HESA
 returns in November 2018 covering the period 1st August 2017 – 31st July 2018, so a proportion
 of research income was generated prior to this date but still within REF2020 time frame.
 However, our forward-looking strategy is to build expertise in successful research funding as part
 of a refocused research culture and such outcomes will increasingly become embedded in broad
 expectations within the institution and are already explicit within the institutions new research
 pathways as articulated elsewhere.

 Notwithstanding, given the present absence of post graduate research training, the funding
 during the REF period was often highly collaborative around matched funded PhDs. Here, the
 AECC University College or other external funding bodies supported a proportion of the funding
 together with key Unit of Assessment staff providing supervision for PhDs registered at other
 HEIs. These included University of Southampton, NEWELL (2014) PhD Studentship £45,350;
 Teesside University, NEWELL (2015). PhD Studentship: £45,000; Bournemouth University,
 NEWELL (2017): PhD Studentship £48,000; Bournemouth University, BREEN A (2012) PhD
 studentship £44,706; Bournemouth University, BREEN A (2014) PhD studentship £44,709;
 Bournemouth University, BREEN A (2018))

 The two themes associated with the UoA around patient reported outcomes/service provision
 and imaging/biomechanics generated notable funding despite the small size of the institution.
 However, some of this funding despite being secured by academics at AECC University College
 funded projects within other HEIs as opposed to funds coming directly to the institution. This was
 reflective of the aforementioned collaborative culture pre our own University status, where
 aligning with other established HEIs, including embedding our own research initiatives within
 their environments, was a strategy to maximise our research impact pre our own emerging
 research capacity.

 In PROMs and related clinical service provision research, a large grant (NEWELL; 2016;
 £360,000) funded a project within the Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton and has
 to date supported a Senior Research Fellow, Research Fellow and PhD studentship registered
 at Southampton. This theme also underpinned the successful funding of a number of
 collaborative projects within aligned areas where funds were directly accrued to AECC University
 College including a collaboration with colleagues in the Netherlands, Australia, Canada and UK
 exploring clinical outcomes in seniors attending for chiropractic care (NEWELL; 2018; £13,484),
 the development of a UK based practice-based research network (HOLMES and NEWELL;
 2020; £24,735) and patient satisfaction and experience study in collaboration with the General
 Chiropractic Council (professional regulator) (NEWELL and HOLMES; 2020; £29,852)

 The UoA theme in imaging and biomechanics also generated funding including estimation of in
 vivo inter-vertebral stresses during bending motion (BREEN A; 2015; £40,344) and a
 collaborative project with the European Space Agency testing the Mk VI microgravity counter
 measure ‘Skinsuit’ (BREEN A; 2018/2019; £51,716)



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Outside of these themes UoA members have also generated income during the relevant time
 frame with MELLOR in 2020 awarded £9,847.03 from the Radiographers Industry Partnership
 Scheme (CoRIPS) for a program of work (STOPPAGE: STandardisation Of suPine Pelvic
 rAdioGraph tEchnique)

 3.2 Research support
 Going forward our strategies for increased success in successful research funding bids will be
 informed by our first REF exercise and a focus on a broader research funding body targeting as
 well as building process and policy absent our pre-University status. We have embarked on a
 process of understanding and curating financial expertise around research costings and have
 created an internal grant governance/monitoring process as well as initiating membership
 accounts on Joint Electronic Submission for UKRI funding applications (one grant in progress).
 We will instantiate a proactive stance to awareness of the collection of impact data going forward
 for the next REF cycle by providing internal workshops. The Director of Research has a budget
 which has provided seed funding/pump priming of small collaborative projects and funding for
 attendance at conferences to present research findings, if not supported by a research grant.

 3.3 Clinical facilities for specialist research
 The University College has been providing clinical services on site for many years and in 2008
 completed a purpose built 24 treatment room clinics on campus that provides care for over
 50,000 patient visits per year. This provides a rich clinical environment where we have been
 working to embed routine PROM collection in this clinic using Care Response, a web-based
 platform for collection and aggregating patient outcomes over the course of care. Recently (2020)
 we have been successful in a LEP bid (£2.7 million) to build a bespoke rehabilitation centre which
 aims to provide care for a wide range of patients (Cardiovascular, Stroke, Respiratory, Sport and
 Musculoskeletal). This facility will form part of the forward-looking research strategy around
 curating routine PROM collection and embedded clinical research in clinical facilities at AECC
 University College as a natural complement to both educational and clinical provision activity and
 underpinning our 3 mission aims.

 The University College also has a vibrant Ultra Sound department within the School of Radiology
 which provides care to around 6000 patients a year. In 2015 we invested £1.3M in an open,
 upright MRI scanner, which is used in research and also operates as a specialist NHS referral
 service that is widely accessed throughout the South of England as Bournemouth Open Upright
 MRI seeing around 1500 patients a year. This facility underpinned the funded research in
 collaboration with the European Space Agency evaluating the effects of a microgravity
 countermeasure skinsuit on the intervertebral disc. It has also been used in studies to determine
 the effects of intervertebral disc degeneration on the segmental stability of the spine in living
 subjects. Both studies were also supported by the Radiological Research Trust.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations

 4.1.1 National collaborations
 Submitted staff are involved in a significant number of national research collaborations across
 multiple HEIs and a range of projects.

 A recent project involving the AECC Universitas expertise in standing MRI imaging, the European
 Space Agency and Kings College London has explored an innovative skin suit designed to
 prevent spinal disc shrinkage in astronauts (BREEN A and BREEN Ax). This was funded for 2
 consecutive years. Quantitative fluoroscopy expertise developed here at the University College
 has also generated multiple collaborative projects around spinal motion and musculoskeletal
 control of movement in normal and spinal pain subjects. These include ongoing collaboration
 with Bournemouth University exploring the role of spinal manipulative therapy on changes in
 cervical motion segment interactions in patients with neck pain and Cardiff University looking at
 trunk muscle activation and thoraco-lumbar kinematics in non-specific chronic low back pain

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (BREEN A, BREEN Ax and Du ROSE) and a collaboration with Exeter University on estimation
 of in vivo inter-vertebral stress during motion using fluoroscopic and magnetic resonance imaging
 informed finite element models (BREEN A and BREEN Ax).

 Further significant collaborations include a 5-year funded program of work investigating models
 of delivery of manual based care for musculoskeletal pain within or aligned to the NHS in the
 University of Southampton, Faculty of Medicine (NEWELL). Other work in collaboration with
 Southampton included an ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Funding award for a combined
 MSc/PhD exploring contextual factors as predictors of outcomes in patients with low back pain
 undergoing chiropractic treatment (NEWELL), a doctoral studentship exploring the role of
 behavioural change amongst acupuncture practitioners (NEWELL) and the experience of back
 pain treatments, treatment decisions, and return to work (HOLMES)

 Additional collaborations included Keele University exploring the validity, reliability and
 responsiveness of the NHS recommended MSK HQ PROM in a chiropractic patient population
 (NEWELL), University of Teesside with the development of an app to measure posture
 (NEWELL), Solent University and Bournemouth University exploring strength training in Low
 Back Pain (OSBORNE) and pain perception and brain plasticity in chronic low back pain patients
 (NEWELL and OSBORNE). We also have collaborations with Bournemouth University looking
 at the effect of physical activity on menopausal symptoms (TAYLOR) and University of South
 Wales (DUROSE) exploring the relationships between cognitive decline and spinal pain

 Staff also have significant collaborations within the chiropractic profession. For example,
 NEWELL and HOLMES regularly work with clinical and other academic colleagues within both
 the chiropractic and osteopathic professions. NEWELL and DUROSE also have links with other
 UK HEIs delivering chiropractic programs, such as the Welsh Institute of Chiropractic at the
 University of South Wales, London South Bank and Teesside University. Staff also have
 collaborations with research groups in other healthcare disciplines. BREEN A and BREEN Ax
 have previously collaborated with the University College of Osteopathy, working on principal
 component analysis of intervertebral motion and NEWELL is a member of a clinical trial steering
 group for the Crying Unsettled and distressed Infants Effectiveness Study of osteopathic care.
 OSBORNE is also involved in NHS assessment, diagnosis, and self-care of patients with joint
 pain and evaluation of a First Contact Practitioner role in 5 local GP surgeries. OSBORNE is
 also a member of the NHS Spinal Pathway Task and Finish Group. Recent developments
 such as successful LEP bid to build an Integrated Rehabilitation Centre at the AECC University
 College and the provision of NHS Long Covid services at the institution are also facilitating the
 building closer research links with CRN Wessex, local NHS Hospital Trusts and local councils’
 part of a strategy to grow and improve provision of research capacity by the AECC University
 College in collaboration with the NHS, local councils and community projects.

 4.1.2 International collaborations
 Members of the UoA have a range of ongoing international collaborations including TAYLOR
 who works with Ben Gurion University of the Negev, Israel on postnatal depression, pre-term
 birth and mother-infant bonding, BREEN A and BREEN Ax who collaborate with Aalborg
 University in estimating intervertebral motor control in the cervical spine, Canadian Memorial
 Chiropractic College exploring observer analytic repeatability of intervertebral motion biomarkers
 the Memorial University of Newfoundland comparing surface and quantitative fluoroscopic
 measurement of lumbar function and Michigan State University developing a new model of back
 pain. HOLMES works with Parker University, Palmer College and Canadian Memorial College
 in the US and Canada on patient safety projects and HOLMES and BREEN Ax were also fellows
 of the Chiropractic Academy for Research Leadership (from 2017 to 2020), through a competitive
 international fellowship. NEWELL also works with Monash University exploring consumer
 understanding of terms used in imaging reports requested for low back pain and Vrige University
 Amsterdam, Netherlands, Macquarie University, Sydney, and Karolinska Institute, Sweden
 running a multi country large prospective study of outcomes in seniors with chronic low back pain
 undergoing conservative care.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.3 Role within supporting wider research and development
 Submitted staff also are key contributors in supporting the wider research environment, with a
 number of staff having roles on editorial boards of journals, and reviewing manuscripts for a
 range of inter-disciplinary health sciences journals. Submitted staff make significant contributions
 within the field of manual therapy, sitting on the editorial boards of a number of journals including:
 BREEN A and NEWELL for Chiropractic and Manual Therapies, BREEN A for Journal of
 Manipulative and Physiological Therapeutics, OSBORNE for Journal of Bodywork and
 Movement Therapy and NEWELL for The Journal of Chiropractic Education . Submitted staff
 also peer review for these journals and others in this discipline including: Hong Kong
 Physiotherapy Journal, Musculoskeletal Science and Practice. In addition, submitted staff also
 support a wide range of journals within the healthcare field. TAYLOR sits on the editorial board
 for Healthcare and is the co-editor in chief for Complementary Therapies in Clinical Practice ,
 BREEN Ax is on the editorial board for BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders. Submitted staff also
 review for journals within the context of 1) musculoskeletal pain and healthcare: European Spine
 Journal, Journal of Pain Research, The Spine Journal, 2) biomechanics: Clinical Biomechanics,
 Computer Methods in Biomechanics and Biomedical Engineering, Medical Engineering &
 Physics, and 3) clinical practice: BMJ Open, Health and Quality of Life Outcomes, Journal of
 Clinical Medicine, and Supportive Care in Cancer.

 Staff have also been invited to deliver workshops on developing research. Using her experience
 and perspective as an editor of an international journal, TAYLOR collaborated with other editors
 to deliver a workshop on publishing at the European Congress of Integrative Medicine (2019).
 BREEN Ax and HOLMES also delivered invited workshops on early career researcher capacity
 building at the World Federation of Chiropractic Congress (2019) and mentoring within
 chiropractic institutions at the World Federation of Chiropractic Education Conference (2018).

 4.2 Contribution to clinical practice

 4.2.1 Contribution to measurement of patient outcomes
 BOLTON, NEWELL and HOLMES have had a substantive contribution in the development,
 cultural knowledge exchange and use of PROMs in manual professions through the development
 and validation of one of the first biopsychosocial outcomes for musculoskeletal pain conditions.
 The Bournemouth Questionnaire (BQ) has been translated into 10 languages and is
 recommended by multiple organisations, including professional bodies, clinical guidelines and
 legislative guidelines in multiple countries. In addition, AECC University College in collaboration
 with an external clinical academic have been central in the development a web-based PROM
 dissemination site that distributes PROMs to patients automatically over a treatment period and
 collects, collates and analysis clinical outcome data to support patient centred care. Presently
 this platform is used by over 3000 practicing clinicians in 14 separate countries. Anonymised
 data from this system has also been used to conduct multiple research studies exploring a range
 of clinical questions using large cohorts of patients and a range of different outcomes including
 the STarT Back and the BQ. Dissemination of these PROMs and knowledge concerning adoption
 has been particularly impactful in the osteopathic and chiropractic professions where multiple
 presentations have been conducted and awards achieved. For example, NEWELL has been
 awarded prizes for work concerning PROMs by the British Pain Society, The European Academy
 of Chiropractic (2014), European Chiropractic Union and the World Federation of Chiropractic
 and HOLMES was awarded a poster prize at CAMSTRAND conference

 Members of this group have also disseminated PROMs and other areas of expertise through
 multiple invited presentations. For example, NEWELL has been regularly invited to talk about
 the use of PROMs in clinical practice at the British Chiropractic Association (2013), World
 Federation of Chiropractic Education Conference (2014), Academy of Physical Medicine (2019)
 and the Chiropractic Australia Conference (2019). HOLMES was also invited in 2018 and 19 to
 present to the Royal College of Chiropractors concerning the use of PROMs in the treatment of
 back pain and by chiropractors during chiropractic care.



                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.2 Contribution to general clinical practice
 NEWELL has also been a champion of the need to adopt a stronger evidenced based care
 approach within the chiropractic profession and has been asked to talk on this theme at the
 British Chiropractic Association (2017), the Norwegian Chiropractic Association (2017) the
 Swedish Chiropractic Association (2018), Murdoch University, Perth (2019), Macquarie
 University, Sydney (2019) and the University of Central Queensland, Gold Coast (2019).
 NEWELL has also been invited extensively to present on the influence of contextual factors in
 manual therapy for the Norwegian Chiropractic Association (2017), the World Federation of
 Chiropractic (2018), the Royal College of Chiropractors (2018) the National Conference of
 Osteopathic Research (2019), Chiropractic Australia Annual Conference (2019) and L’institut
 Franco-European De Chiropraxie (2020).

 4.2.3 Contribution to biomechanical imaging
 As noted in our impact case study (dynamic biomechanical imaging assessment of spinal joints),
 research conducted at AECC University College has contributed to the development, validation,
 dissemination, engagement activity and commercialisation of quantitative fluoroscopy, a
 technology based on fluoroscopy and image processing, for performing biomechanical
 examinations of the spine for the clinical assessment of treatment resistant spinal pain. From
 2014 to 2020, BREEN A, BREEN Ax, MELLOR, DUROSE conducted a number studies on
 biomechanical imaging, including: uneven motion sharing as an objective biomarker for
 nonspecific low back pain, biomarkers in upright active motion, normative values in biomarkers,
 and electromyography during motion. These outputs have been highly accessed, leading to
 considerable debate in the back pain research community worldwide.

 In 2015, the AECC University College hosted a special conference of the Society for Back Pain
 Research devoted to Biological Factors in Back Pain. This theme was soon taken up by other
 international societies, namely the International Forum on Back and Neck Pain (2015), the North
 American Spine Society’s (NASS) International Workshop on Spine Control (2015), the 9th World
 Conference on Low Back and Pelvic Pain (2016), a second International Back and Neck Pain
 Research Forum (2017) a further NASS-sponsored Invited Workshop on Cognitive mapping of
 a conceptual models of back pain (2017), a further SBPR Conference on the Mechanisms in
 Back Pain in 2018 and the 10th Interdisciplinary World Congress on Low Back and Pelvic Girdle
 Pain in 2019. Research conducted by submitted staff was disseminated at all of these
 international conferences. This biomechanical imaging work has generated an abundance of
 knowledge dissemination activity over the time frame of this REF submission. For example,
 BREEN A has been invited to talk on a range of areas linked to this research including; Spine
 Science’s State of the Art Forum (2013, 2015), Ramsay Health Care Spinal Symposium (2014),
 BCA Anniversary Conference (2015), Annual Conference of the Royal College of Chiropractors
 (2016), Special Seminar Arthritis Research UK (2016), World Conference on Low Back and
 Pelvic Pain (2016), North American Spine Society Conference (2017), Musculoskeletal Research
 Connect & Collaborate: Evidence Update: Southern Central Council for Allied Health
 Professional Research (2017), Conference of the Task and Finish Group of the NHS Dorset
 Clinical Commissioning Group (2019), UK Imaging and Oncology Conference (2020). Recent
 research by BREEN Ax and BREEN A on disc degeneration affecting inter-vertebral motion in
 asymptomatic controls was awarded best scientific poster at BritSpine conference (2020).
 Progress with quantitative fluoroscopy research also coincided with the rise of international
 research interest in the mechanisms of spinal pain and the possibility of mechanism-based
 management of low back pain. It also gave rise to an acceleration of studies, collaborations and
 to a programme of work since 2014 that has included 6 joint funded and supervised PhD projects
 with Bournemouth University.

 4.3 Contribution to education

 4.3.1 Cultural Impact on Chiropractic Education
 The AECC University College through its historic links over many years with the chiropractic
 profession through the training of chiropractors has had a major impact on the profession through
 the graduation of students, many of whom have gone on to significant leadership roles within the

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profession and who increasingly see research as a potential career choice. In addition, in the last
 5 years a debate concerning the evidence base for the profession and the need for a more
 evidence-based chiropractic education has led to several initiatives to guide the profession
 toward this paradigm constituting as it does a central expectation in healthcare. As part of this
 drive by key individuals within the profession, NEWELL has played a pivotal role in founding the
 International Chiropractic Education Collaboration. This group of now 16 universities, institutions
 and chiropractic programs worldwide have committed through signatory to an Education Position
 Statement written by founders of the group that highlight key areas of evidence based clinical
 practice that the programs commit to actively enhancing within chiropractic training. This has had
 a significant impact on the global chiropractic educational community cultural conversation and
 political positioning and provides a bench marked public commitment to societal expectations
 around the delivery of care displayed on all signatory’s institutional course web pages. (see here
 for AECC University College)

 4.3.2 Research on the education of healthcare professionals
 UoA members have also contributed to the educational research concerning health care
 professions as highlighted by recent publications including predictors of final degree success
 using end-of-year grades in a chiropractic master's program (NEWELL), the association of novel
 academic and non-academic factors with chiropractic student academic performance (NEWELL)
 and exploration of evidence-based competencies in chiropractic education (HOLMES).
 DUROSE was also invited to give a presentation concerning video observations as feedback in
 psychomotor skills training and a further presentation standardised curriculum for Jurisprudence,
 Ethics and Business at the World Federation of Chiropractic Association of Chiropractic
 Colleges.

 4.3.3 Supporting students to consider research careers
 A number of the submitted staff are involved in the teaching of research methods to pre-
 registration and postgraduate courses (BREEN Ax, TAYLOR, NEWELL, HOLMES). The
 development of interprofessional research methods teaching amongst sport rehabilitation and
 therapy students, sports and exercise rehabilitation students, and chiropractic students,
 developed and delivered by TAYLOR and HOLMES, was a commendation from the validation
 panel. The embedding of research skills into the curriculum and research opportunities for
 students (developed by HOLMES) was a commendation within the recent revalidation of the pre-
 registration chiropractic course.

 Staff are also committed in supporting students to be involved in research and consider research
 careers. Six submitted staff are currently involved in supervising MSc students’ dissertations from
 a range of disciplines, including but not limited to: chiropractic, physiotherapy, radiography, and
 occupational therapy. Students are actively encouraged and supported to publish their research
 findings and present work at conferences. Previous work has been published in a number areas
 of including: chiropractic identity, practitioners’ perspectives on public health, and recruitment
 and retention of healthcare professionals. Staff supervise additional research opportunities for
 students and graduates, providing them with research experience. Three staff (DUROSE,
 NEWELL and HOLMES) were successful in receiving funding (£17,500 total) in 2018 and 2019
 from the Chiropractic Research Council to support students on the Programme for Early
 Researchers in Chiropractic (PERC). PERC is set up to provide recently graduated health care
 students (chiropractors to date) to experience a research ‘taster’. This constitutes an 8-week
 research project immediately post-graduation and was in collaboration with Arthritis Research
 UK, centre for sport, exercise and osteoarthritis and the University of Southampton. Four other
 HEIs (University of Leeds, Oxford University, University of Salford and the University of the West
 of England) were also part of the scheme. The students were funded for an 8-week project
 supervised by members of the UoA which constituted a stipend plus travel and subsistence to
 attend weekly conference days at the participating universities which involved other health care
 students. Each student was funded by the Chiropractic Research Council to a total of £3,500. To
 date 5 students have completed this program with 3 submissions for publication of their work
 with one published and 0ne presently under review. This experience has led to interest from


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 candidates to pursue further research training and degrees which was one of the central aims of
 the scheme when first envisaged for the podiatry profession by Bowen et al.

 4.3.4 Improving equal access and participation in higher education
 The staff in the submitted unit are actively engaged in the institution’s Access and Participation
 Activity. AECC University College is committed to improve equal access and success in Higher
 Education for underrepresented groups, with a number of collaborations with our local
 community, and outreach and recruitment activities, set out in our Access and Participation plan.
 Since 2019, submitted staff have developed and delivered a variety of activities to students from
 local schools and further education institutions. This includes our research active staff giving
 specialist talks within their clinical background (OSBORNE), area of expertise (TAYLOR), and
 research skills (HOLMES). OSBORNE and HOLMES have also been involved in two Summer
 Schools, allowing students within Further Education to experience lectures, labs, and practical
 sessions in their chosen subject. Students also have access to career videos, both highlighting
 clinical careers (OSBORNE) and research careers (DUROSE). HOLMES has also been involved
 in launching the Access2AECC programme, with year 12 pupils involved in planning, conducting,
 and presenting a mini research project. This project has led to further work within the institution
 on collaborating with local Further Education institutions to develop resources and support for
 students undertaking the Extended Project Qualification.




                                                                                             Page 12
