Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: UoA1

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1A. Queen Mary’s step change in clinical medicine research and impact strategy.
 Queen Mary (QM) joined the Russell Group of elite UK Universities in 2012 acknowledging a
 strong upward trajectory in research excellence across the University. Since 2014, we have made
 a further step change in the quality, critical mass, and impact of our leading-edge clinical medicine
 research. In REF2014, 90% of the research returned to UoA1 was rated as world-leading (4 star)
 or internationally excellent (3 star) and we were in the top ten for research power and impact. The
 UoA1 Panel commented on the excellence and critical mass of our cardiovascular and cancer
 research.

 Since 2014, our new strategy has enabled us to take cardiovascular and cancer research to
 completely new levels of success. We have made major investments in genomics, inflammation,
 trauma, and population health sciences with new faculty, partnerships, and infrastructure leading
 to high calibre research with demonstrable clinical impact. Our strategy in clinical medicine is built
 on key strategic national and global partnerships attracting new international leaders to QM and
 greatly expanding our training opportunities with new doctoral and post-doctoral programmes
 fostering a culture of “Team Science”.

 At QM, Clinical Medicine research activities are based in four Institutes in Barts and The London
 School of Medicine and Dentistry (SMD). The Barts Cancer Institute (BCI), led by Nick Lemoine
 FMedSci focuses on leading edge molecular and translational cancer research. The Blizard
 Institute (BI), led by Tim Warner, focuses on inflammation and trauma (skin disorders;
 gastrointestinal and liver diseases; and multiple sclerosis). The William Harvey Research Institute
 (WHRI), led by Amrita Ahluwalia & Sir Mark Caulfield FMedSci, and now Panos Deloukas
 FMedSci, undertakes cardiovascular, inflammation and endocrine research leading to therapeutic
 innovation. The Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine (WIPM), led by Jack Cuzick FMedSci,
 FRS, focuses on cancer prevention and screening. Our research is increasingly multidisciplinary
 and is strengthened by cross-faculty links to the faculties of Science and Engineering, and
 Humanities and Social Science. As a result of our strategy we have achieved a 35% growth in
 our UoA1 return for REF2021 and are returning 222 FTE faculty compared to 144 FTE in
 REF2014. There has been a 50.8% increase in international diversity in this return and we
 renewed our Athena Swan Silver Award in 2019.

 The strength of QM’s clinical medicine research portfolio, such as the role of cladribine in multiple
 sclerosis, played a significant part in the recent successful re-designation of the UCL Partners
 Academic Health Sciences Centre in 2020 (Thornton, Deputy Director). Since 2013, QM has
 hosted Genomics England Ltd, a wholly owned Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC)
 Company. We have provided academic strategic leadership and faculty who have partnered with
 the NHS and UK universities to successfully complete to time and target the world-leading 100,000
 Genomes Project. As evidence of the upward trajectory of QM’s research we partnered multiple
 universities in the Farr Institute London and the MRC-funded Informatics platform “eMedLab”
 (£18.9M) leading to QM joining the Alan Turing Institute (48 fellows) and hosting part of the pan-
 London node of Health Data Research UK in 2017. Furthermore, we have mobilised one of the
 largest linked primary and secondary care datasets in the UK covering 2.5 million in East London


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Discovery) and are now extending this linkage across London to a population of 6 million.

 Since 2014, we have made major discoveries in the fields of genomics, cardiovascular disease,
 cancer, hepatitis C, haemophilia, and HIV. These are the result of a forward-looking integrated
 clinical medicine research strategy that capitalises upon the £1.2 billion state of the art rebuild of
 our partner Barts Health NHS Trust hospitals at the Royal London (Whitechapel campus) and St
 Bartholomew’s sites (Barts/Charterhouse campus). This transformation was completed in 2015,
 and QM with Barts Health now extend across a uniquely diverse community of between 2.5 and
 6 million people (depending on the service), representing 97 nationalities, with whom we have
 strong trusted connections and engagement in research. As evidence of the power of this platform,
 our Barts Cancer Institute hosts three Cancer Research UK (CRUK) Centres and the William
 Harvey successfully united three hospitals, and the cardiovascular faculty of two universities (QM
 and University College London), to create the £400M Barts Heart Centre in 2015 (see below).

 This shared patient-centred vision for biomedical research underpins our partnership, uniting Barts
 Health NHS Trust, the DHSC and Tower Hamlets, enabling the launch of a major £600M
 investment, known as Barts Life Sciences. This initiative mobilises 1.5 million square feet of space
 at our Whitechapel campus adjacent to the rebuilt Royal London Hospital. We will focus on multi-
 disciplinary biomedical life sciences research and training related to digital precision healthcare.
 This major expansion of the UK Life Sciences estate represents an £80M DHSC investment in the
 site establishing a new bio-incubator in partnership with QM Innovation. It is designed to fuel rapid
 translation into clinical care across a diverse community through academic-industry-NHS-
 community partnership. As a designated University Enterprise Zone, it will be a major facilitator of
 industrial knowledge exchange and translation, whilst improving the economic and health
 outcomes for our local population and beyond.

 1B. Strategic Aims and Impacts post-REF2014
 Following REF2014, QM made a strategic plan to enhance research capacity and strengthen local,
 national and international collaboration focused on discoveries likely to translate into improved
 healthcare with major impact. We achieved this by attracting and developing current and new staff
 as well as integrating patient and public engagement and involvement into the heart of all that we
 do. Together with those strategic priorities set out in UoA2, which complement this submission,
 we have focused on five key thematic areas agreed with our local NHS partners:

    •   Genomics (crosscutting theme)
    •   Cancer
    •   Cardiovascular Medicine
    •   Inflammation and Trauma
    •   Population Health and Prevention (also in UoA2)

 This strategy has paid dividends and key examples of success are described below:

 QM’s major expansion in faculty talent
   • Since 2014 we have continuously expanded high calibre senior and junior faculty to
       develop future research leaders (see above).
   • QM provided junior scientists holding prestigious fellowships with their first academic post
       (more than 30 fellows made lecturers).
   • With £6.5M from the Barts Charity, we attracted fifteen new Early Career Researchers to
       lectureships, who will be mentored and supported during their careers.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Over this REF period, UoA1 staff were awarded £413M with a research spend of £379M.
        This equates to a research spend of £1.71M per returned FTE.
    •   Our work has been highly cited in national (SciVal2016: first in the UK for weighted citations
        in medicine), and international tables (QS world ranking; fourth for citations in medicine in
        2020).

 QM’s contribution to national initiatives with world-leading healthcare impact
   • Since 2013, QM has hosted and seconded faculty to Genomics England (GEL) leading
       to on-time completion of the 100,000 Genomes Project in 2018 (£300M; see below).
   • QM faculty led a multi-university partnership to create the £24M UK Collaborative
       Genomics Data Centre for the 100,000 Genomes Project bringing together more than
       3,000 researchers from Universities in 33 countries.
   • In Covid-19 the east London community were disproportionately affected so we pivoted
       our Biomedical Research Centre to coordinate studies, training 120 researchers who
       enrolled 10,571 patients including 8,000 in Urgent Public Health Priority Studies. We
       opened the Barts Vaccine Trial Centre in Bethnal Green Library which is the world-leading
       site for enrolment into the Janssen vaccine trial (27% from BAME communities). At national
       level, Lemoine chaired the oversight for NIHR of Urgent Public Prioritisation and is a co-
       author on the RECOVERY studies.
   • In response to the pandemic, QM faculty through GEL partnered with GenOMICC
       (Edinburgh) and the REACT studies (Imperial) to raise £27M (DHSC £7.8M, Lifearc £5M,
       MRC £4.5M, Illumina £9.89M) for whole genome sequencing of up to 20,000 severely ill,
       and 15,000 mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. We published 7 novel loci for Covid
       severity, identifying 3 repurposing opportunities leading to the incorporation of Baracitinib
       into the RECOVERY trial (Nature 2021).
   • With Wellcome funding (£6M), we renewed and expanded the flagship East London
       Genes and Health Consortium cohort study (van Heel with Finer [UoA2]), which has
       enrolled 50,000 British-Bangladeshi and British-Pakistani volunteers. In 2016, we won a
       £5M Catalyst Award (HEFCE) to establish the Centre for Population Genomic Medicine for
       precision phenotyping, with QM leading and KCL and UCL as partners.

 Our success in hosting national research infrastructure and partnerships.
    • As evidence of QMs excellence in cancer medicine we were awarded three Cancer
       Research UK (CRUK) and Brain Tumour Charity Centres (£33M).
    • QM was the academic lead for the £400M Barts Heart Centre providing the platform for
       our NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) (Barts Health and QM). With a further
       £10.2M from the Barts Charity we established new faculty and the multidisciplinary
       Cardiovascular Devices Hub with European Regional Development (£3M) and Charles
       Wolfson (£750K) funding.
    • In 2012, we were a major contributor to the strategy for the London node of the MRC Farr
       Institute providing a collaborative health data science platform leading to award of a pan-
       London node of the Health Data Research UK Institute (see below) and QM joining the
       Alan Turing Institute.
    • As part of UCL Partners Academic Health Sciences Centre and Network, we have
       supported re-designation and initiatives across north east London reaching 6 million
       patients. This underpinned our successful application for an NIHR Collaboration for
       Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) North Thames 2014 and
       subsequent NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) North Thames 2019.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our success in research training and development.
    • In 2014, QM won a €6.5M EU Marie Curie Co-Fund Postdoctoral International Exchange
       Fellowship Scheme. We oversaw the award of 67 post-doctoral fellowships from 24
       countries. 54% were women and they published 100 papers (10% in Nature Journals).
    • To train clinical academics, we won more than 45 fellowships (15 from MRC), 107
       Academic Clinical Fellows (95 NIHR funded) and 46 Academic Clinical Lecturers (37
       NIHR funded).
    • Since 2014, QM has secured doctoral training programmes from the British Heart
       Foundation (5 students/year- renewed in 2014, 2017, 2021), the MRC (Translational
       Immunology with Southampton; 4/year; renewal submitted in January 2021), Wellcome
       (PhD Programme in Health Data Science; 5/year from 2020). We led or partnered four
       Marie Curie Innovative Training Networks. This has enabled us to dramatically expand
       our postgraduate student numbers in clinical medicine by 52% to 537 students by 2020.

 Public and Patient Involvement in Research (PPI).

 UoA1 staff are engaged in multiple local and national initiatives with patients and the public. Some
 key activities are detailed below, with further examples in section 1B-4.

    •   We have extended our Centre of the Cell, the first science engagement centre within a
        medical research laboratory by building a new Neurone Pod. This has engaged more than
        155,000 young visitors in science and we have had 100 million website hits from 160
        countries.
    •   East London Genes and Health Consortium engaged with our diverse community enrolling
        more than 50,000 South Asians for research studies.
    •   Our ‘Arthritis and Art’ exhibition at the Tate Modern attracted 2000 visitors with interactive
        workshops with artists and patients.
    •   Trials Connect is a patient-led initiative coordinated by our NIHR Biomedical Research
        Centre, where patients engage other patients in trials by sharing experiences. They co-
        organise the Barts-QM Science Festival reaching 400 school students. On the 70th
        Anniversary of the Nuremberg Code they introduced a new ethical framework for trials.

 Our success in impact cases studies
 QM has made assessment of Research Impact “business as usual” to maximise the evidence of
 our success in health, societal and wealth generation. We have returned 11 Impact Cases, 10 of
 which are new and 1 progressed from REF2014.

 QM structure and governance to facilitate Clinical Medicine Research.
 The research themes and activities of the SMD are led by the respective Institute Directors who
 report to the Vice-Principal (Health) and Executive Dean, Prof Steve Thornton (joined in 2016) via
 the Faculty Executive. The Vice-Principal is supported by the Dean for Research and Impact (Prof
 Mauro Perretti) who formed a School Research Deanery in 2016 to maximise cross-cutting multi-
 disciplinary research. The Deanery liaises with other areas of the University, including the Principal
 and President of QM (Prof Colin Bailey), the Vice-Principal Research & Innovation (Prof Andrew
 Livingston) and Vice-Principal International (Prof Colin Grant). As evidence of the success of this
 structure we were able to expedite offers to host Genomics England at QM, rapidly facilitate a
 cross-faculty commitment to join the Alan Turing Institute, and establish the Digital Research
 Environment Institute for advanced analytics (Slabaugh) with expertise in artificial intelligence.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1B-1. Strategic Research Themes and Impact

 Our major research themes are Cancer, Cardiovascular, Inflammation & Trauma, and Population
 Health. The cross-cutting theme of Genomic Research is described first.

 A) Genomic Research
 Genomics England: QM hosted and provided the scientific leadership (Caulfield) and faculty that
 delivered the 100,000 Genomes Project, persuading the NHS to create 13 Genomic Medicine
 Centres, who enrolled 90,000 people with rare disease and cancer, and ensuring all the Devolved
 Nations were involved. We appointed Smedley, who developed and validated Exomiser, as part
 of the NIH Monarch Initiative (Smedley; Nature Protocols and Am Journal Human Genetics 2016,
 Nature Comms 2019). This improved variant prioritisation and enabled new rare disease
 diagnoses in 20% of 36,000 families (74,404 people) from the 100,000 Genomes Project. These
 advances were integrated into the Genomics England Rare Disease Pipeline for the NHS
 Genomic Medicine Service. In cancer, our academics (Jones, Caulfield) led the optimisation of
 fresh tissue cancer sample characterisation. They drove the adoption of 400 molecular pathology
 pathways into the NHS enabling the 100,000 Genomes Project to generate the largest high-fidelity
 cancer whole genome dataset worldwide (17,400 patients) for research and precision cancer care.
 As a result, 57M people have equity of access to the most advanced National Genomic Medicine
 service in the world and everyone will be asked to consent to participate in research.

 Genes and Health: At QM, we have begun to address the under-representation of diverse
 communities in genomic research with our major Genes & Health programme where more than
 50,000 British-Bangladeshi and British-Pakistani volunteers have enrolled following extensive
 community engagement. The programme, led by QM, has been extended from East London to
 Bradford and Manchester, with exome sequencing defining loss of function variants in
 consanguineous adults (van Heel, Science 2016), including those relevant to successful drug
 development. Genes & Health has completed a study with Alnylam Pharmaceuticals including
 safety and basic mechanism data on their lumasiran drug target HAO1 which was included in their
 successful FDA New Drug Application. Genes & Health has ongoing studies with Genomics PLC,
 AstraZeneca and several smaller biotech. Genes & Health expects to sign a £15M Industry
 Consortium to exome sequence its 50,000 volunteers in Q2 2021 (GSK, Takeda,
 BristolMyersSquibb and Merck). Our Genes & Health programme links live healthcare data across
 primary and secondary care with genomic analysis and phenotypic data. They secured major
 Wellcome and MRC funding (£6M) and led to HEFCE-Catalyst funding (£5M), creating a
 Population Heath Science Centre (led by QM with Kings College and UCL) for recall by genotype
 of participants for experimental medicine studies.

 To broaden this theme, we appointed Gurdasani (HDRUK-Rutherford Fellow and new Senior
 Lecturer) to build on her African Genome Variation Project and her work in Uganda (Cell 2019,
 Nature 2014), through our research window on the world in East London.

 Disease focused genomics: We have international leaders in genomics in cardiovascular
 disease, cancer, inflammation and population health which are described within the themes below.

 Major national centres and funding success in Genomics: We used experience gained
 through our MRC funded Farr Institute London (MRC £9.5M) to establish longitudinal life course
 electronic health record follow-up for the 100,000 Genomes Project. This created the platform for
 QM faculty to lead a multi-university partnership which was awarded £24M by MRC in 2014 to
 create the UK Collaborative Genomics Data Centre for the 100,000 Genomes Project. This

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabled QM to procure a data centre for Genomics England making available 3.8 billion clinical
 data points on more than 90,000 people with whole genome sequences. QM Faculty created the
 Genomics England Clinical Interpretation Partnership enabling more than 3000 researchers from
 180 institutions in 33 countries to generate more than 140 publications, leveraged £50M in grants,
 and has enabled the translation of 300 new diagnoses for rare disease and cancer into healthcare.
 QM faculty (Jones, Caulfield) at GEL led the successful bid for £7.87M UK Life Sciences Cancer
 Whole Genome Strategy (Innovate UK) alongside trials involving 6 UK Universities with matched
 funds from charity and industry. Caulfield wrote the strategy for the next 5 years for Genomics
 England’s Programme focused on unmet need in genomics in healthcare focused on diversity,
 pharmacogenomics, cancer and newborn diagnosis.

 B) Cancer Research

 QM’s cancer research, led by Lemoine, has the primary goal of leading bench to bedside
 discoveries that make major insights into cancer biology informing precision medicine. With £10M
 from the Barts Charity we appointed new senior and junior faculty, and with our extant strengths
 this enabled us to secure £33.4M by winning, or renewing four major Cancer Research UK Cancer
 Centres (City of London, Barts Cancer Centre, Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre, and the
 Brain Tumour Charity Centre).

 Genetics and the evolution of cancer: We have delivered high impact discoveries in the
 genomic architecture and evolution of cancer. In leading edge research, Fitzgibbon characterised
 the mutational patterns of progression and drivers to the B cell activation and Mammalian target
 of rapamycin (mTOR) response in follicular lymphoma funded by a £1.8M CRUK Programme
 (Nature Genetics 2014, Nature Metab 2019). With Wellcome Collaborative funding (£1.3M),
 Graham led major advances in understanding the evolution of the pan-cancer mutational
 landscape, the influence of tumour heterogeneity and neo-antigens in cancer evolution (Nature
 Genetics 2016, 2020 and Nature Medicine 2016). Alves Godinho described the role of centrosome
 activation on cellular invasion in malignancy (Nature 2014). Our molecular re-profiling of
 interleukin 12 conserved the potent immunotherapeutic efficacy as an anticancer treatment, but
 eliminating potential for lethal toxicity (Wang, Lemoine, Nature Comms 2017). With CRUK
 Programme funding, Kelsell published on oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (Nature Comms
 2017, 2018).

 Cancer screening, prevention and early diagnosis: Cuzik, Manchanda and Duffy have made
 seminal contributions with substantial impact (see Population Sciences below).

 Targeting the tumour microenvironment: Hodivala-Dilke FMedSci defined the role of targeting
 FAK in endothelial cells to sensitising tumours to DNA damage (Nature 2014). With a £2.1M CRUK
 Programme she described the role of B3 integrin in cross-talk between tumour cells (Hodivala-
 Dilke, Cell 2020). Sanz Moreno joined QM, and with a £2M CRUK Programme generated insights
 into how the cytoskeleton of cancer cells regulates transcriptional rewiring during tumour growth
 and dissemination (Cell 2019, Nature Comms 2014, 2018). In a 2.6M CRUK Programme, Balkwill
 demonstrated the potential of chemokine receptor antagonism by antibodies as an anti-cancer
 strategy which relies on adaptive immunity (J Clin Invest 2017).

 Targeting Tumour Cells: Marshall described targeting integrins that mediate interaction between
 cells and the extracellular matrix in breast cancer (J National Cancer Inst 2014). Sharp discovered
 the role of the tumour suppressor protein LIM domain protein 1 (LIMD1) and its deregulation in
 normal tissue contributes to the development of lung, renal and breast cancer (Embo Mol Med

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018). In phospho-proteomics, Cutillas has used advanced proteomics to reconstruct the role of
 kinases in cancer (Nature Biotech 2020, Nature Comms 2015, 2018).

 Therapeutic innovation in cancer: In seminal work Powles reported the efficacy of
 immunotherapy antibody to treat bladder and renal cancer (Nature 2014, Lancet 2018; NEJM
 2015, 2019). This transformative advance in bladder cancer led the US Food and Drug
 Administration to give atezolizumab “breakthrough designation status” in 2014 due our research.
 This led to several ground-breaking translational and clinical studies in renal cell cancer (Powles).
 Szolasrek published translational studies of the arginine-depleting agent ADI-PEG20 in several
 clinical studies (ADAM, TRAP and ATOMIC studies; JAMA Oncol 2017). Schmid leads our cancer
 clinical trials and published major new advances for the therapeutic management of triple negative
 breast cancer (NEJM 2018, 2020)

 QM has four major national cancer centres. A major development has been the award of the
 £14M CRUK City of London Centre (RADNET) focused on developing therapies for cancer. This
 unites 350 researchers from QM (Lead, Lemoine), the Crick, KCL, UCL, NHS Trusts, and national
 and international research networks. The Centre offers an unrivalled international platform for
 clinical trials spanning 10 million people (around 15% of the UK population) offering the scale to
 accelerate clinical trials. Successful delivery of our strategy led to the renewal of the CRUK Barts
 Cancer Centre (£12.4M) and the CRUK Experimental Medicine Cancer Centre (£2.4M). The
 strength of our glioblastoma programme led by Marino led to the renewal of the Brain Tumour
 Charity Research Centre of Excellence (£4.6M) and a CRUK Programme.

 Major cancer awards: QM’s track record has enabled us to join the CRUK Grand Challenge
 Award ‘Cartography of Cancer through Multi-Scale Molecular Imaging’ (£16M; 2017-2022) led by
 the National Physical Lab, QM, Imperial, the Beatson, ICR, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, the Crick
 Institute and Weill Cornell. The partnership applies 3D-printer approaches to produce a faithful
 representation of the tumour microenvironment, amenable to Artificial Intelligence predictions, to
 accelerate target discovery. STORMing Cancer (£20M; 2019-2024) was awarded to a global
 team from QM (MacDonald; Gut 2014), Stanford University, Vanderbilt University, University of
 California San Francisco (UCSF), McGill University and Cambridge, to tackle chronic
 inflammation, a precursor to cancer.

 C) Cardiovascular Research
 Our academic vision for Cardiovascular care and research in North East London, enabled the
 successful unification of three hospitals, and uniquely, two universities (UCL and QM), to create
 the £400M Barts Heart Centre in 2015. The Barts Heart Centre is one of the largest in Europe
 serving 6 million people with 84,000 patient episodes per year offering the SMD and WHRI the
 scale to find niche populations. We have harnessed this opportunity to convert our two previous
 NIHR Cardiovascular Biomedical Research Units into a successful NIHR Biomedical Research
 Centre (BRC) in 2016, bringing £20M over the past 12 years.

 Cardiovascular genomics: This is a major theme of our NIHR BRC, benefitting from three of the
 most highly cited researchers in the world in genomics (Deloukas FMedSci, Munroe and Caulfield
 FMedSci). Since 2014, we led multiple international consortia that have discovered more than
 2,000 gene regions for rare inherited disease and complex cardiovascular traits (blood pressure,
 coronary disease, lipids and ECG traits) capitalising upon the Biobank UK cohort. In rare disease,
 Wald demonstrated that innovative population-based child-parent screening for familial
 hypercholesterolaemia is effective and feasible in primary care, and identified those at high risk of
 inherited premature cardiovascular disease for early intervention (Wald; NEJM 2016).

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In complex cardiovascular traits, Deloukas, with Kanoni and Marouli (new Lecturers), discovered
 several new loci for lipid traits and coronary heart disease. In studies of over 1 million people,
 Caulfield, Barnes and Munroe, led the discovery of more than 700 common and rare gene loci for
 blood pressure (Nature Genetics 2017, 2018, 2020). Brown FMedSci, appointed in 2015,
 discovered somatic mutations leading to adrenal adenomas causing hypertension (NEJM 2015).
 In 2019, we appointed Traylor (new Lecturer), who identified multi-ancestry gene loci for stroke
 (Nature Genetics 2018). In multi-ancestry studies led by Munroe and Tinker FMedSci, more than
 200 loci influencing ECG PR interval were identified (Nature Comms 2018, 2020). We lead on
 cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) phenotyping quality assurance for the Biobank
 UK study and have published 14 loci that effect left ventricular MRI parameters (Petersen
 Circulation 2019). These discoveries have enabled polygenic risk scores for coronary heart
 disease, blood pressure and stroke.

 The microvasculature and cardiac inflammation: As a Wellcome Investigator (2014 and 2020),
 Nourshargh FMedSci has driven research into leukocyte migration from the vascular lumen into
 inflamed and/or injured tissues using advanced microscopy (Immunity 2018 and JCI 2020). The
 excellence of our cardiac inflammation research by Marelli-Berg has been recognised by the
 award and renewal of a British Heart Foundation (BHF) Chair, two BHF programmes and a BHF
 Accelerator Award of £1M (Nat Comms 2014, 2020; Immunity 2015, 2017). This links WHRI to
 myocarditis at the Barts Heart Centre and has attracted young talent, such as Longhi (appointed
 as lecturer in 2013, now Reader), who secured a BHF intermediate fellowship to investigate the
 role of dendritic cells in atherosclerosis (PLoS Biol 2014; Cell Metabolism 2017). Nadkarni secured
 a BHF intermediate fellowship to work on vascular inflammation in pre-eclampsia and is now a
 Lecturer (J Clin Invest 2014; PNAS 2016). Aksentijevic has secured a Wellcome Career
 Development Fellowship to join the group and works on cardiac metabolism (Nature Comms
 2020).

 Cardiovascular Therapeutic Innovation: The WHRI is one of the premier centres for
 translational pharmacology in Europe, benefitting from links to the Barts Heart Centre and the
 creation of a cardiovascular component of a UK CRC Clinical Trials Unit. In highly cited research,
 Ahluwalia, with Kapil and Jones, supported by genomics (Caulfield) demonstrated that dietary
 nitrate is effective treatment for hypertension and coronary ischaemia (Hypertension 2015; Circ
 Res 2015). Funded by a BHF Programme (£1M) and Apollo Therapeutics (£3.5M), Hobbs led the
 detailed characterisation and invented small molecules to target the C-Natriuretic Peptide (CNP)
 pathway (J Clin Invest 2014; Circulation 2014, 2018;) to treat coronary heart disease, hypertension
 and pulmonary hypertension.

 Brown’s discovery of the mutational architecture of adrenal adenomas led GSK and Apollo
 Therapeutics to fast track the evaluation of small molecules inhibiting Cav1.3, which reduces
 aldosterone secretion and may be an anti-hypertensive therapy (NEJM 2015). In 2019 Eaton, a
 leader in redox mechanisms of cardiovascular disease, joined WHRI, bringing a European
 Research Council Fellowship, MRC and BHF Programmes. Eaton, with Charles (BHF
 Intermediate Fellow and new Lecturer), generated mechanistic evidence for potential anti-oxidant
 therapies to treat cardiovascular disease (Nature Comms 2015, 2016 and Hypertension 2017).
 Thiemermann FMedSci is exploring repurposing opportunities (Ann Surg 2017x2) for
 hypertension, pulmonary hypertension and organ protection in trauma.

 Following the British Hypertension Society Research Working Party, Brown with Caulfield,
 completed a suite of trials (the PATHWAY studies with BHF Programme and NIHR funding of
 £2.6M) to answer major questions in hypertension management. The PATHWAY-1 trial indicated

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that starting with two medications reduced the time to blood pressure control and was preferable
 to a single agent. The PATHWAY-2 study demonstrated the superiority of spironolactone for
 resistant hypertension and led to changed NICE Guidance (2019) and European Society of
 Cardiology (ESC) 2018 Guidelines for Hypertension. These recommended spironolactone as a
 fourth medication (Lancet 2015). The PATHWAY 3 Trial showed that combining a thiazide with a
 potassium sparing diuretic reduced metabolic impacts (Lancet Diabetes Endo 2015). In 2018, a
 mechanistic sub-study of PATHWAY 2 showed that resistant hypertension is a salt retaining state,
 and that amiloride 10 mg was slightly superior to spironolactone for blood pressure control (Lancet
 Diabetes Endo 2018).

 Cardiovascular devices and cellular therapies: We have explored stem-cell based therapies
 for coronary heart disease, applying bone-marrow derived progenitors to heart failure patients (EU
 award £6M Mathur; Eur Heart J 2015, 2020). With QM Institute of Bioengineering (UoA12), we
 identified novel methods for epicardial placement of biocompatible materials in myocardial
 infarction and are investigating the vital role of macrophages, and the potential of embryonic and
 inducible pluripotent stem cells (Suzuki; J Clin Invest 2016). This is funded by a BHF Programme
 and Japanese Promotion of Science.

 From our NIHR BRC theme in devices, we established a multidisciplinary Device Innovation
 Centre with the QM Institute of Bioengineering, Yale University and the UK-CRC Barts Clinical
 Trials Unit. This led to Mathur and Caulfield securing substantial funding (€3M) from the European
 Research Development Fund, £0.75M from Charles Wolfson Charitable Trust, and £1.7M from
 Barts Charity. This builds on our strength in testing novel devices such as the NIHR Experimental
 Medicine Evaluation and BHF Funded trial of innovative radiofrequency ablation of left adrenal
 tumours (Brown) and drug eluting bio-degradable stents (Lansky, Baumbach Eur Heart J 2015,
 2017; Lancet 2018). Our integration of bioengineering, basic science and clinical trials attracted a
 new partnership with Yale. Alongside we established the largest Cardiovascular Magnetic
 Resonance Imaging Centre in Europe (Petersen, JACC 2015) and have causally linked air
 pollution to cardiac ventricular remodelling that precedes heart failure development (Circulation
 2018).

 Major Grants. QM cardiovascular research played a key role in the successful MRC Strategic e-
 Med Lab award (multi-partner consortium; £9.4M to QM, UCL, KCL, the London School, Sanger,
 the Crick and the European Bioinformatics Institute) creating a multi-petabyte datacentre for
 cardiovascular genomics collaborative research enabling multiple Nature/Nature Genetics papers.
 We have held numerous BHF and MRC programme grants over this REF period including Suzuki
 (cardioprotection, £1.2M), Tinker (arrhythmia, £1.1M), Hobbs (vascular pharmacology, £1M),
 Deloukas (cardiovascular genomics, £1.1M), Warner (platelet bio-reactivity, £850K), Eaton
 (oxidative stress £760K), Ackland (cardiovascular function in critical care, £460K) and Kelsell
 (desmosomal cardiomyopathy, £1M). In addition, Marelli-Berg’s work on cardiovascular
 immunology has led to the award of a BHF Chair (renewed in 2020, £1.3M) and three BHF
 Programme Grants.

 D) Inflammation research and trauma
 Since 2014 we have united our basic and translational inflammation research in a cross-Institute
 initiative, investing £1.5M in the Centre for inflammation and Therapeutic Innovation (CiTI). This
 focused four inter-disciplinary areas to identify and develop innovative therapeutic strategies: i)
 genomic and stratified medicine in inflammation; ii) vascular and cardiac inflammation, and cell
 trafficking (see cardiovascular research); iii) target identification and therapeutic exploitation and
 iv) reparative and regenerative therapeutics. CiTI has enabled strategic partnerships with

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biopharmaceutical companies Union Chimique Belge (5 PhD studentships; 4 collaborative
 projects, more than £600K; Dell’Accio; Perretti) and ONO (£500K; Malaspina, Nissim, Perretti).
 We have also developed, with Oxford, the Versus Arthritis Centre of Excellence in the
 Pathogenesis of Osteo-Arthritis (£1M; Lead Dell’Accio).

 With Versus Arthritis we created two CiTI chairs in Inflammation Sciences, attracting Rot (£1.2M
 Wellcome Investigator; Nature Immunol 2014, 2017) and Pitzalis in Experimental Medicine and
 Rheumatology. We also created a Chair in Inflammation and Therapeutic Innovation (0.2 FTE;
 Mantovani; Nature 2019; Cell 2019) in partnership with a top Italian medical school, Humanitas.
 This leveraged funding for two clinical lectureships (from Versus Arthritis and NIHR: £1.1M) and
 one non-clinical lectureship (Dufton; Nature Comms 2017, 2019).

 Creation of this cross-disciplinary Centre has enabled new inward investment and partnerships in
 stratified arthritis care, liver disease, haematology, dermatology and trauma, leading to new
 external awards, faculty and partnerships.

 Stratified Medicine in Arthritis. At the Barts Arthritis Centre, Pitzalis developed a Doppler based
 approach to guided biopsy. This has been used to understand synovial pathobiology and the role
 of precision biologics in rheumatoid arthritis (Humby, Pitzalis; Lancet 2014, Ann Rheum Dis 2016,
 Arthritis Rheumatol 2016). Building on the foundations of the MRC Pathobiology of Early Arthritis
 Consortium, we established a portfolio of trials to test the role of synovial pathotype in stratifying
 biologic selection (digital pathology and tissue expression). These include the MATURA project
 (MRC/Versus Arthritis; £5M joint with Manchester) and the NIHR RA4RA Study (£350K). This led
 to a €14M EU award (~€1.8M for QM) to extend the value of precision biologic use in rheumatoid
 arthritis.

 This platform has created a large biobank of synovial tissue enabling multiple partnerships with
 pharma to refine drug development and the patients who will benefit from individualised treatments
 (see section 4). Based on this, we have invested in similar biobanks and multi–omics approaches
 for systemic lupus erythematous and Sjogren’s disease, with Lewis (Cell Rep 2019) and
 Bombardieri (Arthritis Rheumatol 2014, 2109; J Exp Med 2019), respectively.

 Liver and Gastrointestinal Disease Research: In 2018, we invested £1.5M into hepatology
 research to create the Barts Liver Centre where Foster and Kennedy published major advances
 in hepatitis C and B (NEJM 2015, 2018, J Clin Invest 2018x2), and on non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
 (NASH) by Alazawi (Ann Surg 2016). This leveraged around £1M from commercial partners
 (Gilead and GSK), MRC funding (£0.7M; Alazawi), and a Wellcome Trust collaborative award with
 King Faisal University in Pakistan (£3M; Foster).

 Our chronic bowel disease research focuses on inflammation (Lindsay; JAMA 2015, Lancet
 Gastro Hepatol 2017), visceral pain (Aziz, Knowles Gut 2015, 2018), and post-surgical bowel
 disorders. Funding from NIHR (Knowles: 5 awards £3.7M) enabled mechanistic and diagnostic
 work on disorders of defaecation (Knowles, Sanger; Gut 2016, 2019) and clinical trials (Knowles;
 Ann Surg 2014, Lancet 2015). We led the recent international diagnostic classification in this field,
 with major with EU H2020 funding (2020-2025, €9.6M of which €1.4M to QM).

 Dermatology. With major BHF and CRUK programmes for research into monogenic
 dermatological disorders, Kelsell linked inflammation in the skin, heart, oesophagus (Nature
 Comm 2017, 2018; Blaydon, Am J Hum Gen 2016), X-linked ichthyosis (Action Medical Research;
 O’Toole) and atopic eczema (O’Shaughnessy, J Clin Invest 2019; O’Toole, Kelsell, J Invest

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dermatol 2019). We have established a Bangladeshi cohort to enable us to investigate the genetic
 basis of skin disease in our community.

 A joint CRUK programme with Dundee (Harwood, £0.5M) identified an azathioprine-induced
 signature in squamous cell carcinoma (Nature Comms 2018). Using 3D models of skin and human
 samples, we identified targets for skin cancer signaling (O’Toole, J Clin Invest 2020; Philpott,
 Cancer Res 2018). Two Medtech Innovator entrepreneurships were awarded in 2018 and 2019
 resulting in a spin-out company, Keratify, and BBSRC funding through both an Industrial
 Partnership Award (Bishop) and several BBSRC-CASE studentships (Philpott, Harwood, O’Toole,
 Bishop, Connelly).

 With Animal Free Research UK funding (£1M), we established a Centre of Excellence in Animal
 Replacement Science which developed new models of skin diseases using organoids and 3D
 culture systems. 3D-modelling emerged as a cross-cutting technology (£0.55M investment from
 QM; Connolly) leading to a dedicated Centre for organ-on-a-chip technology (the Centre for
 Predictive In-Vitro modelling). This harnessed expertise in SMD with the Faculty of Science &
 Engineering (MRC Technologies Transforming Life network, £0.5M), with a partnership with the
 Harvard spin-off Emulate™ (2019).

 Haematology. Our internationally leading haematology research, supported by Bloodwise
 (£1.4M, 2015) and MRC (£1.65M) to Dokal, Fitzgibbon and Vulliamy, established an international
 patient registry leading to the characterisation of disease genes in bone marrow failure,
 myelodysplasia and leukaemia (Am J Hum Genet 2014, 2016; Blood 2015; J Clin Invest 2015;
 PNAS 2018). Pasi led ground-breaking trials of novel gene therapies for haemophilia A, including
 targeting of anti-thrombin with RNAi (NEJM 2017), and viral delivery of factor VII (NEJM 2018,
 2020). Warner studied platelet lifespan relevant to thrombotic and bleeding pathologies (BHF
 programme, £0.85M; Blood 2014).

 Trauma and Critical Care. We established the Centre for Trauma Sciences in 2012, with initial
 support from Barts Charity (£3.6M). This has made a major clinical impact on trauma-associated
 coagulopathy (Brohi, PLoS Med 2017) and understanding of platelet function in trauma (PNAS
 2019), which changed NICE guidelines on trauma (see Impact statement). Recently, we
 discovered immunological changes in the early response to trauma leading to MRC funding (£1M,
 Brohi, Pennington; 2019-2022). We are now testing an adenosine agonist to improve the early
 vascular response to trauma funded by the US Department of the Army ($1.3M). To capitalise on
 this, we launched a new research theme in Critical Care & Perioperative Medicine and appointed
 Ackland (NIHR Advanced Fellowship £1.5M) to enhance our epidemiology and clinical trials
 research in this area. This should make a difference to the care of 300 million surgical patients
 worldwide per year (Pearse; JAMA 2014; Lancet 2018, 2019).

 Major grants include CRYOSTAT-2 (NIHR HTA & Barts Charity, £2.4M, 2017-2021), MODET
 focusing on trauma in the elderly (Dunhill Medical Trust, £236K, 2016-2019), and the repurposing
 of artesunate (Brohi, Thiemermann; Wellcome Translational Award, £758K, 2015-2018).

 Neuroscience. Our neuro-inflammation research has made advances in multiple sclerosis
 (Giovannoni, Baker, Schmierer), neurodegeneration (Malaspina, Sheer), and brain and spinal cord
 injury (Yip, Michael-Titus, Shah). Funding includes £1M from Nutricia Research (Michael-Titus; J
 Neurosci 2015; Hum Mol Genetics 2019) and the Motor Neurone Disease Association where
 Malaspina is a partner in the EU project MIROCLAS (£673K; Malaspina, Lancet Neurol 2015). In
 a major success, Schmierer and Giovannoni repurposed Cladribine to delay or arrest multiple

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sclerosis progression (NIHR £2.5M; NEJM 2017). Nizetic (Nat Comms 2014, Wellcome
 Collaborative Award £577K) focuses on the genetics of Down’s syndrome associated with
 neurological phenotypes.

 Endocrinology. At QM, we have adult and paediatric endocrine centres linked to the Barts
 Endocrine Centre, offering a tremendous platform for life-course endocrine research linked to the
 UK’s largest endocrine tumour programme. This has enabled discoveries of new genes for
 neuroendocrine tumour syndromes (Korbonits, PNAS 2018), delayed puberty (Dunkel, Embo Mol
 Med 2016; Hum Mol Gen 2019), short stature (Storr, NIHR Advanced Fellowship £1.8M), familial
 pituitary adenoma and adrenal deficiency (Metherell, J Clin Invest 2017). Our research into growth
 disorders resulted in us leading the development of the NICE guidelines on the management of
 adult growth hormone deficiency.

 Therapeutic Innovation in Inflammation. We developed reparative programmes for the
 osteoarthritic joint (Dell’Accio, Ann Rheum Dis 2015, 2016, 2017; Science Transl Med 2020;
 Perretti, Science Transl Med 2015). We have led research into the mechanisms of vascular
 (Nourshargh, J Exp Med 2014, Immunity 2015, 2018, Blood 2016), cardiac (Marelli-Berg, Longhi,
 Hobbs, Ahluwalia, Immunity 2017, Circulation 2019, J Clin Invest 2017) gut and infection
 associated inflammation (Perretti, PNAS 2014; Embo Mol Med 2015; Dalli, Nature Med 2015; J
 Exp Med 2015; Norling, J Clin Invest Insight 2016; Montero-Melendez, Nature Comms 2020).
 Therapeutic strategies are now in phase I and phase II clinical trials (SynAct Pharma AS) and QM-
 owned IP of an annexi peptide is being developed with ResoTher Pharma for myocardial infarct,
 with Phase I studies planned for Q4 2021.

 E) Population Health Research
 Building on the international renown of the Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine (WIPM) we
 created the Institute for Population Health Sciences to harness strengths in preventive medicine,
 primary care, mental health, public and global health (in UoA2 return). Here we highlight our
 preventive medicine research, screening and public health relevant for the UoA1 return.

 Cancer Prevention and Risk Reduction: Cuzick leads the International Breast Cancer
 Intervention study. In the IBIS1 Trial, he demonstrated that women treated with tamoxifen for five
 years had a 30% reduction in breast cancer risk for at least 10 years (Lancet 2015). Cuzick
 coordinated 25 international centres in the IBIS-II trial of breast cancer recurrence (Cuzick £10M,
 CRUK, Astra Zeneca and Sanofi) showing that anastrazole reduced risk (Lancet 2014).
 Subsequently he established the long-term effectiveness of tamoxifen in preventing recurrence in
 both pre- and post-menopausal women, as well as the superior efficacy and safety of anastrozole
 in post-menopausal women at increased risk (Lancet 2014). This changed NICE and international
 guidelines for clinical practice (Cuzick; Lancet Oncol 2015). Anastrozole was more effective than
 tamoxifen for preventing cancer recurrence in women with receptor-positive ductal carcinoma in
 situ (Sestak; Lancet 2016).

 Cancer Screening and Risk Reduction: At QM Duffy coordinates the Policy Research Unit in
 Cancer Awareness, Screening and Early Diagnosis, with seven institutions (QM, UCL, KCL,
 LSHTM, Hull York Medical School and Durham) to inform policies for breast, bowel and cervical
 screening programmes (Duffy, NIHR £8M, renewed £5M to 2023). Work led by Duffy and funded
 by the Policy Research Unit has shown screening for ductal in situ breast cancer is clinically useful
 (Lancet Oncol 2016). We demonstrated that mammography in 40 year olds could reduce mortality
 from breast cancer (Cuzick, Lancet Oncol 2015). We played a key role in establishing Human
 Papilloma Virus (HPV) identification and vaccination as the most effective method for primary

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prevention of cervical cancer and have demonstrated the greater efficacy of a 9-valent HPV
 vaccine (Cuzick; NEJM 2015).

 In women’s health, Thornton investigated the use of risk assessment, oxytocin antagonists and
 progesterone in preterm labour or preeclampsia (NIHR EME £1.7M; Lancet 2016). An
 assessment was undertaken (NIHR Health Technology Assessment £1.3M) to investigate the
 cost-effectiveness and impact of management for those who plan, provide or receive care from
 the NHS and social care services. Women’s Health research brings together basic biology
 (Nadkarni, PNAS 2016) with translational work effected through experimental medicine
 (Ahluwalia, J Clin Invest 2017) and pragmatic trials (Iliodromiti [UoA2]).

 To complement the excellence in cancer and cardiovascular (Cuzick, Duffy and Wald) disease
 prevention, we were awarded £1.5m from the Barts Charity to establish a unit focused on the
 prevention of chronic neurological diseases, including Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis and
 Dementia. This is Centre is led by new recruits Noyce (Lancet Neurol 2019, JAMA Neurol 2019),
 Dobson (Neurology 2019) and Marshall (Brain 2019).

 Over this REF period, we established a highly successful global health research portfolio with
 awards of more than £33M. This is outlined in UoA2 and not further discussed here, apart from
 the work of Bourke (Wellcome Dale Fellow; Science Transl Med 2019), who described the impact
 of malnutrition on the immune-activation status in pregnant mothers in Zimbabwe, and Kelly who
 investigated malnutrition and HIV in Zambia (Gates Foundation £2.25M, MRC Programme £3.6M;
 EBiomedicine 2017).

 1B-2. Strategic investment into multi-disciplinary research and supporting infrastructure
 Our major research themes were supported and expanded by establishing cross-cutting activities,
 namely: Genomic Medicine, Functional Genomics, and Post-Genomic Phenotyping. We have
 invested in posts and infrastructure to support these cross-disciplinary activities.

 QM have invested in new facilities for a phospho-proteomic Unit (more than £1M; Cutillas, Sci Cell
 2014; Nature Biotech 2020) and established a Lipid Mediator Unit (£1.2M). The investment in
 facilities and academics have enabled two QM spin-out companies Kinomica™ and
 Resolomics™. Our investment in advanced multi-photon microscopy was used by Nourshargh to
 attract Rot a new Wellcome Investigator and renew her Wellcome Investigator Award. We also
 enhanced our imaging infrastructure at the Barts Heart Centre to create the largest cardiac
 imaging centre in Europe and are completing a new capital fit-out of the EU and Charles Wolfson
 funded Device innovation centre (£3.75M), stimulating new Small Medium Enterprise and
 MedTech industry investment in the UK.

 We decided to strengthen our international leadership in genomic medicine by hosting Genomics
 England in prime medical school space, offering faculty positions to new scientists and seconding
 key staff to deliver on time and target the 100,000 Genomes Project (see above). This led to new
 faculty and investment in our Genome Centre (£300K). We also expanded our depth in functional
 genomics with epigenetics, chromatin biology and gene editing (Rakyan, Science 2016;
 Madapura, Nature Genetics 2016, 2018; Branco; Dev Cell 2016, Nature Comms 2018; Lin; Ficz,
 Nature Comms 2017). As a result of our research asset base, the Beijing Genome Institute has
 invested £15M over 5 years in a UK Headquarters in the QM BioIncubator.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1B-3. Development of Impact Cases with acquisition of evidence
 QM is one of the few universities to have a permanent impact team (see REF5a), which supports
 every stage of the research lifecycle, from planning to evidence gathering. Impact is critical to our
 future success to promote our research to expert and non-expert audiences. In 2017, QM
 appointed a Deputy Vice Principal for Research Impact (Datta), with strategic oversight of impact
 across the university. In Sept 2016, SMD appointed a Deputy Dean for Research Impact (Prof
 Steph Taylor) with strategic oversight who was supported by a Faculty Impact Officer and Institute
 academic impact leads who identify academics and projects for support and development. To
 maximise the acquisition of data and evidence for impact, we funded a post in our Health
 Economics Research Group (UoA2) who provides data on cost effectiveness and wealth
 generation.

 Training in Impact for staff and Students. PhD students have a dedicated QM-wide ‘Impact
 Day’ in year 2 to facilitate sharing of best practice in impact generation, communication and
 evidence gathering. The Impact Academic Leads have been trained to assess impact
 opportunities and provide feedback and support to study authors, ensuring appropriate
 development in each case. This provides inter-disciplinary input and assessment across the whole
 SMD, with regular input and support from the larger QM Impact Team.

 Below, we present three exemplars out of eleven impact cases returned to UoA1:

 Primary human papillomavirus testing. Cytological cervical screening, introduced in Britain in
 1988, led to a 60-70% reduction in cervical cancer mortality. In an extensive body of work
 published since 2003, Cuzick has driven the decision to replace cytological with the more effective
 primary HPV screening. As a result, programmes to convert to primary HPV cervical screening
 are recommended in the 2015 European Guidelines and are being introduced around the world
 (Turkey 2014, Netherlands and Australia 2017, across the UK 2020). Our analyses indicate that
 HPV primary screening in the NHS will prevent around 600 new cases of cervical cancer every
 year.

 Better management of Chronic Hepatitis C. Pivotal trials led by or involving Foster identified
 effective hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatments which are now recommended in international
 guidelines. He demonstrated the aggressive nature of genotype 3 HCV and the poor therapeutic
 response in cirrhosis, leading him to establish bespoke, successful treatments. In England, with
 Foster as national lead, this led to an Expanded Access Programme followed by general access.
 The policy is the largest NHS investment in specialist services and involves 22 networks managing
 more than 50,000 patients. The Public Health England HCV annual report 2019 indicates a fall in
 deaths and transplants due to HCV of 16% and 53%, respectively. Foster’s work is pivotal for the
 WHO target to eliminate HCV by 2030.

 Trauma-Induced Coagulopathy and Major Trauma Haemorrhage. Brohi has led efforts to
 define the mechanisms of Trauma-Induced Coagulopathy and improved our understanding of why
 patients succumb to organ failure after severe injury. His team led the development of a damage
 control resuscitation strategy, including a massive haemorrhage protocol or ‘Code Red’, adopted
 by all 23 major-trauma centres in England. At Barts Health Trauma Centre, implementation
 reduced mortality rates from bleeding by 20.5% between 2014 and 2017.

 1B-4 Public and patient engagement at Queen Mary
 QM has a long history of commitment to public engagement having started life as the People's
 Palace, in 1887 to provide culture, entertainment and education in East London. As one of the

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 most diverse universities in the UK, we prize our engagement and involvement with our diverse
 community of 97 nations. We have strong relationships with local schools (St Pauls Way, the
 Drapers Academy in Harold Hill), inspiring the next generation of learners. The Centre for Public
 Engagement was founded as part of an RCUK Catalyst award in 2012 to embed and sustain
 public engagement at QM (more details in REF5a). Below are activities specific for clinical
 medicine.

 The Centre of the Cell is an informal science learning centre and is the first in the world to be
 located within a working biomedical research laboratory It aims to improve the educational, career
 and health choices of children, young people and families. The Founder and Director, Balkwill, is
 a leading cancer researcher and science communication expert. In 2018/19, the Centre of the Cell
 delivered 24,957 individual experiences to young people, their families and members of the public,
 representing a major portal for public engagement for the Life Sciences at QM, with activities
 including an immersive digital interactive cell biology experience, live science shows, workshops,
 debates, science talks, on-line and card games. All activities are developed in collaboration with
 researchers, providing unique and cutting-edge content. Since 2013, there have been
 over 155,000 participants in the Centre’s activities and 207,000 since its opening in 2009. Our
 website had 100 million+ hits from over 160 countries and we have produced four free science
 Apps with 8810 downloads to date and four different Trumps card games (Cell, Virus, Bacteria
 and Gene) with thousands of sets sold or distributed free to young people. In 2016, the Centre
 received an Excellence with Impact commendation from BBSRC for having developed and
 delivered a vision for maximising impact, outstanding practice and institution-wide culture change.

 In 2019, the Centre of the Cell expanded with the creation of Neuron-Pod (awarded a
 Commendation in the 2019 National Structural Steel Design Awards): a striking 10-metre high
 free-standing external structure providing over 80m2 space, connected via a footbridge to the
 original Centre. With Neuron-Pod, we augment and diversify activities in public engagement and
 increase participant numbers. An example is the music meets science series. Since the pandemic
 lockdown, the Centre of the Cell has continued to engage via social media and monthly
 newsletters. The team introduced 'science at home' activity sheets and developed a new science
 show, The Neuron Show, with input from SMD neuroscientists. Support has continued for our
 Youth Members (128 active members at present) with online monthly newsletters and video
 content for Instagram TV. This provides advice for university applications and a personal
 statement feedback service.

 Our medical and dental students interact with the local school children of East London through
 mentorships where they encourage and inspire children into higher education. Medical students
 also work part-time as Centre of the cell explainers, providing it with a flexible workforce, which
 improves the communication skills and disposable income of our medical and dental students
 (students can also access hardship funds from The Medical College of Saint Bartholomew's
 Hospital Trustees).

 The Barts Pathology Museum. In 1879, the Prince of Wales, who later became Edward VII,
 opened the Grade-II listed museum which has offered training to generations of medical students
 for over 100 years. It contains over 5,000 medical specimens, representing a wide range of
 medical conditions through the ages. With support from the Medical College of Saint
 Bartholomew's Hospital Trustees, the Museum continues to exhibit specimens. An ongoing project
 is using smart phone technology to enhance engagement by bringing specimens to life through
 videos and graphics on visitors’ phones.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School Work Experience Schemes. Marshall, Bishop, and Ahluwalia have hosted the Science
 Training for Aspiring Research Scientists (STARS) programme since 2013. Year 12 students
 spend one week in July doing cellular and molecular biology experiments and experiencing
 different biomedical careers. They have contact with patient volunteers from the TrialsConnect
 community who take part in trials and interact with national research initiatives (such as the
 100,000 Genomes Project). With support from Barts City Lifesavers, everyone leaves with certified
 key life-saving skills. BCI and Centre of the Cell presented at the 2016 Royal Society Summer
 Exhibition, where around 14,000 people visited the stand on cancer cells and their environment.

 Training and engagement in cancer medicine and research for the public is done with VOICE, a
 Patient Advocate training course (Marshall, Grose, Jones). This is a residential course and
 students (who are cancer patients, former patients or family members of patients with cancer)
 learn about cancer and clinical trials. The teaching and training is targeted to students who have
 no prior basic scientific knowledge and morning lectures are complemented by afternoons in the
 laboratory.

 Pint of Science. Our students run the “Pint of Science”, an international science festival involving
 40 UK universities. This is run in an informal social setting, bringing QM scientists and the public
 together to discuss research.

 There are numerous smaller events for public and patient engagement. Examples are: (i) As part
 of our cardiovascular research outreach, we hosted a Myocarditis Day for patients; (ii) In 2017,
 the BHF Ambassador, the Duchess of York met our leading BHF-funded researchers; (iii) Marelli-
 Berg received the BHF Heart Hero award for science communication, demonstrating the
 effectiveness of our staff in engaging the public in complex science; (iv) The TrialsConnect Covid-
 19 website was used to improve understanding of Covid trials; (v) Through CiTI we organised
 ‘BBQ in the CiTI’ attended by patients and their families affected by musculoskeletal disease.

 1C. Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 1C-1 Research.
 A) Queen Mary’s future strategic aims and plans for research and impact
 The Queen Mary Strategy 2030 outlines our ambition to be the most inclusive university creating
 opportunity for all. We aim to attract and retain top class researchers and ensure their outputs are
 world leading and impactful on health, wealth and society. Research Impact is now embedded in
 everything we do at QM to ensure we maximise the value of our research at every opportunity
 (see assessing impact). In spite of the challenging economic climate, we will expand our
 contribution to the UK Life Sciences Strategy through clinical medicine research and training at
 our Whitechapel and Barts/Charterhouse Square Campus sites. We will focus on our strengths
 and continue our major upward trajectory in cardiovascular, cancer, genomics, inflammation and
 population sciences.

 B) Barts Life Sciences
 Post-Brexit and post-Covid, we are convinced that Life Sciences and the university ecosystem will
 continue to have a major role in stimulating international exchange, practising science without
 borders, stimulating inward investment and attracting talent. These will be vital to the UK’s global
 leadership in clinical medicine research. We are determined to rise to the challenge and with Barts
 Health we have created Barts Life Sciences (BLS) with clinical medicine research opportunities
 for an immediate population of 2.5 million people from 97 Nations.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The current status of Barts Life Sciences: We have partnered with the DHSC (investment
 £80M) and Tower Hamlets to develop a major inner London Life Sciences envelope of 1.5 million
 square feet, rejuvenating the land vacated by the old Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel. We
 will facilitate academic-industry-NHS, linking with our diverse local community who are typically
 under-represented in research. In tandem, we are master-planning the estates needs at the
 Barts/Charterhouse Square Campus where in 2023 we will celebrate the 900 years of clinical
 medicine and research for patient benefit at St Bartholomew’s Hospital and will launch a major
 appeal in May 2021. Our BLS strategy focuses on a £600M expansion in multi-disciplinary
 biomedical life sciences faculty, research and training with embedded QM and Barts Health
 facilities around which we will attract cognate companies. To kick start this development, the
 DHSC are planning to invest £10M in a 25,000 square feet new Bio-incubator to add to the 40,000
 square feet of space offered by QM Bio-innovation already full and on-site. As an early sign of
 success, the Beijing Genome Institute have made a £15M investment over 5 years to create their
 UK headquarters at the QM Bio-incubator based on our genomics strength and planned
 development in Life Sciences.

 Focus on Precision Digital Healthcare: This major strategic initiative will open new vistas on
 biology by integrating digital precision healthcare into our diverse community. We will build on our
 recent successes in mobilising electronic health data for Covid in Barts Health and Primary Care
 through the DISCOVERY dataset which reaches across 2.5m people. We will form global
 academic, industry and healthcare partnerships to ensure that the UK remains at the leading edge
 of clinical medicine research. A major advantage of the Barts Life Sciences partnership will be that
 precision medicine healthcare can be rapidly undertaken with one of the largest Trusts in Europe
 to accelerate the pace of healthcare transformation.

 Realising the BLS ambition: We will capitalise upon our extant research strengths in
 cardiovascular, cancer, genomics, inflammation and population health through research hubs built
 on inter-disciplinary excellence in digital health, data, precision-omics, advanced medical
 technologies and advanced analytics. These hubs fit with key areas identified by the UK Life
 Sciences Strategy and will catalyse further funding opportunities and produce outputs in areas
 that match our clinical medicine excellence.

 Initial investment and expected impact: As an initial commitment to Barts Life Sciences QM
 has invested in a new cross-faculty Digital Environment Research Institute and refurbished 2500
 square metres of space for artificial intelligence and advanced analytics. This links with our
 potential investment of up to £120M for a new building as part of the Digital Precision Health vision
 for Barts Life Sciences. This expansion in our clinical medicine research will be used to take a
 once in a lifetime opportunity to develop the latest digital precision healthcare, securing health
 gains and equity in life expectancy for a community set to expand by 29% in the next 15 years.
 Our goal is to build on our existing healthcare datasets and be in the vanguard of national plans
 to assemble well curated, linked datasets across the entire NHS for patient benefit.

 Future opportunities: Recently, we have been approached by Canary Wharf Group, property
 developers who created the second largest financial centre in the world. They wish to partner Barts
 Life Sciences to develop up to 3 million square feet of estate on the Isle of Dogs (4 minutes from
 Whitechapel by Crossrail). With external market testing we are evaluating the potential of this
 partnership which with Barts Life Sciences existing footprint could propel the UK into the top three
 for Life Science estate in the world. External benchmarking suggests that the development will
 create 12,000 life science posts and the gross value added is £12 billion over the next 30 years.


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 QM’s Post-REF 2021 Plans: We intend to expand our research to a population of 6m. We will
 routinely offer patients the opportunity to participate in longitudinal life course studies, combining
 routine tests, data from wearables, remote sensing, digital pathology, imaging, and multi-omic
 repositories. Barts Life Sciences will make these real-world precision datasets available to
 academia and industry for digital trials and will use the scale of our data assets to select niche
 populations for accelerated trials enrolment. We will expand our clinical trials research, building
 from our top decile position for commercial studies, our world number one position for the QM-
 UCLP Prime Site trials hub and our position as the top recruiter in the world for the Janssen Covid
 Vaccine trial. We will incorporate our regulatory and governance success in moving at speed and
 pace in Covid-19 trails to ensure that we can do the same for clinical studies post-Covid.

 New multidisciplinary strengths Post-REF2021. We will embed new multi-disciplinary cross-
 cutting themes across all areas of strength outlined above. These are ‘environment and health’,
 ‘life-long health and multimorbidity” and ‘crisis prevention and management’.

 Our work in Environment and Health and the future aims are provided in UoA2 and so are not
 described further here. We reason that research into multi-morbidity (Life-long Health) is crucial in
 view of the aging population and the complexity of chronic conditions. As such, an integrated
 approach is required, bringing together discovery science with translation, complementing new
 therapies with changes in lifestyle and nutrition. Our strategy dovetails with Barts NHS Trust’s plan
 to open a new Hospital at Whipps Cross. It is anticipated that this will be a beacon hospital leading
 academic developments in multimorbidity, with a focus on ageing, diabetes, mental health and
 obesity will be investigated.

 For Crisis Prevention and Management, our vision is to build on trauma and critical care by
 bringing together resilience, social health care and social sciences. A crisis is a time of intense
 difficulty or danger: but it also represents a moment of opportunity. Disasters can be
 environmental, medical, humanitarian, economic; they can relate to individuals, to specific
 communities, to populations, from local to global scale, and they can often be intersectional across
 these disciplines. Their effects can have catastrophic consequences for individuals, organisations,
 corporations and entire societies. While often experienced as unexpected, unprecedented events,
 these ‘black swans’ can be planned for, avoided, mitigated and effectively managed, often with
 positive outcomes. We will work closely with Barts NHS, East-London Foundation Trusts and the
 London Air Ambulance to create a multi-pronged research environment that can provide fresh
 inter-disciplinary solutions to the complex challenges of disaster and crisis management.

 We intend to pursue centre status across our key areas of excellence, expanding emerging areas
 such as cardiac inflammation and hepatology. In cardiac inflammation, we will build on the BHF
 Accelerator Award to secure a BHF Centre of Excellence. We will develop new diagnostics and
 therapeutic tools to transform the treatment of heart conditions, from myocarditis to inflammatory-
 dilated cardiomyopathies. We have already established collaborations with leaders (J Hill, Dallas,
 and G Condorelli, Humanitas) in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. We will continue to
 align with the Barts Heart Centre strategy to improve clinical care. We will investigate
 opportunities for the Barts Liver Centre, leveraging strategic funding for translational and clinical
 research in hepatitis B, C and HIV (Foster, Orkin, Kennedy), which will enable impact locally,
 nationally and internationally (with Kelly, in Zambia). We have commenced capacity building in
 this area following the recent award of a competitive bid for £1.5M from Barts Charity.



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In population health, we plan to capitalise on our successful prevention work in cancer and
 cardiovascular disease to develop the Neurology Prevention Unit and the pharmacological
 prevention theme. We will build on our ongoing work, such as that on aspirin (led by Cuzick), to
 develop pharmaco-prevention trials to understand how aspirin prevents colorectal, oesophageal
 and gastric cancers. We will also expand our work on vitamin D in tuberculosis and respiratory
 medicine (Martineau [UoA2]) to ensure that prophylactic pharmacological interventions (e.g.
 Vitamin D, Aspirin, Omega-3) are applied to benefit patients affected by chronic diseases.

 1C-2 Research Integrity.
 To implement the highest standards, we appointed (2019) Professor Grigg as Deputy Dean for
 Research Integrity who provides mentorship for researchers and advice on general research
 integrity training including the use of the educational resources of UK’s Research Integrity Office.
 The SMD’s research integrity website links to relevant protocols and the UUK Concordat, a blog
 by the Deputy Dean for Research Integrity, and individual contact details for integrity enquiries.
 QM’s clinical trial transparency is very good, with 94% of our European Union Clinical Trials
 Registered (EUCTR) studies reported in 2019 (EU Trials Tracker). We have developed the
 infrastructure for researchers to upload individual data supporting published studies to our publicly
 available Research Information Management System (Elements/QM PubLists). We are committed
 to developing an audit and reproducibility culture for both clinical and non-clinical research and to
 uphold the Hong Kong principals for assessing researchers fostering a culture of research
 integrity. Seminar series are delivered for PhD students (3 times per year from the Deputy Dean
 for Post-Graduate Research and Deputy Dean for Research Integrity) and there is a research
 integrity workshop for senior academics (twice per year, alternate on our two campuses).



 2. People

 2A. Academic Staff

 Strategic staff recruitment and development.
 Post-REF2014 we embarked on an ambitious recruitment process to accelerate capacity in clinical
 medicine funded by QM strategic and external funds (CRUK, BHF, UKRI, Versus Arthritis,
 Wellcome). Where possible, we support researchers from PhD through to Chair level. We
 increased the quality and critical mass in our targeted research themes and attracted 34 early-
 career (Lecturer/Senior Lecturer) and 18 senior academic (Reader/Chair) appointments with
 academic posts for our successful fellows expanding our return by 77 FTE.

 Strategic success with Early Career Researchers: For REF2014, we undertook an early-
 career-researcher recruitment programme and 14 out of the 18 now have tenured academic posts
 funded mainly through external grants. Based on this success, we won an award from the Barts
 Charity (Perretti, Kelsell, Thornton; £6.2M, 2018) for our Rising Stars Scheme to recruit 15 Young
 Investigators. These were provided with a £350-400k package over 3 years to cover salary and a
 flexible funding allowance. Each fixed-term lectureship has a supervisor and a mentor (identified
 by their track record for nurturing emerging talent). Below we summarise some of the outputs of
 these achievements.

 We recruited 2 Wellcome Trust Royal Society Henry Dale Fellows (Horejsi, Cell Rep 2014; Dalli,
 J Exp Med 2014) and an MRC Career Development Fellow (Mardakheh, Dev Cell 2015),
 augmenting our capability for post-genomic phenotyping. In genomic medicine, we appointed

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Traylor (BMJ 2018; Nature Genetics 2019), Barbosa (UKRI Rutherford Fellow, Nucleic Acid Res
 2014) and Gurdasani (UKRI Rutherford Fellow; Nature 2016; Cell 2019). In functional genomics,
 Madapura (Lecturer; Nature Genetics 2016, 2018), Cerase (Lecturer funded by the Rett Syndrome
 Trust funding; Science 2017) and Villar Lozano (BHF Fellowship; J Clin Invest 2017). Through our
 partnership with Genomics England, we recruited Smedley (promoted from Senior Lecturer to
 Professor, Science Transl Med 2015; Nature Protocol 2015; Nature Genetics 2017) and appointed
 Moutsianis to a senior lecturership (Nature Genetics 2015, 2017).

 In inflammation, we recruited Henson (Lecturer promoted to Reader; Nature Immunol 2014; J Clin
 Invest 2014; Cell Rep 2016) and Dufton (Lecturer; Nature Comms 2018, 2019). Our strategy
 attracted Maillard (UKRI Future Leadership Fellow £1.5M; Embo J 2016), Rowe (ERC Starter
 Grant; J Cell Biol 2016; Embo Report 2018, Nature Comms 2020), Chambers (J Allergy and
 Clinical Immunology x2), Subramanian (Cell 2017; Circ Res 2015; J Clin Invest 2014) and Abdul-
 Salaam (Circulation 2014; Circ Res 2019) for work on cardiac inflammation.

 In cancer with £10M from the Barts Charity, we recruited two lecturers (Stojic and Rouault-Pierre;
 Nature Comms 2015, 2017; Leukaemia 2017, 2019) and a senior lecturer (Finch; PLoS Genetics
 2019) to enhance our research in cancer metabolism, tumour microenvironment and tumour
 targeting. Our Early Career Researcher (ECR) programme recruited cancer scientists with high
 impact papers; Ganuza (Nature Cell Biol 2017), Bellelli (Cell 2018), Ombrato (Nature 2019),
 Werner (Nature Genet 2016), Keklikoglou (Nature Cell Biol 2019) and Efremova (Nature 2018;
 Nature Comms 2018). We recruited a CRUK Clinician Scientist (Okosun; Nature Genetics 2016)
 and a Wellcome Clinician Scientist (Riches; Blood 2014).

 We invested in preventive medicine and created the Neurology Prevention Unit with Noyce (Senior
 Lecturer; Lancet Oncol 2016; Neurology 2017) and Marshall (Senior Lecturer; JAMA Neurol 2019;
 Brain 2019). We attracted Rognoni (Embo Fellowship; Nature Med 2014; Nature Cell Biol 2017)
 and, in 2019, Raimondi (BHF Intermediate Fellowship; J Exp Med 2014).

 Ackland enhanced our links with critical care (Reader to Professor; WHRI; NIHR Advanced
 Fellowship £1.5M and held the British Oxygen Chair of Anaesthesia for the Royal College of
 Anaesthetists; Lancet Respir Med 2015; Nature Comms 2017). In paediatric endocrinology, Storr
 increased capacity in growth paediatric endocrine disorders (NIHR Advanced Fellowship £1.8M).
 In 2018, McCormick (Senior Lecturer; J Neurosci 2014, 2015; PLoS Biol 2015) brought expertise
 in molecular pharmacology and cell biology.

 New professorial appointments: We appointed several new cardiovascular chairs and groups
 attracting Brown (NIHR EME grant; Lancet 2015 x2, NEJM 2015; Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol
 2016) from Cambridge in 2015. In 2017, we appointed Baumbach from Bristol, Lansky from Yale
 (joint papers; Lancet 2015, 2018; Eur Heart J 2015) to cement a new partnership with Yale in
 cardiovascular devices. We appointed Eaton, a European Research Council Fellow, an MRC and
 BHF programme Grant Holder a leader in cardiovascular redox research (Nature Comms 2015,
 2016; JCI 2015; Circulation 2017). To create a new inflammation partnership with Humanitas
 University in Milan, we appointed Mantovani (Nature 2017; Cell 2019) and created a new Versus
 Arthritis Chair for Rot (Wellcome Investigator; Nature Immunology 2014, 2017). In cancer, we
 appointed Schmid (Lancet Onc 2016; J Clin Onc 2016; NEJM 2018). With £10m (Barts Charity)
 for new professorial appointments we recruited Sanz-Moreno (Nature Comms 2014, 2018; Cell
 2019) and Kamil Kranc (J Exp Med 2015, 2017; Blood 2016). These chairs brought programme
 funding from CRUK, BHF, NIHR and MRC and a senior European Research Council (ERC)
 fellowship.

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mentorship.
 For all QM recruits, and especially our ECR community, a supportive mentorship programme has
 been developed. This includes supervision from within and outside the host Institute. Grant peer-
 review processes are in place within each Institute and support is provided by the Doctoral
 College. White board events and group/institute seminars provide an opportunity to develop
 research projects and publications. We support early career researchers via grant-writing clinics,
 fellowship application mentoring and mock-interviews from experienced staff. The Barts Academy,
 created by MacDonald and Sheer in 2014 for the first intake of ECRs, acts a forum for mentorship,
 away-days, training events and enhances peer-to-peer interaction. Over 50 fellows, lecturers and
 ECRs contribute to the activities of the Academy.

 Successful examples of our mentorship are Wellcome Royal Society Dale fellowships for Branco
 (Dev Cell 2016; Nature Comms 2018) and Bourke (Science Transl Med 2019) and an MRC Career
 Development Fellowship for McCarthy (J Clin Invest 2015). MRC New Investigator Research
 Grants (NIRG) have been awarded to Aksoy (Cell 2019), Godinho (Nature 2014; PNAS 2015) and
 Nightingale (J Cell Sci 2017). Guasti (Embo Mol Med 2016;) and O’Loghlen (Cell Rep 2017) won
 BBSRC New Investigator Research Grants. Godinho won the Lister Prize in 2016 and Ganuza an
 MRC Career Development fellowship (£1.5M).

 We believe that mentoring and developing talent is key to future success. This has led to multiple
 PhD students winning funding, such as the Versus Arthritis Foundation Fellowship, BHF
 Intermediate fellowship, and the Sir Henry Wellcome Fellowships. The support of our mid-career
 fellowship staff is evidenced by the Versus Arthritis Career Development Fellowships for Norling
 (JCI Insight 2016), Voisin (J Ex Med 2014), and Corsiero (Ann Rheum Dis 2016). BHF
 Intermediate Fellowships have been awarded to Longhi (PLoS Biol 2014; Cell Metabolism 2017),
 Nadkarni (PNAS 2016), Lozano, and Raimondi. Cooper won a Versus Arthritis Career Progression
 Fellowship which we supported with a lectureship (now promoted to senior lecturer). In 2019,
 Norling obtained a Versus Arthritis Senior Fellowship. Pearce (PNAS 2014x2, 2015) obtained a
 CRUK Career Establishment Award. Aksentijivic secured a Wellcome Career Development
 Fellowship (Nature Comms 2020). Graham (ECR recruited in 2013, now promoted to Professor;
 Nature Med 2016; Nature Genetics 2016, 2018) won a Wellcome joint Investigator award. Senior
 academics have won major awards such as Balkwill (Advanced ERC) and Nourshargh (Wellcome
 Investigator; renewed in 2020). Storr and Ackland were awarded NIHR Advanced Fellowships and
 Pearse held an NIHR Professorship.

 Career Development: Our mentoring, grant writing clinics and mock interviews with cross-Institute
 and Research Deanery input (outlined above) have led to major awards. We provide career
 development for all academics and encourage fellowship applications and research council grant
 submissions.

 QM adopted the principles of the Researcher Development Concordat to create a research
 environment and culture that nurtures and promotes our researchers, improving employment
 opportunities and supporting career development. Our support systems have led to an increase
 in successful grant applications which have grown year on year since 2016.

 QM run an annual academic promotion round where applicants are considered on merit based on
 their contribution to research, the institute and faculty. Recognising that there are communities
 within our Faculty who may face additional barriers to progression, we offer promotion workshops
 to aid preparation, and some are specifically for women such as the SMD Women’s Promotions


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops. All provide staff with the information required for promotion. In this UoA, there were
 20 researchers (9 women and 11 men), promoted to senior lecturer, reader or professor in 2020.

 For details on promotion rates and equality please see Section 2C.

 2B. Post-Graduate Students.

 Training future non-clinical and clinician scientists is one of our major goals. At the census date of
 December 2020, there were 545 registered research degree students enrolled in our faculty, of
 which 418 are in UoA1, an overall increase of 53%. There are 17 full time MDRes students, 7 part-
 time MDRes students, 370 full time PhD students and 48 part-time PhD students. Recruitment
 increased by 34% in 2017/18 and 27% in 2018/19 mainly due to Research Council and other
 doctoral training programmes. Approximately 36% of our PGR students are on clinical
 programmes. Increasing PGR numbers has been achieved through matched funding
 opportunities, competing for Doctoral Training Programmes (including Europe) and increasing
 charity funded PhD studentships.

 PhD Programmes: QM co-led an MRC doctoral training programme with Southampton (2015-
 2019; 4 PhD’s per annum in QM of which 2 are faculty funded, plus 2 iCASE places). We have a
 tailored MRes in translational immunology as part of the programme. Our BHF 4-year doctoral
 training programme on cardiac and vascular research was renewed (£6M; 2013-2021) and enrols
 4 students per year (plus a matched student from QM). This has recently been renewed for 2021-
 2025 with 3 studentships and one matched. Through CiTI and a collaboration with UCB Pharma,
 we established a PhD training programme with UCL Partners to support 4-8 PhD’s over 4 years.
 This scheme provides students with experience of therapeutic drug and antibody development It
 also provides industry insight by having a UCB supervisor.                 For clinical PhD’s,
 Yaqoob/Thiemermann (WHRI) created (September 2014) a Barts-HCA Healthcare Clinical
 Fellowship Programme to improve translational research and foster the next generation of
 clinician-scientists. To date, 18 Clinical fellows have entered the programme and studied for a
 MD/PhD, MSc or to enhance their clinical research. This generated income of approximately
 £3.4M for QM. Prendergast (UoA2) is a partner in a Wellcome doctoral training programme on
 Global Health (lead LSHTM), which supported 3 clinical PhDs at QM.

 Clinical training fellows: We attract highly motivated clinicians through MDRes and PhD
 degrees. These contribute to the translation of our basic science to improved clinical care. The
 NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Training Programme (IAT; leads Marino until January 2019
 and then Korbonits with Alazawi) in partnership with Barts Health NHS Trust currently hosts 59
 fellows (43 Academic Clinical Fellows [ACF] and 16 Clinical Lecturers [CL]). Of the ACFs
 appointed between 2006 and 2013, 62% obtained competitive personal fellowships (from MRC,
 Wellcome, CRUK and others) to undertake a higher degree. This is an indication of our strong
 research and training environment. Of the CLs, 86% were research active after completion of
 training, and 61% are currently employed on a substantive clinical academic post or fellowship,
 thus highlighting the high retention rate in academic careers. In addition, the recently awarded
 BHF Accelerator Award provides 1-year seed funding for young clinicians working towards
 Intermediate Fellowships focused on inflammation of the heart.

 Clinical and non-clinical PhD studentships are funded by the Medical College of St Bartholomew’s
 Hospital Trustees and the Barts Charity. For clinical studentships, funding is used to produce
 preliminary data to apply for training fellowships; non-clinical studentships are supported through
 research projects.

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training of PGR Students and The Research Environment. We aim to promote academic
 excellence among our Postgraduate Research Students. Student progression is monitored at 6,
 9 and 30 months, with transfer to write up at 36 months and submission within 48 months. Our 48-
 month SMD submission rate is 88%, above that required by UKRI and the Vitae Concordat. All
 students must complete 70 hours per year of transferable skills training, provided by the QM
 Doctoral College. Students have access to welfare counsellors, careers advice and support for
 wellbeing/mental health issues. They benefit from courses on emotional resilience, survive and
 thrive programmes and our professional pastoral service. All new academics attend a full-day
 Supervisory Training course as part of their formal induction. Experienced supervisors attend a
 refresher course every two years to maintain their knowledge of PhD degree management and
 support services for students and supervisors. Supervisors must meet their students at least 10
 times per year, as per the SMD Code of Practice for PGR Programmes 2019-20, although in
 practice it is much more frequent.

 SMD provides an inclusive environment where diversity is valued and celebrated. 63% of our PGR
 students are women. QM is committed to creating an environment where all students and staff
 are treated with dignity and respect. We have a policy of zero tolerance to bullying to ensure all
 are free from prejudice, discrimination and harassment. Our students are treated fairly and are not
 treated any differently due to age, marital/civil partnership status, gender, gender identity,
 disability, race, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, family circumstances, religious or
 political beliefs. The only consideration must be that the individual is able to satisfy the
 requirements of the programme.

 SMD encourages cross faculty co-operation and supervision. It is estimated that of the full-time
 students submitted under UoA1, 11% will be co-submitted to UoAs 2, 3, 5, 11 and 15. Areas such
 as biomaterials and 3D bio-printing with synthetic organoids offer joint studentships with the
 Faculty of Science and Engineering. Academics working on devices and microfluidics can access
 our BHF studentship programme.

 2C. Equality and diversity

 QM aims to be the most inclusive university of its kind anywhere. As evidence that Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) are central to our values, we introduced new structures and reporting
 lines in 2018. In 2019 a Vice Principal for People, Culture and Inclusion (Sheila Gupta) was
 appointed (see REF5a for EDI activities at the Institutional level) and at faculty-level an EDI group
 (led by Eldridge) takes oversight. This work is supported by a dedicated Athena Swan Co-
 ordinator and data officer.

 Awareness of EDI. Unconscious bias and Active Bystander training are mandatory for all QM
 staff and were reviewed and updated in 2020. We are developing training packages on allyship,
 black history, and terminology, with the aim of providing a range of resources in different media to
 enable staff to progress their knowledge and understanding of EDI. Queen Mary has been a
 partner of the ‘B-Mentor’ scheme since its inception (2012). This is run across four London
 Institutions and is a scheme where senior academics mentor black and ethnic minority academic
 staff.

 Race, equality and protected characteristics. The Faculty EDI group led the following
 initiatives: an action plan following the killing of George Floyd; significant contribution to the
 inclusion of citizenship as a promotion criteria; developing an external speaker series to raise the
 profile of EDI and individuals with protected characteristics within the university community;

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 establishing a well-read monthly newsletter containing links to further reading and resources; a
 research project on attainment gap between Black and ethnic minority and non-BAME students;
 contribution to a QM group focusing on gaining a Race Equality Charter and, linked to this, signing
 the BMA Charter for medical schools to prevent and address racial harassment; and
 recommendations for greater transparency in the membership and terms of boards and
 committees.

 Flexible working at QM. We have well-signposted resources around support for flexible working.
 We have offered (Pre-Covid) support such as funding to support childcare costs for returners to
 attend out of town conferences. Examples are the SMD Travel Grant for PhD students and
 Postdocs and the Financial Assistance Fund (FAF) which provides a non-repayable grant to cover
 childcare costs. A Welfare Advisor is available to provide tailored information. A parents and carers
 network has been established in response to lockdown to provide support and a sense of
 community.

 LGBTQ+ at QM. We funded staff to attend Stonewall training who act as diversity champions
 including highlighting the ‘QMOut’ LGBTQ+ network. Our Athena SWAN Chair (Orkin) is a
 nationally recognised LGBTQ+ role model (Visible Lesbian 100 award 2020, RCP ‘this doctor can’
 LGBTQ+ profile) and President Elect of the Medical Women’s Federation.

 Championing women: At QM, we have a successful Athena SWAN programme and achieved
 Silver status in 2014 and 2017. We made major progress towards addressing the gender pay gap
 through promotion, allowances for leadership roles and supporting Clinical Excellence Award
 applications. Orkin has led two workshops in 2020 and mentored 8 women who applied in this
 round (vs 1 application in 2018 and 2 in 2019).

 Gender balance in UoA1. Since 2014, our targeted interventions achieved an impressive record
 of gender balance for UoA1 staff, and around 45% of our research-intensive professors are women
 compared with 23% across the entire Russell Group. In UoA1, over 50% of research-intensive
 staff at senior lecturer and lecturer level are women. QM offers a range of schemes to support and
 encourage female staff to progress their careers (recruitment and retention initiatives, leadership
 and mentoring).

 Promotion for women in UoA1. For the 2014-2020 period, the promotion scheme (all academic
 levels) saw 106 men and 108 women being promoted, with 31 applications from men and 43 from
 women rejected. Of the successful ones, the split for academic posts is as follows: senior lecturer,
 31 and 46; reader, 37 and 33; professors, 40 and 19, for males and females, respectively. Our
 faculty (Ahluwalia) has led annual reviews of the attainment gap in promotion across the university
 for the past 2 years and initiatives including targeted pathways to promotion workshops for staff
 and more recently the inclusion of Citizenship as criteria for promotion. With leadership from
 Sandra Eldridge (EDI), Chloe Orkin (Athena Swan) and Amrita Ahluwalia (Promotion) we are
 resolving residual discrepancies between junior and senior academic appointments through
 support and mentoring of those with protected characteristics presently underrepresented in our
 faculty.

 QM Women in Leadership. We are committed to recognising successful senior female staff in
 leadership and four of our seven institutes had/have women as director or deputy director 2014-
 2020.



                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3A. Income
 Total grant expenditure in this Unit for the period August 2013-July 2020 was £379M resulting in
 an average research spend of £54.1M per year. The average income per FTE in UoA1 was £1.7M
 for the 7-year period. This represents more than a four-fold increase compared to the REF2014
 submission (£405k/FTE). The corresponding average annual figures are £243k/FTE/year and
 £81k/FTE/year for REF2021 and REF2014, respectively.

 Of the £379M total research income, £64.6M was from UKRI funding (17% of total), £16.8M from
 NIHR (4.4%), £14.7M from the EU (3.8%), and £69.4M (18.3%) from commercial sources. Of the
 latter, 68% was from UK-based companies (£47.1M), reflecting our knowledge exchange activities
 and therapeutic innovation.

 The awards (rather than spend) was £412M over the REF2021 period.

 3B. Infrastructure Investment
 Since REF2014, over £25M has been invested in research buildings and facilities. The University
 provided around £11.7M for a wide range of projects to improve our facilities. A further £14.4M
 was secured through competitive proposals to external funders, including MRC, the Wellcome
 Trust, HEFCE Catalyst Fund, Barts Charity, the European Regional Development Fund, the
 Charles Wolfson Charitable Trust and a number of other Trusts and foundations. Major
 programmes of refurbishment have been undertaken in Whitechapel to create new space for East
 London Genes and Health and our Catalyst Centre (£1.2M internal, plus £4.8M external). The
 Neuron Pod (an extension to the Centre of the Cell, our public engagement flagship) received
 £30K internal and £2M external funding.

 At our Barts/Charterhouse Square campus, circa £3.4M was invested in the John Vane Science
 Centre; £2M in the biological services unit, plus £1.4M in new cryo-store facilities offering safe
 long-term storage of biological samples. In 2017, we leased a further 5000 square feet of space
 for expansion at the Charterhouse Square Campus.

 We capitalised on two £10M awards in cancer and cardiovascular research to provide the
 equipment and capital fit out for new appointments to succeed. In Clinical Research, the new
 Cardiac Devices Hub will be completed shortly with €3M investment secured from the European
 Regional Development Fund. In addition, a programme funded by £6.2M from Barts Charity will
 deliver significant improvements and additional space for new research groups at Charterhouse
 Square. This funding has pump primed the platform for 3 CRUK Centres and an NIHR Biomedical
 Research Centre.

 We have Invested more than £4M in cross-Institute equipment since 2015 (funded by QM and
 Barts Charity). Access to state-of-the-art equipment has enabled cutting-edge research in a
 number of areas. Relevant to UoA1 has been: 1) the Advanced Microscopy Imaging Unit, which
 brings together 81 items of supporting equipment with more than 20 imaging modalities (£3.5M
 between 2016 and 2019) and the CREATE lab, a 3D tissue bio-printing facility (£0.75M QM plus
 0.35M from Barts Charity). Established in 2017, this laboratory brings together bioengineering
 scientists, biomaterial scientists and chemists with SMD researchers to enable research in cancer
 stroma and dermatology, orthopaedics, rheumatology, cardiovascular disease, dentistry and
 trauma.


                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support our wet laboratory-based scientists, we invested more than £2M into the newly
 refurbished Biological Service Units. We augmented our phenotyping capabilities in preclinical
 settings, by investing a further £200K into a new echo for rodents, more than £300K into metabolic
 phenotyping facilities (Phenomaster and Fat Echo-MRI; QM and William Harvey Foundation
 Award) and a two-photon microscope. The microscope was funded by Wellcome and BHF
 although we provided a technical manager and other instruments for animal imaging. Our goal is
 to compare and contrast animal with human phenotypes leading to advances in understanding
 clinical issues.

 In order to support cross-cutting activities we have upgraded the infrastructure for the our Genome
 Centre (more than £300K investment including the purchase of a single cell analyser). We have
 invested around £1M into a proteomics and phosphor-proteomic Unit for cell and molecular
 biology, including the analysis of drug pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, protein
 composition and structure, post-translational protein modifications and enzymatic activity. In 2018,
 a metabolic flux machine was purchased for £0.5M to support phenotyping and metabolism which
 emerged as a cross cutting research theme. In 2015, we established a cross-cutting Lipid Mediator
 Unit equipped with state-of-the-art liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry to identify
 and quantify bioactive lipid mediators, their precursors and pathway markers in biological systems.
 QM invested £0.75M, Barts Charity £0.5M and additional equipment was funded by an ERC
 Starting Award.

 These examples illustrate our strategic support for existing areas of strength and how we have
 developed cross-institute facilities to promote collaboration and efficiency.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4A. Academic Partnerships.
 QM has a clear strategic approach to collaborative academic and healthcare partnerships at
 international, national, regional and local level. In the post Brexit era, we hold the view that to
 enhance the UK’s position in global medical research and retain the outstanding international
 faculty we have attracted, we must form international alliances and partnerships that allow QM
 and UK Universities to continue to conduct science without borders. Our partnerships are all
 designed to deliver important biological insights that change healthcare, society, the economy and
 benefit the partners (better together). Though EU-funded consortia, Marie Curie Fellowships and
 Marie Curie Innovative Training Networks (involving over 40 academics in UoA1) we have
 established productive links with several HEIs in Europe and we have a medical school in Malta.
 Below we describe partnerships that are new or extant over the REF period and for each illustrate
 the benefits

 4B. International, National and Regional Partnerships
 At QM, we have a Vice Principal (VP) for International and Global Partnerships (Grant) and at the
 Faculty level we have a Dean for International (Leigh [UoA3]) and an Executive Board that
 oversees and examines all strategic partnerships.

 QM leadership in the Global Alliance for Genomic Health (GA4GH): Building on Caulfield’s
 work, co-leading international consortia, he co-chairs the multi-national Global Health
 Implementation Forum of GA4GH of over 20 national or international initiatives. This is focused
 on advancing genomics across the world working towards translation into clinical care by adopting


                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GA4GH standards for data sharing. The benefits: QM faculty have shared innovative analytical
 approaches such as Exomiser that increases diagnostic yield in rare disease. We created a
 Genomics England/QM Panel App, a globally crowdsourced tool based on evidence-based gene
 panels for identification of variants (Nature Genetics 2019). This has been accessed by 20,000
 users/ month running 4 million gene queries and was adopted by the Australian Genome Health
 Alliance via GA4GH in December 2019.

 QM-Yale cardiovascular Devices Partnership: We established a multidisciplinary Device
 Innovation Centre between the William Harvey, QM Institute of Bioengineering, Yale University
 and the new UK-CRC accredited Barts Clinical Trials Unit. The benefits: We attracted Lanksy
 (0.5FTE) from Yale and Baumbach (QM) as joint appointments to maximise the QM-Yale bridge
 and they published in the Lancet and European Heart Journal. This led Mathur, Baumbach, Lanksy
 and Caulfield to secure substantial funding for the new EU Devices Centre (see above). This has
 developed multiple commercial relationships which are attracting new studies for patient benefit
 and could only have been facilitated through this Centre.

 The first Sino-British (QM) Molecular Oncology Centre: In 2006, Lemoine and Wang
 established the first Sino-British Research Centre for molecular oncology at Zhengzhou University
 (ZZU) in central China's Henan Province. Since then, the partnership has grown to become the
 Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences (ZZU-AMS), focused on the treatment and prevention of
 cancer. The benefits: This has led to major grants from the National Natural Science Fund in
 China and major research exchange. In recognition of the work conducted in the ZZU-AMS,
 Lemoine was elected as a Foreign Academician of the Chinese Academy of Engineers (2017) and
 awarded the National Friendship Prize by the Chinese Government.

 The QM-Humanitas Partnership: In 2017, this partnership was developed by our cross-faculty
 initiative, CiTI, with the premier Italian University Humanitas. The benefits: This attracted a world-
 leader in Inflammation research to the UK and QM (Mantovani) which led to joint publications and
 professorships for Mantovani and Pitzalis; Nature Immunol 2019) and projects with dual principal
 investigators (e.g. Marelli-Berg with Condorelli, Balkwill with Allavena). QM and Humanitas have
 agreed to award joint PhD degrees maintaining crucial scientific links to Europe.

 QM-Pakistan Research and Training Partnerships: In 2017 QM entered a partnership with the
 National University of Medical Sciences (Islamabad, Pakistan). We hosted 6 clinical academics
 for 8-months training supported by the British Council. Joint research projects were supervised by
 QM academics (Aziz, Cutillas, Kelsell, Martineau, Baker, Prendergast). In 2020, the Faculty signed
 an MoU with Punjab University. The benefits: This led to project applications to the Global
 Challenge Research Fund, the British Council, Newton and Fleming funds. A new cohort of
 National University of Medical Sciences Fellows has been funded by the Higher Education
 Commission of Pakistan and a doctoral training programme is being established. With Punjab
 University, we are establishing joint projects in women’s health research and in malnutrition due
 to its impact on the development of chronic disease later in life.

 QM- Singapore A*STAR Programme: QM have established a joint PhD programme with A*Star
 with 2 PhD students per year since 2019.

 QM-Fundacao Osvaldo Cruz (FioCruz): In 2019, QM signed an agreement with FioCruz for joint
 work in infectious diseases, The benefits: Access to patient samples and disease models for
 Dengue fever, Tuberculosis, Yellow fever and Zika, though pump-priming and a programme of
 exchange. Progress has been impeded by the pandemic.

                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 QM-Brazil and Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT, AUS): in 2020, we built on our
 partnership with FioCriz to create a consortium devoted to study Covid. The Federal University of
 Minas Gerais, the Fundacao Getulio Vargas and RMIT in Australia have now joined the
 consortium. The benefits: projects are underway, and are focused on the epidemiology and
 genetics of Covid to explain the incidence and severity. Immunological studies identify predictive
 markers for mild, moderate and severe disease.

 QM-Global Health Research in Africa: QM has long history of high-quality research in sub-
 Saharan Africa, with research in many areas such as mother/child HIV and mental health. These
 are detailed in our UoA2 submission. We will continue these studies and explore additional
 opportunities for discovery and clinical research

 4C. Industry Partnerships
 In accordance with the UK Life Sciences Strategy, QM has placed academic-industry partnership
 at the heart of our research programme and will continue to do so through our Barts Life Sciences
 development. In the period between 2014 and 2021 we partnered with over 100 different
 companies. These included international pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies (eg GSK,
 AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Takeda); biotechnology SMEs and manufacturers of diagnostics,
 research tools, medical equipment, and consumer products. Our industry research expenditure
 increased from £5.0M per annum at the start of this REF cycle to around £8.0M per annum
 thereafter. Total commercial research spend for the REF2021 period was £69.4M.

 We highlight some of our key strategic partnerships:

 QM hosts Genomics England in prime medical school space and provides academic support to
 this Department of Health Company, seconding more than 20 scientists per year to deliver the
 100,000 Genomes Project, leading to the creation of the NHS Genomic Medicine Service. The
 benefits: In 2018, Caulfield led negotiations with Illumina achieving a 27-42% reduction in cost
 and improved turnaround for 500,000 whole genome sequencing for the NHS and research over
 the life of the contract. This offers the UK most favoured customer status, the latest technology
 and the lowest price worldwide. As a result, since 2014, Illumina have invested £100M in the UK
 creating a new European HQ and 100 science jobs. In 2019 Caulfield persuaded Illumina to fund
 5000 total RNA sequences to provide UK and international researchers with transcriptomes to aid
 the diagnosis of rare disease. In 2020, he successfully engaged Illumina to partner our Covid
 whole genome sequencing programme with £9.89M of discounted matched whole genomes to
 elucidate the genomic architecture of Covid-19 leading to the identification of new therapies.

 QM partnered IQVIA (formerly Quintiles) to create the world’s first Prime Site. This is a
 concentrated trials hub which has now been extended from its origins in 2008 in QM across UCL
 Partners (UCLP) reaching 16 NHS Trusts in North and East London. The benefits: This model
 has been extended to three UK locations and 24 other locations across the world. In 2020 QM’s
 UCLP’s Prime Site was the world’s number one enroller to clinical trials as a result of global
 leadership in the Janssen Covid vaccine Trial. In 2016, a health economic analysis showed that
 the health economy of north and east London received £16M per year of inward investment.

 QM in the top decile for patients in industry clinical trials: Since 2014 we have partnered with
 industry in 429 studies and in one year enrolled 16,000 patients in commercial trials. For example,
 in breast cancer prevention, Cuzick was supported by AstraZeneca and Sanofi Aventis (£9.3m).


                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 QM-Industry Partnerships in Stratified Arthritis Care: Pitzalis and Bombardieri harnessed our
 MRC funded Stratified Healthcare programmes in rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogrens syndrome to
 partner Medimmune, Pfizer and Genetech raising over £12m of commercial funds for stratified
 medicine studies enabling targeted biologics in inflammatory arthritis.

 UCL Partners Academic Health Sciences Centre (AHSC) and Network and London Life
 Sciences: QM and Barts Health made major contributions to the redesignation of the most
 successful AHSC (Thornton deputy director) and this partnership enabled us to create the Barts
 Heart Centre. We are part of London Life Sciences and play a key role in MedCity (Thornton
 Trustee).

 QM Gastrointestinal Partnerships: In early 2015, a partnership with Takeda (more than £1.6M)
 focused on the discovery and translation of new therapeutic interventions in gastro-intestinal
 motility disorders was created (Sanger, Blackshaw, Stagg).

 QM Cardiovascular Devices: Our £1.7M UK CRC Cardiovascular Clinical Trials Unit paved the
 way for cardiovascular device trials with new valve technology (Hechingen, Germany) for patients
 without alternatives. With Echopoint, we undertook first in human studies of a novel physiology
 catheter for intracoronary measurement of pressure and flow velocity (Optical Ultrasound device;
 £3M).

 Others: QM is part of Pfizer’s Global Medical Excellence Cluster (GMEC) Rare Diseases
 Consortium focused on drug discovery and development, through which Pfizer recently funded a
 collaboration (£0.5M, Lin). Pfizer, Ipsen, Novartis, Sandoz and Ono have partnered with us in
 pituitary disease (Korbonits, Storr). GSK funded 15 early translational research projects and they
 are our most frequently-cited industry collaborator on publications since 2014 (SciVal),

 Technology transfer and commercialisation. Between August 2014 and July 2020, staff in
 UoA1 submitted 198 patent applications, concluded 62 commercial agreements, generated over
 £3M of commercial IP income, and created three spin-off companies.

 4D. Marks of Esteem
 Awards, Chairs and Investigatorships.
 Ahluwalia received WISE Award for her research for on dietary nitrate.
 Brohi was awarded the American Heart Association's Lifetime Achievement Award for Trauma
 Resuscitation Research (2016), the first non-US awardee ever.
 Brown, Caulfield, Duffy were awarded NIHR Senior Investigator Awards.
 Pearse has an NIHR Professorship.
 Marelli-Berg was awarded a BHF Chair (2015, renewed 2020);
 Brown received the International Society of Hypertension Tigerstedt Lifetime Achievement Award
 for his work in hypertension (2018).
 Caulfield, Cuzick, and Munroe were ranked in the top 1% by citations for field and publication
 year in the Web of Science (2015-2019).
 Deloukas was in the top 0.1% in genomic medicine (2019).
 Caulfield was awarded a knighthood in 2019 for services to the 100,000 Genomes Project. He
 received the European Society of Hypertension Bjorn Folkow Award 2016 and the International
 Society of Hypertension Franz Volhard prize for outstanding hypertension research in 2018.
 Caulfield co-chairs the Global Health Implementation Forum of the Global Alliance for Genomic
 Health driving standardisation of genomics in healthcare across the world.


                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cuzick received the Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2017 New Year
 honours, for services to cancer prevention. He won the American Cancer Society medal (2015)
 and became a Fellow of the Royal Society (2016); won the CRUK Lifetime Achievement Award
 (2017), and the Robert Sutherland Award for Excellence in Translational Research in 2015,
 Korbonits delivered the inaugural Lady Estelle Wolfson Lecture at the Royal College of
 Physicians (2018).
 Lemoine has Chaired of the NIHR’s Urgent Public Health Group for Covid 19 and is the Medical
 Director of the NIHR Clinical Research Network. He was elected as a Foreign Academician of the
 Chinese Academy of Engineers (2017).
 Nourshargh FMedSci has held two Wellcome Investigator-ships.
 Perretti delivered the Rocha e Silva lecture (Brazilian Society of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
 2014) and was inducted into the Brazilian Academy of Sciences (2015).
 Pitzalis delivered the British Society for Rheumatology’s most prestigious scientific lecture, the
 Heberden Oration (2020).
 Pitzalis and Rot were awarded Versus Arthritis UK Chairs (2017). Rot holds a Wellcome
 Investigator Award.
 Thiemermann has received the Albert Nelson Marquis Lifetime Achievement Award for his work
 on shock (2018).
 Thornton was awarded an honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of Physicians

 The William Harvey Research Institute was recognised as a Pharmacological Centre of Excellence
 in 2015 by the British Pharmacological Society.

 Fellows of the Royal Society.
 Cuzick was elected to the Fellowship of the Royal Society in 2016.

 Fellowships of the Academy of Medical Sciences.
 Hodivala-Dilke and Deloukas were elected Fellows of The Academy of Medical Sciences,
 bringing our total to 23: Balkwill, Brown, Caulfield, Cuzick, Deloukas, Dezateux, Dokal, Flower,
 Gribben, Hart, Hodivala-Dilke, Leigh, Lemoine, Lister, MacDonald, Nourshargh, Tansey,
 Thiemermann, Tinker, Wald, Williams, Sir Nick Wright, Young.

 Officers of Learned Societies.
 Kelsell is President of the European Society for Dermatological Research.
 Ahluwalia is Editor in Chief of the British Journal of Pharmacology.
 O’Toole has chaired BADGEM (Dermatology and Genetic Medicine) national clinical network
 (2017).
 Marino is the president of the British Neuro-Oncology Society.

 Grant Panel Membership.
 Harwood is the Chair of National Cancer Research Institute non-melanoma skin cancer group.
 Lemoine chairs the NIHR i4i Challenge Awards Panel, the NIHR Real-World Evaluation Panel
 and the Diabetes UK grant panel (2011-2018). Staff are widely encouraged to take up board and
 panel positions, with Korbonits, Lemoine, MacDonald, Van Heel, Balkwill and Hodivala-Dilke
 serving on MRC panels; Thornton on the EME (MRC/NIHR), HDR-UK and MRC Multi-morbidity
 panels; Chapple and Henson served or serve on the BBSRC panel; Kermorgant and Grose on
 the Irish Cancer Society fellowship Panel; Perretti on the Versus Arthritis Fellowship Panel;
 Balkwill, Hodivala-Dilke and Sestak on CRUK panels; Marshall, Grose and Jones on Breast
 Cancer UK committees; Fitzgibbon on Blood Cancer UK; and Thiemermann acted as deputy
 chair and chair of NIHR Fellowships Committee.

                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In public/patient engagement, Marelli-Berg was named as one of the top 10 inspirational women
 in science by the BHF (October 2019). In societal impact, three of our academics have been
 identified as top influential Londoners in the 2019 Evening Standard progression list: Lemoine for
 work on biomarkers for pancreatic cancer, Lindsay for work on Crohn’s Disease, and Brohi for
 work on trauma care. The latter’s work on knife crime in London has had national media profile
 with BBC and BBC news (see Impact Case Study).

 QM’s healthcare and societal contribution to the Covid-19 pandemic has seen over 160
 members of staff volunteering to work in the NHS or at the PHE laboratories in Milton Keynes.
 Lemoine chaired the DHSC’s Urgent Public Health Group, Caulfield led training of more than
 120 volunteers for the Covid Research Delivery at the Nightingale and across Barts NHS Trust
 Hospitals enrolling 10,000 people in trials, Orkin led Covid-19 clinical research. She has obtained
 funding for a vaccine trial in pregnant women. Marelli-Berg, Caulfield and Deloukas are on the
 joint BHF-NIHR panel, to coordinate national and international studies on Covid-19. Since July
 2020, over 600 patients have been enrolled into NIHR priority trials. Investment (more than £50K)
 into Category-3 laboratories has enabled Covid-related research to take place including the Health
 Care Worker programme (McKnight; Science Immunol 2020). In December 2020, we began a
 £3.6M partnership with DHSC offering 3,000 Covid tests per day (Nedjai).




                                                                                            Page 31
