Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 4 - Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview. Psychology at LSBU is a well-resourced UoA providing a vibrant, inclusive and
 enabling environment in which to: (a) address important questions of the day, (b) train the future
 generation of researchers, (c) instruct and develop under/postgraduates with contemporary
 knowledge and understanding, and (d) provide evidence to engage, inform and influence those
 for whom our research is relevant.

 Work is grounded in our shared mission for behavioural science of “making a difference to
 individuals, businesses and communities by asking relevant questions and providing
 useful answers” through cutting-edge and collaborative research in five key areas: Addictive
 Behaviours; Lived Experience of Distress; Developmental Cognition; Brain and
 Behaviour; and Forensic Psychology. Across these areas we have capitalised upon our
 expertise across a diverse range of appropriate methodologies to ensure the research we do is:

    (1) Innovative, relevant, rigorous and designed to be reproducible.
    (2) Appropriate and reachable for the groups it is intended to influence; and
    (3) Has measurable impact on our communities of users.

 Our maturing, vigorous and dedicated research environment attests to the success of this vision.

 The vitality of our approach is evidenced by trends in journal outputs. Since 2014, staff have
 published 312 peer reviewed journal articles, 18 book chapters, and 8 books. For refereed
 journal articles, this amounts to ~14 publications per FTE (~45 p.a. and ~2 per FTE p.a.). In
 addition, the number of peer-reviewed journal articles published, and the number published per
 FTE, have shown significant growth between 2014 and 2020 with ~195% and ~200% increases
 respectively (Table 1). In addition, compared to REF2014 period, during the current REF cycle
 there has been a ~271% increase in the number of papers published and an ~82% increase in
 papers published per FTE. This suggests a pattern of increasing productivity and the
 continuous/sustained development of peer-reviewed dissemination.

 Table 1. Trends in peer-reviewed journal articles published 2014-2020.
                                                      Year
              2014       2015       2016       2017          2018    2019       2020       ~%
                                                                                         change
                                                                                          14-18
  Number     21        42         43         48         53          43        62         + 195

  N per      0.9       1.8        1.9        2.1        2.3         1.9       2.7        + 200
  FTE

 In terms of significance, these papers have accrued c.3,900 citations (11.7 per publication and
 an average field-weighed citation impact score [FWCI] of 2.1) with 26.3% published in the top
 10% of journals according to CiteScore™.

 Added to this, we have made 292 presentations (13 per FTE; ~2 per FTE per year) at
 national/international conferences including 32 keynote/invited addresses by ten staff. Nine staff
 have also been responsible for the organisation of 17 conferences/symposia at international
 congresses (e.g., Social Psychology of Social Prescribing seminar series (2018, BPS) [Vangeli],
 the Scientific program committee for Global Forum on Nicotine (GFN) (2013–2017 and 2020)
 [Dawkins], International Society for Theoretical Psychology symposium (2017) [Reavey],

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society for the Study of Addiction [SSA] annual conference symposium (2019) [Cox], Violence in
 Clinical Psychiatry biannual conference (2015, 2017, 2019) [Callaghan] and the SSA sponsored
 Emerging Methods in Addiction Research Conference (2015) [Frings, Albery]).

 1.2 Research strategy. Our priorities post REF2014 were to:

    (1) Capitalise upon and further develop our key areas of research strength (Priority 1). We
        have formally established the Centre for Addictive Behaviours Research (CABR), and
        four research groups (Lived Experiences of Distress (LED), Developmental
        Cognition (DC), Brain Mind and Behaviour (BMB) and Forensic Psychology (FP).
        These were identified as part of a strategic review by the University/School to facilitate
        vitality and future sustainability for research by investing in established and emerging
        research strength. Building on the outcomes of REF2014, and in line with LSBU’s
        Corporate Plan, this review aimed to encourage, facilitate and sustain high quality
        research for the real world through long-term investment in the establishment of research
        centres/groups. All psychology staff are core members of one centre/group and
        PGRs/research fellows/assistants are also assigned. To facilitate internal collaborative
        work, members are encouraged to hold appropriate affiliate membership roles with
        another group/centre; ~30% (n=7) actively participate in more than one research
        centre/group.
    (2) Develop further our critical mass of research active staff (Priority 2). Through the
        strategic appointment of thirteen new, predominantly ECR, staff in areas of established
        or developing strength, we have increased our critical mass of research active staff in
        existing (addiction, mental health), new (cognitive neuroscience) and re-emerging
        (forensic) areas (Priority 2). Of these appointments six are new to the established staff
        base (a ~30% increase) and seven are replacements for those who left, retired, or
        passed away. Over 95% of established staff (23 of 24) are independent researchers and
        are assigned 20% of their workload allocation to research activities (one staff member is
        a PGR and not research independent).
    (3) Provide a quality infrastructure where research thrives (Priority 3). In addition to the
        formal establishment of CABR/groups and increased staffing resource to support
        current/developing strength, we have invested significantly in physical resources (e.g.,
        doubled the size of our laboratory complex with associated equipment). This ensures that
        members can access relevant space/equipment/technical support to match our maturing
        profile. Alongside this we introduced measures designed to facilitate our staff in
        developing research (e.g., PGR studentships, internal funding streams [e.g., pump
        priming, conferences], sabbaticals, etc).

 In addressing these priorities, we have been able to respond flexibly to new questions that have
 arisen in our disciplines according to our thematic key strengths.

 Our strategic approach post REF2021 is to embrace these core priorities to achieve key
 objectives focussed on CABR, our Groups, and PGRs by:

    (1) Developing and investing in current research strengths to ensure we are responsive to
        emerging questions in relevant areas.
    (2) Maturing our research environment to one which encourages all active researchers
        (including PGRs) to share expertise for answering emerging questions.
    (3) Enabling and embedding close connections/links with external stakeholders/user-groups
        to develop quality research with real world impact.
    (4) Facilitating local sustainability for our discipline by providing bespoke support for all
        academic/research-only staff and PGRs regardless of career stage; and
    (5) Providing a coherent and appropriate research management and resource-based
        infrastructure to enable systematic support and opportunity for staff and PGRs.


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To achieve these, we will:

    a) Enhance and sustain our research environment to foster reputational capital and ensure
       that our activities are recognised and respected externally.
    b) Systematically invest in our people by ensuring that they have opportunities to engage
       and develop.
    c) Ensure all staff are effectively mentored in their work.
    d) Enable staff to make relevant scientific discoveries by investing financial and technical
       resources appropriately.
    e) Make staffing appointments in areas of (developing) strength to build capacity.
    f) Invest regardless of career stage/trajectory while prioritising early- and mid-career staff
       as reflecting our sustainable future.
    g) Be responsible for the researchers of the future by sustaining the provision of a
       systematic training/development programme for PGRs and those on fixed-term research-
       only contracts in line with LSBU’s HR Excellence Award Action Plan (2020); and
    h) Make our user communities the hub of research activities to ensure relevance and
       usability of our work.

 Our approach is supported by investment, across the university, of £1.8m p.a. of QR funding to
 centres/groups and a further £1m p.a. for investment in the form of research sabbaticals,
 matched-funded studentships and other environment-based development initiatives (e.g.,
 London Doctoral Academy, Researcher Development Programme, the Professoriate, and Open
 Research policies, etc). CABR and our Research Groups have received ~£150k QR p.a. for
 local research-related activities since 2014, and this has been invested according to our core
 priorities.

 1.2.1 Centre for Addictive Behaviours Research (CABR). CABR was established in
 recognition of the significant development and maturation of addictive behaviours-related
 research, training and consultancy at LSBU. CABR conceptualises addictive behaviours through
 a psychosocial understanding and at its forefront is a position that encompasses alternative
 understandings based on distinct but related key themes. These include automatic versus
 reflective ‘dual process’ understandings (how people’s addictive behaviours are influenced by
 conscious/non-conscious thought), metacognitive approaches (how people’s mental control
 strategies perpetuate behaviours), psychopharmacological approaches (the impact of chemicals
 on brain and body), public health approaches (how we can use messages to reduce harm) and
 social identity approaches (how people’s self-image derived from their group membership affects
 their addictive behaviour). Importantly, we do not restrict our work to those behaviours that
 involve the ingestion of a drug (e.g., alcohol, nicotine, etc), but recognise commonalties shared
 with behavioural addictions (e.g., gambling, internet and social media use, sex, etc).

 Over the past decade we have made strategic appointments to create a body of staff with
 research/pedagogic interests related to the study of addictive behaviours. CABR involves 12
 core staff (five Professors, five senior lecturers/lecturers, two research fellows) (Albery, Spada,
 Moss, Dawkins, Frings, Vangeli, Rycroft, Marchant, Tyler, Cox, Kimber, and Morris [post-
 census RF appointment), plus ten visiting professors/fellows (Lindgren [Washington], Buckner
 [Louisiana State], McRobbie [Queen Mary and Auckland], Heather [Northumbria], Gawrylowicz
 [Abertay], Caselli and Sassaroli [Milan], Martino [Bologna], Orton [Manchester] and Notley
 [East Anglia]).

 Underpinned by its staff expertise and established collaborations, CABR brings together a
 unique blend of innovative research, training and enterprise activity for understanding and
 disseminating evidence with respect to the causes, effects and treatment of addictive
 behaviours. It provides a hub of expertise with a shared vision to:



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (1) Ask relevant and contemporary questions to understand why people develop/maintain
        addictive behaviours and approaches to changing these behaviours (prevention and
        bespoke intervention).
    (2) Provide relevant and up-to-date answers for practitioners and other user groups engaged
        in working in relevant populations; and
    (3) Ensure the widest possible use of our work among key user groups, engaging them in all
        stages of the design, implementation and dissemination of our current research.

 Since 2014 CABR members have published 188 journal articles amounting to an average of ~27
 p.a., ~16 publications per member, and ~2 per FTE p.a. This 270% increase between 2014-
 2020 highlights a systematic and sustained growth in vitality and productivity (Table 2). In terms
 of significance, these papers have received a total of c2,800 citations since 2014 with an
 average of ~15 citations per publication and an average FWCI score of 2.6.

 This evidence of an increasing and sustained influence is further highlighted by growth in
 external grants awarded by prestigious bodies (e.g., MRC, Cancer Research UK, NIHR, Health
 Innovation Network, British Academy, Alcohol Research UK, Alcohol Change UK, Drinkaware,
 Gambleaware, etc). Core staff also hold positions in other influential groups [e.g., Spada is a
 member of the Working Group for Practicing Psychotherapists: All-Parliamentary Group (APPG)
 for Prescribed Drug Dependence; Moss was Scientific Advisor to the Research and Impact
 Committee of Drinkaware and is Trustee of Alcohol Change UK, and Dawkins is an advisor to
 the APPG on E-Cigarettes/vaping].

 Table 2. Trends in peer-reviewed journal articles published 2014-2020 by research centre and
 groups (core members only).
  Centre/Group                                        Year
                    2014     2015      2016      2017   2018         2019       2020
                                                                                  ~%
                                                                                  change
                                                                                  14-18
  CABR            10       29        23       26       38      25       37        + 270
  LED             10       6         11       15       9       11       15        + 50
  DC              0        2         5        5        3       4        3         + 300
  BMB             1        3         1        0        2       2        2         + 200
  FP              0        2         3        2        1       1        5         + 400
 Note 1: CABR = Centre for Addictive Behaviours Research; LED=Lived Experience of Distress;
 DC=Developmental Cognition; BMB= Brain, Mind and Behaviour; FP=Forensic Psychology.
 Note 2: Shaded = not established.

 1.2.2 Lived Experience of Distress Research Group (LED). LED comprises two professors
 (Reavey, Callaghan), one associate professor (Church [School of Health, LSBU]), two lecturers
 (Lewis, Kolubinski) and a contract researcher (Wood) plus visiting professors/scholars
 [Brown, Nottingham Trent; Grundy and Carter, Nottingham]. This group studies how individuals
 interpret, embody, manage and live with mental health challenges in the community and in
 statutory services and has developed innovative visual methods as tools to study the lived
 experience of distress. An integral part of these investigations is the examination of professional
 relationships, emotions and identities of staff and service users in the context of delivering
 interventions in mental health services and in community groups.

 LED members have published 77 peer reviewed journal articles (2014-2018): ~19 publications
 per FTE (~11 p.a.; ~3 per FTE per year). The number of referred journal articles published by
 LED members has increased by 50% [Table 2] and have received a total of 628 citations since
 2014 (9 citations per publication; average FWCI score of 1.3). LED has also shown success in


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the award of grants from significant sources (e.g., ESRC, NIHR, Wellcome Trust, Mental Health
 First Aid England & the Richard Benjamin Trust).

 The vitality of LED is evidenced by the work of key staff. Reavey is director of
 research/education for the Design in Mental Health Network UK, advising architects in the
 design/construction of mental health facilities to acceptable standards for individuals using them.
 She also led the qualitative components of national trials on clinical interventions for young
 people receiving mental health services in collaboration with King’s and the Maudsley Hospital
 and has led an impact project at St. Andrew’s Healthcare (the UK’s largest provider of secure
 mental health services) to develop guidelines, co-designed with service users, clinicians and
 carers, for patients and staff on sexuality and relationships. In addition, with co-authors, her
 book, Psychology, Mental Health and Distress was awarded the British Psychological Society
 book prize (2014) for innovation in scholarship/education.

 Callaghan was Associate Director for NHS Engagement in Research of the NIHR Mental Health
 Research Network (2012-2015), elected Research Executive Lead for the UK Council of Deans
 of Health (2016-2018), Chair of the NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Funding Panel for Post-
 Doc Junior & Senior Research Fellowships for nurses, midwives and allied health professionals
 (2014-2017), and won the Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing Lifetime
 Achievement Award for outstanding contribution to Mental Health in 2019.

 1.2.3 Developmental Cognition Research Group (DC). DC comprises three associate
 professors (Smith-Spark, Newton, Brown) and explores cognition and development in children,
 adolescents, and adults. The philosophy of DC extends beyond the traditional consideration of
 developmental issues in childhood to encompass the way that they can continue to affect an
 individual in adulthood, with implications for appropriate support in both educational and
 workplace settings. DC positions itself to not only to investigate developmental cognition under
 laboratory conditions but also to see how it affects individuals in everyday settings. Knowledge
 arising from investigating everyday experiences supplements and strengthens that acquired
 under laboratory conditions, providing an evidence base on which to argue for reasonable
 adjustments in educational and employment settings.

 The group’s expertise lies in autism, developmental dyslexia, cognition in error making,
 developmental coordination disorder, specific language impairment, and William’s Syndrome,
 and how these impact executive functions, numerical cognition, and memory systems. Since
 2014 DC members have published 22 peer reviewed journal articles (~7 per FTE) and 3
 chapters. Articles have been cited >100 times (~5 per publication; FWCI score of 0.9), with
 funding generated from notable sources for impactful work. One example was a grant awarded
 by the Technology Strategy Board/Innovate UK (£132k, 2014-2015) to Smith-Spark involving a
 consortium of industrial partners (Sainsbury’s Supermarkets plc, Mack, and Muddy Boots
 Software Limited) to reduce the financial and environmental wastage caused by human error in
 the quality control checking of fresh produce labels. Studies showed that errors could be
 reduced (or eliminated) by using software to guide quality control staff through the label checking
 process. Recommendations were incorporated into a label check app as a key feature.

 1.2.4 Brain, Mind and Behaviour Research Group (BMB). To further diversify and enhance
 our objective to provide useful answers to relevant questions utilising methods and approaches
 across the spectrum of psychological study, the BMB group was established in July 2017
 following the strategic appointments of staff with expertise in cognitive neuroscience (Carrus,
 Civai, Elward). In addition to this staffing investment, we have also committed ~£12k in pump-
 priming monies to the group as well as appropriate technical resources (e.g., EEG) to facilitate
 work. BMB is organised around core themes: language and music cognition (Carrus), social and
 decision neuroscience (Civai) and the developmental cognitive neuroscience of memory
 (Elward).



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Across all themes BMB explores psychological processes as they relate to brain functioning.
 Research is centred around the use of the newly created electroencephalography (EEG) lab in
 combination with behavioural (performance/eye-tracking) and physiology (e.g., heart rate,
 galvanic skin response, FMRI). This investment has resulted in opportunities for: (1)
 collaborative research with other LSBU psychology centre/groups; and (2) multidisciplinary
 research with units elsewhere in the university (e.g., joint supervision of PGRs with members of
 LSBU’s Sports and Exercise Science Research Centre, Carrus). BMB has also created
 opportunities for knowledge transfer projects to translate cognitive neuroscience research into
 applied settings (e.g., collaborating on LSBU ERDF programmes - “Simulation for Digital
 Health”). Members have published 11 peer reviewed journal articles [six since establishment]
 (~4 per FTE) and 4 book chapters. These have been cited ~125 times (~15 citations per
 publication; FWCI score of 1.16).

 1.2.5 Forensic Psychology Research Group (FP). Following the departure of two staff in
 2015-16, we have recently (summer 2019) reinvested in the area of forensic psychology making
 two appointments (Mallion, Tekin). Specialist areas of interest include street gang intervention,
 disability hate crime, forensic mental health, investigative interviewing, deception detection and
 eyewitness psychology. Research produced by members of FP have been shared with the
 Home Office, international police forces and the Royal College of Psychiatry. FP has close
 collaborative links with other groups at LSBU (e.g., Crime and Justice Research Network), other
 international institutions and expert networks (e.g., Eurogang Network, International Investigative
 Research Group). Members have published 14 papers since 2014 [six since establishment] (7
 per FTE) which have been cited 118 times (~8 citations per publication; FWCI score of 1.7).

 1.3. Research Management. CABR’s Research Management Team (Albery, Spada, Dawkins,
 Moss, Frings) meets monthly and is responsible for strategy implementation, planning and
 resource allocation. Leads for CABR and research groups, as well as representatives from our
 ECRs and our PGR community, are members of the School of Applied Science’s [ASC]
 Research and Enterprise Advisory Group (REAG). REAG is responsible for the development of
 ASC research/enterprise and PGR strategies/policies and performance monitoring against
 relevant KPIs across the School’s research centres/groups and PGR training programme. REAG
 is chaired by the ASC Director of Research and Enterprise (Albery), is accountable to the Dean
 of ASC (Callaghan), and reports monthly to the School Management Group. The ASC Director
 of R&E (Albery) is also a member of the University Research Committee (URC) (chair:
 Callaghan) which meets quarterly and is responsible for the development/monitoring of the
 university-wide research strategy.

 The development of our Research Centres/Groups has focussed research performance and
 assessment using key monitoring measures of income, publications, impact, and environment.
 These indicators provide the basis for centre/group annual reviews both locally (REAG) and by
 LSBU’s REI office, and report to the URC.

 All research in the UoA is subject to ethical scrutiny according to the University Ethics Code of
 Practice and Application Process for Research Involving Human Participants (2016), overseen
 by the University Ethics Panel (UEP; Chair: Frings). Ethical approval for all staff/PGRs projects
 is delegated by the UEP to the School Ethics Panel who also delegate undergraduate/master’s
 projects to School Divisional Panels (Psychology Chair: Civai).

 1.4 Impact strategy. In accordance with the wider University strategy to focus research on real-
 world impact to yield societal benefits, our local objective is to generate measurable impact by
 providing opportunities for user-groups/stakeholders to engage in research from its development
 stage, promote existing research to key stakeholders (including policy groups), and ensure all
 staff are aware/committed to the needs for planned and evidenced impact.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have embedded mechanisms to ensure avenues of impact are explored, exploited and
 recorded such that:

    (1) All projects include an impact planning stage to ensure that influence is evidenced and
        that relevant stakeholders are involved from the outset.
    (2) With the appointment of an impact officer in REI working closely with a local impact co-
        ordinator (Frings), impact is tracked/recorded.
    (3) Impact briefings are scheduled and included as part of induction for new staff to facilitate
        engagement and its importance for our core mission; and
    (4) We have worked closely with the University to devise and implement an open access
        (OA) publication strategy/policy to serve the accessibility needs of our user groups.

 As reflected in our submitted Impact Case Studies, the types of impact achieved include
 influencing professional standards, national/international guidelines, stimulation and
 advancement of policy debate, raised public awareness of health risks, changes to professional
 practice/standards, and the facilitation of practitioners’ use of research findings.

 1.5 Connectedness. As evidence of this general approach, we have provided resources to
 support individuals to build impact through successfully connecting to relevant external
 stakeholders and support knowledge transfer (e.g., ~£30k of matched funding for research
 studentships). Our external connections now include: Drinkaware, Gambleaware, MIND,
 Architects for Health, The Nehemiah Project, Westminster Drug Project, Allen Carr Easyway,
 Sheffield Health Authority, Lambeth and Southwark NHS, Nottingham Healthcare NHS
 Foundation Trust, Druglink, Turningpoint, HAGA: Action on Alcohol, West London Mental Health
 NHS Trust, SMART Recovery International, UK SMART Recovery, Johnson & Johnson,
 Covance Research, APPGs (e-cigarettes/vaping, prescribed drug dependence), St Mungo’s,
 The Hope Centre, the Salvation Army, Hearing Voices Network UK, Sainsbury's Supermarkets
 plc, MACK, Muddy Boots Software Limited, the Bond Group, and Action on Smoking and Health.

 This engagement with external stakeholders as a mechanism to maximise potential impact has
 resulted in successful external grant applications, consultancy work, Trustee positions, and
 advisory board memberships. In addition, Morris (new CABR appointment) is partly seconded to
 Public Health England as programme manager for their Alcohol and Drugs Treatment and
 Recovery team in the development of new clinical alcohol treatment guidelines.

 CABR and our groups will continue to support this activity in the long term and also continue to
 host bespoke events to facilitate future impact. During the current assessment period we have
 hosted the Annual SMART Recovery Conference (November 2017), Experience Matters:
 Rethinking Experience in Mental Health Care with MIND Camden, the Dragon Café and the
 Hearing Voices Network UK (May 2018), and one of a series of three BPS funded events that
 brought together stakeholders and academics across disciplines to understand and make
 recommendations for overcoming barriers to social prescribing (November 2018). CABR also
 co-hosted with the London Drug and Alcohol Policy Forum (City of London Corporation), a
 conference on Homelessness, Substance Use and Addiction (January 2019).

 1.6 Research integrity. Research integrity is at the heart of our activities. Members of our
 centres and groups are fully adherent and committed to the implementation of the LSBU
 Research Integrity Policy and the LSBU Policy on Safeguarding Good Scientific Practice (which
 together reflect the 2012 Universities Concordat on Research Integrity and the UK Research
 Integrity Office's Code of Practice for Research).

 UoA members have been involved in initiatives to ensure that our science is guided by externally
 recognised good practice embracing the expectation that science should be transparent,
 available for scrutiny by anyone and reproducible. To this end we have appointed two open
 science co-ordinators (Civai, Carrus) to oversee and facilitate:

    (a) The development and implementation of an open science policy; and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (b) Our movement towards a target of 100% engagement in practices designed to ensure
        transparent and appropriate behaviours of the highest standards.

 Bespoke training events based on a need’s analysis for PGRs/staff have been provided to
 facilitate engagement with good practice (e.g., responsible use of metrics and associated
 briefing materials provided as part of induction). Of the staff submitted for assessment 61%
 (N=14 FTEs) are members of Open Science Framework, with 11 (~48%) engaging actively in
 registering/publishing protocols for planned studies and/or making data sets, protocols and
 analysis plans openly available via one of the open science/research hubs.

 Our “Act on Acceptance” policy provides a green route by requiring all accepted outputs to be
 uploaded to LSBU’s repository within three months of acceptance. Monthly reports from LSBU’s
 OA Officer, including details of necessary actions by individual staff, are monitored by ASC’s
 Director of R&E (Albery) who liaises with relevant members to ensure required actions are
 initiated. The current OA compliance rate for CABR/research groups is 99% and (98.3% of
 publications submitted are OA compliant). In addition, to stimulate a gold route OA coverage, the
 University has allocated an annual budget of £30k p.a. for relevant fees. All staff can apply for
 such funding. To date 100% of applications made for OA fee coverage by CABR/group
 members have been funded (~£25k, 2018-2020), accounting for a third of the total number
 funded through the scheme. Since 2014, 102 (~36%) of our journal articles have been published
 via the gold route.

 1.7 Impacting the learning experience. With our focus on ensuring that our work has
 influence, our research strengths have directly impacted PG taught students’ learning
 experience and preparedness for future career development. Our research expertise/strengths
 have resulted in the development of two successful MScs - Addiction Psychology and
 Counselling [part-time] (hosted by CABR) and Mental Health and Clinical Psychology [full-time]
 (hosted by LED). The former is accredited by the Federation of Drug and Alcohol Professionals
 [FDAP] attracting training bursaries from Alcohol Change UK and the Society for the Study of
 Addiction. These courses recruit ~100 students p.a. who are either: a) professionals seeking
 contemporary training (addiction), or b) individuals seeking training in their career pathway
 (mental health). One hundred per cent of these students are employed post-graduation.

 1.8 Facilitating and supporting interdisciplinary research. LSBU has several interdisciplinary
 research/enterprise institutes of which members of CABR/research groups play a key role in one
 – the Health and Wellbeing Institute. These institutes are outward-facing operating as a bridge
 between academic research and the knowledge transfer needs of our user groups/businesses.
 The institutes foster the opportunity for staff from multiple disciplines to co-operate on projects of
 relevance to non-academic organisations. For instance, members of CABR (Moss, Albery,
 Frings), LED (Callaghan) and BBM (Carrus, Civai) are actively involved in the facilitation and
 operation of two part-funded ERDF projects (~£2m) focused on:

    (1) Supporting and promoting research and innovation in London's food businesses (The
        London Agri-Food Innovation Clinic [LAFIC]); and
    (2) Supporting health tech start-ups to develop and deliver new products and services
        (Simulation for Digital Health [SimDH]).

 These projects are multidisciplinary comprising food scientists, food technologists, marketing
 experts, sport/exercise scientists, health promotion experts, health technologists, health
 psychologists, engineers, and computer scientists.

 In addition, the broad spectrum of our research groupings, and that staff can be core members
 of one group and one centre, has allowed for the cross-fertilisation of collaborative work during
 the assessment period (~70% of outputs and ~41% of those submitted are authored by more
 than one internal staff member).



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Another vehicle through which staff participate in an interdisciplinary practice base is through
 core membership of the LSBU Evaluation and Trials Unit [LSBU-ETU]
 (https://www.lsbu.ac.uk/research/centres-groups/evaluation-and-trials-unit#id_first) (Frings,
 Callaghan, Moss, Albery, Reavey). This development has as its focus the evaluation of
 services designed to support and enhance mental health wellbeing. It brings together research
 active staff from numerous disciplines and distinct methodological positions from across the
 university (including critical mental health, trialist specialisms, social psychology, pedagogic
 practice, cultural curation, branding and marketing, informatics, artificial intelligence, and health
 promotion) to provide relevant organisations an evaluation service.

 LSBU-ETU works with a range of clinical and community services, SMEs, charities and the NHS.
 It offers innovative methodologies to work more democratically and creatively with a wide range
 of groups, including marginalised communities. Alongside academics, it draws on a network of
 service-user researchers, who are trained to use appropriate and mixed methodologies, with a
 firm emphasis on the lived experience. Example projects include:

    (1) EMPOWER (Evaluation of Mental Health First Aid from the Perspective Of Workplace
        End UseRs) which used an embedded mixed-methods design comprising a two-arm
        clustered RCT comparing mental health first aid and usual practice, with embedded
        process, economic, qualitative and social impact evaluations;
    (2) Infertile Life which used branding advice, user experiences (analysed within an e-literacy
        framework) and evidence review to assist the service in focussing on the advice service
        users need.
    (3) Hello Tomo, Ltd commissioned an efficacy evaluation of their mental health chat-bot.
        Using a combination of focus groups and a purpose-designed quantitative study we
        identified key measures to be included in their app to capture outcome data. This data
        was used as part of their routine operation to plan an independent, pre-registered,
        service evaluation; and
    (4) A preregistered phase III RCT, funded by Allen Carr’s Easyway, comparing its provision
        with NHS 1-1 stop smoking counselling with funded pharmacotherapy on relevant key
        outcomes.

 This focus on interdisciplinary practice in real-world evaluation has also been recognised by the
 establishment of an NIHR-funded (£1.5m, 2020-2023) Public Health Intervention Responsive
 Studies Team (PHIRST London) [one of only four funded nationally]. PHIRST London involves
 six submitted members (Moss [Deputy Head], Albery, Callaghan, Frings [Centre Executive
 Committee Members], Reavey, Dawkins) working with colleagues from multiple disciplines
 (e.g., health promotion, advocacy, built environment, social/health policy, exercise science, etc)
 in the evaluation of Local Authority-based public health schemes across the UK (see
 https://dev.fundingawards.nihr.ac.uk/award/NIHR131568).


 2. People

 2.1 Context. Psychology at LSBU comprises 24 FTE academic staff of which 23 FTEs (96%)
 have assigned significant responsibility for research (> 20% workload allocation) and are REF-
 returned. This represents a ~125% increase in submitted staff compared to REF 2014 (9.8
 FTEs). The current staff group comprises seven (29%) professors, three (13%) associate
 professors, nine (38%) senior lecturers (including one established senior research fellow
 assigned SRR) and five (21%) lecturers (including one research fellow assigned SRR).

 2.2 Staffing strategy. Our staffing strategy is meshed with our research strategy in that it seeks
 to recruit, develop, mentor and retain outstanding staff who: (a) complement and enhance
 CABR, and/or at least one of our research groups, and (b) to respond to any repositioning in
 current research to reflect contemporary research questions within our disciplines.



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As a key aspect of this approach, we recruit individuals in the early phase of their careers,
 supporting them through mentoring, staff development and resourcing such that each can
 realise their full potential within their chosen field. For example, we have invested in the
 appointment to CABR of established research fellow posts (Cox and Morris [appointed Sept
 2020]) and an Associate Professor (Dawkins) to further enable both capacity and sustainability
 of a recognised strength. Most posts are targeted at ECRs with the aim of developing new
 collaborations within our research groups. This approach is consistent with our staff
 development policy of providing opportunities for independent researchers to build their own
 portfolio within the framework of CABR and our groups.

 In recruiting people with exceptional potential in key areas of sustained/developing strength, we
 have made thirteen academic appointments since 2014. These have been across all academic
 levels (x1 Professorships, x1 Associate Professorship, x1 Senior Lectureships and x 10
 Lectureships/equivalent) with interests focussed on addiction science (39%), mental health
 studies (23%), behavioural neuroscience (23%) and forensic psychology (15%). After
 accounting for those who left, retired, or passed away (n=7), there has been a net increase of six
 FTEs (+33%).

 2.3 Staff development. Staff are expected to be research active and to align interests with one
 of our research centre/groups. Development needs for all staff, regardless of stage of career, are
 identified through the annual appraisal system (including a six-month review) and via our local
 mentoring scheme. Senior academics mentor more junior colleagues in terms of research/career
 development and 100% of our early/mid-career staff engage. This approach has integrated
 early/mid-career researchers into CABR/groups and enabled career enhancement through
 promotion.

 2.3.1 Promotions. Our policy is to reward excellent performance within the LSBU Academic
 Framework by promoting on merit. Since 2014 we have made seven promotions to Associate
 Professor (Dawkins, Frings, Smith-Spark, Newton) or Professor (Moss, Dawkins, Frings)
 [Dawkins and Frings were promoted to Associate Professor in 2015 and subsequently to
 Professor in 2019], eight promotions to Senior Lecturer (Marchant, Binnie, Boden (leaver),
 Vangeli, Civai, Lewis, Carrus, Elward), and one promotion to Senior Research Fellow (Cox).
 This represents >50% of staff promoted and highlights the importance we place on rewarding
 excellence in lecturing-based and research-only staff. We also operate a workload allocation
 model (WLM) across all Category A staff. This provides time allocation for research-related
 activities based on past performance and future plans. Any additional buy-out time accrued via
 external grants are made in addition to this base allocation.

 2.4 Mechanisms for supporting staff research. Our staff development package ensures that
 staff are given multiple opportunities to identify development needs for personal career
 progression plans and have time dedicated for research work.

 In terms of funding resource, competitive seed-corn awards (~£1-5k per application) are made
 to early/mid-career staff, along with access to School funds for fully/matched-funded doctoral
 scholarships, teaching buyouts, sabbaticals, conference attendance, equipment, or participant
 payment for all staff. For example, members have drawn on the ASC competitive bid
 programmes Investing in Our Environment #1 (2015/16) and #2 (2016/17) and Investing in Our
 Future #1 (2018/2019) and #2 (2019/2020). These provided fully funded and fees-only doctoral
 scholarships and pump-priming grants for research assistance, teaching-buyout, and
 consumables. Between 2015/16 and 2019/20 these initiatives have provided ~£150k of funding,
 from which 17 (~74% of submitted staff) have benefited. ASC also provides c.£300 per year per
 FTE for staff and doctoral students for participant payment, where work is not funded externally.

 Two CABR staff have also capitalised on the University’s annual competitive fully funded
 research sabbatical scheme (Dawkins, Rycroft). This scheme provides fully costed

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 teaching/administration replacement for successful applicants. Local awards have resulted in the
 submission of three funding applications, one of which was successful (MRC ~£158k), and the
 publication of four papers.

 The UoA implements the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 members engage fully with LSBUs development programme structured around the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. ASC has a dedicated Concordat Coordinator who
 facilitates researcher involvement in the programme and reports to the Dean and Director of
 Research and Enterprise. We are committed to the development of academics at all career
 stages in accordance with the seven principles of the Concordat and have focused on providing
 an environment in which ECRs build/enhance their careers via university-based (e.g., Epigeum
 on-line training, Vitae, appraisal engagement, etc) and local systems via our recruitment
 strategy, mentoring scheme, and seed corn funding.

 2.4.1 Supporting and developing ECRs. As part of career development/skilling, we also
 provide experiential support to ECRs by ensuring that they are provided with opportunities to
 engage with and lead on research-related strategic priorities (e.g., open research/research
 integrity [Civai, Carrus]), membership of PGR supervision teams, ethics lead [Civai, Rycroft],
 etc). For instance, to facilitate engagement from research-active staff at all levels, we have an
 explicit policy that when creating three-person supervisory teams for incoming doctoral students,
 early careers/mid careers individuals are included (within the parameters of subject-specific
 knowledge and requirements for the needs of the work to be undertaken). This ensures that
 ECRs/mid-career staff are provided with the opportunity to develop supervisory practice skills
 under the guidance of more senior experienced colleagues. As part of this process senior
 colleagues work with more junior colleagues to identify and facilitate relevant skills and training
 requirements which are available as bespoke training and career development opportunities
 delivered in-house by the university or externally. To this end, of the staff submitted 14 (~61%)
 are or have been actively involved in supervisory teams during the assessment period. Of these
 7 (50%) are ECR/mid-career academics.

 These types of initiatives have facilitated a 700% increase in the number of papers published by
 our ECRs (2 in 2014 rising to 16 in 2020) and total 47 (~7 per ECR), representing ~15% of the
 total number of articles published by UoA members. Outputs (N=13, ~22%) from seven ECRs
 are submitted (Lewis, Kolubinski, Carrus, Tekin, Elward, Kimber, Mallion) which represents
 ~30% of eligible staff.

 2.5 Equality and diversity. CABR/groups work within a well-defined University’s Equality and
 Diversity Policy Statement and University Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion Policy. Together
 these position our commitment to proactively pursue the values of diversity, fairness, mutual
 respect and inclusion in our research. For example, Cox led a project funded by the Society for
 Study of Addiction (SSA) (£8k) that aimed to reflect upon how addiction science/treatment has
 matured in relation to achieving gender equality. Following a landmark all-female speaker
 conference [SSA Annual Conference, 2019], a series of 13 short films (released 2019-2020)
 were commissioned to celebrate the achievements of women in addiction science (ECRs to
 senior scientists) and explore remaining gender-specific disparities [see https://www.addiction-
 ssa.org/hot-topic/women-in-addiction/. In this submission ~61% are women and two-thirds are
 under forty years of age compared to the REF2014 profile of 55% female and two-thirds under
 forty-five.

 2.6 Research students. Research degree policy, procedures and standards are set and
 monitored by the University’s Research Board of Studies (RBoS). RBoS has responsibility for
 approving programmes of study, supervisory teams, examination arrangements and ensuring
 that individual programmes progress in line with the University’s Code of Practice. All PGRs and
 supervisors are members of the London Doctoral Academy (LDA) established in 2016 to support
 PGRs across the institution in terms of working facilities, the provision of the Key Skills
 Development Programme, and access to LDA-specific administrative support.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ASC has a Director (Reavey, 2015-19) and a Deputy Director of Postgraduate Research (Civai),
 supported by a £7k p.a. training budget, one dedicated local and three University-based
 administrators, who together oversee the progress and development of all ASC PGRs. Two
 divisional PGR representatives consult with students, and report to the PGR Director at a staff-
 led group at school level – the School Postgraduate Advisory Group. Business from this group is
 reported to both the university RBoS and the ASC REAG (Chair: Albery).

 The university uses the online PGR Manager system HAPLO to monitor/record PhD progress.
 Students are registered on this system on enrolment, and the system is accessible/utilised by
 the School Director of PGR, by supervisors, by students and is overseen by the REI. Students
 and supervisors receive automated messages alerting them to submit six-monthly reports on
 progress, as well as attending a related progression assessment meeting with supervisors and
 an internal independent assessor. We have had 100% progress among current students at each
 stage of study.

 2.6.1 Strategic PGR investment. Since 2014, to partly address our objective of maturing our
 research environment by increasing doctoral numbers, we have invested (c.£150k p.a.) in two
 fully funded scholarships, six fee-waiver scholarships and have generated four matched-funding
 scholarships from key stakeholders (e.g., Alcohol Research UK, Drinkaware, St. Andrew’s
 Healthcare). This has facilitated a ~134% increase in active PGR students from 14.5 FTEs
 (REF2014) to 34 FTEs during the current period, and a 79% increase in completions (6.7 to 12
 FTEs).

 2.6.2 Resourcing PGR success. PGRs are provided with dedicated desk space, appropriate
 workstation and technical assistance from two psychology-specific technicians. Recruitment
 operates via the general university admissions system, is advertised on dedicated web pages for
 research degrees with separate listings for each subject area, and links to staff research
 interests and expertise. All students are assigned to one of our research groups/centre at
 enrolment.

 Our PGRs benefit from a budget (~£1k per head) to provide support for conference attendance
 (registration, travel, accommodation, and subsistence), bespoke resources and/or training as
 well as participant payment. All PGRs are expected to attend (and present) at relevant external
 national/international conferences at least once per enrolment year, with 100% adhering to this
 policy during the assessment period. In addition, 100% of our PGRs have accessed resources
 for participant payment/recruitment. As part of the wider core skills training for a career in the
 academy, we also expect our PGRs to undertake reimbursed teaching-related activities (no
 more than six hours per week per semester) [100% of students have done so], and to ensure
 that they are positioned in terms of their article publications [completing students have published
 33 papers (~3 per FTE) directly from their PhD work].

 2.6.3 Developing PGR core skills. Facilitating the development of core research skills, as well
 as those skills pertinent for a PGRs progress towards post-doctoral work, is provided for at
 university level by the LDA and locally within ASC. In terms of the LDA provision, the Key Skills
 Development Programme is designed to facilitate core and transferrable skills mapped against
 the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) with the provision of BB Collaborate
 providing distance learning and online doctoral engagement programmes. The LDA also hosts
 an annual summer school, a week-long programme of guest and peer-led sessions on career
 focussed topics as well as PGR research presentations from students at all levels of the doctoral
 programme. To compliment this offering, ASC provides PGR students with more bespoke skills
 training, pastoral care and an enrichment programme relating to careers and employability. This
 operates in parallel with the university’s wider key skills programme, which offers training with
 presentation, writing and analytical skills, systematic reviews, and other key academic skills
 (e.g., ethics, governance, etc).



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One example is the ASC research methods training schedule, co-created and devised by PGRs
 and supervisors via a systematic periodic needs-based analysis. Any methodological training
 needs are translated into a comprehensive programme of workshops and demonstrations. The
 programme covers quantitative and qualitative methodological approaches, analytical
 techniques, academic skills, laboratory demonstrations, writing workshops, and careers
 development for opportunities post-qualification. The programme is designed specifically for
 ASC students and delivered solely by ASC academics.

 A second example is the ASC Career Mentoring and Research Skills scheme. Based on New
 York University’s Growing Up In Science approach
  (https://www.cns.nyu.edu/events/growingupinscience/index.html), monthly group mentorship
 sessions provide PGRs with the opportunity to hear and discuss the “stories” of senior
 academics in terms of the failures they have encountered (rather than their successes). The aim
 is to normalise failure and rejection as an inherent part of the everyday experience of the
 working academic.

 Further support for PGRs includes:

    (1) Personalised inductions by the School Director of PGR including a meet and greet with
        all PhD students.
    (2) A termly Postgraduate Forum, providing students with the opportunity to feedback on
        experiences, and to raise any issues with the PGR director/deputy director (Civai).
    (3) Informal coffee mornings for students to meet with each other and the PGR director.
    (4) An ASC annual themed PGR conference, where students, irrespective of stage, present
        their work for discussion and feedback (organised by staff).
    (5) A student-led research discussion group where PGRs present ongoing work to peers and
        staff for invaluable positive critique.
    (6) A peer mentoring scheme for new students who wish to be supported more informally by
        a PhD student who is further along in their studies; and
    (7) Students are also invited and expected to attend fortnightly research seminars organised
        by CABR/group members.

 Together, these systems ensure that our students are supported in developing skills important
 not only to enable successful completion of their degree but, importantly, to make them attractive
 to future employers. Of our completed PGRs, 100% are in employment and ~92% (n=11) are in
 academic posts.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In line with our strategic aims, we have focussed resources on our primary areas of activity.
 More particularly, we have committed resources to our research centre (CABR) to ensure we
 further capitalise on this strength whilst at the same time investing in our research groups
 (~£150k p.a.) This provides systematic support and provides opportunities for staff to ensure a
 sustainable environment responsive to changing areas of interest.

 3.1 Developing infrastructure and facilities. We now conduct research which answers a
 broad range of relevant questions, in line with our mission, and can build resources when
 demanded. Since 2014 the University has committed more than ~£1m of capital investment in
 the expansion and upgrade of our laboratory complex realising a growth in research-specific
 floor space from ~250m2 to ~500m2 (100% increase). This includes the addition of eight single-
 occupancy experimental laboratories, independent areas for group-based data generation,
 EEG/eyetracking data capture, an interview and observation facility, a technicians’ suite, a
 bespoke suite for doctoral students and a 25m2 bar-lab facility (one of only two in the UK)
 [https://www.lsbu.ac.uk/student-life/facilities/facility-finder/psychology-facilities-pub-lab].

 Investment in our bar-lab has provided the opportunity to test whether the questions answered in
 the traditional experimental cubicle are replicable in a more real-life but controlled environment

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and to refine such questions accordingly. This facility has provided the basis for new
 collaborations and funding opportunities (e.g., Frings, Albery, Moss with Cambridge University,
 Louisiana State University and Alcohol Research UK) and positioned us as a provider of relevant
 media expertise (e.g., “Trust me I’m a Doctor, BBC2, Sept. 2018 and “Food Unwrapped”,
 Channel 4, July 2018 – Moss).

 We have also expanded the diversity of the equipment required to answer contemporary
 questions across the areas of interest. This includes, a Biopack physiological recording system
 (£25k), an EEG facility and associated EEG equipment (£100k), two eye tracking systems [static
 and moving] (>£40k), and numerous software-based resources (e.g., Gorilla licences, e-prime
 licenses, in-vivo licences, Qualtrics licences, etc., >£50k).

 To maintain these types of facilities we have support from two dedicated full-time technicians
 who provide research-related IT support and specialist programming knowledge. For bespoke
 equipment builds, staff (and PGRs) can access wider support from over 40 technicians from
 LSBU’s Technical Support Services team. This provides easy access for the design, build and
 testing of required resources. In addition, the University continually invests in its IT estate to
 provide a secure network environment in which research can develop and prosper.

 3.2 Increasing research income. Ten submitted staff (~43%) have been awarded external
 research monies during the most recent cycle from reputable funders (£1.3m) (e.g., Cancer
 Research UK, Alcohol Research UK, British Academy, Health Innovation Network, Allen Carr
 Easyway, NIHR, MRC, Gambleaware, Drinkaware, ESRC, Mental Health First Aid England,
 Wellcome Trust & the NHS) and matched doctoral studentships (Alcohol Research UK,
 Drinkaware, St Andrews Healthcare). Income has increased from ~£82k in 2014 to ~£227k in
 2019/20 representing a ~177% increase. Compared to the REF 2014 period, there has been a
 ~57% increase in total external research income [~£861k REF 2014 vs. ~£1.35m REF 2021]
 reinforcing a picture of sustained development. Recent awards (post-census) in 2021 of £1.7m
 (NIHR – Dawkins, Cox, Tyler) and ~£450k (NHS-X, Frings) emphasise further this increasing
 trend.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Focus on collaboration. Our approach is to develop research strength in key areas and
 facilitate opportunity for cross-disciplinary engagement. This ensures a more collaborative focus
 of research activity within and between CABR, our research groups and other academic units
 internal/external to the University, and realised in external funding (e.g., ESRC, NIHR, MRC) and
 numerous co-authored publications. During the assessment period ~86% of submitted staff have
 published 225 articles with external collaborators including 120 papers with overseas colleagues
 from 22 countries and 35 universities further highlighting involvement in national/international
 academic research communities. These collaborations include PGR students jointly supervised
 with other groupings, including sports and exercise science (Carrus, Albery), food science
 (Newton), education (Reavey), healthcare sciences/nursing (Callaghan) and the built
 environment (Newton).

 In addition, to facilitate the development of our international presence, we have funded short
 stay (2-3 week) visits from significant external researchers to facilitate collaborative work (e.g.,
 grant applications, publications, etc.). We have received external collaborators from the
 Universities of Washington, Auckland, and Louisiana State, working with colleagues on identity
 processes in addiction, profiling e-cigarette use for harm reduction and alcohol and social
 facilitation processes. The work initiated has resulted in a grant application to the NIH (USA), a
 successful grant application to the MRC, ongoing data generation and numerous journal articles.

 We also maintain high visibility external national/international collaborations including:

       Eyewitness testimony under the influence of alcohol (Albery with Abertay);


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Metacognition and desire thinking (Spada and Kolubinski with Milan, Baylor, Padova
        and Sarajevo);
       E-cigarette use (Dawkins, Kimber and Cox with Auckland, Queen Mary, UCL, East
        Anglia and Stirling);
       Social identity in addictive behaviours (Frings and Albery with Washington and
        Melbourne; Vangeli with Leiden);
       Space and mental health (Reavey with Nottingham Trent and Copenhagen);
       Defining addiction (Moss with Northumbria and Sheffield; Cox with UCL);
       Social facilitation and alcohol (Albery and Moss with Louisiana State);
       Prospective memory/executive functioning in children/adults with dyslexia (Smith-Spark
        with Rome, Lyon and Cagliari);
       Mental health care provision (Callaghan with St. George’s, London, Pretoria,
        Manchester, and Nottingham);
       Decision neuroscience (Civai with Minnesota and Radboud);
       Social and economic decision-making (Carrus and Civai with Padua);
       Gang membership (Mallion with Kent);
       Suspect interviews and deception detection (Tekin with Southern Connecticut State and
        Zurich);
       Cognitive processing of maps (Newton with Essex);
       Memory retrieval in older age (Elward with Texas and UCL);
       Veterinary medicine and mental health (Lewis with Royal Veterinary College); and
       Enhancing student motivation/achievement (Marchant with Utah State).

 Aside from facilitating person-based collaboration, we use collaborative networks to respond to
 fundamental questions directed at a wider audience. For example, CABR is closely associated
 with the Addiction Theory Network [ATN] (Moss, founding member, Albery, Spada), an
 international network of over 150 addiction researchers and clinicians, dedicated to developing
 wider understanding of the nature of addiction. Initial funding to enable to establishment of the
 ATN was provided by Alcohol Research UK. These collaborations are realising our objectives,
 enabling us to: (1) engage and work with significant groups/individuals to answer contemporary
 nationally and internationally relevant questions; and (2) facilitate specifically the reach of our
 work by internationalising the research undertaken.

 Finally, of the 57 papers submitted for assessment 47 (~82%) are the product of national (n=23,
 ~40%) or international (n=24, ~42%) collaborations from 29 UK and 19 overseas universities
 across 12 countries.

 4.2 Contribution to the research base, economy and society. CABR/group members are
 actively involved in user engagement and impact. This includes the development of training
 guidelines for the Federation of Drug and Alcohol Professionals [FDAP] (Frings), the National
 Centre for Smoking Cessation and Training on e-cigarette briefing for stop smoking services
 (Dawkins), the evaluation of the Allen Carr Easyway stop smoking programme (Frings, Albery,
 Moss), the development of addiction-related public debates with LSBU’s Health and Wellbeing
 Institute (Albery), membership of the Counsellor/Course Accreditation Committee of the FDAP
 (Frings, Kolubinski), expert advisor on consumer perceptions of electronic nicotine delivery
 systems for Covance Inc. (Cox), the joint development with the All-Party Parliamentary Health
 Group of a briefing session to parliamentarians on the shortfalls of current service provision for
 addictive behaviours (Moss), expert advice to the House of Commons Science and Technology
 Committee on e-cigarettes (Dawkins), scientific advisor to Drinkaware Trust and Impact
 Committee (Moss), advisor to the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Prescribed Drug
 Dependence (Spada), trustees of Gambleaware (Spada), and Alcohol Change UK (Moss),
 advisor to Gambleaware (Moss, Spada) and Drinkaware (Moss), and research and education
 director for the charity Design in Mental Health UK (Reavey).

 Eight submitted staff hold one or more Editorships or Assistant/Associate Editorships on 12
 international journals (Addiction, Addictive Behaviors, Addictive Behaviors Reports, Journal of

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applied Social Psychology, Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology, Journal of
 Behavioral Addictions, Journal of Rational-Emotive & Cognitive-Behavior Therapy, Heliyon,
 Memory Studies, the Harm Reduction Journal, Trials, Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health
 Nursing).

 Staff have also edited nine special issue volumes (Addictive Behaviors (Spada, Albery, Moss,
 Cox), Addictive Behaviors Reports (Frings, Albery, Moss, Spada), Journal of Applied Social
 Psychology (Frings, Albery), and the Harm Reduction Journal (Dawkins, Cox).

 Members also contribute to the knowledge base through a variety of activities involving national
 funding bodies, networks, professional bodies, and other scholarship. Notably these include:

       Callaghan was member, then Chair of the NIHR Integrated Clinical Awards Funding
        Panel for Fellowships to Nurses, Midwives and Allied Health Professionals, NIHE MHRN
        Associate Director, NHS Research Engagement: National Mental Health Research
        Network, Executive Lead for Research: UK Council of Deans of Health and a
        Professorial Fellow of the Institute of Mental Health, Nottingham. He was also awarded
        the Eileen Skellern Lifetime Achievement Award for Outstanding Contribution to Mental
        Health Nursing 2019 and delivered the RCN Winifred Raphael Memorial Lecture 2016;
       Reavey is Director of Research and Education for the Design in Mental Health Network,
        UK; and was awarded the 2014 British Psychological Society book award for
        Psychology, Mental Health and Distress;
       Spada is Chair of UK SMART Recovery, Member of the Working Group for Practicing
        Psychotherapists: All-Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Prescribed Drug Dependence,
        and trustee of GambleAware;
       Moss was Scientific Advisor to the Research and Impact Committee of Drinkaware and
        is Trustee of Change UK (previously Alcohol Research UK);
       Dawkins is an advisor to the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on E-Cigarettes,
        member of/advisor to the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries’ working party on e-cigarettes
        on insured lives in the UK, Editor and reviewer for the National Centre for Smoking
        Cessation and Training (NCSCT) briefing on e-cigarettes, Board Member and Treasurer
        for the Society for Research on Nicotine and Tobacco – Europe (SRNT-E) and member
        of the UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies (UKCTAS); and
       Members have also edited significant books/monographs including The Handbook on
        Alcohol Use: From Synapse to Society [Academic Press] (Frings, Albery), The
        Handbook of Mental Health and Space: Community and Clinical Applications [Routledge]
        (Reavey), Vital Memory and Affect: Living with a Difficult Past [Routledge] (Reavey), and
        The Oxford Handbook of Mental Health Nursing [Oxford University Press] (Callaghan).




                                                                                           Page 16
