Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of Winchester

Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and Structure
This submission is the first for English Language and Literature, the result of strategic planning
over the REF cycle. The Unit of Assessment 27 descriptor encompasses a wide range of fields
within English Language and Literature; the Unit being submitted by the University of Winchester,
which may be small, nevertheless reflects this diverse field of inquiry and research. Within the area
of creative writing, we have staff specialising in creative writing for adults, young adults and
children (Heneghan; Waite); poetry (Rutter; Stannard), and song lyrics (Fosbraey). In addition,
Melrose’s (retired, 2019) research focuses on creative and critical approaches, Farnell conducts
research in the field of literary criticism, and within linguistics research the Unit covers old English
and sociolinguistics (Esser-Miles; Lacey; Löster). The Unit is situated in the Department of
English, Creative Writing and American Studies, in the Faculty of Arts.

Within the Unit, we have the Centre for Research into Language (CRiL) which supports members
of the Unit and postgraduate research (PGR) students, but it also actively draws in and supports
staff members who are working towards REF submission; indeed three of the Unit’s submitting
members (Esser-Miles; Lacey; Löster) are closely affiliated with CRiL. The Centre is also open to
non-research active staff whose work covers the remit of the Centre, principally our colleagues
working in the English Language Support Unit who work with students for whom English is not their
first language.

CRiL has a record of hosting events with external speakers, such as Professor Bill Kretzschmar
(University of Georgia, USA) and Professor Jonathan Culpeper (Lancaster University, UK), which
are open to staff and students at the University and to members of the public. The Centre also
provides opportunities for staff within the Unit and those aiming to join the Unit to present and
disseminate their research. A roundtable was also organised which brought together staff and
student researchers within the Unit to present work in progress and provide both taught and
research postgraduate students with a forum to present their work, thus promoting the
postgraduate environment.

As a small Unit, members regularly engage with other research centres across the University,
including contributing research to the Culture Media Text Research Centre (CMT) - also based in
the Faculty of Arts - and presenting and disseminating research at the Faculty of Arts Research
Seminar Series. Lacey is also a co-convener of the Centre for Medieval and Renaissance
Research in the History Department while Esser-Miles has collaborated with the Psychology
Department and is affiliated to the Forensics group within the Department of Applied Social
Sciences, Forensics and Politics.

CRiL, as the research centre within the Unit, is fundamental to the Unit’s strategic development.
The Unit has regularly sought funding for CRiL to continue its important work of providing a
platform for dissemination and public engagement for staff and postgraduate work, hosting public
events, and facilitating research and networking within and beyond the Unit in general. The
networking opportunity provided by CRiL events has, for example, led to Löster being part of a
conference panel on superdiversity and a subsequent output on cultural borders (2017). The
centre has also been integral to supporting and encouraging interdisciplinary researchers with its
co-hosting of events, and has provided a local space for PGR students and newer researchers to
engage with the wider academic community, in addition to the institutional level PGR room in the
main library [REF 5a, 3.3, 4.2]. Löster, as the convener for CRiL, has co-hosted relevant research
events with the Centre for Gender Studies (CGS), CMT and The English Project, a charity based in
Winchester [see section 4]. These connections facilitate the wider dissemination of events and
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


ensure that researchers, including PGR students operating within CRiL, can benefit from
collaboration with larger research centres and more experienced researchers within them. This
approach has also enabled a more interdisciplinary outlook in some of the research trajectories of
staff in Unit 27. Farnell’s and Waite’s research in particular shows distinct connections to cultural
studies and education, respectively, and thus connects to other Units of Assessment, namely 34
(Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management: Farnell) and
23 (Education: Waite).

1.2 Research Strategy and Impact
Whilst the Unit was not submitted to REF 2014, following that REF the Faculty and University took
a strategic decision to allocate QR research funding to Unit 27, in order to build research capacity
and support the Unit’s development towards REF submission. Thus, the Unit has implemented its
research strategy and built capacity over this REF cycle.

As a major development focus of the Unit was to create a viable submission for REF 2021, this has
been embedded in the strategic and operational objectives in the Unit’s Research Strategy
throughout the assessment period. Initially, the Research Strategy focused on increasing outputs,
with more focus on quality of outputs then being added. As this objective was established, the
strategic focus shifted slightly to consider continuing staff development, and the wider impact of
research. More recently, the strategic objectives have been further developed to move the Unit into
a more mature stage, where established, research-active staff become mentors for newer and
early career researchers. The importance of interdisciplinary work has also become evident as
researchers have been able to move into the Unit from other, cognate units, with Farnell, Löster
and Melrose having moved from Unit of Assessment 34 to Unit of Assessment 27. As such, the
Unit’s Research Strategy has increasingly focused on supporting and embedding interdisciplinary
work; this includes guidance to staff on selecting the most appropriate outlets for publishing work,
alongside mentoring and monitoring [see section 2] to ensure Unit members’ work is submitted to
the most appropriate Unit of Assessment [see above]. Importantly, the practical aspects of
supporting a diverse range of researchers working within a diverse Unit have been woven
throughout the evolution of the Unit’s Strategy. Such support measures have included engagement
with external consultants to highlight practice-as-research (PAR) elements in the work of creative
writers, alongside mentoring by experienced staff from cognate or related disciplines where
research foci overlap.

The Unit has been committed to maximising the research activity of established researchers and
early career researchers, whilst also increasing the quality of their research outputs. Initially, the
focus of the Research Strategy was allocating funding for teaching remission to allow staff to
complete research projects through to publication, and actively encouraging and funding early
career researchers in particular, to allow them to present research at conferences. For example,
Lacey presented conference papers at Leeds International Medieval Congress (Leeds, 2016) and
at Winchester: An Early Medieval Royal City (Winchester, 2017).

As this became a frequently met objective, the Unit was able to move into an active engagement
with the University’s REF Preparatory Exercise to ensure that potential outputs for submission
were appropriately reviewed. These reviews have resulted in specific training and development
opportunities for not only members of the Unit but those aspiring to join the Unit for the next REF.
These activities involved external consultants leading sessions that included training on identifying
impact in research (targeted at newer and early career researchers) and understanding creative
writing as research; all were funded through the Unit.

An important strategic objective for the Unit has been developing and expanding the number of
creative writers submitting creative and critical works to the REF. To achieve this, the Unit brought
in an external consultant to guide creative writers in developing their understanding of themselves
as both researchers and creative practitioners, and how to crystalise this into the supporting
statements for their creative works. This has led to greater confidence in seeing the synergy in

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


creative works as both research and practice.

PGR students are a fundamental part of a healthy and productive Unit of Assessment. As such,
their recruitment and support is an important focus that has been woven into the strategic
development of the Unit. The Unit has supported nine PGR students to completion within the REF
assessment period. The supervisory teams in all cases have been interdisciplinary, and so the
number directly attributed to Unit 27 is 3.99. These interdisciplinary supervision teams have
allowed for successful recruitment of PGR students, drawing on expertise within the Unit; the
majority of the teams include staff within English Language and Linguistics, and Culture,
Communication and Media Studies, but two of the PGR students’ teams were between English and
History, and English and Theology. This model has also allowed researchers to recruit talented
PGR students with support from other more established Units, but also with the students largely
being supported by the two research centres within the Faculty of Arts. This close working
relationship between CRiL and CMT has produced seven of the nine completions. The doctorates
in the Unit thus display a degree of variety in terms of subject focus. One of the completions is a
creative writing doctorate.

1.3 Future Strategy
The Unit’s Strategy is aligned with the Faculty and University Research and Knowledge Exchange
(RKE) Strategies 2020-30, which are integrated with the University’s Strategic Vision, oriented
around social justice and sustainability.

With sustainability in mind and looking to the post-REF 2021 research environment, the Unit has
utilised external consultants to review its research, as well as assessing the scope for including a
wider potential pool of members. The externally-led training sessions focusing on impact, and
creative practice were designed in response to the specific needs of the Unit. Continuation of this
support is intended to produce a network of research-active staff who will then provide mentoring
and career development support for future Unit members. This looks forward to enhancing the Unit
and enabling more colleagues to submit work to the next REF.

A major strategic objective, highlighted in the Unit’s Impact Strategy, is the enhancement of the
creative writing element of the Unit, with a goal of developing an impact case study around the
work of creative writing staff in the Faculty of Arts. Unit 27 has the potential to build on an already
well-established series of impactful engagements including with the Hampshire Writers’ Society,
which is chaired by Farnell (since 2018) and of which he is a founder member, and the Winchester
Writers’ Festival, which Heneghan was Director of (from the start of the assessment period until
2018). Additionally, the Unit’s plans for further development include increased engagement with
local and national communities, such as a continued involvement with the Writers’ Festival and
with public engagement initiatives led by the Faculty of Arts, such as Tavern Talks (a regular
series of public talks held locally) and Theatre Royal Winchester events. This is part of a strategy
to ensure that research within the Unit can be used for wider good, such as education at a variety
of levels. The two Impact Case Studies (ICS) for this REF submission demonstrate the Unit’s
commitment to this goal, with Lacey’s research often being used in public engagement and
education activities, both local to the University but also more nationally. Likewise, Waite’s
research is supporting and encouraging creative writing in young people and children, and her
work is being used in schools around the country as well as internationally, for example in China
[see Waite’s ICS evidence 5.2].

The Unit has organically built its PGR supervisory capacity and aims to continue to grow it
sustainably in a number of ways. An already well-established and successful way for new and less
experienced supervisors is to join supervisory teams to gain experience, in addition to providing all
team members with gaining insight into different subject areas. The most notable interdisciplinary
connections already in place are with History, Forensic Studies, and Theology and Religious
Studies. There is clear capacity to develop supervisory links with other subject areas, such as
Education.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



The Unit’s plans for increasing PGR student numbers link to its aim to increase income, for
example through factoring support for PGR students into external funding bids. The strategy for
income generation also includes utilising internal funding as seedcorn funding to allow individuals
or small teams to develop partnerships and to undertake research pilots, integrated with external
funding bid preparation. For example, work on the representation of immigration in museums, from
a linguistic landscape perspective, is being developed with a view to applying to the British
Academy/Leverhulme Small Grants scheme.

In addition to setting up tailored funding alerts, using Research Professional, members of the Unit
will be mentored to develop individual bidding plans. The Unit also plans to utilise internal funding
to buy-in external consultancy as appropriate, to complement the support provided by the
University’s Research Funding Manager [REF 5a, 4.3]. CRiL is ideally placed to facilitate income
generation through hosting conferences and events, by drawing on the existing experience and
networks of its members, alongside providing consultancy for external partners. The institutional-
level support for preparing external bids will also support this long-term plan to increase the level of
income and engagement with external stakeholders.

1.4 Open Access
The Unit is committed to Open Access (OA) publishing, where this is feasible. As some members
of the Unit are creative writers, it is not possible for all of their work to be available through OA
means. However, members of the Unit have engaged proactively with the University of
Winchester’s research repository to ensure that their work is added to the repository for OA.
Colleagues within the Unit also regularly present or disseminate their research and/or outputs for
benefit to the public. For example, members of the Unit in creative writing engage in public
readings of their work and undertake school visits [see section 4 for further details]. Löster and
Lacey have also both been interviewed by news outlets on their research [see section 4].

This commitment to OA continues with the Unit’s collaboration with Springer Nature, the University
of Glasgow, and OAPEN in the development of support materials for OA book publishing. The Unit
provided financial support to allow Puckey, a staff member aligned with the Unit, to attend a
collaborative workshop organised by Springer and OAPEN to provide scaffolding for their
development of a toolkit to support researchers, universities, librarians and publishers in producing
OA books. These workshops were attended by 53 participants in total who tested and provided
feedback on the toolkit.

1.5 Research Ethics and Integrity
The Unit is committed to supporting a culture of research integrity. Its members conduct research
within the appropriate ethical and professional frameworks and fully engage with the University’s
ethics policy and procedures and with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Melrose was a
contributing author to the Creative Writing Benchmark Statement published by the National
Association of Writers in Education (NAWE) in 2018. In 2017 a member of staff representing the
Unit participated in an ethics training session, run by the Association for Research Ethics, which
focused on `training the trainers’. This was then adapted as a staff development session for the
Unit and Faculty, led by the Faculty Head of RKE (who has oversight of ethics in the Faculty).

2. People

2.1 Staffing
As a small Unit, within a small HEI, and one not previously submitted to the REF, supporting
researchers towards this goal has required significant strategic planning and support from the
wider Faculty and University. The Unit comprises nine individuals, equating to 7.75 FTE. The Unit
currently largely contains Senior Lecturers (Esser-Miles; Farnell; Fosbraey; Heneghan; Lacey;
Löster; Rutter; Waite) with one Reader (Stannard). A Professor of Writing (Melrose) was a
member of the Unit until his retirement in 2019. Two members of the Unit joined as early career
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


researchers towards the start of the assessment period and have been supported into mid-career
research positions (Heneghan; Lacey) and two members of staff were promoted from Lecturer to
Senior Lecturer during the assessment period (Fosbraey in 2016, Lacey in 2019). Since 2015 the
Unit has had a Visiting Research Fellow - Professor Erik Roraback (Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic) - whose expertise in literature and critical theory complements both the Unit’s
focus and the connections to Unit 34. Roraback’s appointment is also connected to the
development of international links, as highlighted in the Erasmus staff exchanges that have taken
place with Farnell (2014, 2015) and Stannard (2015) as outgoing and Roraback as incoming
scholars, respectively. In 2017, Stannard was also an Erasmus Scholar at SWPS University of
Social Sciences and Humanities (Warsaw, Poland).

2.2 Equality and Diversity
The Unit is also diverse in terms of gender, family situations, ethnicity and nationality. Overall,
strategy in relation to supporting and promoting equality and diversity is centralised and covers all
aspects of the institution’s operations. It is led by the HR Department and the Director of Equalities
and Staff Development. The Unit is committed to the University’s values in supporting and
promoting equality and diversity in research careers. As a small Unit, data which could potentially
identify colleagues with Protected Characteristics cannot be included in this statement. However,
the Unit will be working closely with HR and the RKE Centre to address any equality and diversity
issues arising from the REF Equality Impact Assessments. In compliance with the REF 2021 Code
of Practice (p. 2), all members of the Unit’s Working Group took part in bespoke mandatory training
in conscious and unconscious bias in relation to REF. This was led by the Director of Equalities
and Staff Development and was in addition to online training in Equality and Diversity which all
staff are required to undertake. In terms of staffing strategy, the Unit has supported staff to
undertake doctorates. During this REF cycle Heneghan completed a Professional Doctorate
(creative writing) and Waite submitted her PhD by Publication.


2.3 Mentoring
Mentoring within the Unit has not always been straight-forward due to the diverse nature of
research outputs, from creative works and literary criticism to empirical linguistic research.
Consequently, the Unit has sought to incorporate interdisciplinary, informal and formal mentoring
through shared events and collaborations with the two other Units within the Faculty of Arts, both of
these Units comprising more researchers and both having been submitted to REF 2014.
Experienced colleagues from Unit 33 provided support for creative writing colleagues. In particular,
Professor Yvon Bonenfant led training sessions for creative writing practitioners on framing the
creative process as research, complementing the external training offered, which was focused on
how to explain the creative-research interaction [see section 1].

Similarly, colleagues from Unit 34, provided mentoring for those working within literary criticism and
linguistics. This was achieved through shared Unit meetings for the first half of the assessment
period, in order to share good practice and support not only the Unit as a whole but also the Unit
Lead who had not previously been through the REF cycle. In addition to this, colleagues in Unit 27
are encouraged to engage with research centre activities in the associated Unit 34 CMT research
centre. Readers and Professors in the workload model are allocated 50 or 75 hours respectively,
pro rata, for mentoring [see REF 5a]. In the Unit, both staff members at this level (Stannard,
Melrose) have primarily mentored creative writing staff, based on their expertise.


2.4 Reporting on Research and Planning
As part of a wider Faculty approach, later adopted by the University as an exemplar of good
practice, Unit members have an annual reporting process in the form of the Research Planning
Form which includes reflection on the previous year, reporting on completed outputs and planning
for the year ahead. This is in addition to the reporting on research activity as part of the University
Individual Review and Development Scheme for staff [see REF5a]. This process allows the Unit

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Lead and Faculty Head of RKE to identify the particular support needed by staff, at all levels of
professional development, whether in developing research plans or mechanisms for documenting
impact. Staff are only able to apply for research funding upon approval of their Research Planning
Form, to ensure that funding is used to increase not just the quantity but, more importantly, the
quality of their outputs.

The review process embeds impact as a vital aspect of the research process, with research-active
staff asked to report on how their research fits within the framework of impact. This allows for the
identification of impact in research and potential beneficiaries, but it also encourages researchers
to consider the importance of developing a strategy for documenting and sustaining impact while
developing their research ideas.

In this REF cycle the University moved to a system with defined role profiles – Teaching and
Scholarship (T&S), Teaching and Research (T&R), and Teaching with Enhanced Responsibility for
Research (TERR) [see REF5a 1.2].The roles come with differentiated hours for research, with T&R
and TERR roles having 400 and 500 hours respectively. The hours benefit Unit members by
providing time to engage in a wide range of research-related activities, as described further in
section 4.


2.5 Research Students
The monitoring and support of PGR students is important to ensure both their progression and
wellbeing; this is especially so when working with PGR students with Protected Characteristics and
those who are the first in their family to attend university. To achieve this, there is regular
monitoring of student supervision sessions, where issues can be identified by the student,
supervisory team and/or the PGR administrative support team. The University also ensures that
PGR supervisors engage in regular training on practical and pastoral support for their students
[see REF5a, 3.3].

PGR students are an important part of the Faculty and Unit-level communities, complementing a
wider University-level community of practice. PGR students have an elected representative who is
a member of Faculty RKE Committee. The PGR representative reports on news and activities
within the Faculty’s PGR community and raises any issues relating to the group. The Faculty of
Arts Research Seminar Series frequently features PGR students disseminating their research and
actively engaging in discussion. PGR students within this Unit have also presented papers at CRiL
and CMT research centre events. This enables those PGR students who come into smaller units,
such as Unit 27, to engage with students and staff in other, larger units as well as with their
supervisory team.

In addition to the opportunities to disseminate their work, students are also given the opportunity to
attend training and development sessions hosted by the University. In the Faculty, post-doctoral
researchers provided an online workshop for current students in the Unit, based on the theme ‘tips
for completing a doctorate’.

In this REF cycle, the Unit has also hosted two Visiting Early Career Research Fellows (in the
areas of nineteenth-century literature and digital reading); this is a University-wide scheme which
allows postdoctoral researchers to apply for a Fellowship, after having been awarded their
doctorate by the institution.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
As recorded in the HESA data, the Unit has received external income for Esser-Miles’
collaborative work with Dr Goeres at UCL (£7,185, AHRC grant), and as part of an open
competition with UK-based charities (£1,395) [see section 4 for further details].

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Additionally, Melrose was awarded £15,000 by Arts Council England for The Boat Project, an
illustrated book aimed at engaging younger readers with issues around asylum seekers and
immigration. Lacey was in receipt of £1,000 consultancy fee from Ubisoft for his work helping them
with the development of the latest Assassin’s Creed: Valhalla game.

The University supports all academic staff in applying for external funding through opportunities for
teaching remission, but all staff can work with the University’s Research Funding Manager to
support external funding applications and working towards OA compliance. In particular, the
Research Funding Manager and Post Award Funding Administrator are available for support and
guidance in identifying, applying for, and administering external funding awards. The Research
Funding Manager also supports staff engaged in consultancy activities from the start through to the
end of the process [see REF5a, 4.1].

As a Unit not previously submitted to the REF, Unit 27 has not been in receipt of the internal £3000
funding directly as a result of REF2014 performance. Instead, the University committed to
providing the Unit with some funding in order to support it to REF submission. The Unit took a
strategic stance to mainly use these allocated monies to support individual researchers towards
producing quality research and outputs and the wider dissemination of these. One initiative that the
Unit has directly funded is the development and maintenance of Waite’s Wordtamer website. In
addition to this localised funding, the Unit has advocated for centralised funding to develop
infrastructure, and utilised the interdisciplinary status of some members of the Unit (for example,
Esser-Miles) to enable a shared usage of other specialist spaces, such as the Forensics
Laboratory or the eye-tracker in the Psychology Laboratory (see below).


3.2 Subject-specific Facilities and Infrastructure
Within this REF cycle, the University invested in the development of a dedicated Linguistics
Laboratory. Esser-Miles, Lacey, Löster and other staff within English language and linguistics
collaborated with the Estates and Facilities Department to produce a bespoke research and
learning space for linguistics staff and students. Within the laboratory, we have specialist
transcription hardware and software, and access to a wide variety of language corpora and corpus
linguistics software, including Wordsmith Tools. The University also supports staff and PGR
students in English language and linguistics with licenses for Ethnologue, as well as supporting all
staff and PGR students with licenses for SPSS, NVivo and ATLAS.ti. Outside of the Linguistics
Laboratory, staff within linguistics also have access to several other specialist facilities across the
institution, specifically the Forensics Laboratory and the Psychology Department’s Eye-Tracking
Laboratory.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Collaborations and Networks
Researchers within the Unit engage in research projects and outputs in collaboration with
researchers from other institutions, supported with funding for travel and teaching remission
through the Unit’s monies where this is applicable. As explained above, in 2016, Esser-Miles
collaborated with Dr Erin Goeres, of UCL’s School of European Languages, Culture and Society,
on The Siege of London project, leading to her co-organising the conference The Siege of London:
Aethelred II and Cnut. Stannard has collaborated closely with the University of Genoa in the
construction of his book Sottoripa.

The £1,395 funding by UK-Based Charities, highlighted in section 3, was a Leverhulme Trust
award made to The English Project and the University of Winchester for an artist-in-residence
(Mary Kuper), attached to The English Project. The English Project [see section 1] is a charity
based in Winchester, which aims to ‘promote awareness and understanding of the unfolding global

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


story of the English language in all its varieties – past, present and future. We present ideas about
English in an intelligent, entertaining, inclusive and interactive way’. The charity hosts a number of
public events annually, most notably the English Language Day hosted by the University of
Winchester, and several staff members of the University overall are involved with it; a member of
the Unit (Esser-Miles) is part of its Steering Group.

Lacey, as part of his University Early Career Fellowship (competitively awarded), collaborated with
Dr Ruth Nugent, of the University of Chester, and Dr Kris Poole, of the University of Sheffield, on a
multidisciplinary research project to create a freely-accessible electronic database – The Electronic
Database of Animals Known in England, c.500-c.1100. This is the first integrated catalogue which
draws on linguistic, literary and archaeological research. Löster has been a long-standing member
(2014-present) of the International Advisory Board of CERGU (Centre for European Research at
Gothenburg University). The role includes advising on and evaluating the research centre’s
activities, and taking part in and facilitating collaborative research on European research.


4.2 Dissemination
Staff within, and aligned with, the Unit are active in disseminating their research and knowledge
gained through practice as research. Melrose, in collaboration with the University of Canberra,
Australia, and the International Poetry Society, organised a number of themed Poetry and Prose
Symposia (for example, Creativity, Poetry and Culture, 2015; Inside/Outside Carnival, 2017). Unit
members from Creative Writing (Fosbraey; Heneghan; Rutter; Stannard; Waite) are members of
NAWE and regularly attend and present their research at NAWE conferences. Löster has regularly
presented at the biennial Sociolinguistics Symposium.


4.3 Wider Activities and Impact of Research
Importantly, the Unit is also highly engaged with non-academic audiences, stakeholders and
beneficiaries. With a focus on the publishing industries, the Winchester Reading Series, which is
open to the public, is comprised of readings and talks by staff, writers and professionals in those
industries. Dr Vanessa Harbour, who is aligned with the Unit, has worked as an editor and mentor
to aspiring writers of children’s fiction through her work for the Golden Egg Academy (2014-2020)
where she also initiated and established their diversity award for authors of underrepresented
backgrounds in 2017. As highlighted in her ICS, , Waite’s work on Wordtamer involves working
with librarians and educators not only in producing impactful materials, but also through library and
school visits where her work is tailored to her audience, engaging children, librarians, teachers,
and parents in the process of creative writing and developing those skills in creative work. The
Wordtamer website complements this and allows for a much wider audience to continuously
engage with her work.

Schools have also been important in the work Melrose engaged in as part of The Boat project,
with children being provided with copies of this book at a time when many were becoming acutely
aware of the challenges and dangers faced by asylum seekers. This was a timely book that
provided a way to engage children in a debate that they are often left out of, but are aware of and
affected by, nonetheless.


4.4 Engaging With Diverse Communities
Many staff within the Unit, and those who aspire to join it, engage in public events. Some of these
events are organised and hosted by the University, others are events or activities that staff have
been invited to collaborate or engage with. The Hampshire Writers’ Society, chaired by Farnell,
includes academic and non-academic members with an active speaker schedule open to members
of the public. Similarly, the Winchester Writers’ Festival brings academic delegates together with
non-academic writers/delegates and a non-academic audience, blending the creative and critical.
The Festival is renowned and has featured high-profile authors, alongside academics, providing

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


lectures, workshops and networking opportunities with other writers and industry professionals;
Heneghan was the Festival’s director [see section 1 above]. Farnell has regularly taken part in a
series of pre-theatre talks hosted at the Theatre Royal in Winchester and has also contributed to
the series of Tavern Talks, the Faculty of Arts’ programme of public talks hosted locally. The visual
poetry, alongside paintings and prints, created by Rutter have been exhibited both in the USA and
in the UK, including the Sandy Art Gallery in Oregon, USA (2016), the Little Gallery in Maine, USA
(2016, 2017, 2018), and the University of Winchester’s Link Gallery (2016, 2017). In addition,
Rutter’s 2019 book launch in Winchester highlighted the collaboration with the artist and
printmaker Kate Dicker. Since the publication of her novel, Heneghan has spoken at a number of
national events, including academic as well as non-academic readings and talks, about her
research, as well as the creative process that shaped her work. Similarly, Stannard has taken part
in readings at festivals and literary venues throughout Europe and in the USA, most recently many
of them virtual, thus attracting more geographically diverse audiences. In addition, Stannard’s
work has been published in the national press, including the Times Literary Supplement, the
Guardian, the Spectator and the Sunday Telegraph.

Staff have been involved in BBC events, with Richard Kelly (aligned with the Unit) taking part in
BBC Radio 4’s Open Book programme with a commentary on Stevenson’s Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde.
Lacey has worked with the BBC a number of times: some of this is reported through his ICS.
Recently, Lacey was interviewed for a BBC piece on the Exeter book and the Advent lyrics. Löster
has been interviewed on national German radio regarding her work on Scots and Bavarian. The
Unit has also been actively engaged in developing links with regional cultural stakeholders. One of
the more recent examples (2019) of this is ‘200 Years of Autumn – Keats in Winchester’, held at
the Theatre Royal in Winchester. This event was part of the celebrations of the bicentenary of John
Keats’ stay in Winchester when he wrote ‘To autumn’. The events involved staff (Farnell) and
students, in collaboration with the Hampshire Writers’ Society, the Hampshire Cultural Trust, the
Winchester Poetry Festival, the Keats Foundation, and the Keats-Shelley Memorial Association.
During the 2020 Winchester Heritage Open Days Lacey’s talks about the stories behind
Winchester’s place names received very positive feedback, highlighting the value of such public
engagement activities [see Lacey’s ICS for further details].


4.5 Indicators of Wider Influence
Within the Unit, staff are also recognised nationally and internationally for their research and
expertise. Löster, for example, reviews for Palgrave Macmillan, Cambridge University Press and
the Open Access journal Moderna Språk, aimed at academics as well as practitioners, such as
teachers of modern foreign languages; she has also reviewed ESRC grant applications. In 2015
Stannard became an editor on the international board of the Italian journal Nuova Corrente.
Another example is Melrose’s co-editorship of the international journal Write4Children.
In addition, Heneghan’s novel Snegurochka was shortlisted in the Edward Stanford Travel Writing
Awards and Stannard has been nominated for the Forward Poetry Prize. Having received a
lifelong Bogliasco Literary Fellowship in 2014, Stannard has been resident at the Bogliasco
Foundation (Genoa) on several occasions (2014, 2017, 2019), taking part in public engagement
events, including the Hemingway Festival (2017) among others. Recently, Stannard was
appointed as part of the Southampton City Cultural Advisory Team regarding their City of Culture
Bid for 2025.




                                                                                              Page 9
