Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 30 Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
The Philosophy Unit of Assessment at the University of Dundee consists of seven academic staff
(6.2 FTE): one Professor, four Senior Lecturers and two Lecturers. During the last seven years,
the unit has increased in size from the 5 FTE returned in REF 2014. It is situated within the School
of Humanities where research is supported by the Arts & Humanities Research Institute (AHRI).
This forms the context, structure and strategic framework for the unit’s research. Philosophy offers
a central node to interdisciplinary research in the AHRI and wider University. To achieve maximum
effect with a small FTE, the unit has enhanced its position in the study of continental philosophy by
forming an integrated threefold interdisciplinary research programme that focuses on (1) art and
philosophy, (2) science and technology and (3) core continental philosophy. We refer to this
programme by the abbreviation ASC3. Philosophy’s research, impact and engagement activities
pursue these strands either singly or in combination. ASC3 is the unit’s response to the respective
challenges of team size, the opportunities offered by the forward momentum of the team’s
research successes and the need to be distinctive and sustainable. It also encapsulates the unit’s
agenda for interdisciplinary projects with the University’s Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art &
Design (DJCAD) and School of Life Sciences. This in turn will form a central part of the unit’s
emerging impact strategy on the theme of creative pedagogies.

1.2 REF 2014: Plans and Implementation
The Philosophy team achieved its main targets as set out in REF 2014. Based on its academic
success, the continental philosophy specialism was extended, increasing the unit’s distinctive
international reputation as a specialist research centre for modern European philosophy. Although
two of its members departed during this reporting period, the unit’s growing reputation has
attracted significant staff investment with four new strategic appointments: Keohane, Sellbach,
Röck and Ruda. The commitments to aesthetics and technology, set out in 2014, were expanded
into the art and science strands of our ASC3 programme. The unit continues to recruit national
and international postgraduate researchers (10 PhDs were awarded in this subsequent reporting
period and 9 postgraduate researchers are currently based in the unit) and it maintains a high
international research profile.

The outcomes of REF 2014 demonstrated the plausibility of the unit’s strategy to specialise in
continental philosophy with a distinct aesthetics strand. This motivated the unit in the current cycle
not only to consolidate but to grow the scope of its research activities, and through its
establishment of transdisciplinary arts and life-sciences collaborations to distinguish itself from
other UK, European and North American continental philosophy programmes. Institutional
restructuring offered the unit unique opportunities for postgraduate module collaborations with
DJCAD and Life Sciences which are designed to open up new avenues for interdisciplinary
research. To consolidate and highlight its distinctive identity, the unit established the ASC3
programme as the key driver of its research strategy. This clarified the interdependence of the
unit’s research themes as art, science and core continental philosophy.

1.3 Organisation of Research: the AHRI
The Arts & Humanities Research Institute (est. 2009) is managed by the School’s Research and
Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC) and is responsible for the research environment within

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
which the School’s academics work. It formulates the School’s research strategy and manages its
research budget. The strategic objectives of the AHRI are: to build bridges between disciplines
within and beyond the humanities; to promote partnership-based research within and beyond
academia; and to create an environment for research postgraduates to thrive and become leaders
in their fields.

Following REF 2014, the AHRI accelerated this strategy by overseeing a systematic shift from
discipline-based organisation of research to the development of thematic centres. It currently
comprises five centres – one of which is the Scottish Centre for Continental Philosophy – and
includes two others shared with other HEIs. The structure of the AHRI aims to encourage and
embed interdisciplinary and collaborative approaches to research, enabling the School to maximise
the potential of overlapping research themes across and beyond the School. The centres
established as part of that shift are responsible for giving shape and focus to the range of
Humanities research and developing both research collaborations and public engagement. They
also provide important focal points for the postgraduate research culture in the School (all PGRs
are affiliated to at least one centre). The centres are designed to be flexible and facilitative, and to
enable relatively small disciplinary units with porous boundaries to coalesce into a larger and more
dynamic research environment. Staff members contribute to the work of other centres as well as
research groups in other Schools: for example, Sellbach is a member of the Centre for Critical &
Creative Cultures (based in the English Language & Literature unit); Smith has collaborated with
the Centre for Poetic Innovation (jointly run between Dundee and St Andrews) and helped to
launch the Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Research Cluster with the School of Law (2019). This is
consistent with the AHRI’s interdisciplinary mission and demonstrates the advantages of its unified
organisation of research. The thematic approach to research organisation is not restrictive and the
AHRI deliberately embraces the full diversity of theoretical and practical research in the humanities
which is of particular importance to the interdisciplinary outlook of the Philosophy unit.

The unit is a constituent element of this broader environment, which strategically enables it, as a
small team, to maximise and enhance its activities through access to pooled financial resources,
research management and shared training events. For example, it has enabled members of the
unit to maintain high levels of research and publication activity. The 16 outputs submitted to REF
2021 represent less than half of the outputs that were available for submission (including an
additional three authored or co-authored books and two edited collections). Philosophy has
representation on the RKEC. This engages the unit in dialogue with other centres and facilitates
joint events and grant applications across the School. Philosophy derives funding for staff
conferences and research travel from the AHRI budget. The AHRI also supports Philosophy’s
impact and outreach activities within a larger operational arena: it builds partnerships with non-
academic users of humanities research to achieve collaborative impact (see section 1.6) and
supports the wider dissemination of philosophy research through public events.

1.4 The Scottish Centre for Continental Philosophy (SCCP)
All research in the unit is directly organised under the Scottish Centre for Continental Philosophy
(SCCP), one of the AHRI’s centres. Established in 2014, the SCCP fosters team identity and
organises research events, outreach and communication with non-academic audiences. The
centre attracts funding from the Scots Philosophical Association to support its activities (see
section 3.1). Its website provides staff and postgraduate researchers with a repository and
platform for their work. The interdisciplinary spirit of the SCCP was reflected in its inaugural
conference ‘Acinemas: Aesthetics and Film in the Philosophy of Jean-Francois Lyotard’ (2014),
which attracted participants from Australia, South Korea, Germany, Belgium and France.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Two series of Visiting Speaker Seminars are run by the centre: a general Philosophy research
seminar and, since 2018, a Philosophy-Biology seminar in collaboration with the School of Life
Sciences at Dundee. These receive funding from the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the AHRI
budget, the School of Life Sciences and the Scots Philosophical Association, and they have
attracted such notable international scholars as Don Idhe (Stony Brook) in 2016 and Slavoj Žižek
(Ljubljana) in 2018.

The SCCP also serves as a hub for connecting with external organisations. For example, it was
involved in the LABEX-funded project on ‘Le Sujet Digital’ (2012-15), based at Paris VIII. The
project involved a yearly seminar held in Dundee and in Paris and resulted in four publications,
among them Le Sujet Digital (2015) which included a contribution from Smith. In 2017 the centre
was involved in a series of collaborative workshops which brought together researchers from
Dundee’s School of Life Sciences and Exeter University working on the Horizon 2020 project
ProBIO, as well as from the Integrative BioPhilosophy Centre in Kassel. This led in 2018 to an
interdisciplinary conference – ‘Process, Life, Reality: Investigating Dynamic Modes of Being’ –
hosted in Dundee by the SCCP, involving researchers from various fields, which enlarged the
established research group and has laid the ground for future international collaboration.

1.5 Philosophy Research Strategy: ASC3
The unit’s research strategy is sustained by a managed environment of interdependent elements,
including: workload allocation, support for research leave, and funding for conference and travel
costs. The effectiveness of these interdependencies relies on the proper functioning and
management of its key elements: academic, regulatory and pedagogic. This has been sustained
by ambitious publication plans, good market positioning, robust staffing policies and the
governance of sustainable development to nurture the unit’s aspirations. The team’s strategic
ambition to build a research unit of international consequence committed to academic excellence,
diversity and the fulfilment of staff potential was born of a collective appraisal of both its past
achievements and scoping new collaborative opportunities within the University. The unit’s
ambitions are sustained in tiered fashion by the Philosophy team, the SCCP and the AHRI.

The ASC3 strategy has three constituent research elements, each of which encompasses a
distinct self-sustaining research project, graduate teaching, and a current and future publication
and impact plan.

(a) ASC1 – Art and Philosophy
The unit has developed a clear reputation for hermeneutical approaches to aesthetics, film and
literature. This is demonstrated in Davey’s recent work on the ontology of aesthetic practices and
the speculative nature of aesthetic understanding. Through Keohane the unit is pioneering
philosophical investigation into representations of nudity and naked truth in contrast to aletheic and
correspondence approaches. Sellbach contributes explorations of philosophy as performance
practice to the team’s engagement with DJCAD. This notably includes ‘Pantomime Ethologies’, a
collaborative creative research project investigating the imaginative dimensions of Jakob
von Uexküll’s philosophy of biology. Innovative post-phenomenological and information-informed
approaches to Kantian aesthetics are the hallmark of Smith’s contribution to this element of the
unit’s research. Woodward’s publications on Lyotard and film are benchmark achievements in the
field.

(b) ASC2 - Science and Technology
The unit promotes research into the metaphysical and historical dimensions of science and
technology. Röck’s publications explore intersections between process thought and life sciences.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This work is enhanced through engagement with Sellbach’s contrasting work on the imaginative,
felt dimensions of science. Both bring a special focus to current debates, from methodologies in
the sciences to more specific notions of species, pathology and climate change. Through
Smith’s work on ‘exceptional technologies’ the unit makes innovative contributions to current
debates in the philosophy of technology and the use of technology in education. Woodward’s
research on the history of philosophy of information in the continental tradition also notably
enhances the ASC2 element of the unit’s research strategy, as well as its pursuit of creative ways
to develop and transmit information in different contexts.

(c) ASC3 - Core Continental Philosophy
The unit’s research outputs make well-regarded contributions to contemporary debates within
hermeneutic thought, Derridean scholarship, process philosophy, social critique and nihilism.
Davey’s work expands the conceptual range of contemporary hermeneutics and shows its value in
articulating the nature of artistic practice. Keohane’s writings investigate the consequences of
applying Derrida’s thought to debates about nationalism, cosmopolitanism, and the idea of
‘national philosophies’. His work contributes to philosophical discussion of linguistic justice in the
context of the global use of English. Röck’s research makes an important contribution to process
thought by leading debates in contemporary metaphysics and ontology and placing them in their
historical context. Ruda’s research demonstrates the continuing relevance of German Idealism to
contemporary social and political thought. Sellbach’s work in continental philosophy contributes to
feminist, queer and performance theory. Smith’s publications investigate how counterfactuals and
paradoxes can be used to better shape our understanding of technology. Woodward’s research
explores continuing concern with Nietzsche’s nihilism and its formative influence on
poststructuralism and post-humanism. Both the AHRI, the SCCP and the unit’s research seminars
serve as public windows in which to present and integrate, as well as to experiment with, its
research projects and to explore overlapping interests and research potentials.

The strategic aim of ASC3 has been to create a supportive environment allowing the team to
maximise its potential and establish a platform for consequential engagement beyond the
institution and beyond academia. The unit promotes a variety of young philosophical voices. Its
participatory ethos creates a research environment to which all contribute and from which all can
derive benefit. Implementing the ASC3 strategy helps to ensure that our research supports our
commitments to sustainable excellence and relevance to contemporary philosophical and social
debate, with a capacity for international impact, outreach and engagement. This process is guided
and underwritten by regular team meetings as well as research meetings which are held twice per
semester to monitor and review envisioned projects, outputs and collaborations. Such joint
discussions were the genesis of the impact case studies of Davey and Smith and have opened
the door to an interdisciplinary impact project on creative pedagogy post-2021 (see section 1.6).
These are essential fora for monitoring staff research needs, fostering an open exchange of ideas,
nourishing potential collaborations and testing future plans.

By establishing the strategic centrality of ASC3, the unit has promoted greater cross-team
cooperation, benefiting both postgraduate researchers and the rate of staff publications. This
resulted, for example, in a joint article (Röck and Smith), participation in the AHRC-funded project
InGame (Smith and Sellbach), and a joint workshop on philosophy and technology (Smith and
Woodward). In addition, the unit’s bi-weekly research seminar and its associated guest-lecture
and workshop programme have further consolidated the team and proved an effective mechanism
for engendering cross-thematic engagement and cooperation. The tangible excitement created by
real achievement and a sense of growth has opened the unit and its wider community to a sense of
its potential. The team’s successes in the present REF cycle, made possible by the well-

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
functioning of the AHRI research environment, have established solid foundations for the next
phase of the unit’s development towards greater excellence in its research.

1.6 Future Strategic Aims for Research and Impact
During the next REF cycle the unit will extend its established ASC3 model into an ASC3+ model
by demonstrating the timeliness of philosophy’s capacity to intervene as a critical and creative
practice in Dundee city’s themes of discovery and recovery. Dundee is branded as a ‘City of
Discovery’, yet the concept of discovery has problematic connotations of colonisation and capital.
‘Recovery’ will be a key theme driving research and innovation in the post-Covid-19 pandemic
world and will provoke critical questions concerning recovery of what, and for whom. The unit will
grow its established research mission around the interrogation of questions of this nature.

This will be achieved through the collective impacts of following research trajectories: Keohane on
the ‘naked truth’ and the political ontology of nudity in philosophy and Abrahamic religions; Ruda
on rediscovering the contemporary relevance of German Idealist philosophies of freedom and the
dialectical tradition of the nineteenth century; Röck on truth and scientific discovery in a putatively
‘post-truth’ world; Sellbach on practice-led philosophy through performance, and on how concepts
of discovery can be reinvented through transversal and contingent recoveries (of narratives of
difference, of ecologies, and of encounters with non-human animals); Woodward on the
philosophy of information through the lenses of neglected approaches in the post-Kantian
continental tradition; and Smith on intersections between philosophy of technology, educational
practice, and intergenerational justice.

The unit has also established a related strategy to deliver impacts around the theme of creative
pedagogies. This will be achieved through a number of projects. They include Davey’s
exploration of the impact of hermeneutical concepts on nursing practice, which evolved from his
research on philosophical hermeneutics, and Smith’s project on different narratives of the Tay
Bridge Disaster, which builds on his research on the philosophy of technology. In addition, projects
with a focus on the hermeneutics of knowledge and knowledge exchange, based on the unit’s
interdisciplinary work with DJCAD and Life Sciences, will be developed. This will be an attempt to
formulate a creative pedagogy that rejects the traditional boundaries between the
humanities/sciences and the arts. The aim will be to find modes of interdisciplinary teaching that
generate interdisciplinary research. The development of such a pedagogy will also be supported
through collaboration with colleagues in the School of Education & Social Work.

This strategy will also be facilitated by the involvement of both Smith and Sellbach with the
AHRC-funded InGame project, which has so far brought £71,537 of research funding to the unit.
This provides an axis to explore interdisciplinary teaching and learning potential through games
(both analogue and digital) and builds on Smith’s interest in the philosophy of technology and the
impact technology has on learning. Furthermore, Smith’s project and Impact Case Study on
‘localising philosophy’ involves collaboration with schools and other education sectors and provides
further momentum for the development of creative pedagogies. Both Ruda (in collaboration with
the Cooper Gallery, Dundee) and Keohane (in collaboration with the Stills Gallery, Scotland’s
Centre for Photography, Edinburgh) have already taught creatively in social and cultural
environments, establishing routes and connections that allow for creative pedagogies to have
impact beyond the traditional institutions of learning. Woodward’s present engagement with the
Melbourne Summer School also provides a route to international impact. There are plans to
establish a similar event in Scotland, which will not only disperse the ASC3 themes among an
international cohort of students but also apply the results of our work on creative pedagogies.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The combined expertise of the unit’s recent appointments will not only produce an impact project
on creative pedagogies. They will also further consolidate and coordinate research strategy as
well as public engagement activities across the ASC3 themes, pooling expertise in new
interdisciplinary directions. For example, Ruda and Röck are collaborating with Christoph Menke
(Goethe-University Frankfurt am Main) on a project that explores the potential of Naturphilosophie
to give distinctive shape to contemporary ecological and political debates about the environment.
As part of this engagement with science, biology and nature, collaborations with Dundee’s Schools
of Health Sciences and Medicine are being developed in order to extend ethical awareness in the
nursing community about the demands around mortality, under the constraints of uncertainty and
limited resources highlighted by the Covid-19 crisis. These plans also involve Sellbach (to
emphasise ethical and performative issues) and Smith (to investigate the impact of technology on
these issues).

The core continental philosophy theme will also be developed in the coming cycle via two of
Ruda’s collaborative projects: one on ‘Reading Hegel’, with Slavoj Žižek (Ljubljana) and Agon
Hamza (Kosovo); and one on questions of political regression and stagnation in history, with
Andrew Cole (Princeton) and Rebecca Comay (Toronto). Woodward is developing a Philosophy
of Information project, which will in turn enhance the unit’s commitment to the philosophy of
technology.

All of these projects will provide the basis for the unit’s research funding bids and its further
development of a postgraduate research cohort, framed within the broader theme of
Discovery/Recovery and how Philosophy can contribute to its analysis.

1.7 Open Research Environment
Support for Open Access (OA) is provided centrally by the University’s Library & Learning Centre
(LLC). An LLC liaison representative is a member of the School RKEC and advises the committee
on all matters relating to open research. Outputs and data sets that meet OA requirements are
made available through the LLC’s online repository ‘Discovery’. All of the unit’s submitted ‘in-
scope’ outputs are compliant with OA requirements. Support for an open research environment is
additionally provided by the School’s dedicated Public Engagement Officer, who promotes public
awareness of our research, for example, by working with staff to identify and organise events that
share research insights with wider audiences. The SCCP is committed to an open research
culture, creating an interdisciplinary and welcoming environment for the speaker series. Seminars
are recorded by video and made available on the centre’s website. For the academic year 2020-
21 the series will move online, open to a worldwide audience, and in addition to the centre website
the recordings will also be made available on the University YouTube channel and the website of
the Royal Institute of Philosophy. Furthermore, the journal Parrhesia: A Journal of Critical
Philosophy, edited by Woodward, is a member of Open Humanities Press which promotes open
access scholarship.

1.8 Research Integrity
Research integrity and good practice in research ethics are embedded in the University’s strategic
priorities (institutional statement). The unit is supported in these areas by two School of
Humanities officers who work together, and with relevant University groups, to raise awareness of
the principles articulated in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the University’s
related procedures. The Research Integrity Lead (RIL) – alongside the Associate Dean for
Research who acts as deputy lead – is a member of the University Research Integrity Group,
advises staff and students on matters relating to research integrity, and is responsible for
promoting a culture of research integrity in the School. The RIL also promotes the University’s

                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
online research integrity training (available since 2016) which is currently mandatory for research
postgraduate students and recommended for staff. The Research Ethics Officer advises staff and
students on ethical standards of research practice involving human participants.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Since 2014 the staffing strategy of the School of Humanities within which Philosophy sits has been
two-fold: (1) to consolidate established research strengths; (2) to make staff appointments which
bridge disciplines and facilitate collaborative research. Priority has been given where possible to
building capacity in practice-based research. Within this context, the unit continues to maximise its
established strengths in European philosophy. The departure of two members of staff did not
disrupt the coherence of the unit’s strategy but allowed for new appointments to strengthen
Woodward’s research in French Philosophy and cultural criticism, Davey’s work in aesthetics and
hermeneutics and Smith’s work on the philosophy of technology, as well as establishing the basis
for new interdisciplinary projects with DJCAD and the Life Sciences.

The following four strategic appointments were made during this reporting cycle: (1) Röck to
develop core continental philosophy, history of philosophy and interdisciplinary work with Life
Sciences; (2) Ruda to develop core continental philosophy, political philosophy and history of
philosophy; (3) Keohane to enhance collaboration with DJCAD and to engage with political and
diversity issues; (4) Sellbach to develop interdisciplinary work with DJCAD and Life Sciences, to
add competence to gender feminist philosophy, queer theory, and to build the School’s practice-
based agenda through performance philosophy. These appointments have substantially
consolidated the team’s identity and direction and are aligned with the School’s interdisciplinary
staffing strategy. Davey has reduced his commitment to 0.2 FTE (since 2017), maintaining a
research, supervisorial and administrative presence in the team.

2.2 Staff development and support for research
The unit’s structures for staff development and support for research are provided by the AHRI and
the School, which in turn reflect the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development
of Researchers. Staff development is fostered through an annual process of Objective-Setting &
Review (OSAR) run by the Dean and School professoriate, which enables staff to reflect on their
progress, to identify any impediments and discuss with their reviewer appropriate professional
development opportunities in order to support their career ambitions. The process is designed to
support staff and to identify opportunities and routes to increased success. The OSAR process is
complemented by the Annual Research Review (ARR) which was first implemented in 2016 and
offers developmental feedback on research plans, progress and outputs via internal peer review by
an ARR panel, formed from members of the School Research and Knowledge Exchange
Committee (RKEC) plus an Associate Dean for Research from another School.

All full-time staff with significant responsibility for research receive a standard 30% workload
allocation for research and research-related activity. Recipients of external funding receive
additional workload time for research (calculated according to type of project and funding). All staff
in the School can apply for a Research & Scholarship Focused Semester (RSFS) which relieves
them from most teaching and administrative duties, allowing for a concentrated period of focus on
research (typically used to bring a major project to completion or to accelerate a new one). The
RSFS scheme is School-based and is managed by RKEC. In addition, all staff can apply to the
University for a formal leave of absence (sabbatical) to pursue research, although the RSFS has
become the normal route to enhancing research time in the School. During this reporting period,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
three members of the Philosophy unit have had such a research focused semester (Röck, Smith,
Woodward).

Early career researchers are supported by the institution’s induction provisions for new junior staff.
These include: working with an academic line manager to agree annual objectives over a three-
year probationary period (monitored by the Dean); support of a mentor who provides help and
advice as a ‘critical friend’ (appointed by the Dean); and mandatory completion of the University’s
programme for the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice in Higher Education. To meet
these requirements, early career researchers receive a workload remission of ten percent in year
one, followed by five percent in the remaining years. Early career staff also have access to a
cross-institutional Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme (TRAM) (institutional
statement). All other staff are encouraged to participate in the voluntary Professional Development
Mentoring Scheme managed by the institution’s Organisational & Professional Development unit
(OPD).

The AHRI also makes funds available to support the development of staff during the early stages
of their careers. For example, Röck received £3,000 to organise an international interdisciplinary
conference ‘From Thing to Being’ (2018) and Keohane received £3,000 to support research travel
(e.g., Boston, Reykjavik) for his monograph Cosmo-Nationalism (2018).

The AHRI supports individual and collaborative research through its budget. Each member of the
unit has access to an annual research allowance to support research activities, and additional
funds can be applied for on a responsive-mode basis. RKEC normally meets every two weeks
during semester to ensure that funding requests are responded to quickly. Since 2013 it has
disbursed £538,389 to researchers in the School to support national and international research,
conference attendance and public engagement activities. RKEC also organises internal peer
review and feedback for colleagues preparing external funding applications, in line with the
University’s partnership model for grant applications (institutional statement).

2.3 Postgraduate researchers
Supervision of postgraduate researchers is regulated by a code of practice stipulating the minimum
number of supervisions (initially once a fortnight and later once a month). PGRs are also
supported by a Thesis Monitoring Committee which consists of academic staff other than the
supervisors and meets twice per annum (normally June and December). The Thesis Monitoring
Committee in June also serves as a formal annual progress review, for which PGRs have to
provide a substantial sample of written work, and it determines whether PGRs can proceed into the
next year of their research.

As a constituent member of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH), all
PGRs within the School of Humanities have access to its Scotland-wide training and support
structures. They provide an extensive combination of core training for arts and humanities
researchers, more focused training via three Knowledge Exchange Hubs (Citizenship, Culture and
Ethics; Creative Economies; Heritage) and subject-specific training through the Doctoral Training
Partnership (known since 2019 as ‘Discipline+ Catalysts’). For Philosophy PGRs, the SGSAH
training sessions cover such topics as writing and presenting papers, the academic job market and
non-academic careers. Röck is a member of the national panel for the SGSAH ‘Discipline+
Catalyst’ for Philosophy and Theology. The University provides further training opportunities for
PGRs offered by OPD, such as the PhD Thesis Bootcamp, which is a series of workshops on
writing and editing.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Alongside supervision and formal training, doctoral students are familiarised with the conventions
of academic culture in several ways. They are expected to present their work-in-progress at the
School’s Postgraduate Forum (held twice per semester) and annual Postgraduate Conference, and
to attend research seminars hosted by a cognate centre. All PGRs are members of at least one of
the AHRI research centres. The AHRI also supports the career development of PGRs through its
Doctoral Fellow scheme. Each year, each AHRI centre has a remunerated Doctoral Fellow
attached to it. Doctoral Fellows support and promote the work of the centres and gain wider
experience of academia; those attached to the Scottish Centre for Continental Philosophy in recent
years have, for instance, helped to maintain its social media presence and assisted with
conference organisation.

Once upgraded to full PGR status (usually after the first year of full-time study) PGRs are permitted
to tutor on an undergraduate module at Level 1 or 2. This is an important part of career
development, and the training and mentoring of PGRs in teaching techniques and assessment is
well supported by the institution’s Academic Skills Centre. Philosophy PGRs also have
opportunities to teach beyond Dundee. Berger-Soraruff (doctoral researcher) held a week-long (10
hour) public lecture course at the Melbourne School of Continental Philosophy on ‘Bernard
Stiegler: from Technics and Time to The Automatic Society’ (2016).

All full-time PGRs in the School of Humanities have shared office space and individual computer
facilities from the very start of their research. They are represented formally by the Postgraduate
Staff-Student Liaison Committee, which is chaired by the School’s student Vice-President for
Postgraduates (VPP). The VPP also sits on RKEC, which helps to integrate the postgraduate
research community into the formal work of the School. Postgraduate researchers can apply to the
AHRI for financial support for conference attendance and research travel, and since 2013 it has
disbursed £17,542 for these purposes.

2.4 Equality and Diversity
The School of Humanities has a strong policy of equality, diversity and inclusion, in consonance
with the institution’s EDI policies. It has appointed an EDI officer to oversee the implementation of
EDI policies and to engage with staff, students, student union representatives and professional
services to ensure that the Equality Act (2010) is followed, and that inclusion and diversity are
embedded within the working culture of the School. It is mandatory for all staff to complete online
modules on ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ and ‘Disability’. EDI is a standing agenda item at RKEC
meetings to ensure that all research and research-related matters are considered in that context.

The School’s appointment procedures follow the Equality Act (2010) and reflect the requirements
for an Athena SWAN application. The unit’s gender balance on the REF 2021 census date was 5
males and 2 females. The age profile was: 3 staff in the 30-39 age range, 3 in the 40-49 range,
and 1 in the over-60 range. The grade profile of the unit’s FTE was: 2 Lecturers, 4 Senior
Lecturers, 0.2 Professors. All Category A staff are on permanent contracts; there were no early
career researchers on the census date. The School has flexible working patterns for research
staff, who nominate a weekly research day during semesters. The OSAR and ARR processes
ensure that research expectations are adjusted for individual circumstances (e.g., parental leave,
caring responsibilities, long-term illness).

As a unit that specialises in continental philosophies with an interdisciplinary outlook, reflecting on
diversity, engaging critically with cultural hegemonies and supporting inclusiveness is central to our
research, teaching and community. This is an area that we have developed substantially since
2014 with researchers working on feminist philosophy and queer theory as well as philosophy for

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
children (Sellbach and Smith). We encourage and supervise students writing about feminism,
transgender issues, disability, race theory, non-Western philosophies and postcolonial studies.
Woodward sits on the School of Humanities’ Diversity Working Group.

2.5 Preparation of REF Submission
In preparing its submission, the unit’s Planning Group was guided by the University’s REF 2021
Code of Practice, which framed our decision-making process in the context of the principles of
equality, diversity and inclusion. The Planning Group made its decisions on outputs and
attributions in a manner that aimed to maximise the overall quality profile for the submission, based
on a thorough process of internal and external evaluation. All staff were invited to propose
potential Impact Case Studies through a series of impact workshops. The submitted Impact Case
Studies reflect the Planning Group’s view of the strongest demonstrable research impacts which
emanated from the unit in the reporting period. All members of the Planning Group completed
mandatory unconscious bias training prior to the decision-making process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
The unit received external income during this reporting period to support several aspects of its
research mission. The Scots Philosophical Association (SPA) awarded the unit £5,000 in 2018 to
establish a ‘Dundee Fellowship Series’ for bringing visiting scholars to the Scottish Centre for
Continental Philosophy (SCCP). As a result, both Alexander Galloway (New York University) and
Marcia sá Cavalcante Schuback (Södertörn University) spent time at the centre in 2018. The SPA
also supported James Williams’ (member of the UoA until 2015) project ‘Object, Value, Canon’
(2013-15; £4,251) and the work by Smith and Williams on the ‘Digital Subject’ (2014-15; £3,172),
which fed into the collaboration with Paris VIII mentioned in section 1.4. The SPA also sponsored
the inaugural conference of the SCCP noted in section 1.4 (2014; £1,355) and the centre’s
conference on the ‘Hermeneutics of Practice’ (2016; £1,200). This event led to a special issue of
the Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology, guest edited by Davey, on ‘Philosophical
Hermeneutics and Ontology’ (2017). The Royal Institute of Philosophy provides £1,500 per annum
to support the SCCP’s research seminar series. Both the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the
Czech Academy of Sciences financed Röck’s research fellowship with the Czech Academy of
Sciences (£2,000), which was used to develop her work on intersectional phenomenology and
process ontology (forthcoming as a monograph).

The unit has also benefited from the School’s development of a practice research strategy and
partnerships with the creative industries in Dundee. The AHRC Creative Industries Clusters
Programme, InGame (2018-23), a collaboration with Abertay and St Andrews and involving
Sellbach and Smith as co-investigators, includes an award of £1,658,483 for Dundee, of which
£71,537 was apportioned to the unit in this reporting period. The project aims to enhance the scale
and value of the videogame cluster in Dundee in alignment with UK government strategic
investment in creative industries. Sellbach and Smith contribute expertise on game
phenomenology, the philosophy of design and the philosophy of play.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
The AHRI and its constituent centres provide the facilitating mechanisms of the unit’s research
environment. The AHRI is managed by the School of Humanities Research & Knowledge
Exchange Committee (RKEC) and is co-chaired by the Associate Dean for Research &
Scholarship and the Associate Dean for Knowledge Exchange & Partnerships. Its core
membership comprises the heads of the AHRI’s research centres, which embeds regular dialogue

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
between the centres in the School’s research management structure. RKEC also includes
representation from the School’s research postgraduates, the Library & Learning Centre, and the
institution’s Research & Innovation Services.

The AHRI supports the unit’s research in a number of ways. As noted in section 2.2, for example,
it disburses the School research budget to support a wide range of activity, and it coordinates the
peer review of external funding applications for staff and PGRs. The AHRI also hosts a
Humanities Research Forum on a periodic basis, a one-day event for all School of Humanities
researchers designed to build links across disciplines and other subjects in the University. In all of
its work, the AHRI is supported by a Research Administration Lead, a Postgraduate Officer and a
Public Engagement Officer.

The AHRI has also taken steps to build support mechanisms for research impact: it organises
periodic Impact Accelerator events, which are designed to help staff identify impact pathways for
their research; it encourages staff to apply for an RSFS to focus on impact projects; its peer review
of funding applications pays close attention to impact plans (where appropriate); and it commits
funds to support impact activity. The projects behind the unit’s Impact Case Studies both received
contributions from the AHRI budget.

The unit’s researchers are also supported by institution-level offices in preparing and costing
funding applications: Research & Innovation Services and Research Finance (institutional
statement). The newly established (2019) Doctoral Academy is enhancing support for all RPGs in
the University (institutional statement).

Members of the unit are based in the Tower Extension building of the University’s main campus,
adjacent to the other disciplines within the School and a short walk from the School administrative
offices and reception. Staff members have individual offices. The office space for research
postgraduates is also situated in the Tower Extension building, integrating postgraduates into the
research culture of the unit and the rest of the School. Staff and postgraduates have access to
several shared study and social spaces within the School and the University. In the School, most
research-related spaces are based in the Baxter Suite, alongside the School Office and meeting
rooms. The Baxter Suite contains a postgraduate research space, exhibition space, and a lecture
theatre with flexible seating that is used for guest lectures, postgraduate fora, conferences,
exhibitions and launches. The School also has a significant research resource located in the city’s
Vision Building, which houses several enterprises associated with the creative industries, as well
as the InGame project’s facilities, in which Sellbach and Smith are involved.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborative work is integral to the research and impact strategy of the AHRI and its constituent
centres. Through its Scottish Centre for Continental Philosophy (SCCP) the unit has developed a
number of collaborations with academic and non-academic partners, consonant with its size and
research themes. They are evidence of the significance of the unit’s research and expertise, and
of its wider contributions to society. Members of the unit have also made sustained contributions
to the general operation of the discipline at national and international level during this reporting
period.

Collaborations:
The unit’s principal collaborations in this reporting cycle were those which underpinned its Impact
Case Studies: Davey’s work with the Calgary Nursing Centre in Canada, which developed ways

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to extend the benefits of hermeneutical approaches to care for the nursing community; and
Smith’s partnership with Dundee City Council and local teachers to use philosophy to enhance the
digital skills of young people. Both projects are important contributions to wider society. Smith is
also collaborating with British Telecom as part of their ‘Skills for Tomorrow’ initiative.

Sellbach and Smith are co-investigators for the AHRC Creative Industries Clusters Programme,
InGame (2018-23), a collaboration with Abertay and St Andrews and the creative industries in
Dundee. The project connects research with commercial activity through a research platform
designed to lower the risk threshold for creative activity. It promotes and supports games-sector
innovation, and as such is an important contributor to the local economy which has a substantial
games sector. The unit’s participants contribute expertise on game phenomenology and
philosophies of design and play.

Davey was invited by Santiago Zaballa to join the Vattimo Research Group in Turin where he also
collaborates annually with Chiurazzi promoting Graduate Teaching in Hermeneutics and Aesthetics
(British Council funded). Ruda collaborated with the Cooper Gallery in its philosophical
engagement ‘All That is Solid Melts’ (2019), and he helped to organise the gallery’s ’12-Hour Non-
State Parade’ symposium (2020).

Conference hosting:
The unit also contributed to the research base of the discipline during this reporting period by
hosting ten conferences in Dundee, each related to one of its ASC3 strategic themes. Following
the inaugural conference of the SCCP in 2014 (see section 1.4), the art and philosophy theme was
developed by an interdisciplinary conference on ‘The Ends of Art’ (2015), in collaboration with the
University’s college of art and design, DJCAD. Five conferences explored the intersections of
philosophy, science and technology: (1) ‘Digital Subject UK’ (2015); (2) Continental Philosophy &
Information Technology’ (2017); (3) ‘From Thing to Being’ (2017); (4) ‘Process, Life, Reality:
Investigating Dynamic Modes of Being’ (2018); and (5) ‘Materialist Pedagogies’ (2019). Core
continental philosophy was represented by ‘The Hermeneutics of Practice’ (2015) and ‘Continuities
in Modern French Philosophy’ (2016), as well as by a special conference on ‘Hermeneutics’ (2016)
in honour of Davey.

Editorial contributions:
Ruda is co-editor-in-chief of the journal Crisis and Critique and Woodward is the editor of
Parrhesia: A Journal of Critical Philosophy. Davey guest edited a special issue of the Journal of
the British Society for Phenomenology (2017). Davey also serves on the editorial or advisory
boards of the academic journals Canadian Journal for Applied Hermeneutics, Internationales
Jahrbuch für Hermeneutik, Nordic Journal of Aesthetics and Tropos: Journal of Hermeneutics &
Philosophical Criticism, and Röck is on the editorial board of Philosophical Quarterly. Röck is also
a co-editor of the book series Metaphysic and Ontology (Duncker & Humblot). Woodward is an
editor of the translation series ‘Groundworks’ (Rowman & Littlefield International) and serves on
the editorial board for the series ‘Nietzsche Now’ (Cambridge Scholars Press) and ‘Advances in
Critical Thought’ (Anthem Press).

Peer-review contributions:
Members of the unit have also peer-reviewed article manuscripts for many different academic
journals – including Culture Theory Critique, Deleuze Studies, Derrida Today, French Studies, the
Journal of Aesthetics & Phenomenology, Philosophy of Technology and Techne -- and book
manuscripts for leading publishers, including Cambridge, Edinburgh, Liverpool and Northwestern
university presses, Bloomsbury, Routledge and Verso. Until 2017, Davey was a member of the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
AHRC Peer Review College. Röck has peer reviewed for Rannis (the Icelandic research fund),
and Ruda is a member of the ARRS (Slovenian Research Agency) Evaluation Panel (since 2017).
Members have also served as external examiners of seven PhD theses (Cardiff, Galway,
Loughborough, Newcastle, Royal Holloway, Staffordshire and Turin).

Invited talks:
The unit’s research is widely recognised, as indicated by the range of invited talks in this reporting
period. Four keynote addresses were delivered: Keohane at a conference at the University of
Edinburgh on ‘Mother Tongues and Other Tongues’ (2016); Smith at a conference at Radboud
University on ‘Mapping Crossed Roads: Three Key Problems for Philosophy of Technology Today’
(2018); and Woodward at the annual conferences of the British Society of Phenomenology
(Brighton, 2017) and the Friedrich Nietzsche Society (Newcastle, 2018). Other invited talks
included: Davey at the universities of Calgary (2014), Turin (2017) and Central University Illinois
(2018); Sellbach at Goldsmiths (2018); Smith at the Publishing Sphere conference in Montreal
(2019); and Woodward at the China Academy of Art, Hangzhou (2019). In addition, panels have
been devoted to the work of Ruda on German Idealism (at the conference of the American Society
for Phenomenology & Existential Philosophy, 2017), Sellbach on environmental philosophy and
animal studies (at events at the LSE in 2018 and Goldsmiths in 2019 to discuss her co-edited
collection The Edinburgh Companion to Animal Studies) and Smith (an invited panel at the
University of Twente, to launch Smith’s monograph Exceptional Technologies in 2018).

Engagement with wider audiences:
Members of the unit are committed to engaging with wider audiences through their research. For
example, as part of the efforts of ‘Ragged University’ to localise and share knowledge, Röck has
given three public presentations in Edinburgh since 2018 (future events are postponed until the
end of the current health crisis). Smith spoke about his work at a Pecha Kucha event at the
Dundee Rep Theatre in June 2020 to an audience of 400 people. Woodward teaches open
Philosophy classes for the general public in conjunction with the Melbourne School of Continental
Philosophy. As part of this collaboration he presented a two-week public seminar on ‘Lyotard’s
Aesthetics’ in 2014. He has also given public lectures: ‘See How Desire Works: Watching David
Lynch with Jean-François Lyotard’ at the University of Staffordshire, 2016, and ‘Les Immatériaux:
Experiments in Art and Philosophy’ at the Victorian College of the Arts, Australia, 2016.

Visiting Positions and consultative work:
Since August 2019 Ruda has been a permanent Visiting Professor at the Capital Normal
University, Beijing and the University of Nanjing, as well as a Professor at the European Graduate
School (Saas Fee / Malta). Sellbach is an International Research Fellow with Radical Matter:
International Laboratory for Fine Art, Philosophy and the Wild Sciences, Royal College of Art,
London. Smith was an academic consultant for a Somerset House exhibition based on Jonathan
Crary’s book 24/7, having direct input into the organisation of the exhibition and contributing to the
catalogue.

This range of collaborations and contributions from a small unit is further testimony to the success
of its ASC3 strategy, which gives it a distinctive identity, as well as to the support structure
provided by its wider environment.




                                                                                              Page 13
