Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: A03 – Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview of the Unit’s strategic vision and key achievements

 Since 2014, Nottingham Trent University’s A03 Unit of Assessment (UoA) has grown significantly
 and is characterised by excellent, impactful and multidisciplinary research, building on the
 pedigree established in previous submissions:

        Continuing development and strategic recruitment of high calibre academics has created
         cross-disciplinary teams, with 34.0 FTE in scope in the UoA, up from 23.8 FTE in REF2014
         and 14.0 FTE in RAE 2008.
        PhD completions have increased to 85, up from 40 in REF2014.
        In addition to the UoA’s £3.68M of research income in REF2021 (REF4b), a further
         £3.77M was received for our cancer research via an NTU trust giving a total of £7.45m
         (§3.1).
        Strong economic and societal impact, recognised by a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015,
         has expanded further with Intelligent OMICS Ltd. generating revenues with pharma and
         biotech companies and through international drug trials and new spin-out Pharm2Farm
         Ltd. being acquired via a £2.37M share issue and having a market valuation of £40M by
         end 2020.

 1.1 Unit Structure – Centre for Health, Ageing and Understanding Disease (CHAUD)

 Research in the UoA is organised within an over-arching structure, the Centre for Health, Ageing
 and Understanding Disease (CHAUD), which has amalgamated two previous Research Centres
 (van Geest Cancer Research Centre, and Biomedical, Life and Health Sciences). CHAUD’s vision
 is to ‘deliver world-leading research to tackle current and emerging global health challenges’,
 dovetailing with the University’s Health and Wellbeing Research Priority’s ambition to ‘improve
 peoples’ lives through understanding disease, health promotion and illness prevention, addressing
 the social determinants of health, and developing interventions’.

 To deliver this vision, CHAUD’s research seeks to understand, detect, and treat both chronic
 health conditions and cancers with poor outcomes whilst also improving significantly lifelong
 wellbeing in an increasing older adult population. CHAUD’s biomedical scientists, clinicians,
 biologists, chemists, mathematicians, bioinformaticians and computational modellers work
 collaboratively with a wide range of national and international partners and stakeholders to bring
 interdisciplinary approaches to bear on tackling major societal health challenges. Underpinning
 this endeavour is our expertise in the interrogation of the molecular and biological basis of disease
 by comparative analysis of the transcriptome, proteome, immunome, epigenome and microbiome
 in health and disease, using integrated high throughput ‘omics’ platforms and advanced statistical
 and computational modelling.

 Research professor and clinician Rutella is the Director of CHAUD, responsible for the Centre’s
 overall strategy and management, supported by a Deputy Director, Verderio, who is also the A03
 Research Coordinator. An Advisory Group includes Heads of Department (Bioscience, Maths and
 Chemistry, within the School of Science and Technology), CHAUD Research Theme Leads (see
 below), the School Associate Dean for Research (ADR), and postdoctoral research fellows. The
 creation of an ADR in every academic school has been a major investment in research leadership
 during this REF period and connects CHAUD directly with the University Research Committee and
 University Leadership Team.

 The CHAUD Advisory Group steers strategic investment, underpinning multidisciplinary working
 and dissemination activities, and fosters an inclusive research culture including running weekly

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminar series and supporting early career researchers (ECRs) and postgraduate researchers
 (PGRs). The ADR, supported by the School Research Committee, has oversight of CHAUD
 strategy and activities. This ensures complementary support for, and cross-disciplinary working
 with, the School’s three other Research Centres. CHAUD has expanded on the UoA’s two
 platforms in REF2014 (Health and Disease; Enabling and Cross-cutting Technologies) and is now
 organised into 4 Research Themes that coalesce expertise (§2.1.1) and activity into groupings of
 externally credible critical mass.
 Cancer Biology, Immunology and Therapeutics Research Theme (CBIT) (from within Health
 and Disease platform in REF2014).
 Lead: Pockley.
 Research: fundamental and translational research into prostate and breast cancers,
 haematological malignancies, pancreatic cancer and glioblastoma multiforme, focusing on
 patients with low median survival rate.
 Aim: improve patient diagnosis and treatment, enable patient stratification through investigating
 molecular targeted epigenetic therapies.
 Diabetes, Chronic Diseases and Ageing Research Theme (DCDA) (from within Health and
 Disease platform in REF2014).
 Lead: Christian.
 Research: pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes, inflammatory-based chronic diseases (kidney,
 respiratory, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal), and neurological diseases of ageing (Alzheimer's,
 Parkinson’s), relevant to obesity and associated metabolic diseases.
 Aim: understand molecular mechanisms of cell dysfunction leading to disease and identify
 potential new targets for therapeutic intervention.
 Antimicrobial Resistance, Omics and Microbiota Research Theme (AROM) (from within
 Health and Disease platform in REF2014).
 Lead: Hoyles.
 Research: applies classical microbiology (aerobic, microaerophilic, anaerobic), molecular biology,
 systems biology, and bioinformatics to study host–microbe interactions, phage biology, pathogen
 evolution, population genomics and epidemiology, antimicrobial resistance, development of novel
 antimicrobials and the human microbiome in health and disease.
 Aim: to define the contribution of the microbiome and its metabolites to obesity, diabetes, and
 neurological disorders.
 Underpinning Technologies Research              Theme    (UTec)    (Enabling   and    Cross-cutting
 Technologies platform in REF2014).
 Lead: Ball.
 Research: computationally intensive simulation of multicellular systems using cellular automata
 models, modelling of complex biological systems e.g. applied to neuronal signalling within
 intricated network structures, modelling of biomolecule functionality.
 Aim: mathematical statistical, computational, and synthetic chemistry approaches applied to
 biological challenges, to provide new enabling tools for biomedical applications and increase the
 multidisciplinarity of our research.

 1.2 Research and Impact strategy

 1.2.1 Achievement of REF2014 Research strategy

 In REF2014 (REF5) we aimed to promote excellence in our UoA’s research through: (i) major
 investment in staff including targeted recruitment of staff of a range of seniorities, nurturing the
 potential of ECRs, and supporting grant capture in niche areas; (ii) transformative investment in


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure; (iii) deployment of investment in our cancer research to focus on linking biomarker
 discovery and immunotherapy, supported by patient group involvement and clinical links; and (iv)
 delivery of advances in niche research areas, via collaborative working and multidisciplinary
 working, including with the Anthony Nolan facility and with industry. These aims have been
 achieved and significant outcomes have been delivered, as follows:
 (i)   The research capability of the UoA has been strengthened in the period with 23 new external
       appointments of international standing across all of the CHAUD Research Themes, including
       two ‘tenure-track’ 5-year independent research fellows (§2.1).
       An indicator of this success is the UoA’s accelerating externally funded research profile, with
       £1.2M of the external research grant income secured by A03 investigators in the final year of
       the REF2021 period (AY2019-20) with major grants extending beyond the REF2021 period
       (§3.1). The UoA has grown the diversity of funding sources across CHAUD’s Research
       Themes, encompassing UKRI, UK charities, international non-profit organisations, trans-
       national funders, and industry (§4.2.3). The UoA has 10 funded projects with NHS Trust or
       international hospitals, e.g. the NIHR Phase II 8-center ASTIClite clinical trial (§3.1; §4.2.1).
 (ii) Investment in new buildings included the Interdisciplinary Science and Technology Centre
      (ISTeC, £11m, 2018), and the Medical Technologies and Innovation Facility (MTIF, £23m,
      2020) (§1.2.2, §3.2). £1.7M equipment capital investment has ensured that our pre-existing
      Interdisciplinary Natural Sciences Research and John van Geest Cancer Research Facilities
      remain at the cutting edge (§3.2).
 (iii) Our cancer research activities, funding, and stakeholder engagements have grown and
       broadened in scope, supported by investment in facilities (§3.2) and strengthened by
       appointments across the range of seniorities (professor, associate professor, two lecturers,
       senior independent research fellow) (§2.1) embracing technological developments in the
       molecular biology and translational spaces. Research includes projects on: understanding
       and diagnosis of aggressive prostate cancer pathways (Pockley and Rees) supported by The
       Roger Counter Foundation and Healthcare and Bioscience iNet (Oncogene, 2016; eLIFE,
       2020); epigenetic therapies (Hatziapostolou) supported by Pancreatic Cancer UK (Gut, 2019;
       PNAS, 2020); cancer imaging and diagnostics supported by Deutsche Forschungs-
       gemeinschaft (Germany); cancer immunoprofiling (Rutella) supported by U.S. based
       biopharmaceutical companies; and identification and clinical validation of molecular drivers of
       proliferation and response to chemotherapy in breast cancer (Ball) (Lancet Oncology, 2016).
       CHAUD and our spin-off Intelligent OMICS provided collaborative PhD training on the EU
       ‘Training Network for the Immunotherapy of Cancer’ and will host PhD exchanges on the T-
       OP ITN (Rees, Pockley, Ball) (§2.2.1).
 (iv) Work with the Anthony Nolan facility has included Rutella and Pockley’s project on
      ‘Correlating the cellular content of umbilical cord blood transplants with clinical outcomes’,
      and joint publications, e.g. Rees (Vox Sanguinis, 2015).
       The UoA’s international research collaborations with government organisations
       (Scopus/SciVal) incorporate: CNRS, Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale,
       National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and Environment, and Institut de recherche
       pour le dévelopement in France (19 joint papers); German Research Center for
       Environmental Health and Cancer Research Center (9); National Institute of Health, USA (8);
       Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Jiangsu Academy of
       Agricultural Sciences, and Ministry of Ecology and Environment (7); and Agency for Science,
       Technology and Research, Singapore (2). Our 24 joint papers with industry labs range from
       ones with Novozymes A/S in Denmark, Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute in Iran
       and Sony in Japan, F. Hoffmann-La Roche AG in Switzerland to Eli Lilly in the U.S. Exemplars
       of our collaborative work are given in (§4).

 1.2.2 Achievement of REF2014 Impact strategy, and Enabling and Facilitating Impact

 In REF2014 (REF3a) we aimed to deliver research impact through: (i) promoting and
 supporting end-user engagement; (ii) capitalising on links with the BioCity Nottingham incubator,

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and working with external NHS and industrial representatives; and providing staff with excellent
 (iii) peer and expert support and time, and, (iv) resources. These aims have been achieved by the
 following activities that have enabled and facilitated our impact:
 (i)   Our impact case studies showcase our extensive end-user engagement and major beneficial
       impact. Ball and spin-out company Intelligent OMICS (formerly CompanDX) are exploiting
       NTU-s AI-based algorithms, bringing better healthcare to the military (with U.K. and U.S.
       Defence Labs, DSTL and DTRA), and working with Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (China) on
       phase 2A clinical trials that enable patients with latent tuberculosis to receive
       treatment. Cave and spin-out company Pharm2Farm have worked with suppliers and
       agrochemical manufacturers, and with end users, including South Korean farmers and an
       Indian co-operative, improving their plant and crop yields. Rutella’s clinical trial contributions
       include identifying patients with a chemotherapy-refractory form of acute myeloid leukaemia
       unlikely to benefit from cytotoxic chemotherapy, so avoiding debilitating overtreatment.
 (ii) We have secured £9.7m competitive D2N2 Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) Local Growth
      Fund co-funding for the £23m Medical Technologies and Innovation Facility (MTIF, opened
      2020), including a research centre at the University and a technology and prototyping centre
      on the Boots Enterprise Zone (§3.2). The overall bid was led by Barnett (former A03
      professor) and conceived with NTU’s strategic partners: MediCity Nottingham (part of the
      BioCity family); Medilink East Midlands; Cheata Clinical Trials; Derby Teaching Hospitals NHS
      Foundation Trust; Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust; and Boots plc. Market insight
      was provided by 25 CEOs/MDs responsible for business growth and new product
      development of D2N2-based healthcare companies. The UoA’s wider extensive work with
      NHS Trusts, international and national hospitals and medical centres, industry and industrial
      networks is detailed in (§3.1; §4).
 (iii) Support for UoA researchers at all career stages has facilitated impact. School-based
       initiatives with PhD researchers (§2.2) and staff including research fellows (e.g. Fast Track
       Impact workshop by Prof Mark Reed) have contributed to researchers’ ability to identify and
       communicate research impacts. The expanded University Knowledge Exchange team
       provided online and in person training on IP/exploitation. An ‘impact sabbatical’ (§2.1.2) was
       provided for Impact Case Study lead, Cave, who was then released at 0.2 FTE to spin-out
       company Pharm2Farm. We have held industry showcase events at our PhD and ECR focused
       Science and Technology Annual Research Conference and held regional networking
       events supported by NTU’s Enabling Innovation Programme (ERDF funded). NTU’s
       Knowledge Exchange support service has also enabled licence agreements with spin-out
       company Pham2Farm Ltd, with Agrimin (supporting an Innovate UK project) and with 2B
       Scientific Ltd, as well as facilitating new collaboration agreements (UCB Pharma UK;
       Ultimovacs AS, Norway; Altevax SAS, France), joint PhDs with industry (UCB Pharma;
       NanoString Technologies Inc., USA) and agreements for sample analysis and access to
       specialist instrumentation and know-how (Scancell Holtings Ltd.; Crown Bioscience).
 (iv) NTU support of some £366k for the development of the impact showcased in our Impact Case
      Studies has included patent filing and maintenance costs (£113k), engagement of external
      technology transfer consultancy advice (£105k), researcher support and travel (£28k), and
      PhD studentships (3 in REF2021 period, £120k stipend plus tuition fee).

 1.2.3 Future Strategic Research and Impact Objectives

 Our strategy for the next REF period will capitalise on our interdisciplinary approach and significant
 investment in this cycle into state-of-the-art enabling technologies and outstanding staff. Rather
 than having separate strategies, our research and impact are approached synergistically.
 (i)   Focus on pre-clinical, translational and clinical research, prioritising challenging-to-treat
       diseases and chronic health conditions in our core research areas. We will continue to realise
       our aim of improving people’s lives nationally and globally, building from the work showcased
       in our Impact Case Studies (§1.2.2). Ball’s in silico methods will underpin the development of
       SPAG5 as a biomarker of proliferation in breast cancer, enable latent tuberculosis biomarker
       IP to be exploited in China, and provide validated biological drug targets that will be exploited

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     by top 10 pharmaceutical companies. Cave’s nanoparticle fabrication and functionalisation
     technologies will be developed for anti-viral facemasks, inks, disinfectants, and lateral flow
     devices, and to improve global food security via enhanced bioavailable ruminant feeds and
     in fungal protection treatments for crops. Rutella will pursue investigational therapies that
     exploit genetically engineered T cells for leukaemia and for advanced haematological
     malignancies, with major UK and US Cancer Centres. We will develop biomarker stratification
     by examining urinary extracellular vesicles to aim to predict the progression of Chronic kidney
     disease with UCB BioPharma Ltd.
 (ii) Support our best basic science with programmes conducive to discovery that can be applied
      to patient care. For example, basic research into stem cell metabolism and adipocyte
      regulation in the areas of metabolic reprogramming and obesity continues to be supported by
      BBSRC. Links between host health and the gut microbiota (host–microbiota co-metabolism)
      will be explored with funding in place from GutsUK, Diabetes UK and EU Horizon 2020
      ATHLETE in the next REF cycle (§3.1).
 (iii) Ensure sustainability of our research, expanding our capacity and engagement with relevant
       national and international organisations, aligning applications with UKRI strategic priorities,
       the NIHR translational programme, and Horizon Europe 2021-27, including through the UoA’s
       strong links with the NHS and Healthcare suppliers. Our recently awarded DTP with the
       University of Nottingham and the National Biofilms Innovation Centre (BBSRC funding of
       £15M, DTP3 2020-2024, §2.2.1) will provide significant collaborative opportunities.
 (iv) Grow capabilities in data science and develop and sustain our culture of data sharing and
      openness in clinical trial and biomarker data. We will recruit further high calibre staff to
      strengthen our existing interdisciplinary computational team and expand data-driven
      research, including through our participation in a responsible data sharing in immuno-
      oncology initiative (Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer SITC; U.S.A.). We will accelerate
      work to further generate and share health-related research data, engaging with research
      council strategies.
 (v) Support impact generation of our budding basic and translational research programmes,
     continuing to bring together scientists from different specialities to find creative solutions to
     global health challenges. MTIF (§1.3; §3.2) will support early-stage innovation to translate
     discoveries for medical use, engaging regularly with NHS and national/international industrial
     representatives. The UoA will support and promote applications to schemes such as Royal
     Society International Exchanges, US-UK Fulbright Award, Newton Fund and BBSRC
     International Travel Grants to assist with building partnerships.

 1.3 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research

 The UoA’s interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research has been supported by investment and
 facilitated by NTU’s School of Science and Technology, in which CHAUD is one of 4 Centres:
  A03’s intra-Theme collaborations include: McArdle (CHAUD’s CBIT Research Theme) and
   Hoyles (AROM) on the role of microbiome-associated metabolites on the blood-brain barrier
   supported by HeadCase Trust; Al-Ahmady (Early Career Researcher in DCDA) and Cave’s
   (UTec) work on Alzheimer’s disease supported by The Marmont Trust; and Verderio (DCDA)
   and Ball’s (in both UTec and CBIT) work on enabling kidney fibrosis interactomes with funds
   from Kidney Research UK.
  A03’s work with the C24 UoA (Sport) includes: the effects of the histidine containing dipeptide
   carnosine on the metabolism of cancer cells (McArdle and Turner in A03; Sale in C24)
   underpinned by seedcorn funding from the University’s over-arching Health and Wellbeing
   Research Priority; and examining a potential role for carnosine in cardiac function (Turner in
   A03; Doig, Sale and Elliott-Sale in C24) through a PhD project supported by Natural
   Alternatives International (U.S.A.) by the match-funding scheme from NTU’s Doctoral School.
  The EU Horizon 2020 sustainable beekeeping project B-GOOD brings together experts in
   apiculture, bee physiology and pathology, assay development, ecology, agricultural science,
   socio-economics, engineering, modelling and data mining, from the public and private sector,


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    and from 5 SMEs and non-profit organisations. The NTU contribution uses smart electronics
    technologies (Newton in B12 Engineering UoA) to monitor honeybee hives (Bencsik in C14
    Geography and Environmental Studies UoA) and extract complex sequences (Chuzhanova,
    A03 UoA).

 1.4 Strategy for an open research environment

 Our arrangements here are designed to promote effective sharing of research and data. All the
 UoA’s full text outputs are deposited in the Institutional Repository (IRep) and deposition of
 manuscripts as preprints, when allowed, is encouraged. The UoA and the University have funded
 Open Access (£130k), for example including for U.S. journals that would otherwise only provide
 restricted public access (e.g. Journal of the American Society of Nephrology; Gastroenterology).
 Full research data have been routinely uploaded to public open archives: PRIDE for proteomics;
 NCBI's GEO for large datasets; GitHub repository for Java codes; and ArrayExpress for
 transcriptomic data.
 Research data and GDPR management training is provided at University level. The UoA’s PhD
 students each produce a data management plan and are trained in the culture of open access and
 securing data in accessible locations.
 To enable research reproducibility, NTU seedcorn internal funding to Pockley (£25K) has
 strategically supported the establishment of good clinical laboratory practice in the UoA, which is
 a requirement for NIHR-funded projects. To qualify the UoA for clinically aligned projects in the
 REF period, Quality Management Systems (QMS) have been implemented according to the
 practices of ‘Quality in Non-Regulated Scientific Research’.

 1.5 Supporting a culture of research integrity

 We are committed to the highest standards of research integrity and the relevant professional
 frameworks including the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Matters relating to research
 integrity, including research ethics, Code of Practice for Research, and a Responsible Metrics
 Statement are overseen centrally (see REF5a) and managed locally. Robust scrutiny of projects
 requiring ethical approval undertaken by staff and PhD candidates within the UoA is overseen by
 specific School of Science and Technology-wide Research Ethics Committees (invasive human,
 non-invasive, animal, GMO work). This approach ensures projects are scrutinised from different
 disciplinary perspectives. Researchers who work with human samples must undertake training on
 the Human Tissue Act and its related codes of practice. For animal work, our scientists employ
 NC3R-developed experimental design tools (§3.3).

 University-wide training resources are available to all staff and students through online modules
 which cover more general aspects of research integrity. This central resource complements
 training arrangements at local level, which are designed to meet the needs of specific committees.
 Our library Research Data Management Officer provides advice and support on GDPR and safe
 and secure data archiving. Training on good research practice is promoted as part of ongoing
 professional development. The UoA’s ‘Statistical Taskforce’ (led by Chuzhanova, with Crofts, Ball
 and Hoyles) has provided support for researchers on statistical analysis, power calculations and
 advice on ‘big data’ management. Cross-UoA training initiatives included R statistical package
 courses, jointly with the Computing UoA, and a hands-on MinION sequencing workshop (delivered
 by Dickins and Thomas). Aspects of ethics and integrity are also addressed in the GDPR, equality
 and diversity, and unconscious bias training that is required for all staff members.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing and Staff Development
 2.1.1 Recruitment and staffing strategy

 Our staffing and recruitment strategy has been to appoint and develop excellent research active
 staff and PhD students to create sustainable teams in our priority areas. We have proactively

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabled their success through infrastructure investment (§3.2) and strategic research
 development funding; £2.88M of University internal investment has been disbursed within the UoA
 since 2014. Of the 23 new external appointments in the REF2021 period, twelve are ECRs,
 including two 5-year independent research fellows (IRFs) with a well-defined and supported
 progression route to academic posts.
 There is balanced representation across seniority levels within the UoA, with 5 professors, 4
 associate professors, 23 lecturers/lecturer lecturers, and 2 independent research fellows. All
 Category A staff are permanently employed. Senior staff (professors and associate professors)
 provide leadership of CHAUD and its Research Themes (§1.1) along with high-quality mentoring
 support across the UoA.

 Research capability has been strengthened in the period with strategic external appointments of
 international standing across all four CHAUD Research Themes.

       CHAUD’s Cancer Biology, Immunology and Therapeutics Theme has focused on linking
        biomarker discovery and immunotherapy with the support of clinical links. The professorial
        appointment of Rutella (previously Executive Director of Clinical Research, Sidra Medical
        and Research Center, Qatar), a clinician with >25 years expertise in immunogenomics,
        strengthened personalised cancer research established by Pockley and Ball. We have
        invested in epigenetic research with the strategic appointment of Polytarchou (UCLA) to
        associate professor, bringing expertise in inflammatory bowel disease and cancer, and
        Hatziapostolou (University of Southampton) as senior independent research fellow. New
        lecturer/ECR appointments Coutts and Ahmed (both University of Oxford) have reinforced
        translational research.

       CHAUD’s Diabetes, Chronic Diseases and Ageing Theme has been formed by increasing
        our expertise in metabolic diseases and complications with two professorial appointments
        McTernan and Christian (both University of Warwick), and lecturer/ECR recruitments
        Antonysunil (University of Warwick) and Hulse (University of Nottingham) , in order to
        complement and expand on the existing expertise of Turner, Verderio, Hargreaves, and
        Dickenson. Aging research, including neurodegeneration and inflammation, was bolstered
        by the lecturer/ECR appointments of Brookes (University of Nottingham), Al-Ahmady
        (University of Manchester) and El-Sherbiny (University of Leeds) and independent
        research fellow Ugun-Klusek (internal staff development, §2.1.3).

       CHAUD’s Antimicrobial Resistance, Omics and Microbiota Theme continues to focus on
        genomic epidemiology. The scope and strength of the Theme has been significantly
        expanded by the appointment of Hoyles (MRC intermediate research fellow, Imperial
        College London) to associate professor (subsequently promoted to professor) bringing
        expertise in microbiomics and metabolomics, McLean (University of Nottingham), bringing
        new expertise on antimicrobial efficacy of metals, and the appointment of 3
        lecturers/ECRs, Leo, Negus, and McVicker and 2 lecturers, Winter (University of
        Nottingham) and Thomas (University of Bolton) bringing additional complementary
        expertise.

       CHAUD’s Underpinning Technologies Theme has been strengthened by the
        appointment of lecturer/ECR Cross (University of Leicester), who brings expertise in
        innovative chemical synthesis, complementing Cave’s work in nanochemistry. The
        appointment of Campeotto (Wellcome Trust ISSF Fellow, University of Leicester) builds
        computational science expertise, complementing the work of Crofts, Ball, and Dickins.




 2.1.2 Staff development strategy



                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development is coordinated by the CHAUD Director (§1.1). In line with the UK Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers, a range of opportunities are offered, tailored to
 career stage. Our mentorship programmes provide all staff below professorial level with a senior
 research mentor (professors or associate professors), to complement support through the
 Department-run annual appraisal system including Individual Research Plans to identify short-
 term goals and longer-term career objectives. Developing funding applications through individual
 peer-review and sandpits aids colleagues to transform new ideas into stronger project proposals.
 Internal funding (§2.1.1) provides for short-term pump-prime studies to strengthen proposals.
 Sabbatical leave has been provided across all CHAUD Research Themes to allow concentration
 on research, impact and building collaborations. Six-month sabbaticals were awarded to: Turner,
 who wrote grant applications on sabbatical leading to funding awards from Diabetes UK and the
 British Council for PhD studentships; Dickins, who developed machine learning techniques to
 dissect very large RNA Seq datasets; and Cross, who expanded research activities in peptide-
 drug conjugates chemistry (Organic Letters, 2019). Ten-month sabbaticals were awarded to:
 Cave, enabling impact development (§1.2.2); and Polytarchou, who developed US research
 collaborations (§4.2).
 The UoA has also provided conference travel/fees support (circa £20k/year, 2014-2020) to UoA
 staff and PhD research students. The institutional workload planning model is designed to ensure
 sufficient time for research activities; in addition, the Biosciences Department achieved a 16%
 reduction in overall teaching time and 28% reduction in assessment time during 2018-2019.
 Examples of senior progression include: Professor McTernan to School Associate Dean for
 Research (2020); Professor Rutella to Director of CHAUD (2019); Associate Professor Verderio
 to UoA Research Coordinator (2018); and Associate Professor Hoyles to a professorship in 2020.
 The University operates a performance reward scheme, including financial bonuses, through the
 annual appraisal process with an equality assessment exercise undertaken via moderation. The
 University also celebrates research success with Ball and Rutella being awarded Vice Chancellor's
 Outstanding Researcher Awards in 2018 and 2019, respectively.

 2.1.3 Ensuring a vibrant and inclusive research culture

 The UoA benefits from a vibrant community of research assistants and research fellows from
 around the world (35 in the REF period). Postdoctoral staff are actively supported in their transition
 to academic or non-academic posts by the School’s Staff Development Programme and via the
 University’s appraisal framework, involving regular career development meetings with senior
 academics. Staff undertake a bespoke programme, offered through NTU’s Researcher
 Development Gateway, to assist career planning and grant writing. There are also opportunities
 to gain teaching experience and qualifications. Typically, our postdoctoral fellows progress to
 industry or academia. An example beneficiary of this support is Ugun-Klusek, who obtained an
 MSc and PhD at NTU, and was awarded a 5-year Independent Research Fellowship in 2014.
 Nurturing Early Career Researchers (ECR) through support is key to our long-term development
 strategy; ECRs constitute 35% of the UoA composition. ECRs have access to, and have benefitted
 from, internal funding schemes, including capital equipment, consumables budgets, and short
 pump-prime project funding. Around half of the UoA’s ECRs have been provided with University
 funded PhD students as Director of Study in the REF period, with senior academics in mentoring
 roles as second supervisors. ECRs have received start-up packages to facilitate the transition of
 their research at NTU, for example tissue culture laboratory facilities, bench refurbishments, and
 new equipment. They have also benefitted from reduced teaching and administrative loads for
 ECRs (typically, in the Department of Biosciences, a reduction of 60% in Year 1, 30% in Year 2
 and 10% in Year 3 from initial appointment). Project proposal development sandpits have
 benefitted ECRs (2015-2018), as evidenced by ECR successes with starting grants (§3.1).
 Springboard Champion, Christian, is supporting ECRs in their applications to the Academy of
 Medical Sciences Springboard Scheme (awards up to £100,000 over two years).

 2.2 Research Students


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.1 PhD funding and recruitment

 The expansion and support of the UoA’s postgraduate student community is core to the success
 of our research environment. The University has provided internal funding for at least 7 PhD
 Scholarships per year in the UoA, plus a CARA studentship for refugees in the UK. The UoA
 provided consumables funding to enable work of the highest quality. A further 3 part-time PhD
 students study as academic associates with a concurrent 0.5FTE 5-year Lectureship, promoting
 career development (see also IRF, §2.1.1).
 Collaborative PhD research has been promoted via joint funding. Our University-Industry Scheme
 has match-funded PhD projects with UCB Pharma Ltd and Nanostring Technologies Ltd. NTU
 provided strategic leadership of University Alliance’s DTA Applied Biosciences for Health, UA-
 DTA, with subsequent successful capture of EU Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action co-
 funding (£600k).
 Full external PhD research project funding involves BBSRC CASE, European Foundation for the
 Study of Diabetes, and the British Council. PhD studentships in A03 and in spin-off Intelligent
 OMICS have been externally funded via our participation in the EU H2020 IMMUTRAIN (‘Training
 Network for the Immunotherapy of Cancer’, €273k to A03, 2016-2019) partnership of 9 academic
 institutions and 5 industrial partners across 7 countries. We will host PhD researcher exchanges
 on the new EU Marie Curie ITN T-OP (‘Training Network for Optimizing Adoptive T cell Therapy
 of Cancer’, 2021-2025).
 The new Nottingham BBSRC funded Doctoral Training Partnership (£15M, DTP3 2020-2024) is a
 collaboration between University of Nottingham (UoN), NTU and the National Biofilms Innovation
 Centre. This DTP builds from strong NTU/UoN collaborations, including joint PhD supervisions,
 an NTU/UoN Microbiology Forum, and both joint papers and grants (e.g. NIHR and MRC). A03’s
 expertise and infrastructure underpin the DTP’s training foci in Biotechnology and Biosciences for
 Health, building from our UA-DTA leadership (described above).
 Fair and consistent admission is ensured by the School of Science and Technology level
 Postgraduate Research Tutors who chair PhD interviews. PhD applicants are required to have an
 MSc degree (with Merit) or a first-class or 2:1 BSc Honours degree. EDI data on enrolled PhD
 students is available at School of Science and Technology level; our gender balance is the same
 as the Sector (HESA) whilst our PhD population is considerably more ethnically diverse than the
 Sector (HESA).

 2.2.2 PhD development, support, and training

 The NTU Doctoral School provides admissions, enrolment, progression, and viva administration
 support, whilst the School Postgraduate Research Tutor provides coordination of, and support for,
 the PhD community. PhD students are represented on the School’s and University’s Research
 Committees. Supervisory teams include at least two NTU staff, with at least one having supervised
 to successful completion. All supervisors receive School and University level training to support
 their role and are invited to meetings of the School’s Supervisors Best Practice Forum. External
 co-supervisors or advisors are encouraged for match-funded PhDs. PhD students typically meet
 with their supervisors weekly in the UoA. Progress monitoring support at 6-monthly intervals,
 includes Month 6 Project Approval and Month 18 Transfer from MPhil to PhD events. An
 experienced Independent Assessor is appointed to assure annual monitoring, project approval
 and MPhil/PhD transfer processes.
 PhD students receive induction and training in research methods, management and knowledge
 transfer through courses provided by the UoA, School and/or NTU Doctoral School. They are
 invited to participate in a rolling programme of professional development, the NTU DoctoratePlus
 Programme, directly mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. The ‘Teacher
 Training for PGRs’ programme launched in 2019 has guided four PGRs to attain Associate Fellow
 of the Higher Education Academy. Since 2018, the UoA’s PhD students have benefited from an
 informal weekly PhD community event led by the Head of Department of Biosciences, which has
 supported the development of a cohesive cohort, exchanges of methodologies, and promoted

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to facilities, collaborative student work, and mental health awareness. Our PhD students
 participate and present in School of Science and Technology research seminars. Our annual 2-
 day School Research Conference includes PhD students and postdoctoral research fellows on
 the organising committee and chairing sessions, mentored by the Associate Dean for Research.
 ECRs and PhD students actively contribute to the NTU/UoN Microbiology Forum (§2.2.1). The
 UoA’s PhD students have won best paper awards, including Furini ‘Best abstract’ (young authors)
 at 52nd ERA-EDTA 2015 Congress of the European Renal Association and Hanafy ‘Best Poster
 presentation’ at Royal Society of Biology 2019 PG symposium. External PhD travel awards have
 been received from IBRO (International Brain Research Organization, £5K), Newton-Bhabha
 Fund for one student mobility (~£10K), FEBS Young Scientist’s forum, and Gordon Research
 Seminars (£1500).
 Positive indicators (measured at School of Science and Technology level) of the success of our
 recruitment, development and support policies and structures include high overall satisfaction
 amongst PhD students: 84% in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, 3% higher
 than the Sector. The UoA has a high completion rate in 4 years: 78% in 2019/20. Overall, the
 UoA’s PhD completions during the REF2021 period have increased to 85, up from 40 in REF2014.

 2.3 Strategies and support for, and promotion of equality, diversity, and inclusivity

 Across all academic and research staff in our School, 32% identify as women (28% in 2014), 16%
 identify as Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) (13% in 2014), and 4% declared a disability in
 2019 (4%in 2014). 35% of the UoA’s research staff are from BAME communities. 50% of the PhD
 students, postdoctoral researchers and technical support staff recruited in the period post 2014
 are international.
 We recognise that diverse teams encourage more creative and innovative solutions to research
 challenges. EDI support for the UoA is provided at the School of Science and Technology level.
 Our School Athena Swan Champion coordinates activities including nominations to the Advance
 HE Aurora programme (two from A03 in this REF cycle), events for International Women’s week,
 Black History month, LGBT History month, the installation of an on-campus nursing room for
 nursing mothers, and maintenance of an EDI intranet with links to staff networks, policies and
 resources. Recruitment processes across the School have transitioned through gender decoding
 of recruitment materials and mixed-gender interview panels, to attract a more diverse staff pool.
 Staff training improves knowledge and understanding of equality and diversity within the
 workplace. We have introduced essential unconscious bias training for all staff.
 The UoA supports NTU’s institutional target to increase the representation of women within the
 professoriate to 35% by 2022. A03 is making progress with 20% female professors and associate
 professors. We encourage a flexible and inclusive approach for staff working from home or
 remotely. The University Support of Academic Returners scheme funds up to £5K following a
 period of caring-related leave to support career pathway development. The UoA has prioritised
 several internal funding requests related to flexible working arrangements or parental leave (e.g.
 £5k contract extensions or variations).
 Staff perception of EDI issues is very positive. The 2018 staff survey (run by independent company
 Capita) collected responses at departmental level. In the Department of Biosciences, of which a
 significant proportion of UoA staff are members, there was an aggregate average 95% positive
 response to EDI questions on equality of opportunity, including EDI awareness and the
 University’s approaches to respect and equality of opportunity. 100% of colleagues who
 responded said that the workplace is free from harassment and bullying. The University was
 awarded the bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a) and targets a silver
 submission in 2023. Departments that manage staff who are within A03 are developing action
 plans towards departmental Athena Swan submissions from 2022.
 Our UoA REF submission and output portfolio were developed in accord with our institutional Code
 of Practice. Category A staff were advised by email about the window for the voluntary declaration
 of Individual Staff Circumstances, and the University’s Head of Equality, Diversity, Inclusion and
 Wellbeing provided a Q&A session and debrief for our Research Centre, explaining what the
 process is, how it works, how reductions work, and emphasizing that the process is voluntary.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The UoA attracts a diverse stream of research income, reflecting its multidisciplinary and
 international strengths. The UoA has grown the diversity of funding sources across the UoA’s
 CHAUD Research Themes, encompassing: UK Government funding organisations (BBSRC,
 National Biofilms Innovation Centre via BBSRC/STFC/Innovate UK, National Institute for Health
 Research); UK charities (e.g. Rosetrees Trust, Guts UK, Tropical Health and Education Trust);
 International non-profit organisations (e.g. Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation, U.S.A.); trans-national
 funders (EU Horizon 2020); and industry. Specific examples of the latter include: diabetes and
 kidney disease research grants totalling £204k including to McTernan from UK Charity Novo
 Nordisk Research Foundation, to Verderio from UK company UCB Pharma Ltd and to Hulse from
 European Foundation for the Study of Diabetes (ongoing); Rutella’s cancer research which has
 received £216k International funding from Macrogenics, Kura Oncology Inc., NanoString
 Technologies (U.S.A.) and Sidra Medical and Research Centre (Qatar National Research Fund);
 and Pockley and Polytarchou’s work with St Bartholomew's Hospital on the National Institute for
 Health Research ASTIClite project (£518k to NTU, 2018-2022) (§4.2).
 As a result of the UoA’s underpinning focus on translational research, and greater engagement
 with international and industrial stakeholders (§4.2), we have attracted research income totalling
 £3.68M in REF2021 (£3.51M in REF2014). In addition, a further £3.77M was received in the
 current period for our cancer research via the John van Geest Cancer Research Trust, established
 with a major donation from the Van Geest Foundation. Our drawdown from the Trust has
 supported research facilities, salaries of seven research fellows and assistants, and two research
 officers.
 There is an ascending trajectory of external investment in the UoA’s research, with £1.2M external
 research grant income secured in the final year of the REF2021 and major grants extending
 beyond the REF2021 period awarded to: Christian (BBSRC grant BB/P005209/2, 10/2019-
 08/2021, £161k); Pockley (UKRI Covid-19 response project 73437, 10/2020-03/2022, £104k to
 NTU, £2.4M total budget); Cave (Marmont Trust, 01/2020-12/2022, £118k); and Hoyles (Diabetes
 UK, 09/2020-08/2024, £83k, EU H2020 ATHLETE, 01/2020-12/2024, £377k to NTU, 21 partners
 and €12.0M total budget).
 Three of our ECR staff have attracted funding for pilot studies, including Coutts (Wellcome Trust
 Seeding Award for the study of autophagy in cancer), Brookes (Alzheimer’s Disease UK) pump-
 priming grant, and Hulse (European Federation for the Study of Diabetes grant).
 Benefits-in-kind received include £350k from ABSciex towards Pockley’s proteomics research,
 £18k of cloud compute credits from Oracle Corporation to support its collaboration with Dickins
 and Ball on Machine Learning over transcriptome data, and Campeotto has received free time on
 the Diamond Synchrotron Light Source (Didcot, Oxford), SOLEIL synchrotron (St. Aubin, Paris),
 and ALICE High-Performance Computing (HPC) (Leicester LISCB).

 3.2 Facilities

 The UoA has benefitted from significant investment in infrastructure and facilities, including £34M
 in new buildings and research labs that house CHAUD research and impact activities, targeted
 specifically to support our Research and Impact Strategies (§1.2). Two new buildings have
 increased research capacity in biomedical research and enhanced interdisciplinary collaboration
 with other disciplines.
 The Interdisciplinary Science and Technology Centre (ISTeC, £11M including £5M from
 HEFCE/Research England, 800 m2 research wing; completed 2017) brings STEM subjects
 together to support collaboration between different subject areas, outreach activities, and industry
 engagement. This provides the UoA with metabolic and epigenetic laboratories, incorporating new



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 resources such as Seahorse XF24 (£120k) to measure ATP real time production rate and an
 Oroboros platform to monitor Oxidative Phosphorylation OXPHOS (£90k).
 The Medical Technologies and Innovation Facility (MTIF, £23M including £9.7m from D2N2 Local
 Growth Fund, 3318 m2 on two sites; completed 2020) supports early stage research and
 development in medical technology and medical devices. The Boots Enterprise Zone building
 features a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility, focussing on industrial pilot projects. The Clifton
 campus building supports early-stage innovation and impact generation activities from our
 researchers. It houses microbiology and tissue culture labs and an Imaging Suite, featuring:
 atomic force microscope (Dimension ICON AFM, purchased 2016, £185k); scanning electron
 microscope (Jeol FEG SEM JSM-7100F + EDX, purchased 2015, £250k); transmission electron
 microscope (Jeol JEM 2010 TEM, replaced 2019, £640k). This Imaging Suite is centrally financed
 and supported by technical support staff, including regular training sessions.
 Our pre-existing Interdisciplinary Natural Sciences Research Facility contains microbiology
 containment level 2 facilities and has expanded capacity to include next generation Illumina MiSeq
 sequencing. The UoA’s John van Geest Cancer Research Centre possesses state-of-the-art laser
 capture micro-dissection and cell analysis facilities, and houses transcriptomics and proteomics
 instrumentations. During the REF2021 period there has been a significant investment of £1.7M
 upgrading these facilities. New NanoString nCounter™ FLEX and GeoMx platforms (£430k) for
 multiplex amplification-free gene expression and spatial profiling have boosted the impact of our
 work on treatment-resistant cancers. A circa £1M investment in upgrading Proteomics capabilities
 includes ESI MS/MS sequencing and quantitative data-independent acquisition mass proteomics
 instrumentation (Bruker UltrafleXtreme and SCIEX TripleTOF™ 5600 and 6600 systems). New
 epigenetic resources include 256-well QPCR, Ultrasonicator, and TapeStation system (£110k).
 The pre-clinical Animal Unit incorporates a new PerkinElmer IVIS Lumina Series III fluorescent
 and luminescent in vivo imager (£150k). Multiplex ELISA (£50k) acquired since 2014, has boosted
 multidisciplinary projects (with C24 and B12) in partnership with the Anthony Nolan Cord Blood
 Development Centre. Other relevant new facilities in the School of Science and Technology
 include an IncuCyte (£135k) for real time cell evaluations, which allows mimicking of cell
 stress/tumour microenvironment, and a Zetaview™ Nanoparticle Tracking Analyser (£51k).
 New communal facilities hosted by the School include a Linux HPC cluster (installed 2017-18,
 currently 44 nodes of 16-20 cores each, up to 128 GB RAM / node and 30 TB storage) which
 supports the UoA’s bio-mathematicians. CHAUD researchers have access to synthetic and
 analytical chemistry facilities (e.g. NMR spectrometer £270k; Waters Xevo-G2XS-QTOF MS
 £400k; Biotage SP Wave microwave and semi-automated peptide synthesiser £30k).

 3.3 Organisational and operational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Technical support for research in the School of Science and Technology is provided by a diverse
 team of (on average) twenty technical support staff, including a School Technical Manager and
 three building-specific technical leads. The University is a signatory of the Science Council’s
 Technician Commitment, which aims to support career development and sustainability for
 technical support staff in research. Technical support staff ensure a high standard of maintenance
 and operation of equipment, training provision, and safety. Animal facilities are staffed by five
 additional animal experimenters with significant animal surgery and pre-clinical modelling
 experience, who can deliver and report reproducible studies to the highest of standards, and in
 alignment with the NC3Rs ARRIVE (Animal Research: Reporting of In Vivo Experiments). The
 quality of the work undertaken in this UoA is exemplified by a significant level of use under contract
 by a commercial company. The School supports the majority of the costs of facility maintenance,
 and the close proximity of all facilities (§3.2) on NTU’s Clifton campus ‘Science Quarter’ have
 facilitated cross-discipline collaborations (§1.2). Access to our facilities has attracted UK and
 overseas researchers, for example our advanced Mass Spectrometry resources underpinned
 research contracts with the CNR Institute in Milan (Institute of Neuroscience), and VU Medical
 School Amsterdam. In turn, we access facilities in other institutions free of charge, an example of
 this is work by Al-Ahmady which has used the surgical suite and behavioural facility at the
 University of Manchester (Stuart Allan’s group) (ACS Nano 2019).


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support to impact is enabled by a IP and Commercialisation Manager (Condliffe) to: (i) establish
 licence agreements; (ii) support identifying, protecting and exploiting Intellectual Property (IP) and
 patent applications; (iii) liaise with venture Capital investors and facilitate joint PhD agreements
 with industry. A business development specialist (Wilby) supports the commercialisation of
 research capabilities, costing research collaborations and agreements for sample analysis, and
 access of specialist instrumentation and know-how. A knowledge exchange and impact specialist
 (Matini) provided training/workshops and enabled impact opportunities (2014-2018). The
 University’s Research Operations team supports grant application processes, facilitated by our
 ‘Worktribe’ research management platform, and the Research and Strategic Partnership
 Development team supports research grant and external partnership development, including
 Innovate UK and EU funding (§3.1, and see REF5a).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 Global engagement has been central to the UoA raising its profile and reputation, and supporting
 its impact strategy (§1.2.2). The composition of the UoA, which includes a number of international
 scientists, naturally encourages strong international partnerships and networking. This has been
 further strategically fostered through internal support for conferences, visits, and exchanges at all
 career levels. The majority, 58%, of submitted researchers’ publications (outputs with NTU
 affiliations, Scopus/SciVal, in 2014-2020) in the REF review period have at least one international
 co-author, increased from 52% in REF2014. Our international standing is also evidenced by
 increased external income from international organisations (§3) which constitutes about one third
 of research income in REF2021 (REF 4b).
 In the REF period we have pursued a number of initiatives that have expanded our international
 networks, some supported by sabbaticals for developing strategic partnerships with international
 universities and companies (§2.1.2). UoA members have established links with Makerere
 University of Public Health and Pharmacy with the support of the Tropical Health and Education
 Trust. This work, alongside our colleagues in the C20 Social Work and Social Policy UoA, has
 tackled antibiotic resistance via antimicrobial stewardship initiatives. National and international
 exchanges have included Hoyles’ Hamied Foundation UK–India Antimicrobial Resistance Visiting
 Professorship (2019–2020) and a visiting professorship at The Department of Surgery and
 Cancer, Imperial College London. Campeotto and Al-Ahmady held honorary fellowships at the
 University of Leicester and University of Manchester, respectively. Bilateral research exchanges
 and joint PhD projects have taken place with the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, and are
 under development with the University of Bologna, Italy. PhD researcher mobility projects have
 included exchange schemes (§2.2.2). Ball received Indian Government funding, under the Global
 Initiative for Academic Networks initiative, to deliver a course on ‘Genome Informatics’ at Panjab
 University (Course 1425/176004H07, 2018).
 Our visiting scholar programme has supported 29 visitors during the REF2021 period. At senior
 level, this included several NHS consultant clinicians as honorary professors (§4.2), international
 academics such as Eric Tartour, Professor in Immunology and Head of the Biological Immunology
 Department at the European Hospital Georges-Pompidou-APHP and Professor at University of
 Paris (visiting period 2013-2016); and Wei Chen, Professor in Nano-Bio Physics, the University of
 Texas at Arlington (2018-2021), who contributed to the UoA’s nanoparticle research. A further 16
 visiting scholars and visiting research fellows, of which 13 were international, have enriched the
 UoA’s research.

 4.2 Collaborative generation of research impact

 An indication of the effectiveness of our strategy is the intense network of interdisciplinary and
 cross-sectional projects across academia, industry, and hospitals/clinical centres worldwide. In
 the REF period new partnerships have been established with a broad range of stakeholders
 involving all CHAUD Research Themes generating wider impact.


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.1 Collaborative generation of research impact with NHS Trust Hospitals

 Translational medical research and transition to patient benefit has been undertaken in close
 collaboration with NHS Trust hospitals. Pockley worked with University Hospitals of Leicester NHS
 Trust (M Khan) to develop a simple blood test for detecting and identifying the clinical risk of
 prostate cancer in asymptomatic men (eLife, 2019). Pockley and Polytarchou’s work with St
 Bartholomew's Hospital (J Lindsay) on NIHR ASTIClite project (§3.1) is testing whether autologous
 Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant is an effective treatment for Crohn’s disease, with A03
 researchers using our state-of-the-art genomics, proteomics, immunology and bioinformatics
 platforms to identify the mechanism behind therapeutic responses in this trial. Polytarchou worked
 on a National Institute for Health Research project with the Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre
 (T Monaghan) on faecal microbiota transplantation in Clostridium Difficile infection
 (Gastroenterology, 2019). McTernan worked with University Hospitals of Coventry and
 Warwickshire NHS Trust (S Kumar) on the impact of gut hormone in bariatric surgery (McTernan,
 BMC Med, 2017). Hoyles worked with Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals NHS Foundation
 Trust (P Clarke) on Klebsiella populations in preterm infants and antimicrobial resistance
 (Microbial Genomics, 2020; Nature Microbiology, 2020). As described in an Impact Case Study,
 Ball has worked with Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust (S Chan), as part of an NIHR-
 funded i4i project which is developing a new approach for predicting the response of women with
 breast cancer to chemotherapy (Ball, Lancet Oncology, 2016). Overall UoA members have
 collaborated with at least 20 different NHS Trusts and over 30 departments.

 4.2.2 Collaborative generation of research impact with International and National Hospitals
 and Medical Centres

 Staff in the UoA have also forged new strong partnerships with international university hospitals
 and centres of excellence which have enriched the environment and developed wider
 contributions to society. Examples include: Pockley has worked with the ‘TranslaTUM’ (Central
 Institute for Translational Cancer Research at the University Hospital rechts der Isar, Technische
 Universität München), one of Germany’s Excellence Centres, on a new approach for isolating
 circulating cancer cells from patients and the successful conclusion of a randomised Phase II
 clinical trial in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (Clinical Cancer Research, 2020);
 Polytarchou has worked with the Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Research Center
 (Columbus, USA), UCLA School of Medicine (Los Angeles, USA) and Harvard Medical School
 (Boston, USA) on non-coding RNA-based therapeutics for intestinal inflammation and cancer (Gut,
 2019; American Journal of Pathology, 2019); Hatziapostolou has worked with The Cedars-Sinai
 (Los Angeles, USA) and Stanford Medical School (Stanford, USA) on epigenetic networks in
 pancreatic cancer (Gastroenterology, 2015; PNAS 2020); Christian has worked with The Chinese
 Academy of Sciences (Institute of Biophysics, P Liu) on lipid droplets in stem cell biology and early
 embryo development, in a collaboration with V Azuara, Imperial College London and with A Vidal-
 Puig (Wellcome-MRC Institute of Metabolic Science, Cambridge) on Rgs7, a regulator of G protein
 activity, in adipose tissue (BBSRC-funded projects) (EMBO Molecular Medicine, 2018); Verderio
 has worked with the University of Patras (Greece) (D Goumenos) and the University of Sheffield
 (T Johnson) on urinary exosomes biomarkers in CKD (, J Amer Soc Nephr, 2018); Ugun-Klusek
 has worked with the University of Tübingen, Germany on neuronal-specific functions of PINK1 in
 Parkinson’s disease (iScience, 2020); Hoyles has worked with the Hospital of Girona ‘Dr Josep
 Trueta’ (Spain) and seven other international partners in collaboration with E Dumas (Imperial
 College London), on the links between the gut microbiome and the host phenome to hepatic
 steatosis/non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (Nature Medicine, 2018); Hoyles has worked with the
 University of Mississippi Medical Center, Mississippi State University (USA) (Thomas, Scientific
 Reports, 2015) on microbial sequencing projects; and Dickins has worked with the Pennsylvania
 State University (PA, USA) on evolutionary dynamics of the mitochondrial genome (PNAS, 2014).
 In addition, international collaborative working, showcased in the Impact Case Studies includes
 Ball’s work with The Wuhan Pulmonary Hospital (China) on application of Ball’s ANN algorithm in
 disease diagnosis, and Rutella’s work with the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre (Toronto,
 Canada) and the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (Philadelphia, USA) on predictors of
 therapeutic response in AML (Rutella, Science Translational Medicine, 2019), and with the

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Regensburg, Technische Universität Dresden and Martin Luther University
 (Germany), University of Bologna (Italy), and 20 others international institutes on a salvage
 Immunotherapy for refractory AML (Rutella, Blood, 2020).
 Work with national centres of excellence includes Hoyles’ work with the Quadram Institute
 Bioscience and Blizard Institute on gut-brain axis, Coutt’s work with the University of Oxford’s
 Department of Oncology, Machesky’s work with the Cancer Research UK Beatson Institute on
 the role of the role of actin nucleation and Al-Ahmady’s work with the University of Manchester on
 nanomedicine based platforms for drug delivery.

 4.2.3 Collaborative generation of research impact with industrial networks

 The UoA’s industrial networks (national and international) have flourished in the REF period as a
 result of engagement with stakeholders in the research process and working with industry with
 support of professional service colleagues (§3). As part of an Innovate UK-funded project in
 collaboration with the University of Nottingham, Pockley has delivered essential pre-clinical
 studies relating to the development of a new vaccine for SARS-CoV-2 by Scancell Ltd (ongoing
 funding obtained, §3.1). Dickens and Ball have worked with the Oracle Corporation on machine
 learning of AML transcriptome data for the production of scalable workflows for computational-
 intense bioinformatic tasks. Verderio’s work with UCB BioPharma has led to a CKD progression
 biomarker fingerprint for clinical use/identify patients going to clinical trial (CAI001;
 NCT04335578). Pockley also has a collaboration with Royal Free Hospital/University College
 London on the translational potential of natural killer (NK) cell priming (Pockley, PLoS ONE, 2019).
 This significantly supported submissions for public listing in the USA and regulatory approval for
 Phase I clinical trial in the UK for a US/UK company (INmune Bio International Ltd). Rutella’s work
 funded by NanoString Technologies (Seattle, WA, USA) and by MacroGenics (Rockville, MD,
 USA) has led to improved laboratory protocols to successfully profile bone marrow samples. This
 resulted in the demonstration of improved clinical outcomes after flotetuzumab immunotherapy,
 opening up new perspectives in the oncology sector, as showcased in an Impact Case Study.

 4.3 Economic, societal, and public engagement

 The UoA’s staff have engaged with multiple cancer and diabetes patient initiatives. Members of
 our Cancer Biology, Immunology and Therapeutics CHAUD Research Theme have supported
 help groups such as ‘Tackle Prostate Cancer’, ‘PROSTaid’ and the ‘Friends and Bredrin’ cancer
 support and self-help group, which is primarily focussed on prostate cancer in African men, as well
 as other ethnic minorities, with talks at sport clubs (Prostaid Golf Days), hospitals, community
 centres and charities. They have organised patient and carer visits to our John van Geest Cancer
 Centre. They have also contributed to a new interactive App, ‘Check Tings Out’, developed in
 collaboration with the African Caribbean community and aimed to address the inequality in
 prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and survival in this community. Pockley has supported the
 publication of ‘Hear Me Now! One Year on!’ and was invited to its launch at the BME Against
 Cancer (‘B’Me‘) event at House of Lords, London. Verderio has engaged with CKD patients at a
 Kidney Research and Innovation event at Royal Derby Hospital, and McTernan and Hulse have
 carried out research with groups seen to be at risk of prejudice because of obesity/diabetes,
 resulting in publications from the perspective of BAME or poorer communities.
 Members of the UoA have engaged with the general public via a range of dialogue and outreach
 activities. McArdle has participated in annual Health and Well-Being Days and McVicker and
 Winter in World Antibiotic Awareness Week events, involving staff, students, and the general
 public. Hoyles and Winter contributed to a Microbiology Society funded summer school which
 provided online, real-time training in assembly and annotation of whole-genome sequence data to
 over 100 Ugandan students. Outreach activities that have involved our staff include Brookes
 promoting Alzheimer's Research UK on ‘Pint of Science’ (2019); Winter presenting at Nottingham
 Festival of Science and Curiosity events and making secondary school visits; Al Ahamady
 contributing ‘Soapbox Women in Science’ events; McLean undertaking public engagement
 activities for the National Biofilms Innovation Centre; Winter offering training to students in low
 income countries as part of People's Open Education Initiatives; and Verderio engaging with

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Japanese Women in STEM at Nagoya University (host, Kiyotaka Hitomi). UoA members have
 been highly active on media on a broad range of topics, including Cave on the BBC Horizon
 Science Programme ‘The Contraceptive Pill is it Safe’ on how oestrogen affects weight gain,
 McTernan on CBBC 'Operation Ouch' presenting the role of adipose tissue in the body, Ball and
 Turner on ‘The Conversation’ news site on personalised medicine and causes of diabetes,
 respectively, and Verderio’s ‘World Kidney Day’ activities have included speaking for Kidney
 Research UK on BBC East Midlands Today.

 4.4 Contribution to the research base

 Members of the UoA have received awards and honours, including Forsythe and Billett who were
 cited in the Queen’s Anniversary Prize to the University in 2015 for their contribution in food
 security, Pockley who is Senior Fellow (elected) of Cell Stress Society International since 2015,
 and Ball who is Fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine.
 The UoA members’ service on national and international committees includes: Pockley, who is on
 the scientific advisory boards of Prostate Cancer UK, Breast Cancer NOW and Northwest Cancer
 Research; Ball who is a member of the Breast Cancer Now tissue bank; and Hoyles is research
 committee member for the Healthcare Infection Society and sits on the International Life Sciences
 Institute Europe Expert Group.
 Membership of national and international peer review panels include: Rutella who has served on
 the Selection Committee of Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Germany); Verderio who has
 been external review panel member for French National Research Agency; McTernan who has
 served for The Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, I.P. (Portugal); and Cross who has been
 an EPSRC Peer Review College member. UoA members have also performed grant reviewing for
 UK research councils and charities such as BBSRC, UKRI (Future Leaders Fellowship grant),
 MRC, Wellcome Trust, Kidney Research UK, Diabetes UK, British Lung Foundation, and
 International funders such as Telethon, The Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, and
 The Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development.
 Staff within the UoA have editorial responsibilities for over 20 different journals, for example:
 Rutella is Section Editor-In-Chief (Haematology) of Journal of Clinical Medicine. Associate
 Editorships include Hargreaves for Environmental Toxicology and Pharmacology, Brookes for
 Journal of Alzheimer's Disease, and Hoyles for BMC Microbiology. Editorial board memberships
 include Turner for Biochimica Biophysica Acta (Molecular Cell Research), Leo, Campeotto and
 Ahmed for Scientific Reports, and Verderio for Cells.
 The UoA’s staff have been involved with organisation of a variety of scientific meetings. For
 example, since 2007 the UoA has organised the East Midlands Proteomics Workshop in
 collaboration with local Midlands universities. Croft has co-organised a mini-symposium at the
 European Conference in Mathematical and Theoretical Biology (ECMTB) (2016), Hoyles has been
 an organiser of the Royal Society of Chemistry meeting on Tackling Antimicrobial Resistance
 (2018), and Verderio proposed and co-organised a symposium on Transglutaminase (Life
 Sciences 2019: Post-translational modification and cell signalling) with the Biochemical Society,
 Pharmacological Society and Physiological Society.




                                                                                          Page 16
