Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hertfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 The Unit consists of 15 members of staff (13.8 FTE) and draws together colleagues working in
 the cognate disciplines of English Literature, Creative Writing and Film within the School of
 Humanities. The School is divided for administrative and teaching purposes into subject groups,
 and the Unit draws members from three of these: English Literature and Creative Writing; Media
 (including Film); and Languages. Each of these subject groups has a Head of Subject, who line-
 manages and appraises staff within their group, but the Unit has a single Research Leader who
 co-ordinates and supports the Unit’s research activities and is responsible for the strategic
 allocation of QR funds. Researchers within the Unit are situated in adjoining offices, enabling
 collaborative work on aspects of their research, and facilitating the interdisciplinary exchange of
 ideas.

 The nature of much of the research undertaken by staff reflects their willingness to collaborate
 with peers and colleagues both within the School and University and beyond it. Such
 collaboration lies at the heart of the University’s overall research strategy. The University has
 adopted six interdisciplinary Research Themes and the work of this Unit is a lynchpin of the
 ‘Heritage, Cultures and Communities’ theme, enhancing opportunities for dissemination and for
 generating and fostering cross-disciplinary collaborations. An example of this has been the
 central part played by the Unit’s researchers in the AHRC-funded ‘Everyday Lives in War’ Co-
 ordinating Centre for Community Research and Engagement to Commemorate the Centenary of
 the First World War.

 Notable achievements for the Unit over the period in comparison with REF 2014 are:

    •   Improved vitality and equality of staffing: 20% senior researchers and 53% lecturers (of
        which 20% are early career researchers) together with an increase to 47% women
        overall.
    •   488% increase in average research income per annum when including all sources.
    •   300% increase in PhD awards.
    •   87% overall satisfaction in the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES)
        with 88% for supervision and for progress and assessment, and 87% for research skills.
    •   Unit staff winners of the 2018 Poetry Society’s National Poetry Competition (Holloway-
        Smith) and 2014 Granta International Memoir Prize (Gibb).

 Strategy
 The Unit’s strategic plan in the REF 2014 Environment statement had three areas of focus:
 expansion of staffing, fostering close ties with the local region, and expanding the postgraduate
 research student community. An additional target has been to grow research strength in
 Creative Writing and Film to complement the Unit’s established expertise in English Literature in
 order to create a truly multi-disciplinary unit of assessment, allowing colleagues to identify
 thematic connections between areas of research which cut across traditional disciplinary
 boundaries, and bring fresh perspectives to bear on their areas of specialism. The achievement
 of these goals is evidenced by an increase in the overall staff FTE submitted to REF2021 of
 79%, particularly from Creative Writing; an impressive track record of public engagement; and a
 300% increase in the number of PhD awards.

 In the build-up to REF 2014, control of QR funds allocated against approved research delivery
 plans, was handled at School level. Following REF2014, the strategic decision was made by the
 School of Humanities to devolve control of QR income to Units. This has meant that for most of


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this REF cycle the Unit has had significant independence in directing its QR income towards the
 delivery plan in support of its research culture.

 1) Expansion of staffing
 The Unit is expanding its staff numbers in line with its long-term strategic goals. The 13.8 FTE
 (15 individuals) of this submission compares favourably with 8.0 FTE in REF 2014, and 6.0 FTE
 in RAE 2008 – clearly indicating the accelerating growth of the Unit over the last decade.
 Creative Writing and Film were identified as areas of the Unit which could be developed through
 investment and strategic planning, reflected in the enlarged number of staff being submitted from
 these areas, and the diverse scope of research activities in this Unit.

 There have been two retirements in English Literature (Budge and Holderness), which have
 been balanced by the appointments of Lloyd (1.0 FTE) and Sausman (1.0 FTE). Young left to
 become Head of Writing and Journalism at Falmouth University, and has been replaced by Gibb
 (1.0 FTE). Creative Writing has been further expanded with the appointment of three new
 members of staff, to provide expertise across varied genres of writing: Vinnicombe (0.8 FTE), a
 playwright; Holloway-Smith (1.0 FTE), a poet; and Thomas (1.0 FTE), a novelist. Elliott-Smith
 took up a post as Senior Lecturer in Film at the University of Stirling and has been replaced by
 Lanckman (1.0 FTE), while O’Neill (1.0 FTE) has been additionally recruited in Film.

 Further additional growth has been achieved by fostering the research potential of existing staff
 in Creative Writing and Film who did not submit work to REF 2014: Rico-Albero (1.0 FTE), who
 writes on Spanish cinema, has been financially supported to present his developing research at
 major conferences in Spain, the USA and the UK; while Gordon (0.5 FTE), a novelist and
 creative non-fiction writer, has received QR funding of £2,215 for major research trips to the
 USA and Scotland.

 Many staff have diverse and overlapping research specialisms. In recognition of this, existing
 areas of research strength have been complemented in early modern literature (Pritchard,
 George), Victorian and Edwardian literature (Maunder, Norwood, Sausman), and Contemporary
 Literature and Culture (Lloyd, Sausman, Rico-Albero), by widening some of these categories to
 incorporate cognate research specialisms in theatre, performance and reception studies
 (Norwood, Maunder and Lanckman), American Literature (Hughes and Lloyd), life-writing (Gibb
 and Maunder), class studies (Holloway-Smith and O’Neill) and Gothic (George, Sausman and
 Lloyd). These ‘clusters’ encourage staff to consider ways in which their research intersects; they
 foster collaboration and provide support via mentoring and peer feedback on work.

 New appointments have been made strategically to bolster and diversify existing areas of
 research strength. They each have specialisms which allow them to make valuable contributions
 to more than one ‘cluster’ of research within the Unit. The appointments of Lloyd and Lanckman
 contribute to the Unit’s research strength in American literature and culture; their twentieth-and
 twenty-first century research interests complement the specialism of Hughes in early American
 and nineteenth-century American literature. Lloyd’s interdisciplinary focus (for instance, in
 literature and photography) dovetails with the research of Rico-Albero, Lanckman and O’Neill in
 visual media. Lanckman’s research into screen melodrama overlaps productively with
 Norwood’s interest in stage melodrama, while her work on World War 1-era magazines
 intersects with Maunder’s WW1 theatre project. Sausman’s appointment bolsters existing
 strengths in late Victorian and Edwardian literature (complementing the work of Maunder and
 Norwood). Lanckman, Lloyd, Sausman and Gibb all have research interests in different aspects
 of the Gothic or supernatural, enabling them to contribute to the Unit’s burgeoning status as a
 centre for Gothic studies, established by George’s Open Graves Open Minds (OGOM) project.

 2) Connecting with the local region
 The fostering of close connections with non-academic audiences (particularly but not exclusively
 in the local region of Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire, and London), remains a key strategic aim of
 the Unit, and a priority for many of the Unit staff, who disseminate their research through public

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement as a matter of course. The effort to translate specialist research for non-academic
 audiences is mutually beneficial. As well as providing cultural enrichment for the audiences the
 Unit engages with, working with local communities acknowledges that non-academic audiences
 possess knowledge and insight that enhances the Unit’s work and enables it to co-produce
 research that might have been impossible to achieve in isolation. Working under the aegis of the
 University’s ‘Heritage, Cultures and Communities’ Research Theme encourages the Unit to
 embed its research in local communities in this way, and to consider the reciprocal nature of this
 relationship: society produces heritage and culture of which academia is a part. For example,
 staff have worked with schools, and presented their research to local history groups, at
 bookshops and literary festivals, on the radio, and in the media (both local and national). Staff
 within the group participate in the activities of the University’s Heritage Hub, the goal of which is
 to provide cross-disciplinary engagement with local and regional heritage initiatives (see
 Institutional Environment Statement).

 3) Expansion of the postgraduate research community
 During this REF cycle the Unit introduced student bursaries (fees plus £1,000 per year for a full-
 time student) funded from the Unit’s QR. This led to the recruitment of six PhD students (two FT,
 four PT). Four of these work on aspects of the Gothic and were attached to the OGOM research
 project, helping to contribute to its development. The others work on diverse areas of twentieth
 century and contemporary writing (contemporary Asian British fiction, Native American young
 adult fiction, and women’s historical fiction), enriching the Unit’s research strengths in these
 areas. Both full-time students and three part-time students have now successfully completed
 since 2014. Additionally, two self-funded PhD students in Creative Writing have completed in
 2018-19. This means that the Unit has had a 300% increase in PhD completions during this REF
 cycle (eight compared to two last time). It currently also has seven self-funded PhD students,
 including four in Creative Writing.

 4) Expansion of Creative Writing

 A major strategic development since 2014 has been the support, through recruitment strategy
 and the allocation of QR funding, of the Unit’s Creative Writers. This is reflected in the
 submission of five Creative Writers, compared to only one in REF 2014.

 The Unit has established a Poetry Hub within the School of Humanities, curated by Holloway-
 Smith. Funded from the Unit’s existing QR fund, two Creative Writing Fellows have been
 appointed, Mark Waldron (2017-2019) and Rachel Long (2018-2020). As well as working with
 both undergraduate and postgraduate Creative Writing students, the Fellows help to facilitate the
 Unit’s links with external organizations and/or practitioners, providing public talks and readings,
 and an open ‘poetry surgery’ in which they provide one-to-one feedback and writing advice to
 aspiring poets. These initiatives are open to the public, as part of a wider effort to popularise
 poetry and break down barriers between the academic and non-academic worlds. Collaborations
 with poets such as Long (leader of Octavia Poetry Collective for Women of Colour) are intended
 to celebrate diversity and support efforts to give prominence to BAME voices. In 2018, the
 Poetry Hub launched the annual University of Hertfordshire Single Poem Prize. Judged by
 Holloway-Smith and the Poetry Fellows, the prize is open to anyone living in the UK, and free to
 enter in the interests of fairness and inclusivity. It reflects the Unit’s ambition to become
 recognised as a centre of excellence in the creation and promotion of poetry. In its first year, the
 Prize attracted more than 600 entries from both established and aspiring poets across the UK
 and is now an annual fixture.

 As a further indication of the vitality of the Unit’s burgeoning Creative Writing community, several
 of its writers have been the recipients of (or shortlisted for) prestigious national and international
 awards. Holloway-Smith has emerged as a significant contemporary voice in UK poetry over the
 last few years. He won the Poetry Society’s National Poetry Competition in 2018 for his poem
 ‘The Posh Mums are Boxing in the Square’; and won the Poetry Society’s Geoffrey Dearmer
 Prize, awarded to the best poem in The Poetry Review in 2016, for his poem ‘Short’. His first

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collection, Alarum, was shortlisted for the Seamus Heaney Centre’s First Collection Poetry Prize
 in 2018, and for the Roehampton Poetry Prize in 2017. Gibb won the Granta International
 Memoir Prize in 2014 for her memoir ‘Two Gardens’.

 Impact Strategy
 One of the distinctive features of much research conducted by the Unit is an interest in popular
 culture and the recovery of forgotten cultural products. Members of the Unit study or produce
 work in genres such as melodrama and propaganda on stage and screen, gothic fiction, young
 adult fiction, romantic historical fiction, crime fiction and queer horror films. The Unit recognises
 that such work on the ‘popular’ often provides a crucial bridge between academia and the public,
 helping the dissemination of its work in non-traditional ways and to achieve impact beyond
 academia.

 The fruits of this approach are embodied by the Unit’s impact case studies: ‘Rediscovering
 World War 1 Theatre: Changing Perceptions of Wartime Era Entertainment’ (led by Maunder)
 and ‘Open Graves, Open Minds: Promoting empathy and interrogating difference through public
 engagement with Gothic narratives’ (led by George).

 Maunder’s First World War Theatre project has recovered once popular but since-forgotten plays
 which were submitted to the Lord Chamberlain’s Office for licensing between 1913 and 1919,
 introducing modern audiences to a largely unknown dimension of cultural life on the WWI Home
 Front through new performances staged between 2011 and 2019. These have allowed school-
 age and adult audiences to think well beyond the ‘war poets’ and to reappraise their
 understanding of the war and its culture.

 George’s work on the ethical Gothic seeks to demonstrate how a popular genre like the Gothic
 can directly intervene in contemporary ethical debates. The Gothic has become an area of
 notable research strength, centred on the OGOM project, a research network involving other
 researchers from within the Unit (including PGRs), elsewhere in the University, and at other
 national and international institutions. It now has many outputs and spin-offs, and a notably high
 media profile.

 The Unit’s approach to impact has four key strands exemplified by these long-standing projects:

    •   Public engagement with school-aged children. Working with schools is an excellent
        means of effecting meaningful shifts in opinion, helping to offer alternative ways of
        thinking about subjects such as WW1 or the human-animal relationship before ideas
        have become fixed in this audience’s minds. Both submitted impact case studies have
        used public engagement activities as a springboard for the achievement of impact, with a
        focus on school-aged children, and an interest in the co-production of research through
        public engagement.
    •   Use of social media to engage with a wider audience. The OGOM project is an
        exemplar of this approach. The project’s website hosts an active blog, while also acting
        as a co-ordinating hub for the many activities and members of OGOM, and an archive of
        media coverage and past events. OGOM has its own Twitter feed which has over 7,000
        followers and connects the project with a diverse worldwide audience, in academia and
        beyond.
    •   Organisation of public outreach events and exhibitions. Alongside theatrical
        performances, the WW1 Theatre project has hosted a number of related exhibitions
        including: Performing Centenaries - Community, Performance, and Commemoration
        (2017-18), an AHRC-funded project supporting diverse community groups in their
        explorations of the First World War through writing, art and performance; After Tipperary:
        Theatrical entertainment and the First World War in Richmond (2015-16), a joint research
        project with Orleans Gallery in Richmond and Twickenham Academy, which resulted in
        an exhibition, a booklet co-authored with members of the local history society, schools
        study days and education pack, and two stage productions; and Shakespeare and the


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        First World War, an exhibition created in partnership with the Shakespeare Institute,
        Birmingham and King Edward IV School, Stratford, and displayed at the World
        Shakespeare Congress (Stratford-upon-Avon, 31 July – 4 August 2016); and at Voices of
        the Home Front (National Archives, Kew, 8-10 September 2016). Similarly, OGOM
        hosted a free public event entitled ‘Redeeming the Wolf: A Story of Persecution, Loss
        and Rediscovery’ as part of the 2017 Being Human Festival, sponsored by the AHRC
        and British Academy.
    •   Working with collaborators as part of a larger research centre. The First World War
        Theatre project has flourished as part of a dedicated research centre (the AHRC-funded
        Everyday Lives in War Centre, one of five public engagement centres set up in 2014 to
        mark the centenary of the First World War) which co-ordinates its activities with
        colleagues working in related areas, encourages collaboration both with other academics
        (often across disciplines) and the public, and provides a platform for further income
        generation.

 The implementation of these four key strands has been supported by the Unit’s QR funding and
 other internal awards. Maunder’s WW1 Theatre project received £12,331 from the Unit’s QR and
 a total of £7,332 in internal impact development grants. Similarly, George’s OGOM project also
 received internal impact development grants totalling £4,680, while the Unit’s QR funding has
 helped to finance OGOM conferences by providing a total of £1,602 financial support. Hughes
 and Norwood also received small grants to support impact development, totalling £1,740.

 Open Research Environment and Integrity
 The Unit is committed to making its research openly available in line with the Concordat on
 Open Research Data. The Unit’s Open Access strategy is in line with that of the University as a
 whole. The University has a long-standing requirement that all new research outputs by staff are
 deposited in its Research Archive (UHRA).This is in fulfilment of its commitment, as set out in
 the University’s policies and regulations which can be summarised as the mandatory ‘green’
 open access deposit of all research outputs in the UHRA by the author via upload to the
 University’s Research Information System (RIS) at the time the research output is accepted for
 publication.

 Several of the Unit’s’ Creative Writers have published work in venues which are entirely open
 access. Gibb’s short fiction and non-fiction has appeared in journals such as Granta, Luna Luna
 and the Popular Culture Review; while Gordon has published long-form journalism in The
 Economist’s 1843 Magazine, and Wired and in the Wellcome Institute’s Mosaic magazine.
 Several Holloway-Smith’s poems have been published on open-access forums such as
 poetryfoundation.org and poems.poetrysociety.org.uk.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and one member of
 the Unit (Hughes) sat on a working group to oversee the implementation of the revised
 Concordat. Research Integrity awareness is embedded in the mandatory researcher
 development training for PGRs, without which they will not be able to progress. The success of
 this approach is reflected in the high awareness of research integrity shown in PRES 2019, with
 94% of research students agreeing that their understanding of research integrity had developed
 during their programme.

 Future Strategy
 The Unit’s strategic aims are:

    •   to increase the volume of internationally excellent and world-leading research by growing
        the Unit though continued investment of QR in areas of demonstrable strength such as
        Creative Writing, Gothic Studies, Theatre History, Early Modern Literature, and 20th /21st
        Century Literature, Film and Culture; and further enhancing interdisciplinary
        collaborations by increasingly integrating the work of the School’s researchers in English
        Language and Linguistics (submitted in UoA23), with that of the Unit . This will overlap

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        productively with existing research strengths and interests within the Unit, such as
        identity formation (particularly in relation to gender and class). Methodologies employed
        in Linguistics such as narrative inquiry speak directly to the interests of the rest of the
        Unit in how people use narratives to create meaning in their lives;
    •   to enhance the health and vibrancy of the postgraduate community by growing the
        number of PhD students and increasing the diversity of this PGR student population.
        These goals will be achieved by investing QR funding in student bursaries and
        studentships to attract high-quality applicants, and through positive action – for instance,
        a fully-funded full time BAME PhD studentship was awarded in February 2021;
    •   to build sufficient critical mass of research to establish a new interdisciplinary Research
        Centre focused on Gothic and Magical Narratives in Fiction and Folklore to be approved
        by the University Research Committee, to conduct research into the cultural and material
        significance of narratives concerning magical creatures that transcend human limits. The
        centre will particularly encourage interdisciplinary collaboration with researchers in the
        University History Unit, and nurture postgraduate recruitment by building on the dual
        successes of OGOM and the new History MA in Folklore Studies, one of only two in the
        UK.


 2. People

 The Unit currently has three researchers at Reader / Associate Professor level (20%). Of the
 remainder, three are Principal Lecturers (20%), one is a Senior Lecturer (7%), and eight are
 Lecturers (53%), of which three qualify as ECRs at the census date (20%). This distribution
 shows a healthy balance and evidences the Unit’s vitality particularly through investment in
 dynamic early and mid-career researchers with the demonstrated potential to become leaders in
 their fields.

 All submitted staff are on permanent contracts, indicating the long-term stability and
 sustainability of the research environment. Where fixed-term contracts have been used, in all
 cases those contracts have been translated into permanent positions. For example, Lloyd was
 initially appointed on a three-year 1.0 FTE contract which has been converted into a permanent
 appointment; and Lanckman was appointed on a fixed-term 1.0 FTE contract in 2019-20 which
 has now become permanent. Fractional appointments have also been gradually increased
 wherever possible to reward excellence and combat precarity: Sausman was appointed on a
 permanent 0.2 FTE teaching contract in 2015-16, rising to a 0.5 FTE teaching and research
 contract in 2016-17 and 1.0 FTE in 2019-20.

 Staff Development
 Central to supporting the vitality of the Unit’s research has been the introduction, in this REF
 cycle, of a one-semester research sabbatical scheme. All staff with significant responsibility for
 research within the Unit are eligible. Staff embarking on research leave are required to have
 clear and achievable goals and must submit a report subsequently to the Research Leader,
 outlining what they have achieved. The scheme is managed jointly by the Research Leader and
 Head of Subject(s), who facilitate the leave by carefully planning teaching loads; and it is
 supported by all members of the Unit who reciprocally cover each other’s teaching for the
 scheme to function. The introduction of this scheme has been notably productive, particularly in
 enabling members of staff to develop and complete longer-term projects such as monographs
 (Pritchard’s Before Crusoe, Norwood’s Victorian Touring Actresses), international conferences
 and symposia (George’s various OGOM events), and research grant applications. This
 sabbatical scheme has also been complemented by a University Early Career Research Grant
 of £2,991 for Sausman, to provide teaching relief for one semester.

 The research culture of the group is also sustained by a programme of research seminars
 spanning the strategic priorities of the Unit, featuring both the work of Unit staff, and visiting
 speakers. Postgraduate students and staff form the typical audience for such talks, though


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 undergraduates are also encouraged to attend. There have been four residential weekends at
 Cumberland Lodge, in Windsor Great Park, to which undergraduate and postgraduate students
 have been invited, and which feature a research-rich programme of activities designed to build
 community while modelling best practice in the dissemination of research findings for the benefit
 of postgraduate researchers.

 Researchers are supported not only in their individual research projects, but also in the
 development of a research career trajectory. The Research Leader arranges regular one-to-one
 research-focused appraisals, while all researchers are assigned a mentor from within the
 School. A university-wide Researcher Development Group (RDG) meets termly and has
 responsibility for promoting and monitoring the professional development provision for
 researchers across the University, in line with the Concordat for their career development. The
 RDG is attended by the Associate Dean Research (ADR) and a school representative, both of
 whom are members of this Unit, ensuring that researcher support and development
 opportunities have a high profile within the Unit.

 Research Students
 The introduction of PGR student bursaries and the expansion of staff supervisory experience
 has led to a significant increase in PhD student recruitment and awards. The Unit currently has a
 group of nine PhD students, the profile of which demonstrates its commitment to encouraging
 researchers from different backgrounds and via different pathways. Five are female and four are
 male; seven are full-time and two are part-time; seven are white British and two are BAME; and
 five are mature students.

 Beyond the financial assistance of bursaries, PGRs are supported variously over the course of
 their programmes of research. Each PGR student has at least two supervisors. Over the course
 of their studies, PGRs must pass two progression reviews involving the submission of a
 substantive piece of work and a panel interview involving an experienced academic from outside
 the supervisory team. An annual monitoring process using the University’s online Research
 Student Management System records that both supervisors and the student are satisfied with
 the project’s progress. The School Research Tutor is available for additional support whenever
 needed. Staff must attend the Doctoral College supervisor training programme before joining a
 doctoral team. PGRs are tasked to attend appropriate sessions on the University’s extensive
 Researcher Development Programme (RDP).

 New PhD students are also encouraged to attend sessions selected from the research methods
 seminars on the taught MA programmes in English Literature, Creative Writing and Media, as a
 means of refreshing or consolidating their research skills, as well as adding to the research
 culture in the Unit. All PhD students have access to networked computers and printers in a large,
 open-plan, postgraduate office in the School of Humanities.

 The 2019 PRES ranked the University 21st for overall student satisfaction, 15th for supervision
 and 4th from 103 for research culture. The University participation rate was 62%, compared to
 42% across the sector as a whole. At the Unit level, 88% of students were satisfied with their
 supervision and with their progress and assessment, and 87% with the development of their
 research skills, with satisfaction rated at 87% overall.

 The Unit provides students with the experience they will need to progress in a career in
 academia – in particular, oral presentation of their work to audiences of their peers, opportunities
 for teaching, and conference organisation. A regular postgraduate mini conference is convened
 at the start of each year, in which existing research students present their work in progress to a
 new intake. Students also receive funds from the Unit’s QR for conference presentation. PhD
 students in the School can apply to undertake undergraduate teaching from their second year,
 and one recently completed PhD student has been employed as a Visiting Lecturer. Most
 valuable of all – to supervisors, students and the research culture – have been instances of
 collaboration in the organisation of conferences (e.g. the Company of Wolves conference in
 2015, co-organised by George and her PhD student Kaja Franck, at which Franck also

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presented a paper). As a long-standing, ongoing research activity, the OGOM project has had
 several PhD students attached to it, affording them valuable experience to develop their
 research profiles. Postgraduate research students have also been important to the success of
 the residential weekends at Cumberland Lodge, and are also invited to attend the ‘writing retreat’
 days (see Section 3).

 Equality and Diversity
 The Unit remains a supportive, non-judgemental place to work, accepting of difference, as
 evidenced by the nature of much of the research produced, which is often informed by
 contemporary and historical debates about gender, sexuality and ethnicity. It contributes to a
 broader effort within the School of Humanities to address gender inequality. Under the guidance
 of a School Self-Assessment Team (including one representative of the Unit ), the School was
 awarded the Athena Swan bronze award in 2017, and continues with initiatives such as a
 regular ‘Talking Space’ for all staff, designed to create a relaxed forum in which staff can
 compare experiences and offer each other counsel and support (as well as getting to know one
 another better). In recognition of the gender gap in research attainment, the Athena Swan team
 held a workshop in November 2016 entitled 'Academic Progression: Tackling the Gender Gap in
 the Arts and Humanities'. In both 2018 and 2019, the School has marked international Women’s
 Day with a programme of talks in which members of the Unit prominently featured and designed
 to challenge entrenched inequalities. The career development of women researchers is a focus
 of discussion at appraisal and researcher-development meetings, and the success of all of these
 measures within the Unit is evidenced by two key factors: the appointment of Gibb to Reader
 and George to Associate Professor (Research) (alternative titles of equivalent standing in the
 University); and the marked improvement in the gender balance of the Unit (47% women) since
 2014, when the submission included just 30% women.

 The Unit has provided diverse role models for undergraduate and postgraduate students through
 the appointment of its Poetry Fellows – we are proud to celebrate Rachel Long’s work with the
 Octavia Poetry Collective for Women of Colour, who themselves performed at the University’s
 Festival of Ideas online event in July 2020. The University of Hertfordshire is one of only
 seventeen institutions to have been awarded the Bronze award for the Race Equality Charter
 Mark, and the Unit has a representative (Lloyd) on the Race Equality Charter Working Group
 which co-ordinates the University’s efforts to effect systemic changes that will benefit ethnic
 minority staff and students. The Unit is also well represented on the School’s Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion Team.

 A commitment to equality and diversity underpins the recruitment process of staff with significant
 responsibility for research, and all job adverts are explicitly worded to encourage applications
 from women and BAME applicants. Applicants with declared disabilities who meet the essential
 criteria for posts are automatically shortlisted, in line with University’s commitment to the
 government’s Disability Confident scheme. Recruitment procedures – and the selection process
 of outputs for the REF – always follow the University’s equality and diversity policy, but the Unit
 is aware that bias may be deep-rooted and not always consciously deployed. To combat this, all
 staff are required to undertake unconscious bias training.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 For REF 2021 the Unit has attracted external research income totalling £92,435, a near
 sevenfold increase on REF 2014, when total research income was £13, 826.

    •   From 2014-2020 Maunder was Co-Investigator for the AHRC-funded First World War
        Engagement Centre and its second phase, Connected Communities, for which the Unit
        received £58,633. In 2016 he was awarded an additional £20,000 from the AHRC,
        through the Centre, to support a community project entitled ‘After Tipperary’, in
        partnership with Orleans Gallery, Richmond. In 2017-18 Maunder was also Co-
        Investigator – with colleagues from Queens University Belfast and the University of Kent

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        on the AHRC project ‘Performing Communities’, for which the Unit received £3,350. He
        was also awarded £500 by Santander to support a touring exhibition on Shakespeare
        and WW1.
    •   In 2014-15, Young was awarded £8,000 from the Ashley Foundation for ‘Patterning
        Hitchin Lives’, a community project bringing different generations together to capture the
        meaning of clothing through oral histories and creative writing.
    •   In 2019, Elliott-Smith was awarded £300 from the British Association of Film, Television
        and Screen Studies to support the symposium, ‘Queer Fears’.

 However, income is higher (£128,170) if additional £35,735 in awards made to individuals (rather
 than the University) by funders such as arts councils is included, as itemised below:

    •   Holloway-Smith won £3,500 from the Society of Authors in 2015, and £10,000 from the
        Arts Council in 2018, to support his ongoing research into representations of working-
        class masculinity.
    •   In 2019, Lanckman was awarded a Heritage Lottery Fund Public Engagement with
        Research award of £8,200 for a digitization project focusing on the WW1-era magazine
        The War Illustrated.
    •   George’s OGOM project won £2,000 from the AHRC and British Academy to sponsor its
        participation in the national Being Human Festival in 2017.
    •   Norwood received £500 from the Society of Theatre Research to part-fund her trip to
        archives in New York and Washington while researching her monograph Victorian
        Touring Actresses. She also received funding totalling £1770 from the Australian
        National University (Canberra) to attend a symposium on international touring actresses,
        which has generated an edited volume of essays to which she is contributing.
    •   Gibb has received Erasmus mobility grants totalling £3,765 to facilitate collaborations
        with colleagues in Cyprus, Poland and Lithuania.
    •   In 2018, Thomas was awarded £6,000 by the Society of Authors and K. Blundell Trust,
        for his novel Playboy.

 In addition, QR funding has been reinvested to support the development of external research
 funding bids, the publication of high-quality outputs, and the generation of research impact. The
 Unit has invested QR funding, and also been supported by additional central university QR
 funding to drive these goals, which has resulted in more income from external sources. The
 University’s Research Grants Team ensures awareness of external funding opportunities, and
 supports researchers closely throughout the bid process, including providing full costings for
 projects. This support – both financial and administrative – has enabled a greater number of
 projects to be established, and more bids to be submitted, resulting in the above successes
 drawn from a diverse range of funders.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 All staff and research students within the Unit have access to the University’s library and digital
 resources, including electronic journals accessed through platforms such as JSTOR and Project
 Muse. The University subscribes to Zetoc, enabling staff to receive regular alerts on new
 publications in their field. There are several subscriptions to specialist databases which underpin
 the research of staff: for instance, subscriptions to Early English Books Online, Eighteenth
 Century Collections Online and the Burney Collection are crucial for the Unit’s early modernist
 researchers, while the British Periodicals, British Library Newspapers and 19th Century
 Periodicals databases support the research of the nineteenth-century specialists. Research staff
 and students can utilise an efficient inter-library loan system to access material, both physical
 and electronic. University computers have useful specialist software for supporting research –
 such as Endnote bibliography (students can register for Endnote Online). Staff are supplied with
 an up-to-date laptop or desktop computer by the School.

 The School hosts regular ‘writing retreat’ days at the University’s Bayfordbury campus, to which
 both staff and postgraduate researchers are invited. Participants in the retreats come from

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across different research areas within the school, fostering a sense of research community, and
 providing an informal setting in which interesting cross-disciplinary connections between
 research specialisms may be discovered. These retreats have continued successfully online
 since the lockdown due to COVID-19 in March 2020.

 Early in the REF cycle, the School ADR organised School-wide ‘Impact workshops’ to help staff
 further develop their understanding of impact, how to achieve it, and how to capture evidence.
 These were supplemented by University training sessions run by Impact facilitators from the
 Research Office and by external experts such as Fast Track Impact, an international training
 company working in Higher Education. Attendees at the workshop received ongoing
 subscriptions to Fast Track Impact’s extensive online resources to support the development of
 impactful research, paid for by the University.

 In addition, approximately £8,500 of QR funds allocated per annum to the Unit have been
 committed to helping staff to develop or disseminate research; or to engage with academic and
 non-academic communities through organising and delivering events. Besides travel and
 conference fees, QR funding has purchased recording equipment, hired theatrical venues,
 payed performers and poets, and covered the costs of printing promotional material. It has been
 a valuable resource to facilitate the expansion and diversification of both the research delivery
 and culture of the Unit.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations and User Partnerships
 At the heart of the Unit’s strategic development since the last REF has been collaboration and
 interaction with a range of non-academic organisations such as schools, theatres, galleries,
 museums, prisons, local history societies, libraries, bookshops, literary and film festivals, and
 botanic gardens, as evidenced below. Staff are encouraged and facilitated to bring their work to
 public audiences, and the examples which follow demonstrate the ways in which they seek
 audiences beyond academia, as a means of increasing the accessibility of literature and film and
 enhancing the societal perception of their relevance and value.

 In most of these instances, financial support has been provided from the Unit’s QR funds, when
 required. Staff also willingly share their experiences of successful collaborations, initiatives and
 events with other colleagues, creating a broad base of experience and expertise within the Unit.

 Researchers in the Unit have worked closely with arts and heritage organisations based within
 the University, UHArts and the Heritage Hub. UHArts is a £300,000 per annum University-
 funded organisation designed to share research in the arts within the community and has a track
 record of being an effective conduit for bringing the Unit’s research to the public. For example,
 performances of World War I plays have taken place in its theatre, the Weston Auditorium, while
 George was an invited speaker at the UHArts ‘Bloodlust’ film season in October 2016,
 introducing Murnau’s Nosferatu. The Heritage Hub similarly helps staff with an interest in
 heritage to engage with local communities. In 2016, the Heritage Hub collaborated with UHArts
 to fund and organise the ‘Sparks Might Fly’ initiative, which invited theatre companies to work
 with researchers at the University to interpret their research in new ways and to use the power of
 theatre to make academic research accessible to all. Norwood’s Victorian Actresses research
 was selected and developed into a collaborative theatrical/ dance performance entitled ‘Ghost
 Papers’, performed in July 2016.

 Unit members have led in the creation, administration and promotion of a new fiction prize,
 Comedy Women in Print (CWIP), awarded for the first time in 2019, and developed in
 collaboration with comedian, actress and University alumnus Helen Lederer. The prize (with
 awards for published and unpublished work) is designed to celebrate and support female
 comedy writers. Gordon and Young were central to the shortlisting and judging process; the


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 judging panel for the awards also included successful comic writers such as Kathy Lette, Jenny
 Éclair, Katy Brand, Susan Calman and Marian Keyes.

 George has collaborated internationally with the Australian Research Council (with whom she is
 submitting a funding bid to work on Young Adult literature); and the New York Botanical
 Gardens, for whom she contributed to the ‘Poetic Botany’ Exhibition in 2016
 http://www.nybg.org/poetic-botany/contributors/. She has also had UK-based collaborations with
 the Sheffield Centre for History of Gothic (Gothic Networking Day, February 2016); and the
 Science Museum, London (archival collaboration).

 Hughes has worked closely with University of Hertfordshire Press in the publication of his edition
 of the 1944 novel Life and Death of the Wicked Lady Skelton, by Magdalen King-Hall, based on
 a prominent Hertfordshire legend. This research project was conceived as a means of
 connecting with a local audience. In 2016, he gave a popular series of public talks around
 Hertfordshire to promote the book and the research from which it emerged. The talks attracted a
 total audience of three hundred, and are ongoing, with further requests to visit local history
 groups around the county being received (and accepted) regularly. UH Press promoted the
 publication with a competition and by hosting supporting material on their website, including
 discussion questions for reading groups, written by Hughes.

 Maunder’s ongoing First World War Theatre research project is built around instances of
 collaboration with theatre companies. Recent examples include: A Well-Remembered Voice by
 J.M. Barrie [1918], with Io Theatre (Hatfield 2014; OSO, Barnes, October 2016; Richmond 2016;
 Arts Theatre, London 2016); After Tipperary (with Dramatic Edge, Twickenham and Twickenham
 Academy - a schools’ production created with Richmond Arts service 2016); Hallam (with Behind
 the Lines company, Brighton 2017); But It Still Goes On by Robert Graves [1928] (Finborough
 Theatre, London, 10 July – 4 August 2018); Jane Clegg by St John Ervine [1913] (Finborough
 Theatre, London 23 April – 18 May 2019). Maunder also appeared as an expert on First World
 War theatrical performance on BBC television’s popular Who Do You Think You Are? (BBC1 –
 July 2018).

 Norwood’s research on Victorian theatre has led to several opportunities to build strong
 connections with local public audiences. For example, she delivered a talk on ‘East End Theatre
 in the Nineteenth Century’ at Tower Hamlets Local History Library and Archives in February
 2017. She also participated in a workshop with People’s Company at Southwark Playhouse in
 September 2017 and was interviewed and filmed as part of the same project.

 In 2019, Lanckman was awarded a Heritage Lottery Fund Public Engagement with Research
 award of £8,200 for a digitization project focusing on the WW1-era magazine The War
 Illustrated, as one of the co-founders of NoRMMA – the Network of Research: Movies,
 Magazines and Audiences. This built on public engagement activities which were conducted
 between April and June 2017. Over the course of three workshops, open to the public,
 participants were encouraged to focus on the representation of women in the World War I
 weekly magazine, The War Illustrated.

 Other members of the Unit regularly engage in activities and participate in events which seek to
 cross the divide between academia and the wider public, both locally and further afield in the
 UK:

    •   Holloway-Smith has given public readings of his poetry at literary festivals, bookshops
        and libraries in Birmingham, Cheltenham, Newcastle, Swindon and Glasgow. He has
        appeared three times on Radio 4, once on Radio 3, and is a regular contributor to BBC
        Radio London’s Robert Elms Show, on which he speaks about the value of poetry and
        poetic craft.
    •   Gibb’s public engagement record is extensive, with an international dimension. Since
        2015 she has spoken about her work at the York Festival of Ideas, the Primadonna
        Festival, the Cambridge Literary Festival, North Lanarkshire Literary Festival, Edinburgh

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        International Festival, Wilderness Festival, the Clapham Omnibus Literary Festival and
        the Aye Write Festival in Glasgow; she has been interviewed on BBC Radio (including
        Radio 4’s Front Row), BBC Radio Scotland, Talk Radio, Newstalk Radio (Ireland) and
        European Talk Radio (Spain); spoken at Waterstones, Tottenham Court Road; and been
        interviewed for the Italian literary magazine Menabo.
    •   To tie in with the launch of her popular book Being a Writer, Gordon has spoken at the
        Essex Literary festival; at various bookshops and libraries in London (for example, the
        London Library); on Radio 4’s Open Book programme, and Monocle 24 radio station.
        She has written short pieces on writers and the craft of writing for a variety of websites,
        such as the Literary Consultancy and the Writers and Artists Yearbook and is a
        contributing editor at the literary magazine Ambit. She has run workshops and
        masterclasses for the wider public – for example, for the Collage Writing Room (formerly
        Haringey Literature Live).
    •   Pritchard spoke at a philosophical debate entitled ‘Does Literature Matter’ held at the
        Bloomsbury Institute, London in May 2017 along with Howard Jacobson and Sir Roger
        Scruton. Pritchard has also brought her work to a public audience at an invited talk to the
        Friends of Saffron Walden Library.

 Contributions to Economy and Society
 Unit members produce work intended to comment on, and intervene in, pressing social and
 economic questions as indicated below.

 O’Neill’s work as a filmmaker directly addresses urgent social issues centering on inequality and
 class. Her ongoing involvement in the Inside Film project exemplifies this approach. Inside Film
 began in August 2006 in HMP Wandsworth with the aim of using film as a means of creative
 expression and as an educational tool for traditionally marginalised groups. In 2017, the project
 produced The Foodbank Film, a film about using food banks made by the food bank users
 themselves. The film was an official selection for the Workers Unite Film Festival in 2017 and the
 Respect Human Rights Film Festival 2017.

 O’Neill also directed the 2017 documentary film The Acting Class, which won the National
 Feature Documentary award at the 2017 Labour Film Festival. This film talks to struggling
 working class actors about the difficulties they face in the industry.

 In 2014, Vinnicombe contributed a play called Tomorrow to the National Theatre’s annual
 Connections festival of new plays for youth theatres and schools. Connections gives young
 people experience of professional theatre-making: they create marketing campaigns, design
 sets and costumes, operate lighting and sound boards, and stage-manage their
 performances. Vinnicombe was commissioned to write specifically for the festival, and the play’s
 setting and themes (focusing on a group of friends on their last day at school) was intended to
 connect with both its youthful performers and audience, enthusing them for the experience of
 theatre. His work has specialized in writing for young people, being commissioned by the
 National Youth Theatre, Islington Community Theatre, The Bush and National Theatre. Year 10
 (2005), Cradle Me (2008), Tomorrow (2014) and Turf (2015) all explored what it is to be a
 teenager on the cusp of adulthood. These works are also focused on London and the rising gap
 between the rich and the poor in the UK.

 Thomas’s São Paolo novels blend real testimony with a fictional narrative to highlight social
 inequalities in the city of São Paulo. In recognition of his work, in 2018 Thomas was awarded
 £6,000 by the Society of Authors and K. Blundell Trust, a grant for writers under the age of 40
 whose work ‘contributes to the greater understanding of existing social and economic
 organisations’.

 Contributions to Sustainability of Discipline
 Unit members make wide-ranging contributions to the research community within their fields and
 sub-fields in a range of other ways, as evidenced below:

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal editing
 Holderness is the General Editor of Critical Survey, of which he has also been the co-editor
 since 2015. Maunder was the previous editor of Critical Survey, from 2003-2015. He is also on
 the editorial board for the Wilkie Collins Society Journal and the book series Key Popular
 Women Writers and New Paths in Victorian Popular Literature and Culture, published by Edward
 Everett Root Publishers. Lloyd is Reviews Editor of the European Journal of American Culture.
 Norwood is Co-editor of the journal Nineteenth Century Theatre and Film and a member of the
 editorial board of the Gaskell Journal.

 Work for Learned Societies
 Holderness is on the advisory board for the MIT Global Shakespeares Video & Performance Archive,
 a collaborative project providing online access to performances of Shakespeare from many parts of
 the world as well as essays and metadata provided by scholars and educators in the field. Pritchard
 is on the committee of the British Society of Eighteenth-Century Studies. She acts as the Conference
 Academic Programme Organiser for the annual BSECS conference.

 Up to May 2016, Norwood was Annual Lecture Programme Co-ordinator for the Society for
 Theatre Research. Norwood was mentor for the TaPRA (Theatre and Performance Research
 Association) Fellowship 2016-17 (mentoring an ECR project). Lanckman co-founded NoRMMA –
 the Network of Research: Media, Magazines and Audiences, in 2014. Lloyd was on the
 committee for the 2019 Rubin Prize, given to the best article in the field of Southern Studies, by
 the Society for the Study of Southern Literature.

 Peer-reviewing
 Unit members have peer-reviewed articles for journals including Twentieth-Century Literature,
 MELUS: Multi-Ethnic Literature of the United States, African-American Review, Early American
 Literature and the Journal of British Studies. They have peer-reviewed manuscript and book
 proposals for publishers including Routledge, Broadview, Manchester University Press, and
 Edinburgh University Press.

 Conference organisation
 The Unit is active in organising and hosting academic conferences to establish and maintain
 academic networks and disseminate research, both for staff and PGR students.

    •   Maunder, 2019, ‘Out of the Doll’s House: Women, the Arts, War and Work 1910-1930’, in
        collaboration with the Women’s Library, LSE, London; and 2018, ‘Spies and the spy
        threat 1914-1918’, at the National Archives, Kew.
    •   George, 2019, ‘”Some curious disquiet”: Polidori, the Byronic vampire, and its
        progeny’, at the Keats House, Hampstead; 2017, ‘The Urban Weird’, in collaboration with
        the University of Portsmouth’s ‘Supernatural Cities’ project; and 2015, ‘The Company of
        Wolves: Sociality, Animality and Subjectivity in Literary and Cultural Narratives -
        Werewolves, Shapeshifters and Feral Humans’ at the University. These conferences
        received a total of £1,650 in external funding, from the International Gothic Association,
        the British Association of Romantic Studies, and the University of Portsmouth’s Urban
        Weird project.
    •   Lloyd, 2017, Southern Studies in the UK Network colloquium at UH; and 2016, ‘American
        Topographics’, Goldsmiths.
    •   Hughes, Maunder, and Norwood, 2014, ‘Victorian and Edwardian Lives and Letters’, at
        the University and Knebworth House.

 External examining
 Unit members have been PhD external examiners at various institutions in the UK and overseas,
 including the universities of Bradford, Lancaster, Northampton, Sheffield, Sussex and Valencia.




                                                                                              Page 13
