Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our Department is healthier and more successful than it has ever been. Our clear vision
 and ambitious agenda are underpinned by considerable investment by the University. The
 Department of Philosophy is situated in the School of the Arts, which is part of the Faculty
 of Humanities and Social Sciences. During the past few years, we have almost doubled the
 number of our staff, increased the value of research grants awarded by 400%, and become
 a much more diverse and evenly balanced department in terms of gender, international
 background, and experience.


 1.1. Philosophy in the World
 A central part of our vision is to build upon the Department’s long and distinguished history of
 combining research excellence in core areas of philosophy with innovative work at the frontiers of
 the discipline: from literature to spirituality, philosophy of time to animal ethics, moral integrity to
 radical human enhancement, Neoplatonism to feminism. Deliberately bridging the traditional
 divide between the “analytical” and “continental” and having a decidedly ecumenical outlook, we
 regard philosophy as a set of approaches and methods that can help us make sense of whatever
 is puzzling, perplexing or interesting in the world around us.


 Accordingly, we do not conduct our work in a vacuum but very much in the social and civic space
 of the city of Liverpool with its rich history of industry and commerce, culture and the arts, political
 activism and migration. We work with partners such as the Bluecoat Gallery, Tate Liverpool,
 National Museums Liverpool, NHS North-West, Alder Hey Children’s Hospital and others to find
 applications for our work and to inspire our thinking. Our REF2014 submission emphasised the
 wide range of activities that engaged with local institutions through our Philosophy in the City
 initiative. We have maintained and expanded this approach during the current period, relaunched
 and reframed as Philosophy in the World to capture the extended national and international scope
 and ambition of our impact and knowledge exchange activity. We have worked with many
 organisations, from the Ministry of Defence to the Irish Postal Service, from the EU’s Creative
 Research Adaptive Roadmap project to Channel 4, from the Human Fertilisation and Embryology
 Authority to the German Association for Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics. In doing
 so we have benefited from the expertise and experience of new colleagues (Furman, Gow,
 Hauskeller, McKenna, Schramme, Simoniti, Wiseman) who have joined the Department during


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the period. Examples of this work, much of which is planned to continue into the next REF period,
 are provided in the following sections.


 1.2. Philosophy and the Future
 We have also made a strategic decision to focus much of our research on various philosophical
 questions that arise from current technological, social and cultural developments. Clearly, the
 future will hold many challenges and opportunities for our students, for their children, and for
 society as a whole. We believe that philosophers have a crucial role to play in confronting these
 demands. Accordingly, our Philosophy and the Future research theme, pioneering in terms of the
 diversity of issues encompassed, targets the ethical, political, social, metaphysical and spiritual
 implications of environmental change, technological and scientific developments, as well as
 emerging forms of artistic, social and political interaction.


 Our current work in this area analyses the future of the concepts human and non-human; the
 function of myth in constructing future narratives; the role of the philosopher in a changing society;
 transhumanism and radical human enhancement; the transformation of art through technology
 and vice versa (see also section 4.4), and the philosophy of games and gaming. Work on these
 issues often has impact potential, so that there is overlap with the Philosophy in the World
 approach. But Philosophy and the Future is distinctive both in its specific focus on philosophical
 issues raised by the kinds of developments just mentioned and in encompassing relatively ‘pure’
 research.


 1.3. Strategic Objectives
 The Department’s overall aim through this assessment period has been to develop and strengthen
 its position as an expanding, dynamic and successful centre of research in philosophy committed
 to maximising the production of research and impact of the highest standards, whilst maintaining
 its traditional commitment to philosophical diversity. This overall aim, which will continue to guide
 us through the next period, can be broken down into seven interconnected subsidiary aims:


 1.3.1 Continuing to grow our community of internationally excellent and world-leading researchers


 The Department has seen a significant expansion and diversification of academic staff. At the time
 of the last REF the Department had nine permanent Category A staff: two full professors, one
 senior lecturer and six lecturers, only one of them (a lecturer) female (11%). In 2016 and 2017
 three new members of staff were appointed, including a new Head of Department (Hauskeller).
 During the following year four additional T&R staff were hired, enhancing the Department’s profile
 in epistemology, ethics, philosophy of mind, philosophy of language, the philosophy of gender,


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aesthetics and political philosophy, as well as furthering our emphasis on Philosophy in the World
 and our Philosophy and the Future theme. In addition, over the current REF assessment period
 three members of staff previously on temporary teaching contracts have been made permanent.


 Today the unit staff includes five full professors (Dainton, Gaskin, Hailwood, Hauskeller,
 Schramme), one reader (Vassilopoulou), three senior lecturers (Hill, McLeod, Wiseman), and
 eight lecturers (Furman, Gow, McKenna, Simoniti, and Bartley, Davnall, Gkogkas, Jobling). The
 last four are on permanent teaching and scholarship contracts but are also contributing members
 of the Department’s research culture. In total, the Department has now seventeen academic
 members of staff, including thirteen Category A staff and six women (35%).


 1.3.2. Ensuring support for the production of research outputs of the highest quality


 Whilst at Liverpool during the period current staff have published 7 monographs, 49 chapters, 72
 journal articles and 7 edited collections. This reflects a supportive and encouraging environment
 that enables staff to work on a variety of different areas, styles and approaches to philosophy.
 One way we do this is through regular work-in-progress meetings focused on improving work on
 its own terms. In addition, as well as other events and the more informal discussions that occur
 naturally within a close-knit community of scholars, our research staff meet regularly with the
 Departmental Research Lead (Hailwood) and the Head of Department (HoD) to discuss their
 progress, future directions, possible collaborations and sources of funding. Research plans are
 also discussed in annual Professional Development Review (PDR) meetings. Designated funding
 at Department and School levels is made available to allow staff to attend conferences and carry
 out other research-related work (see 3.2 and 3.4 ). Substantial outputs planned for the next REF
 period include books on negation and falsity; non-human agency; and on paternalism.


 Decisions regarding which outputs to select for REF2 were made in accordance with the University
 Code of Practice by the Departmental REF Governance Committee comprising all senior staff, an
 ECR representative (Simoniti) and an independent observer from English (see Institutional
 Statement, 3.7).


 1.3.3. Ensuring that work with excellent impact potential is identified, supported and

       produced.


 The Department takes an open and collegiate approach to impact. Impact is on the agenda of
 research meetings and staff are encouraged to consider and develop the impact potential of their
 research projects in discussion with colleagues. Forms of support specifically for impact include


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an Impact Team which the Department has established to ensure potentially impactful work is
 identified, discussed and supported. Its composition is REF Lead, HoD plus staff with a particular
 interest in impact and current impact-relevant projects. Supplementing this Team is a Faculty
 Impact Officer who advises on the development of case studies and regular Faculty-run fora for
 the discussion of developing case studies. Post-doctoral Research Assistants have been
 appointed by the Faculty to assist in the development of impact case studies, including with regard
 to evidence gathering. The decision regarding which impact case studies to submit to this REF
 was made by the Departmental Impact Team supported by the Faculty Impact Officer, the APVC
 for research and Faculty-arranged external consultation and confirmed by our REF Governance
 Committee. The implications of taking impact projects forward are considered by the HoD and
 factored into workload modelling.


 Various projects have been supported and developed within the period that have strong impact
 potential over the longer term. These are in addition to our submitted impact case studies,
 reflecting our commitment to the Philosophy in the World approach and so to ensuring that a
 substantial proportion of our research work is pursued with impact in mind. They include, for
 instance, collaboration with the NHS, work on marriage and the state, meaningful living, the
 epistemic causes of climate change denial and the role and influence of women in philosophy
 (see 2.2, 3.1, 3.3-4, 4.1-5).


 1.3.4. Maintaining, strengthening, and expanding our international collaborations and
       contributions to the health and vitality of the discipline internationally

 For us, the cosmopolitan character of philosophy is as important as remaining in touch with local
 realities. We have had notable success in maintaining and strengthening our international
 collaborations and contributions to the health and vitality of the discipline internationally. Currently
 all Category A staff engage in international collaboration, whether through funded projects, co-
 authored outputs, impact work with non-UK institutions, or running journals. We aim to maintain
 this over future REF periods. For more details see 4.1-7.


 1.3.5. Extending and deepening connections with other disciplines


 Working with other disciplines has always been important to us, both to enrich and inform our own
 work and help realise philosophy’s potential to deepen the work of other disciplines. This has been
 an increasing feature of our work over the period and is illustrated by our ‘Information Provision in
 Donor Conception’ impact case study, based upon the work of Dr Lucy Frith, a bioethicist with
 longstanding connections to the Department (her PhD was co-supervised by Philosophy). Based
 in the Institute of Population Health at Liverpool she is a member of the Royal College of

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physicians Ethics Committee, the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology and
 the NHS Clinical Priorities Advisory Board. She is also a member of our Departmental Impact
 Team, and her work both falls under the Philosophy and the Future research theme and
 exemplifies our Philosophy in the World approach.


 Interdisciplinary connections are fostered through research projects and centre-based activities.
 Examples of interdisciplinary work pursued by members of the Department during the current REF
 assessment period, and extending into the next, include work with colleagues in:


    •    Communication and Media, Law, Politics and Sociology on a project on public standards,
         ethics and entrapment led by McLeod (and supported by the Society for Applied
         Philosophy)
    •    English, History, Computer Science, and Special Collections and Archives through the
         Olaf Stapledon Centre for Speculative Futures located in the School of Arts. This is co-
         directed by Dainton and capitalises on the University’s Science Fiction Foundation
         Library, the largest catalogued collection of science fiction in Europe.
    •    History and Theology through the Jonathan Edwards Centre. This has two UK bases one
         of which is directed by Hill at Liverpool.
    •    Art History, Communication and Media and Politics on a project led by Simoniti on the
         aesthetics and politics of online visual culture.


 Details of these and other interdisciplinary initiatives are given in 3.4, 4.1-5.


 1.3.6. Further embedding and supporting postgraduate researchers within our research
        environment

 Our PGR community has grown significantly. In the previous REF period 9 (FTE) PhDs were
 awarded; in this period there have been 15.87, with 11 students currently working towards
 completion. As evidenced in 2.4, 3.5 and 4.6, our research students play a vital role in our research
 environment. The diversity of their projects reflects the diversity of our interests and includes, for
 example,    metaethical    quasi-realism,    Fregean     philosophy    of   language,   panpsychism,
 ecophenomenology, the concept of love, theological determinism, and ethical hospital design. We
 aim to recruit more students especially under the Philosophy and the Future theme over the next
 REF period, and to increase our overall completion rate in equal proportion.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.7. Increasing our already considerable success in securing external funding in pursuit of these
        aims

 Our external grant income has more than doubled from £78,939 in the last REF assessment period
 to £179,256 in this one. The latter includes EU funding for Vassilopoulou’s involvement in the Cre-
 aM (Creativity Research Adaptive Roadmap) initiative. This was reported in our REF2014
 submission, but the expenditure fell within this period. Further indications of our growing success
 are:
    •    a 170% increase in annual income over the period from £36,940 (2013/14) to £101,118
         (2019/20)
    •    a 400% increase in the total value (in the sense of total cost) of grants secured for the
         unit in this period compared with the previous period (from £141,880 to £713,411). This
         includes two grants to support major projects extending into the next REF period (see 3.1
         for details of these, and 2.3, 3.2 and 3.4 for details of the mechanisms that supported this
         success).



 2. People

 We value each member of staff and all our research students and strive to support them
 equally, making sure they are encouraged to develop their skills and expertise and be their
 best, both for their own benefit and that of the Department and the wider community,
 regardless of gender, sexual orientation, religion, race, nationality, age, or level of
 experience.


 2.1. Support for Women
 As mentioned, we have substantially grown our staff base during this REF period. In addition to
 the strategic goals stated in the previous section, our approach to recruitment has been guided
 also by a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion. There has been significant improvement
 in terms of the gender balance. In REF2014, we had nine Category A staff of whom one was
 female. Of our current thirteen Category A staff, four are women (one reader, one senior lecturer,
 and two lecturers). We are determined to make further improvements over the next few years. To
 this end, and as a result of discussions welcoming all voices in the Department, we have adopted
 recommendations of the Good Practice Scheme developed by the Society for Women in
 Philosophy and the British Philosophical Association. We now always have at least two women
 on our hiring panels, and the aim is that half of the panel will be women. All staff are individually
 supported in their career development and to apply for promotion in conversation with the HoD
 and in their PDRs. During the assessment period we had eight promotions in the Department. In



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2019/20 we had two, both of them women. The Department also actively supports leadership
 training for women, financing for instance Vassilopoulou’s participation in Aurora, the Advance
 HE’s leadership initiative for women (see Institutional Statement, 3.4).


 2.2. Other Ways of Promoting Equality, Inclusion, and Diversity
 We also seek to promote equality, inclusion and diversity in our research environment in various
 other ways:


    •   We subscribe to the ten key principles of the Athena SWAN Charter, and two members
        of staff are on the Self-Assessment Team organised by the School of the Arts as it works
        to achieve an institutional Bronze Award.
    •   All members of staff have been provided with information on unconscious bias, which is
        now part of staff’s obligatory video training, and members of hiring panels are routinely
        reminded to familiarize themselves with this information.
    •   Staff are encouraged to take advantage of the wide range of University networks aimed
        at overcoming exclusion (see Institutional Statement, 3.2-3).
    •   Also important to the inclusivity and diversity of our research environment is its
        international character. Whereas in 2014, 22% of our Category A staff were international
        (non-UK background), the current figure is 38%.
    •   We aim for 50% women on our Stapledon Colloquium programme. (This is the
        Department’s series of research presentations by external speakers and takes place on
        average every two weeks during term time).
    •   We prioritise questions from students in conferences, workshops and work-in-progress
        sessions.
    •   We will factor in financial assistance for childcare in grant bids involving conference
        attendance wherever possible.
    •   Through Department meetings and email reminders, we make sure that all members of
        staff are aware of the definition of and information regarding sexual harassment.
    •   In line with Athena SWAN, Stapledon colloquia and work-in-progress sessions are
        scheduled in the afternoon, in order to make it easier for staff with families and caring
        responsibilities to attend.
    •   Teaching and scholarship staff are all included in our research events, to which they
        make an important contribution including by presenting work in work-in-progress
        sessions.
    •   Teaching is scheduled flexibly for staff with family and caring responsibilities, or with
        chronic health conditions.




                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Four of the PhDs awarded during the period focus mostly or entirely on non-Western philosophy,
 reflecting our longstanding research and teaching interests in Indian and other non-Western
 philosophy. We support the University’s intention to sign the Race Equality Charter and the
 School’s endorsement of this (see Institutional Statement, 3.2). To reaffirm the openness of our
 research environment and reinforce its attractiveness to scholars from diverse backgrounds we
 are exploring measures such as reading groups and modules in the philosophy of race and African
 philosophy. This is under the leadership of Furman, a recently appointed colleague with interests
 in these areas and whose work on the ethics and science of health care in African countries also
 has strong impact potential.


 Indeed, we strongly encourage and support research directly relevant to equality, diversity and
 inclusion. One particularly prominent example is Wiseman’s Women in Parenthesis project that
 involves a large number of national and international collaborators and whose overall aim is to
 establish the important place in 20th century philosophy of the work of Elizabeth Anscombe,
 Philippa Foot, Mary Midgley and Iris Murdoch, viewed as constituting a philosophical school in
 their own right.


 2.3. Staff Development
 Staff development as researchers is enabled and supported in a variety of ways: during teaching
 semesters staff are entitled to at least one day per week as a research day with no timetabled
 teaching. New staff are mentored by more senior staff and given lighter teaching loads (in terms
 of contact hours and marking load, 70% in their first year, 80% in their second year and 90% in
 their third year) to help them maintain research momentum whilst establishing themselves in post.
 Also crucial to the development of research is periodic research/impact leave. Consequently, all
 research staff may apply for School-funded research leave after every 5 semesters to develop a
 defined project, whether output, impact or funding bid-oriented. Usually this is one semester’s
 leave from teaching and administration. Applications for leave are considered by the School’s
 Research and Impact Committee, of which the Philosophy Research Lead is a member. Over the
 current period such leave has enabled staff to complete substantial research monographs (for
 example, Gaskin’s Tragedy and Redress in Western Literature; Hailwood’s Alienation and Nature
 in Environmental Philosophy), develop new lines of research (for example, Schramme’s work on
 interpersonal understanding and empathy), and pursue knowledge exchange and impact
 partnerships (for example, Vassilopoulou’s work with local cultural institutions). Research/impact
 leave is discussed in PDR and research meetings, in both of which staff are advised on planning
 and delivering their research aims and how these relate to their own career goals, as well as to
 the strategic goals of the Department and University. Staff research aims increasingly include
 impact, engagement with which is also an important consideration in both recruitment and
 promotion.

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The wider Faculty and University, which are committed to implementing the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers, provide a range of support for research
 staff development (see Institutional Statement, 3.3, 4.1). This includes doctoral supervision
 training (mandatory for all supervisors), a Faculty ECR Network to provide a supportive community
 and advice for early career researchers and PGRs. Colleagues and PGRs also benefit from events
 linked to engage@liverpool – a cross-Faculty research and methods initiative aimed at sharing
 methodological insights across disciplines - and a Faculty Research and Impact Support Team to
 advise on the development of projects and funding applications. Staff and PGRs have benefited
 from a range of other mechanisms and internal sources of funding as described in 3.2-5.


 2.4. PGR Development
 As noted in 1.3.6, our community of postgraduate researchers has grown over the period. Our
 PGRs are provided with a wide range of support and training opportunities (see also Institutional
 Statement, 3.5).


 Each student has two supervisors with appropriate expertise and responsibility for supervising the
 thesis and for advising on such matters as publication, conference attendance and organisation,
 and the importance of impact.


 Early in their first year, PGRs complete a Development Needs Analysis for discussion with their
 supervisors. This enables identification of development priorities and training needs in relation to
 the student’s research goals and career plans. A personal development plan is decided and
 updated annually. The plan includes which of the range of training opportunities available would
 be appropriate for the student. We supplement these with several kinds of discipline-specific
 research skills development opportunities in the Department:


    •   We hold ‘INSIGHTS’ seminars for PGRs and PGTs to accompany the Stapledon
        Colloquium. Students join the Stapledon speaker before the Colloquium for an informal
        discussion of the paper and to find out about the speaker’s research background and
        career. This provides them with insights into the research context for the specific talk,
        and more generally into writing and delivering a talk, building a research project and
        profile, and into academic life and different career paths. Each INSIGHT seminar
        discussion is led by a student with support from the Departmental PGT Lead.
    •   PGR students are encouraged to present their own work at the regular philosophy Work-
        in-Progress sessions, which provide a major platform for the dissemination of research
        within the Department, and for the integration of PGRs into our research culture. Many of



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        these Work-in-Progress sessions have been organised and chaired by PGR students,
        supported by their supervisors and other staff. This is true also of our Graduate
        Conference.
    •   We hold our Annual Graduate Conference each spring. PGRs give presentations to an
        audience of their peers and supervisors. From this they gain experience of presenting
        philosophical research in a conference setting and receive feedback on their
        presentations. Those organising and chairing the conference also gain valuable
        experience in this aspect of academic life.
    •   PGRs are encouraged to attend a philosophy Research Skills module (encompassing
        logic training and ‘Philosophy through Words’, an etymological and philological
        exploration of philosophically significant terms in Western and non-Western traditions).


 PGRs also participate in an annual Faculty PGR Showcase, an exercise that encourages them to
 make their research accessible to judges comprising both academics across the disciplines and
 representatives of external institutions and industries. Another important opportunity is provided
 by the Liverpool Doctoral College placements programme. This was initiated by the School of Arts
 with considerable input from Philosophy, drawing upon the many connections we have with local
 cultural institutions. The LDC organises 15-day placements in a variety of non-academic (public,
 private and charity) organisations to give interested PGRs the opportunity to develop experience,
 skills and contacts to enhance their employability, as well as reflect on possible relations between
 their research and the work of the organisation. For example, one of our PGRs had placements in
 both the Open Eye Gallery and FACT that helped further her research into the concept of
 aestheticization and its relevance in the digital age, and also provided important experience to
 strengthen a subsequent successful application to work for the Kunstsammlungen art museum in
 Chemnitz. Five of our students have benefited from this programme so far.


 PGR progress is monitored annually via a meeting of each student with two members of staff not
 involved in the student’s supervisory team. At this meeting, training opportunities and other
 activities (for example, conference attendance) are also discussed. A report from this meeting
 then informs an online annual progress monitoring process that includes input from the student,
 supervisors and the Departmental PGR Lead.


 These support mechanisms and processes have enabled and encouraged our PGRs to make an
 invaluable contribution to our research environment. They regularly publish work, including outputs
 co-authored with staff, and present work at external conferences. Further notable achievements
 and contributions are listed here, with additional examples in 3.5 and 4.6:




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •      One of our PGRs received the 2016 Young Scholar Award from the International
            Association of Aesthetics.
     •      PGRs organised and chaired a successful virtual conference in 2020. They have also
            provided assistance with staff-run events and projects (such as Women in Parenthesis).
     •      In addition to her role as Philosophy PGR student rep sitting on the Departmental Staff-
            Student Liaison Committee, one of our PGRs acted as a School ‘Super-Rep’, a student
            representative of the School PGR community raising and discussing at the School PGR
            Committee issues affecting postgraduate researchers across the School as a whole.


 We support our PGRs in gaining experience of teaching and assessment. PGRs also devise and
 deliver Continuing Education courses for the general public. Their teaching activities are regularly
 peer-reviewed by experienced staff and they are required to take University-supplied training in
 teaching and assessment.


 Graduate destinations for our PGRs this period include academic posts at Southeast University
 (Nanjing), Trinity College Dublin, and a Research Fellowship at North-West University (South
 Africa).



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Thanks to a comprehensive grant support system, our staff’s hard work and enthusiasm,
 and the collaborative nature of the grant-writing process in our Department, we have
 recently been very successful in securing high-value grants for ambitious projects with
 considerable impact potential, and we are confident that we will be able to continue to do
 so in future.


 3.1. Grant Income
 Compared with REF2014, our annual income per FTE has grown by 12% (from £1,745 to £1,970),
 whilst our staff base has grown by 44% (from 9FTE to 13FTE). Our total grant income over this
 REF period is £179,256 and the total value of awards coming to the Department £713,411. This
 was from a range of national and international sources, including:


     •      AHRC, British Society of Aesthetics and the Wellcome Trust (e.g. to support
            Vassilopoulou’s Philosopher-in-Residence and Philosophy in the Gallery work)
     •      British Academy (to support a network project on Schelling’s philosophy of nature led by
            Whistler, a former colleague)




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   the EU (as mentioned in 1.3.7, the Department received income through the EU-
         supported Cre-aM project. This ran from 2013-2016 with the aim of bringing together
         creators using ICT tools and technology providers and innovators).


 Further funded projects are mentioned below.


 Whistler’s successful bids for a Humboldt Fellowship and a EURIAS Fellowship were also
 supported prior to his departure to Royal Holloway in 2017. Another successful bid for a EURIAS
 Fellowship for a former colleague, Tanyi, was also supported prior to his departure to Tromsø in
 2017. We continue to collaborate with both these colleagues.


 Two recent awards will take major projects into the next REF period:


    •    Perception, Action and the Genesis of Everyday Ethics (PAGE) (2019–2021; PI:
         Wiseman), funded by AHRC Research Grant with £352k. This is the first detailed study
         of the collective corpus of Elizabeth Anscombe, Philippa Foot, Mary Midgley and Iris
         Murdoch. It aims to (1) chart its distinctive philosophy, (2) demonstrate its potential to
         disrupt the dominant historical narrative of analytic philosophy, (3) contribute to current,
         discipline-wide efforts to stem the attrition of female talent from philosophy.
    •    How Does It Feel? Interpersonal Understanding and Affective Empathy (2020-2022; PI:
         Schramme), funded by the AHRC with £350k and the Deutsche
         Forschungsgemeinschaft with €572k going to project partners in Essen. This aims to
         contribute to a theory of interpersonal understanding by considering rarely discussed
         dimensions of the phenomenon: (1) grasping what it is like for another to be in a certain
         situation, (2) accepting another's feelings, motivation or action, (3) achieving these
         through emotional or affective empathy.


 We are now pursuing our goal of increased external funding in the light of the recent and ongoing
 changes in strategic research orientation and investment, especially in Philosophy and the Future
 and Philosophy in the World. Examples include projects on the aesthetics and politics of online
 visual culture (Simoniti), meaning in life (Hauskeller), simulation and evil (Dainton).


 3.2. Support Mechanisms
 In pursuing this goal through the next period we will continue to be supported by a range of
 mechanisms. In their PDRs and research meetings staff are encouraged to apply for appropriate
 funding. They receive several levels of support in developing their applications. Bids are peer-
 reviewed by the HoD, Research Lead and other colleagues with relevant experience and



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise, and often go through several rounds of review. Bids for more than £20,000 are also
 scrutinised by a School Peer Review Panel, comprising colleagues across the School with
 experience of successful bids and of funding council peer-review and panel membership. Advice
 on costings is provided by the School Finance and Research Team. The School also has a list of
 ‘funder champions’ who act as first contact for staff considering applications to the AHRC, British
 Academy, ESRC, and Leverhulme. Faculty also provides a range of resources to help researchers
 locate appropriate funding sources and guide them through the application process and helps
 coordinate review processes for annual fellowship competitions (e.g. for the Leverhulme, British
 Academy Early Career Fellowships). See also Institutional Statement, 4.1.1.


 Bids for the awards mentioned in 3.1 were all supported in ways just described and their success
 is testimony to the effectiveness of these mechanisms. Particular attention is given to supporting
 funding bids by junior staff. For example, four senior colleagues in the Department commented on
 several drafts of Wiseman’s AHRC PAGE application, and then advised on responses to
 reviewers’ comments. Special attention was given to this also because PAGE is an important part
 of In Parenthesis (mentioned above), itself an important contribution to raising the profile of women
 in philosophy.


 3.3. Conference and Public Lecture Funding
 We have recently introduced a series of high-profile public lectures by renowned international
 philosophers. These take place in a local cultural institution, are funded with £1,500 per annum by
 the Royal Institute of Philosophy (RiP), and function as a mechanism for delivering philosophy
 effectively to the wider public and fostering a truly international research environment. The first
 lecture in the series, on Chinese philosophy, took place in October 2018 and was delivered by
 Michael Puett (Harvard) at Liverpool’s World Museum to support its ‘China’s First Emperor and
 the Terracotta Army’ exhibition. Further lectures scheduled for 2020 were postponed due to
 COVID and will take place in the next period: Lydia Goehr (Columbia) and Cheshire Calhoun
 (Arizona State) both at Tate Liverpool, and Sally Haslanger (MIT). This series complements the
 regular meetings of the Stapledon Colloquium.


 Also postponed into the next assessment period is an RiP conference (£5,000) on Meaning in Life
 and the Knowledge of Death, featuring speakers from Sweden, Finland, the US, and South Africa.


 The smaller workshops frequently organised by the Department, are normally internally funded
 and regularly bring together academic staff, PGRs, philosophers from other universities, and
 interested members of the public. Examples include workshops on The Ethics of Police and Media
 Stings, Anti-Natalism, and Epistemic Vices.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.4. Internal Funding
 The Department has an allocated research budget of £9,000p/a. This funds the expenses of guest
 Stapledon speakers, staff activity such as participation in UK conferences, workshops, and other
 research-related activities. Staff activity has also been supported through a variety of other internal
 funding schemes:


     •   A Research Development Initiative Fund (RDIF) is operated by the School to support
         staff research activities. Applications are considered by the School of Arts Research and
         Impact Committee. Approved applications need to have clear plans articulated in relation
         to the strategic goals of the Department, School and Faculty (for example, regarding
         outputs, impact, funding bids, interdisciplinarity or internationalisation). The Research
         Lead sits on this committee and feeds back to colleagues on their applications. Over the
         period, staff have received £20,000 from this source. Supported activities included:
         workshop organisation (for example, on Linguistic Idealism to assist in the development
         of Gaskin’s REF2 monograph on this topic); conference organisation (for example, co-
         organisation of a conference in Dublin on Women in Philosophy to help prepare the
         successful PAGE bid (see 3.1-2) and the philosophy by postcard project (see 4.3));
         conference participation in the USA, Brazil and several European countries, as well as
         the UK (for example in support of Hill’s work with the Tyndale Fellowship (see 4.7)).
     •   A Knowledge Exchange, Impact and Public Engagement Voucher Scheme, operated by
         the University’s Research, Partnerships and Innovation Team (see Institutional
         Statement, 4.1.2), awarded Vassilopoulou £13,400 to extend her Philosopher-in-
         Residence work to the Herakleidon Museum in Athens.
     •   An Interdisciplinary Networking Fund, from which McLeod received £3,000 to support a
         workshop on Public Standards, Ethics and Entrapment.
     •   Impact acceleration funding with a rapid turnaround designed to enable staff to take
         advantage of short-term impact opportunities. Several projects have benefited from this,
         including Frith’s impact work (£1,500).


 3.5. PGRs
 Funding has come mainly from the AHRC via the North West Consortium Doctoral Training
 Partnership (NWCDTP) with 7 awards made during the current period, and 1 AHRC award under
 the previous Block Grant Partnership.


 This funding success is due not only to the quality of our students, but also to our policy of ensuring
 that potential supervisors work closely with applicants on their proposals, a process overseen by
 the PGR Lead. Our involvement with the NWCDTP has also enhanced the PGR research


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience in several ways: all PGRs (not only those with awards) are given support that enables
 them to attend and present work at NWCDTP Philosophy Pathway events; students have access
 to training, advice and informal supervisory support from colleagues at other NWCDTP institutions.
 Staff at Liverpool also provide supervisory support for students at other NWCDTP institutions, a
 process that allows for sharing of good supervisory practice, as well as a wider pool of expertise
 to the benefit of students.


 PGRs are also supported by an internal Postgraduate Research Support Fund (PRSF) to which
 they can apply for up to £300 per annum for the reimbursement of conference and travel expenses
 and up to £1,000 for organising workshops and small conferences. During the period, philosophy
 PGRs received £9,500 from this source. Notable funded activities in the period include:


    •   A team of Liverpool PGRs gained the support of the British Postgraduate Philosophy
        Association to run the BPPA 2015 Masterclass in Liverpool on ‘Set Theory Ontology and
        the Philosophy of the Event’. They secured additional funding for this from the PRSF, as
        well as from Mind and the Journal of Badiou Studies (of which one of our PGRs
        subsequently became an editor). Participants included Alain Badiou and other important
        international scholars, as well as PGRs from across the UK.
    •   Another team organised and secured School PRSF support for a workshop called
        ‘Analytic-Bridge-Continental + (ABC+) Process Philosophy’, in 2016. Participants
        included Christopher Norris and Joanna Seibt alongside PGRs from Liverpool and
        elsewhere in the UK.
    •   Two PGRs won Franklin College-University of Liverpool Doctoral Student Short-Term
        International Research Fellowships to enable them to visit Franklin College (University of
        Georgia, Athens), network and present their research there. Both received invaluable
        advice on their developing PhD theses and on work subsequently published as journal
        articles.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our strategic aims include identifying and supporting work that will impact a range of
 partners and beneficiaries, strengthening and expanding our international collaborations
 and contributions to the health and vitality of philosophy as an academic discipline, and
 deepening and extending our interdisciplinary collaborations. We have had considerable
 success in realising these aims over the REF period and have robust plans for building
 upon this success in the coming period.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.1. Residencies & the MA in Art, Philosophy and Cultural Institutions
 Our Philosophy in the World initiative involves many outward-facing collaborative projects that
 impact a wide range of beneficiaries, research users and audiences from the local to international
 levels. One of these is the extensive programme of work that has resulted from residencies
 members of staff (Vassilopoulou, Hauskeller, Wiseman) have had with institutions such as the
 Bluecoat (Liverpool’s Centre for the Contemporary Arts) and the NHS. The large number of public
 events at cultural institutions, the consultations with those institutions’ management teams, and
 the staff training involved resulted from our longstanding engagement with the creative and cultural
 sector.


 Also important has been the network of relationships established through running our MA Art,
 Philosophy & Cultural Institutions programme, which includes a student placement module and
 teaching delivered by curators and other gallery and museum staff. These relationships and this
 mode of collaboration have been of great benefit to the wider University, as well as to the
 Department and partner institutions. As well as helping establish the PGR placement programme,
 the academic-in-residence model developed by our Department has been adapted by the
 Department of English as a poet-in-residency (Open Eye Gallery) and by the Department of
 Sociology, Social Policy and Criminology as a sociologist-in-residency (Bluecoat).


 4.2. Impact on Healthcare
 This work was then extended further to encompass collaboration with the NHS’s Research and
 Development North West. This includes a series of events and a formal residency in the NHS with
 the aim of bringing philosophical reasoning to some of the key agendas in health and social care
 by creating opportunities for questioning and exploring the principles underpinning the NHS culture
 at an individual and at a corporate level. One result of this was Vassilopoulou’s being featured in
 #NHSWonderWomen, a series of NHS Research and Development North West short films
 showcasing the talent of North West women in health and social care research.


 Our case studies also have a strong healthcare orientation, demonstrating our ambition and efforts
 to extend and deepen interdisciplinary connections, both to enrich our own work and to realise the
 potential of philosophy to enrich work in other disciplines, as well as deliver value to non-academic
 beneficiaries and audiences. This is reflected, for example, in our collaboration with researchers
 from the Medical School and their contribution to our work and vice versa (as evidenced in our
 impact case study on Information Provision in Donor Conception). Further connections with health
 care disciplines and issues include our involvement in the University’s Centre for Health, Arts and
 Sciences, by collaborating with the Victoria Museum and Gallery to bring together an exhibition
 for the 2016 Biennial celebrating and promoting medical humanities research across the


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University. That Centre subsequently developed into the Centre for the Humanities and Social
 Sciences of Health, Medicine and Technology. The Arts, Therapy and Mental Health theme of this
 is co-led by Schramme whose longstanding interests in the philosophy of medicine, especially
 with regard to psychopathology, paternalism and coercion, and in healthcare justice are evidenced
 in our impact case study on Reducing Coercion in Psychiatric Care.


 4.3. Other Collaborations
 In addition to the PAGE element described above, the In Parenthesis project, pursued in
 collaboration with Durham, also encompasses various sub-projects that fall within the remit of
 Philosophy in the World. These include, in collaboration with the Irish postal service, a Philosophy
 by Postcard project to celebrate the centenary of Iris Murdoch’s birth. Following the issuing of a
 commemorative stamp in July 2019, members of the public were invited to send a question by
 postcard to an address in Dublin. One hundred philosophers from around the world (including
 several from Liverpool) replied to the questions on specially commissioned artist-designed
 postcards with commemorative Murdoch stamps. A second centenary celebration for Mary
 Midgley (Notes on a Biscuit Tin), paired 12 poets with 12 philosophers in the UK, USA, Canada,
 Japan, Germany, France and Ireland. The poets wrote new commissions based on themes from
 Midgley's work and performed them as part of 'in conversation' events with the philosophers. The
 project   has   featured   in   British   Academy's   'Shelfies'   series,   in   the Resurgence   &
 Ecologist magazine, the Irish Times, the Berlin Review of Books, and Durham Book Festival. Work
 done through In Parenthesis was also the subject of an invited British Academy Showcase in 2019.


 4.4. Interdisciplinary Collaborations
 Much of our current and planned work of the more outward-facing and interdisciplinary variety falls
 under the Philosophy and the Future initiative, which has greatly increased our opportunities for
 interdisciplinary projects in and beyond the School of the Arts as well as external collaborations
 and impactful research. We will continue to pursue this whilst retaining current interdisciplinary
 links (e.g. with Health and Life Sciences). Work currently being undertaken in this area includes
 outputs and bids on the ethics of autonomous systems (Davnall, Hill,), de-idealised epistemology
 and the epistemology of climate change denial (McKenna; see 4.5), and work on deception in
 digital culture. The latter is led by Simoniti with guidance from Vassilopoulou and considers the
 transformation of visual cultural impacts on politics brought by online forms of communication. It
 draws upon philosophical work in aesthetics and political epistemology, as well as history of art,
 artistic practice, and media studies, in order to analyse the forms of deception enabled by visual
 online culture, the centrality of online imagery to new political identities, and the ways in which
 traditional forms of political art intersect with online visual culture. In taking this forward and
 seeking funding for it, we are collaborating with the Liverpool Biennial of Contemporary Art, the


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 largest festival of visual art in the UK, and contributing a podcast series, public workshops and a
 further philosopher-in-residence role.


 We have also aimed to maintain our longstanding interest in philosophy and science fiction and,
 as mentioned in 1.3.5, we are doing so through the interdisciplinary Olaf Stapledon Centre for
 Speculative Futures. Through this collaboration we have organized talks (e.g. on posthuman
 technologies) and have been involved in consultancies, e.g. for the Ministry of Defence on human
 performance enhancement. This consultancy’s objective was to help develop innovative ways of
 thinking about the topic, to provide creative prompts, and to stimulate outside-the-box thinking,
 which was greatly facilitated by the cross-disciplinary collaboration.


 Further interdisciplinary connections include Wiseman’s participation in the Integrity Project and
 the Donation Research Network. The former brought together philosophers, psychologists political
 theorist and others from the UK and elsewhere to consider the nature and scope of integrity. The
 latter is a collaboration with Law at Liverpool and Social Policy at Kent aimed at exploring the
 policy, legal and philosophical dimensions of charity. McLeod’s work (with Hill and Tanyi) on the
 ethics of entrapment has included participants from the legal profession, media (TV production)
 and the police, as well as cross-disciplinary colleagues at Liverpool and other UK universities.
 Earlier in the REF assessment period Whistler ran an AHRC-funded Connected Communities
 network project - Philosophy and Religious Practices - in collaboration with theologians at
 Liverpool Hope, University of Chester and religious practitioners, as well as the network on
 Schelling mentioned above, which involved collaboration with colleagues at the University of the
 West of England.


 4.5. International Collaborations
 Collaboration with national and international colleagues remains vital to us and we have continued
 to strengthen this side of our work. Further notable activities include Hill’s central role in setting up
 the Jonathan Edwards Centre UK, a multi-site partnership with bases at Liverpool, Queen’s
 University Belfast and Yale to promote research into the American philosophical theologian
 Jonathan Edwards. It hosts regular workshops, public lectures and summer schools. In addition
 to his large collaboration with colleagues in Essen (see 3.1), Schramme holds a Mercator
 Fellowship (€16k) to fund part of his collaboration with colleagues in Hamburg on a DFG project
 on needs-based justice. This included a workshop in Liverpool on sufficientarianism.


 Funded by a British Academy/Leverhulme small research grant McKenna is running, with
 colleagues from Copenhagen, The Psychology and Epistemology of Political Cognition network,
 which brings together several disciplines including cognitive and social psychology, political
 science and philosophy, to consider how people form views about contentious political issues such

                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as immigration and about scientific issues with policy relevance such as climate change. It involves
 workshops in Liverpool and Copenhagen, an anticipated edited volume and, to facilitate further
 collaboration, a network website and bibliography of relevant work.


 We have also used the departure of some colleagues to other institutions to foster new
 collaborations, for instance with Whistler at Royal Holloway on topics developed from work
 underpinning our ‘Religious Symbols and Discrimination’ REF2014 impact case study. We also
 continue to work with Tanyi at Tromsø, with which we established an Erasmus exchange
 agreement. This connection has enabled us to work with their Environmental Philosophy Research
 Group, to collaborate further on the needs-based justice project, and to strengthen our Philosophy
 and the Future work and involvement with the Olaf Stapledon Centre for Speculative Futures by
 co-editing and contributing to a collection on the philosophical implications of artificial intelligence.


 4.6. Open Research
 We are committed to making our research as accessible as possible and pursue this aim in a
 variety of ways.


 Staff are required to place all articles and book contributions on the University’s Elements system
 from which they are fed into the University’s publicly accessible Repository (after any necessary
 embargo period). They are also encouraged to place copyright-compliant pre-prints of outputs
 online, whether on personal websites or platforms such as Academia.edu, and to publish
 accessible versions of their work in the free online journal The Conversation.


 In keeping with our Philosophy in the World approach we encourage the development of project
 websites with blogs, podcasts, interviews, articles and other resources aimed at teachers,
 students and the wider public. Examples include Notes on a Biscuit Tin (see 4.3) and our Featured
 Research webpage, which has accounts of current staff and PGR projects and accessible
 resources relating to them. Staff also share their philosophical research and expertise with non-
 academic institutions and the wider public through philosopher-in-residence arrangements (see
 4.1, 4.2).


 We have diverted RiP resources from events held at the University, where they are attended
 mostly by academics, to events in the city with a higher public profile (see 3.3).


 We were glad to welcome back as a PGR one of our former MA students, Jack Symes. Symes’
 ‘Panpsycast’ series provides free weekly philosophy podcasts to 70,000 subscribers worldwide
 and encapsulates our attitude to open research.



                                                                                                  Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.7. Contributions to the Health of Philosophy as a Discipline
 The Department is an active and committed institutional member of the British Philosophical
 Association, and our staff have made increasingly significant contributions to the health of
 philosophy as an international academic discipline. Staff are regularly invited to international
 conferences and to give keynote talks at such events. This is normally funded by the inviting
 institutions, but where this is not possible, internally from our own budget or through RDIF. Of
 particular note are the 8 keynotes in 6 countries given by Schramme and Hauskeller since their
 arrival in 2016 and 2018 respectively, on the topics of enhancement and health care ethics.


 Four members of staff have senior editorial roles in international journals: Schramme is Co-Editor
 in Chief of Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Editor in Chief of Ethik in der Medizin (the journal of
 the German Academy of Ethics in Medicine) and a member of the editorial boards of Theoretical
 Medicine and Bioethics, Philosophical Practice, and Zeitschrift für Praktische Philosophie;
 Hailwood is Managing Editor of Environmental Values; Hauskeller is Co-Editor in Chief of
 Scheidewege (an interdisciplinary journal for ‘sceptical thinking’); Wiseman is an Associate Editor
 of the British Journal for the History of Philosophy.


 Staff also play important roles in various national and international panels and committees. For
 example, Hailwood is an elected member of the Nominating Committee of the International Society
 of Environmental Ethics, and an invited member of the European Science Foundation’s College
 of Expert Reviewers. Hill is Chair of the Tyndale Fellowship Study Group in Philosophy of Religion.
 Such roles are factored into workload allocation to mark their importance, the time spent on them
 and to encourage staff to take them up.


 We are also proud to host Philos-L, the ‘Liverpool List’, which is the largest philosophy email list
 in the world, with 13,000 members in over 60 countries, 11,000 Facebook subscribers and more
 than 5, 600 Twitter followers. It remains an essential tool for philosophers all over the world to
 share information and ideas.




                                                                                               Page 20
