      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of assessment: B12 Engineering

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1     Unit context and structure

 B12 Engineering is part of USW’s Faculty for Computing, Engineering and Science,
(FCES), having its primary base and most facilities at the main campus, in Trefforest, but with
some laboratories and workshops elsewhere.

The Faculty has an establishment of 250 staff. The UoA has eleven professors. Of the 33 people,
(29.3 FTE), with Significant Research Responsibility, (SRRs), whose work is being submitted, 14
are at an early stage in their careers as researchers.

The REF submitted in 2014, soon after USW’s formation in April 2013, reflected some legacy
matters, since addressed, with substantial progress made. 2018 was a major milestone, with a
new PVC (Research) in post, the launch of the Graduate School, (5b S2.2), introduction of the
Graduate Teaching Associates (GTA) Scheme, (5b S2.2), reconfiguring Institutes as Centres,
the Sustainable Environment Research Centre (SERC), left the School of Applied Sciences,
and a Head of Research/Chair of the Faculty’s Research Committee (FRC), (Copner), was
appointed. Inherited issues concerning protected time were resolved: now all our researchers
have protected time, funded by QR and the University.

The new model is organised around Research Centres, with SERC being the earliest, and by far
the largest. The Engineering Research Centre (ERC), functions as an incubator providing
mentoring and support to smaller groupings, such as Advanced Materials Testing Centre
(AMTeC), Wireless and Optoelectronic Research and Innovation Centre (WORIC), and the
Advance Control and Network Technology Research Group, (henceforth NetTec), while they
mature, prior to hiving off to stand-alone status, as has already occurred with the Centre for
Automotive and Power Systems Engineering (CAPSE). These Centres form the core of this
UoA.

SERC Director: Guwy (https://serc.research.southwales.ac.uk/)
(Carr, Costa, Davies, Dinsdale, Esteves, Graham, Laycock, Maddy, Massanet-Nicolau,
Miedziak, Owen, Patterson, Reed, Zhang).
SERC includes a range of multi-disciplinary researchers addressing the global challenges of
delivering a low carbon economy. Since 2014, strategic research aims were directed at
strengthening staff critical mass, expanding research capacity infrastructure, developing the
Hydrogen Research Centre, and intensifying further engagement with industry. Guwy et al’s
article in Bioresource Technology (2014), delivered new techniques for reducing methane
emissions in microbial fuel cells for deployment in low carbon wastewater treatment systems,
Dinsdale et al’s paper in International Journal of Hydrogen Energy, (2019), introduced how using
electrodialysis in food waste fermentation could increase hydrogen yield and carboxylic acids
allowing easier commercialisation and lowering carbon footprint. Antonelli’s (2016) patent, US
9376316, demonstrated, for the first time, a viable fabrication and use of Manganese Hydrides
molecular sieves for reversibly and safely absorbing/releasing hydrogen at high densities without
thermal issues enabling long haul transport and significant heating applications.

ERC Director: Kinuthia (https://engineering.research.southwales.ac.uk)
(Bai, Copner, Harrison, Huq, Li, Liu, Navartne, Oti, Otung, Robinson, Rodriguez, Shao,
Tan, Fan).
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In addition to functioning as the UoA’s incubator for new research groups the ERC brings
together research from a number of different areas:
     • AMTeC Research Lead: Kinuthia
This is also a multi-disciplinary Centre, emanating from on-going research and consultancy work
in Civil Engineering, addressing innovation challenges facing the infrastructure sector. AMTeC
has widened and enhanced its scope to include cutting-edge research into sustainable
cementitious materials, geo-polymers and composite materials such as fibre-reinforced polymers.
     • WORIC Research Lead: Copner
WORIC’s expertise in optoelectronics applies to many sectors - telecommunications, sensing,
metrology, display, lighting and health. Copner et al’s latest article in Nanophotonics (2020),
proposed and demonstrated, for the first time, the use of layered metamaterials to enhance IR
spectral emission (1.4-14µm) of a blackbody creating superior heating efficiencies of up to 30%.
WORIC initiated a Centre for Photonics Expertise, (CPE), combining academic expertise from
Bangor, Glyndŵr, Aberystwyth and USW, all seeking collaborations with industry, to address and
resolve technical barriers.
     • Centre for Electronic Product Engineering (CEPE) led by Oleon.
Working with WORIC, CEPE has extended its electrical design capability into technologies
requiring innovation and commercialisation. Mentoring provides appropriate support to build
confidence in developing ideas and proposals, to grow its own networks, and to develop its
research base.
     • NetTech led by Liu
The Group engages in fundamental theoretical research as well as industrial applications,
addressing networked control systems, multi-agent control systems, Internet of Things, fuel cell
modelling and control, non-linear identification and control, and multi-objective optimal control.
Liu et al’s (2014) article in IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, describes the first real
theoretical foundation for hybrid stochastic retarded systems and stability analysis. Their later
article (2015), in the same journal, discusses novel networked predictive control method which
successfully utilizes data to model nonlinear uncertain system dynamics, achieving desired
optimal control performance and active communication constraint compensation of networked
systems, which was previously unresolved by existing methods.
     • Aerospace Research Group (ARG) headed by Navartne
This Group (four FTE’s plus support), was formed in November 2019 to deliver breakthrough
efficiency improvements in electrical motors. A former executive of electrical steels at Tata Steel,
Mark Cichuta, (Visiting Professor), has been contracted to develop new European networks so
that effective extended teams can be established to resolve technological design barriers.

CAPSE Director: Williams (https://www.southwales.ac.uk/research/research-areas/capse/)
(Bowkett)
CAPSE is home to Europe's largest battery R&D centre with the ability to measure the
performance of over 200 cells simultaneously, and 16 full electric vehicle battery packs under
controlled climatic conditions for extended periods. It has developed several new methods for
safety testing implementations of ISO standards as well as innovative ‘power electronics control’
strategies and algorithms, including network management that will be instrumental in all future
electric systems control. Sixteen new highly-skilled jobs for researchers, engineers and
technicians were created as a result of industrial collaborations.

As with our parent institution, the UoA is ‘Committed to growing and sustaining a thriving
research culture where staff and students are supported to achieve their fullest potential. Our
research informs our teaching, solves problems and has an impact on people, and the economy’,
and we subscribe to both the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development for
Researchers, and USW’s Mission Statement, (5a).

All our Unit’s research is underpinned by common values of rigour, integrity and
professionalism.
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Following on from the last REF, and with a FRC whose remit is to empower researchers, aligning
their objectives to the University’s Research Strategy, (5a), the UoA has established a firm
mission to further enhance its industrial and multidisciplinary links leveraging off key innovations,
advancing new critical research themes, (e.g. ARG), and developing the skills to execute them
successfully, and to share the insights obtained effectively.


1.2     Research and impact strategy

Our overall AMBITION is:
      To improve the relevance of our research and its impact on people’s lives,
      particularly in the priority areas of environment, economy, and wellbeing policy;
      this incorporates dissemination, teaching and understanding.

We identified three main AIMS as ways of delivering on our AMBITION, each comprising a set of
OBJECTIVES:

1       Empowering the researchers
          • Strategic recruiting and appointing.
          • Utilising mentoring and other means to increase the number of active and
             proficient researchers and Research Groups/Centres (across all disciplines), being
             inclusive of all - from promising novices to experienced academics, mindful of
             Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
          • Helping each other co-operatively and by better use of processes like ‘critical
             friend’, peer reviews of papers and grants.
          • Ensuring sufficient protected time for research.
          • Continuing to develop postgrad provision, such as Knowledge Economy Skills
             Scholarships (KESS), and doctoral supervision.
          • Better informed research-led undergraduate teaching.

2       More effective resource and facility deployment
          • Increasing income and prudent investment in our facilities and resources.
          • Optimising and expanding existing resources such as the Library, data bases,
              laboratories and workshops.
          • Establishing a Research Centre Incubator.
          • Optimising and expanding commercialisation opportunities – spin-offs, licenses,
              grants and other financial support.
          • Incorporating appropriate and bespoke quality training for PhD, supervision, bid-
              writing, and commercial opportunities.

3       Enhanced networks and collaboration opportunities
           • Encouraging and increasing research visibility and brand through more high-value
             publications, editorships, patents, government advisories, consultancies and
             research grants.
           • Establishing appropriate contact data bases across academia, industry,
             governmental agencies and others.
           • Building constructive relationships and partnerships of a multidisciplinary nature
             with funding bodies (e.g. national government, angel investors).

Our current submission is indicative of both our achievement, and intention to grow our research
community with its reach and impact. During the assessment period we achieved our identified
Aims as follows:
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Aim 1
The success of our approach to strategic recruiting, and growing-our-own is well illustrated by,
inter alia, Navartne, a member of ERC, who was research-mentored and had the benefit of a
critical friend for bid-writing, and, with support, won two Welsh Government (WelshGov) Smart
expertise projects - Icore (new efficient motor design), and Dragonfly, (electric propulsion for
planes).

Comparable mentoring was provided to other UoA staff, (Graham, Costa, Laycock, Li, Michie,
Owen). Similar support is also shared with other UoAs of different disciplines within the Faculty,
(e.g. B7: Nieuwland, Hayhurst). During the covid pandemic, four members from three of our
UoA Centres, working together, won a WelshGov award for rapid design and delivery of an
innovative oximeter from scratch. With support, and entrepreneurial acumen the same team won
a further research grant from WelshGov to deliver covid-detecting solutions.

As we are growing the number of lecturers undertaking research, we have instigated a new
recruitment approach whereby we recruit staff who do some lecturing alongside a formal PhD
programme. Five people were recruited into such GTA posts in the last 18 months. Specific
funded time-limited projects paid for some key researchers (Huq, Robinson, Shao), allowed us
to recruit others (Li, Laycock, Michie, Fan), while some were recruited for their specialised skills
(Miedziak, Graham, Owen).

We have endeavoured to improve teaching at all levels by helping to create an industrial board
for the Electronics degree, BEng, and final year projects. We pioneered an Applied Engineering
degree assessed only on practical skills (electronics, mechanical, software and optical design),
without written examinations. Most of our PhD students are involved in collaborations with
industry, many supported through the KESS scheme.

Aim 2
The research income for this REF period has grown to £19.36 m, (5b S3.1), which is being used,
alongside University funding, to invest in staff, and to improve resources and facilities.

In 2013-4, we established a pioneering dedicated Research Centre, ERC, with the primary
function of mentoring individuals in areas pertinent to research – bid-writing, applying for grants
or patents, commercialisation, with training or supervision, as appropriate. Instilling confidence in
our novice researchers to promote their own work, will ensure future training becomes more
targeted to address individual needs.

SERC’s work on waste management, and hydrogen use, has strongly impacted funding themes
from BEIS and others, and led to further multifactorial collaborations such as Flexible Integrated
Systems (FlexIS), and its 18 work packages addressing carbon capture and hydrogen storage,
always taking into account economic and social considerations, featured at COP24, the UN’s
Climate Change Conference (2018). Reduced Industrial Carbon Emissions (RICE) is another
multi-partner European Regional Fund (ERDF), collaboration, as is Smart CIRCLE (Collaboration
in Industrial Resource Circular Economy).

In 2016, CAPSE moved to a purpose-built facility on campus, representing a capital investment
in equipment. By securing several major, long-term commercial R&D contracts from major
original equipment manufacturers, CAPSE’s turnover grew from £0.7m in 2017-18 to £2.3m in
2018-19. It also secured a £3.2m ERDF project, Sustainable Energy Storage Solutions (SESS).

In 2016, we instigated open access via PURE (5b S3.2), using our modernised library service.
Subsequently, ongoing training has been provided for researchers in the open access
compliance requirements of REF.

Aim 3
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The ethos of the UoA is to foster collaborations with business, academia and/or government(s),
in various capacities. For example, senior staff provide an extensive range of consultancies with
several of our researchers (e.g. Copner, Esteves, Guwy) fulfilling advisory roles with
international, European, UK and Welsh Governments, industrial trade associations and agencies,
(and further afield, such as Malaysia), bringing considerable influence to policy decisions. SRR’s
authored 250+ publications, held a number of editorships and applied for 27 patents. Major
research grants are detailed in 4a (highlights: Table 2).

Both CAPSE, and CPE, (conceived at USW), were deliberately constructed to increase
interaction with, and awareness of, new technology, and to lead impacts in new energy and
innovative solutions of industrial/technical problems. CPE works with companies in Western
Wales and the Valleys, on a match-funding basis, meeting ERDF targets and contributing to
innovation and entrepreneurship by creating new processes, products and jobs around photonic
solutions, (including waste reduction), and works closely with USW’s Business Exchange to
publicise its work through promotional literature, (virtual) networking events, business shows and
conferences.

Whereas the examples set out above are indicative of how we have addressed and achieved our
strategic Aims, our three submitted Impact Case Studies (Esteves Anaerobic Digestion,
Esteves Biogas, and Maddy Hydrogen Use), provide further and deeper detail as to how we are
achieving our overall Ambition.

How our Aims will be taken forward
Following our review of how the above Aims were addressed, we now consider that for the
future, we will update and supplement those Aims with the following:

Aim 1
   • Mainstream building confidence in research staff, especially to commercialise their own
      work.
   • Encourage more staff to become members of policy-influencing bodies/Statutory
      Committees.
   • Support applications to join appropriate early career networks, for example, Welsh
      Crucible.
   • Link the new Applied Engineering degree and others to Faculty research to better meet
      workforce needs.
   • Assertively review internal barriers to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I), at Faculty
      level.

Aim 2
   • Contribute constructively to the customising of a forthcoming facility for Engineering to
      ensure its serviceability for effective research.
   • Provide suitable campus space, (offices, laboratories, workshops), to support spin-offs at
      the early stage of their development.

Aim 3:
   • Focus on developing meaningful relationships with angel investors, entrepreneurs,
       business professionals and suitable incubators.
   • Demonstrate more assertively/share more effectively evidence of the benefits of research
       investment.
   • Continue to engage in collaborative projects, where possible working alongside end-
       users, and, where appropriate, making use of University-wide expertise in the identified
       Accelerated Development Areas (ADAs, see 5a).
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We are now setting out via the FRC new processes to link the staff research with potential
commercial opportunities, and to address identified barriers to career development within the
UoA.

A short staff survey, (2020), revealed that none were current members of policy influencing
bodies such as Statutory Committees. Given that this could be considered a shortcoming, it will
be added as an Objective to our overall Ambition for future REFs.

Additionally, within the UoA, Centres have their own individual Strategic Plans:

In the next five years, SERC will:
    • Continue to work with industry to strategically target hydrogen energy systems, bio-
        electrochemical systems and resource recovery from waste as areas for investment and
        development to achieve international excellence and impact on policy-making, the
        environment and the economy.
    • Build on the work of the industrially sponsored PhDs to further the scientific, industrial and
        environmental impact of our research.
    • Specifically target the use of bio-electrochemical technology for advanced water
        treatment (supported by the Royal Academy of Engineering Professorial Chair), the
        development of hydrogen energy systems (FLEXIS App Demonstration area, and RICE)
        and sustainable biological recovery of products from wastes (Smart CIRCLE, BEACON
        and Sêr Cymru BioPOL4Life – Centre of Excellence in Biopolymers).

ERC undertakes many distinct research activities in its incubator role. The intention is to continue
to nurture and sustain the new growth areas to maturity as Research Centres in their own right,
with at least one hiving off within five years. As the electrification of the world presents huge
challenges - thus opportunities, in innovative motor designs and their applications, ARG has the
potential to grow in this way. WORIC and NetTec, both led by experienced researchers, will
continue to deliver breakthroughs developing further growth in health solutions and remote
communications. CEPE will be developed from electronics design to more applications requiring
innovative solutions using their skills. Hence we will double our research and commercial income,
further augmenting our commercial and societal impacts.

Contracts already secured by CAPSE indicate long-term sustainability as turnover doubled again
in 2019-20 to over £5m and will create four more high-skilled positions. CAPSE aims to use its
new electro-chemistry research team as the bridge between engineering and technology
expertise with cell manufacturers. A spin-off company is planned for 2021 to take that expertise
into a manufacturing arm, seeking investment from independent venture capital. The new
Automotive Engineering and experiential Applied Engineering degrees at USW will provide a
pipeline of industry-focused postgraduates to work on projects as a ready-made resource of
graduates ensuring sustainability by underpinning the future growth of CAPSE.


2. People

2.1    Staffing strategy and staff development
As an integral part of USW, we subscribe both to the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers, and USW’s Staffing Strategy (5a), as applied to meet our UoA’s
needs, in keeping with our Ambition (5b S1.1), our first Aim was to empower our research staff,
and our staffing strategy is concerned with how we go about doing so.

We set out a list of Objectives starting with recruiting and appointing (5b S1.2). During the
current REF period, there was minor attrition, mostly due to planned retirements, but overall a
significant increase in the number of SRRs being put forward. In 2014, it was 16; now it is 33
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


individuals. We believe that this is indicative of both vitality and sustainability.

Posts were refilled, though not necessarily where the vacancy had arisen, as decisions were
informed by need. This resulted in Research Projects being reinforced by the addition of suitably
skilled staff bringing fresh ideas and expertise to SERC and ERC, (shown below), enabling
cross-fertilization of concepts and mutual support.

    •   SERC:- Massanet-Nicolau, Miedziak, Costa, Owen.
    •   ERC:- Fan, Harrison, Huq, Navartne, Robinson, Rodriguez, Shao.

(Fifteen non-SRR appointments were also made to CAPSE).

We proactively align incoming staff with our overarching Ambition and encourage acculturation
in terms of setting, and expecting high standards, which we reinforce with appropriate role
models, and by team development. Our reputation and regard is important to us. We take
especial care of novice researchers, including individuals on Fixed Term Contracts, (FTC’s), in
terms of their work allocation and time management, and the development of their research
armoury (e.g. methodology, bid-writing, applying for grants, commercialisation, taking work
through to publication), as well as wellbeing and work-life balance, Health and Safety, lone
working, and Occupational Health. We work with people’s strengths and take appropriate steps
to help build confidence where indicated, thereby ensuring the continuing vitality and
sustainability of the UoA.

Line managers are responsible for conducting individual Development and Performance Reviews
(DPRs) – a regular system of appraisal and support. Part of this system identifies training and/or
upskilling needs. The Athena SWAN submission (2020) identified some issues with the current
DPR system which lead to the possibility of career progression or future employment, (which
impact FTCs more acutely than others), not being adequately explored. Within the UoA, we are
considering additional training for line managers so they can appropriately support the career
progression of their staff. Generally, we respond by the provision of appropriate mentoring,
training, supervision and support – such as defraying costs associated with attending
Conferences. We are amenable to considering sabbaticals and secondments.

We are also considering the provision of a supplementary source of support from Faculty
Research Committee, (or a nominee), for early career and fixed term researchers, such as a
critical friend/mentor.

The vitality of the UoA is evident in the high level of participation in Conference presentations,
keynotes and plenaries, even chairing conference sessions, or whole conferences. Some have
made exceptional contributions such as Maddy’s keynote speech at the Advanced Propulsion
Centre Hydrogen Conference (Cardiff 2018), and Liu’s Distinguished Lecture at the 28th Chinese
Control and Decision Conference, (Yinchuan, 2016).

In meeting our second Objective, we ensure that new starters benefit from protected time and
are allocated a suitable mentor (e.g. Fan mentored by Copner), and we encourage, when the
opportunity arises, internal promotions (Esteves, Patterson, Williams). This is not inevitably a
matter of ‘dead men’s shoes’ as there is provision through the Higher Academic Award
Committee (5a), for Chairs to be awarded on application supported by appropriate evidence.

Researchers are introduced to key support staff in the research bid process and have the support
of laboratory technicians. Internal investments such as I2S (Impact and Investment Scheme),
and SRIF (Innovation Fund), alongside Faculty investments have provided essential support to
novice independent researchers and with this we have seen substantial increase (more than
double), in the number of bids and income, facilitating and securing a sustainable future.
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The University works closely with a network of other HEIs to provide researchers with access to
further opportunities to develop their skills. We encourage our researchers to access resources
like the Graduate School, and collaborative endeavours such as The Effective Researcher, and
Leadership in Action. Early to mid-career researchers are encouraged to apply for membership of
the Welsh Crucible programme, designed to develop future research leaders and encourage
cross-disciplinary research. Bowkett, Navartne, Robinson and Patterson were among the 30
successful candidates selected from across Wales who attended this programme of residential
training to help establish collaborations and develop skills appropriate to forge international
research profiles. Robinson was a member of the Welsh Crucible selection panel for the three
most recent cohorts.

We support exposure to experts in their field by encouraging attendance at the regular and
frequent sessions conducted in-house by invited eminent Visiting Professors.

We encourage existing staff who wish to become researchers, to engage in development
opportunities such as doctoral study. Sivanathan, who collaborates with NPL, is so enrolled at
the moment. Earlier, we cited the example of Navartne, mentored in ERC, now heading up ARG
(5b S1.2), as illustrative evidence of how our incubator and mentoring method contributes to a
healthy and nurturing environment that fosters and sustains the next generation of researchers.

One obvious effect of this is the development of a critical mass, not only within the Faculty, but
across its Centres and disciplines - for example members of CEPE (Oleon, Sivanathan), ARG
(Guo), and WORIC (Copner), recently worked together to deliver on an emergency covid project
to develop a ground-breaking oximeter, (Aim 1 Objective 3). In keeping with our commitment,
(as set out in our Ambition), to better share the relevance of our work to people’s lives, Copner
was interviewed about the oximeter on UK television news in July, 2020. Likewise, Esteves was
Adam Walton’s guest (Science Café, BBC Radio Wales, January 2020), discussing ‘The Problem
with Plastic.’

In terms of our own Aim to empower researchers, we have demonstrated above how we met
Objectives 1-4. Meeting Objectives 5-6 is addressed below.


2.2     Research Students

Teaching teams are strongly connected to their related industries ensuring they bring knowledge
of their work to the courses, but, in fulfilment of our fifth and sixth Objectives, (Aim 1), we
believe that by also providing research-led teaching to our undergraduates, that they will aspire
to become the postgraduates and quality researchers of the future. We regularly hold Open Days
for the curious, (recruiting from at home and overseas), providing support and advice, online and
in person, about courses, living arrangements, finances, and other concerns to aspiring students.

Our courses, leading to the award of MEng, MSc, MPhil, or PhD, consist of bespoke elements of
hands-on working with industrial partners, involvement in research, and direct teaching, with our
renowned researchers taking a lead role. All research students are supervised by a team
comprising a minimum of two staff members, at least one of whom is an experienced supervisor
(successfully overseen two+ completions). Mentoring and regular seminars are a feature of the
support provided. Staff involved in research student supervision undergo regular training on good
practice through combinations of workshops and drop-in sessions.

Postgraduates are supported to develop their critical and analytical skills and management
experience. Engagement in hands-on and workplace familiarity is encouraged at all levels. Our
students have completed year-long placements with a range of companies, including Tata Steel,
3M, Reneas, Airbus UK, Renishaw, GlaxoSmithKline, Panasonic, Bosch, IBM and others.
Research students are further encouraged to enrol on a newly-created 60-credit module leading
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


to a Postgraduate Certificate in Research which provides PhD students with a sound framework
for developing their research.

The Graduate School offers a range of postgraduate degree programmes, including
Knowledge Exchange Skills Scholarship (KESS 2), supported by European Social Funds
(ESF) through WelshGov, providing a funded postgraduate research degree relying on
collaboration with an industrtal partner within the WelshGov’s priority economic sectors. USW’s
Graduate School supports postgraduate researchers, supervisors and examiners, bringing
together individuals from a variety of disciplines into one community for a range of development
opportunities and mentoring which includes guidance on PGR degree programmes and
regulations, support for the student for the duration of the studies, engagement with experienced
research staff delivering creditable, high quality skills development opportunities for postgraduate
researchers, supporting and developing supervisors, examiners and viva chairs and providing
pathways for experience in external engagement. Advice covers topics such as methodologies,
ethics considerations and processes.

Applications to the Graduate School are sympathetically but scrupulously considered by the
Faculty Research Doctoral Committee (FRDC) who, amongst other matters, will ensure that
there is sufficient and appropriate supervisory capacity and expertise, and adequate resources
within the Faculty to do the student justice.

Research student progress is formally monitored by the University’s Research Degrees
Committee/Graduate School Board, which supports the research team, appoints examiners,
and disseminates good practice in the delivery of research degrees to current and future
supervisors.

Postgraduate students typically undertake a small amount of undergraduate teaching to develop
further essential professional skills, and are encouraged to attend and present at conferences,
including annual Faculty and university-wide research workshops, regional events, and major
national and international conferences along with several specialist postgraduate conferences
(e.g. Postgraduate Combinatorial Conferences). Research students also attend training sessions
relevant for their individual needs, internal and external to the University and most postgraduate
research students participate in relevant workshops (e.g. grant-writing, how to develop
successful Knowledge Transfer Partnerships).

Under the GTA program, individuals complete their PhD part-time over five years. They are
employed at 0.4 FTE to complete their doctoral studies in the other 0.6. The scheme is designed
to facilitate their paths towards becoming fulltime lecturers and/or researchers.

Currently, there are 70 research students, with a total of 51 PhD awards granted in the period.
Funding for our students has been obtained from an extensive range of sources including
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) awards, awards from the
European Social Fund with an industrial partner, under KESS, (e.g. Global Laser, Tata Steel,
Wales & West Utilities, Flogas, Welsh Water, Bryn Power), other industrial collaboration (e.g.
Airbus, NPL), and/or self-funded. As with our mission to further progress and develop our
commercial links, we encourage all our students to work effectively with their industrial partners
to deliver beneficial impacts, and to consolidate their industrial awareness and effectiveness.

Postgraduates are allocated personal desk space with pc’s, and appropriate software. Communal
facilities are provided, with access to all university facilities as required – workshops, laboratories
and library, with technicians’ input where indicated.


2.3     Equality and diversity
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


All staff are required to undertake mandatory ED&I online training.

We are unable to provide data regarding ethnicity or disability as doing so may unduly identify
individuals, however we can report that thirteen of our SRRs are from overseas (e.g. China,
Portugal, Nigeria, Sri Lanka). Within our UoA, we are particularly conscious of gender under-
representation, which is not untypical of the STEM sector, as only 10% of our submitted 33 SRRs
are women.

Engineering, like everyone else at USW, subscribes to the University’s Strategic Equality Plan
2020-2024 (5a), to provide ‘A safe, welcoming and inclusive community for all our students, staff,
partners and visitors,’ (Vice Chancellor’s Foreword). Some of the Plan’s objectives may ‘belong’
more appropriately to corporate direction, (e.g. closing paygaps), whereas appointment to
differential paygrades - and promotion - would be local decisions. Sometimes corporate policies
have unintended consequences such as the process for promotion to professor which was seen
to disadvantage women (identified in our Athena SWAN submission 2020). This was attributed to
unsociable working hours, but had the effect of encouraging able women to go sideways as very
senior administrators or lecturers instead, which in turn led to lack of visible role models and
gender imbalance at senior levels. The University intends to address barriers to career
progression for females in STEM by creating a USW Women in STEM Network with the Faculty
Dean as its Executive sponsor.

We are cautiously optimistic about the next generation, given that of the completed PhDs, 42
were male and 9 female. By July 2020, actively registered, the gender balance was 46 males/24
female, demonstrating not just a steady increase in students, but a considerable improvement in
attracting females into a STEM area.

Some of our staff already contribute to ED&I, e.g. Robinson, a Female Fellow FIMMM of IOM3,
and a committee member of the IOM3 Women in Materials, Minerals and Mining group, who, as
a result of a request by the Chief Executive of IOM3, has joined an ED&I focus group at the
Royal Academy of Engineering.

While the University is addressing the issues identified in its Athena SWAN work, and founding
the Wales Women in STEM Network to further understand the underlying factors influencing the
underrepresentation of females in STEM, we are considering, at Faculty level, how we may make
positive changes, and referred earlier to ways of supporting managers to support their staff (5b
S2.2).

At present, female representation on FRC is circumscribed because membership is accorded by
status/job function and as there are relatively few women in such roles,
low numbers tend to predispose to low, or no, representation. Discussion is currently underway
to review the FRC’s constitution to improve principles of inclusivity, and, better decision-making.

The University is committed to the principle of treating the Welsh language on a basis of equality
within every aspect of academic and administrative provision, complying with the Welsh
Language Standards. As a recent example, CPE produced its own Eco Code bilingually and all
its publicity literature is available bilingually. As a higher education provider in Wales, USW has
obligations in relation to Welsh language provision and Welsh language matters are regularly
considered alongside the equality agenda, particularly when conducting Equality Impact
Assessments.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our second Aim encapsulated more effective deployment of resources and facilities. Whilst our
prime resource is always our people (see 5b S2), we fully recognise that the physical and
expectational environment in which they work is fundamentally linked to performance. We are
proud to report that during this REF period, we nearly doubled our total research income from
£10.3m (2014), to £19.36m. During the REF period, £189,000 was generated from royalties and
licences. Our focus and drive towards working more closely with industry, to provide the insights,
developments, and solutions that meet their needs, is well illustrated by the increase in UK
industrial income from £2.7m to £5.4m, while our contemporaneous strategic investments in
facilities, enabled new hydrogen storage breakthroughs by Antonelli, and Owen, leading to
three patents and a spin-off company, Kubagen, (established in 2016).

Our commitment to grow meaningful networks across Wales, and beyond, has led to substantial
interdisciplinary projects, (academic and/or industrial), funded by the EU (WEFO), totalling
£9.7m, an impressive increase from 2014’s £3.7m. A snapshot of research income, by source, is
set out below, with full details presented in REF 4b.

     FUNDING SOURCE                2012/13 (£k)         2019/2020 (£k)         % CHANGE
   Research Councils                         1,474                 1,861               26.2
   EU                                        3,716                 9,760              162.6
   Industry                                  2,735                 5,393               97.2
   Other                                     2,340                 2,348                 0.3
   Totals (rounded)                         10,266               19,362                88.6
                                                                                    Table 1

Direct industrial activities such as consultancy, test and measurement, are also strategically
important as they create effective mechanisms alerting researchers to potential commercial
technical challenges, thus maintaining both current vitality and sustainability. ‘Coalface’
realisation of such challenges lead to real impactful solutions opening new markets and new
opportunities.

Some of our typical recent research work is outlined below:

     PROJECT NAME             DESCRIPTION            PARTNERS               USW AMOUNT £
   Innovative              Rapid innovatory       WelshGov
   Oximeter                collaborative design
                           response to
                                                                                          150k
                           pandemic
                           circumventing suppy
                           chain issues
   FlexIS                  Renewable              Cardiff and
                           hydrogen, storage      Swansea
                           and syngas use         Universities,
                                                  Tata Steel,                               3m
                                                  N-PT CBC.
                                                  Pen y Cymoedd
                                                  Wind Farm.
   RICE                    Capturing CO2 from     ERDF funded.
                           industrial emissions   Led by ERSI at
                           and converting to      Swansea, with Tata
                                                                                          1.7m
                           animal feed and        Steel and Welsh
                           DH3 omega fatty        Water.
                           acids for human use
   Smart CIRCLE            Conversion of waste    ERDF funded with
                                                                                          1.9m
                           gases, valorisation    50% match from
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                            of wastes,               industry, with Welsh
                            fermentates and          Water, TATA Steel,
                            digestates and           BPE, Heat Catcher,
                            development of real-     CSIC (Spain), Bryn
                            time monitoring and      Power, GP Biotec,
                            control strategies for   FRE-Energy
                            bioprocesses
      CPE                   Provision of             WEFO/ERDF.
                            photonic solutions to    Glyndŵr,
                            SME’s (mostly) in        Aberystwyth and                       1.6m
                            West Wales and the       Bangor Universities.
                            Valleys
                                                                                        Table 2

Whereas much of our conventional research income concerns R&D Projects, and
commercialisation, we are particularly proud of Dinsdale’s ten year fellowship to the value of
£2.7m (until December 2029), as the Royal Academy of Engineering’s Chair in Emerging
Technologies.

The amount, range, scope and level of our activity in Engineering, indicates that we are punching
well above our weight and despite the likely limiting effects of Brexit on our EU funding source,
we have sufficient vitality and sustainability to see us through. Alliances within academia is not a
new phenomenon, but we take our collaborations further – for us, multidisciplinary interactions
within and between academia and industry is a working norm. This approach will stand us in
good stead for the future, submitting new proposals, (e.g. to the Industrial Strategy Challenge
Fund), building on existing relationships, to develop further links to investor networks with a view
to aid the efficacy of establishing new start-ups. Our growth areas such as low and zero carbon
energy gases and electrification, novel bioprocesses for a circular economy related to green
chemicals, biopolymers, feed and food, place us well for keeping pace with both global
developments, (e.g. climate change and biodiversity), and local needs (e.g. green growth and
viable employment).


3.2      Infrastructure

The UoA is organised by Centres as described in S1; its infrastructure comprises several
intersecting and overlapping elements providing a supportive and nurturing environment, in
support of staff development as outlined in S2. We rely on clear processes (set out in
documentation), and subscribe to the principles and values set out in both the Concordat to
Support the Career Development for Researchers and the Concordat to Support Research
Integrity.

Whereas individualised support regarding innovation and commercialisation, as appropriate, is
generally provided within the UoA, we share some specific dedicated services:

•     The Research Impact Team supports academics to develop skills, knowledge and
      confidence to maximise the impact of their research and promote expertise beyond academia
      to wider society, the economy, culture and environment. Research impact is understood as
      the beneficial changes the University’s research and expertise makes to the economy and
      wider society, (improving economic performance, increasing the effectiveness of public
      services and policy, enhancing the quality of life, health and culture). The Team facilitates
      knowledge exchange, and collaboration with external partners, providing advice and support
      on IP management and commecialisation. It also supports the development of REF impact
      case studies and impact projects.
      Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



•     The Research Innovation Service (RISe), offers Research Impact Training, (via CPD),
      providing skills, tools and knowledge to develop impact from research.

•     The Research Infrastructure Team ensures that the Faculty is supported by a thriving
      academic/research base, underpinned by various frameworks and systems. The Team helps
      ensure that our research and innovation activity complies with all ethical, legal, professional
      and governance obligations and offers strategic and operational support, and management
      for all aspects of the REF assessments. This Team manages Pure, the University’s online
      research information system/reporting tool holding up-to-date records of the work being
      undertaken by academics - research outputs, activities, impact, external funding applications
      and awards. This material is our institutional repository, the USW Research Explorer,
      enabling USW to support the REF Open Access agenda.

Senior Professors contribute actively to the formulation and execution of the University’s high
level strategies. Guwy and Williams are members of USW’s Faculty Research Committee,
chaired by the Head of Research, Copner. The FRC is a co-ordinating body, (meeting every six
weeks), which operates as a link between the Academic Boards and the Research Centres.
Working with the Centres, it helps to set the Targets (income, publications, interdisciplinary
networks, PhDs and ECRs), that ensure compliance with the USW 2030 strategy. The FRC has
its own standing Terms of Reference and Constitution with vacancies being filled as they occur;
in light of insights gained during the REF process, current practices will be reviewed and learning
implemented.

Copner is also a member of the Faculty Executive Board, REF Strategy Committee and the
University Research Committee, and thus, overall the UoA has significant influence on, and
input into, the University’s research agenda.

These arrangements and the interworking between them, protect the integrity of our research,
and provide a comprehensive, engaged and informed, supportive environment for active and
aspiring researchers.


3.3      Facilities


USW is a disparate university operating out of eight different sites across South East Wales,
(Figure 1). The UoA is likewise dispersed, having bases in Baglan, Hirwaun, Trefforest and
Glyntâf. Distance makes travel inevitable, but wherever possible, staff are encouraged to cycle
(lock-up spaces provided), or walk to work, (with shower facilities available on site). Electric
vehicle charging points are installed in some car parks.
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                                  (Map: Welsh Government Cartographics 2006)
                   Figure 1. Relative location of USW sites in South Wales
      Baglan, Hirwaun, Cardiff Campus,Glyntâf Campus, Newport Campus,Merthyr College,
               Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama, and Trefforest Campus

Baglan: A new hydrogen research centre with solar panels providing locally produced hydrogen
fuel for the local community.
Hirwaun: Europe’s largest battery R&D centre with motor testing facilities, includes numerous
climatic chambers, chillers, test facilities, safety rigs, test vehicles, cell and pack testing cyclers
(worth £2m+).
Trefforest/Upper Glyntâf: Engineering facilities include 450 m2 of laboratory space with
composite making facilities; additive manufacturing facilities; laser scanner; aluminum casting
facility; a fully instrumented wind tunnel; material testing facilities; non-destructive facilities;
advanced analytical platform for gas analysis including a Sercon IRMS analyser for measuring
the stable isotope ratios of gases and a Hiden HPR-20 process mass spectrometer for gas
composition determination; a Waters UPLC mass spectrometer to analyse pollutants such as
pharmaceuticals in wastewater complements a range of gas chromatographs and ion mobility
spectrometers for the analysis of organic products, together with an embedded and electronics
systems lab, as well as new state of the art photonics laboratories with high performance UV
holography, coating facilities, and interferometers.

All our staff and PGRs have access to these facilities as well as the fabrication workshops, with
support from 30+ technical staff.

Elsewhere, WORIC, via its CPE project, has access to labs across all its Partner HEIs, including
the newly installed and commissioned vacuum-coating plant at Glyndŵr.

Researchers can access high-performance computing facilities through HPC Wales.
assessments can be undertaken to ensure that persons with disabilities are not disadvantaged.
During the pandemic research continued by encouraging everyone to work from home unless
absolutely unavoidable, with access to campus facilities subject to risk assessment. The safety
and wellbeing of our staff and students is important to us and includes ensuring our premises are
covid-secure.
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



We encourage a good work-life balance and the wellbeing of all our staff and researchers is a
priority. We operate a flexible approach to working hours, time off and, (in normal times), we
encourage the use of breakout areas, and our extensive leisure and hospitality facilities. These
are designed to be multi-purpose and are capable of hosting a wide range of meetings, events
and conferences. We have several catering facilities on site as well as a purpose-built
Conference Centre, Business Exchange suite, and Students Union. There is nursery provision for
the children of staff and students.

We further encourage the cross-fertilization of ideas by fostering inter-disciplinary networking and
collaboration and making it easy to attend exhibitions, presentations and conferences as we have
funded expenses for such activities. We (normally) hold events – such as Award ceremonies,
(see 5a), on site where we recognize outstanding work and achievement; we encourage peer-to-
peer mentoring and supportive networks.

Physical copies of books and journals are held in the university’s main library while there are
significantly more subscriptions to electronic research journals and databases available online.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1    The Unit’s research collaborations, networks and partnerships, including
relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences.

The Unit has been, and will continue meeting its third Aim of enhanced networks and
collaborating opportunities in many different ways. Within this Aim we set out various forms of
outputs as Objectives including high value publications and editorships. Staff publications
are listed on Pure, (5b S3.2), but many also contribute to the effective sharing of new insights in
indirect roles, such as editorships of books and journals, (Bai, Carr, Copner, Davies, Esteves,
Huq, Kinuthia, Liu, Maddy, Oti, Otung, Owen, Rodriguez), and memberships of editorial
and/or advisory boards (Bai, Copner, Davies, Esteves, Guwy, Kinuthia, Laycock, Liu, Oti,
Otung, Patterson, Robinson, Rodriguez).

In terms of patents, the majority of University-owned patents are in hydrogen storage materials
and optoelectronics. Our staff applied for 29 patents: Antonelli (3), Copner (11), Dinsdale (1),
Esteves (1), Esteves and Patterson (1), Li (9), and Shao (3). Many patents have now been
assigned to companies like Hydro Quebec, Renishaw, NPL, Lomox and Foshan Huikang
Optoelectronics (a Chinese startup by Li and Copner). Some patents from the period of 2012-
2014 (originally filed in in six different countries), have now been assigned to a Canadian
renewable energy company for commercialisation. A further patent family, Aeriogen (2014)
(Esteves and Patterson) has formed the basis for significant amount (+£3m) of collaborative
research with Tata Steel, Welsh Water, NiTech Solutions, BPE, and is now the subject of a
spinout company proposal. Esteves registered five Trademarks.

Several SRRs hold Government and Industrial Associations/Agency advisory positions or
consultancies, among them:

   •   Esteves is the UK Representative in the European Biogas Association's Scientific
       Advisory Council, and a member of the International Scientific Group for the Swedish
       Biogas Research Centre, the Industrial Expert Advisory Board for the H2020 Circular
       Agronomics, the Circular Economy and Innovation Group for Wales, the UK REA
       Bioenergy Strategy Green Gas Group, and the UK ADBA Cost Competitiveness Task
       Force.
   •   Guwy is a Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales, and a Chartered Member of both the
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Institute of Water and Environment, and the Royal Society of Chemistry. He sits on a
       number of executive boards including Sêr Cymru, and the National Research Network for
       Low Carbon, Energy and Environment, and is a scientific advisory committee member for
       MaREI.
   •   Maddy is the only academic member of the UK Government (BEIS) Hydrogen Advisory
       Council, and the Green Hydrogen Working Group, with similar positions on the WelshGov
       Hydrogen Reference Group, and the Low Carbon Vehicle Steering Group.

A synopsis of some of our typical recent empirical research projects with research grants
awarded, was presented in Table 3, indicating the multi-sectoral nature of our work and the broad
range of partners, collaborators and funders – academic, industrial, international and/or
interdisciplinary – as well as the income generated. Further illustrations of the international
aspect of our work are given below:

      PROJECT NAME                       DESCRIPTION                 FUNDERS/LOCATION
 IEA Task 34                     Biological Hydrogen             Rutherford Strategic Fund
                                                                 with Australia
 Electrolytic Hydrogen           Renewable Hydrogen              State Grid Corporation of
 Production                      production                      China
 AF4ENERGY Affordable            Low cost efficient anaerobic    Innovate UK R&D delivered in
 Energy for Africa - Renewable   systems in Kenya                Kenya
 Energy and Valorisation of
 Waste Biomass
 AAIBE Chair for Renewable       Enhance the application of      AAIBE (The electricity Supply
 Energy provided to the          renewable energy as an          Industries Trust Account)
 Institute of Sustainable        alternative energy source for   adminsitered by Malaysia’s
 Energy (ISE) at UNITEN          Malaysia                        Ministry of Energy, Science,
 (Malaysia)                                                      Technology, Environment &
                                                                 Climate Change
                                                                                        Table 3

Three of our eminent professors hold honorary positions elsewhere – Rodriguez, whose work
Fundamentals of 5G Mobile Networks was cited in the European Parliament in January 2016, is
an Honorary Senior Researcher at the University of Bradford; Liu who regularly works with
CAPSE, is internationally recognised. Thomas Reuters accorded him the status of highly cited
researcher for 2014 and 2015, and Clarivate Analytics did likewise in 2016, 2017, and 2018,
was a Visiting Professor at Harbin Institute of Technology (2013-19), and has been a Visiting
Professor at Wuhan University since 2019; Copner, is Visiting Professor at four universities in
China – Changchun University of Science and Technology, Xiamen University of Technology,
Baoji University of Arts and Sciences, and Foshan University.

While individuals have gained esteem abroad, our networks also demonstrate an extensive
range of collaborators and partnerships – many are international, many are industrial and across
many sectors, and many are interdisciplinary – with concomitant impact on communities,
economy and society.

Some further examples indicating scope and range are given below, with real world
impacts/outputs outlining the effectiveness of such partnerships, set alongside:
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     TECHNOLOGY               COLLABORATIONS                         IMPACT
Carbon Capture and Use     Tata Steel, Welsh Water,       Innovative processes for
                           BPE, NiTech Solutions,         converting CO2 from heavy
                           WWU and Flogas (Smart          industry to biomethane or
                           CIRCLE, BEACON, BEIS           carboxylic acid
                           Biogrid)

                           Innovate UK/BBSRC (2016)
                           ITM Power, Wessex Water,
                           Wales and West Utilities,
                           BPE and NiTech Solutions

                           Swansea University on
                           Reduced Industrial Carbon
                           Emissions (RICE) Project

                           FlexIS - Industrial
                           collaborations with Tata
                           Steel inter alia

                           Heriot-Watt and Birmingham
                           University on the Industrial
                           Decarbonisation Research
                           and Innovation Centre
                           (IDRIC) and SME’s

                           Cardiff, Swansea,
                           Aberystwyth, Bangor and
                           Glyndŵr Universities, and
                           Low Carbon Research
                           Institute (LCRI)

EU Biomethane policy       Wales AD Centre, H2Wales,      Introduced changes to EU
(see Esteves Impact Case   IEE Biomethane Regions,        policy, regulatory and fiscal
Study):                    working with EBA, REA,         regimes through input into
                           ADBA, GL Noble Denton,         H&S study and JRC report
                           DTM                            that led to the EU
                                                          Renewable Energy Directive
                                                          criteria resulting in
                                                          legislative changes, and
                                                          biomethane incentivisation
                                                          (>£6b invested), leading to
                                                          major take-up across
                                                          Europe and further afield.
                                                          Biomethane upgrading
                                                          membrane model to support
                                                          scale up of the technology
                                                          culminating in market
                                                          expansion and increase in
                                                          turnover for DMT
                                                          (>£20M/year). Private
                                                          investment for NiTech
                                                          (>£500k) related to a novel
                                                          application of their reactor
                                                          models.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Waste management           WelshGov and Welsh local      Shaped WelshGov policy
(see Esteves Impact Case   authorities, Welsh Water,     and practice in Wales such
Study):                    Suez, ADBA, REA               that seven Anaerobic
                                                         Digestion industrial systems
                           ORION EU-FP7-SME              were deployed across
                           (2012-2015)                   Welsh communities to better
                           Over 20 industrial partners   address food separation
                           across Europe.                collections and digestion
                                                         leading to a yearly reduction
                           IEE Biomethane Regions        of 660,000 tonnes of CO2,
                           with eight partners in the    and Local Authority savings
                           Europe                        of £20m+. Wales as a result
                                                         became the third country
                                                         worldwide with the highest
                                                         municipal wastes recycling
                                                         targets and a worldwide
                                                         best practice example for
                                                         food wastes recovery. The
                                                         Strategy is beginning to be
                                                         adopted in other UK
                                                         countries and from 2023,
                                                         separate food waste
                                                         collections will be mandated
                                                         in European countries.
                                                         Sizing and operation of new
                                                         infrastructure facilities and
                                                         optimisation of assets with
                                                         Welsh Water associated
                                                         with over £140M investment
                                                         and multimillion pounds of
                                                         savings a year if
                                                         technologies deployed
                                                         throughput the company.

Renewable Hydrogen         RICE:                         Developed innovative
(see Maddy Impact Case     Neath-Port Talbot Council,    polymer electrolyser
Study):                    Swansea University,           membrane (PEM) enabling
                           Swansea Bay City Deal,        efficient hydrogen
                           Riversimple, JRE Presreg,     production from fluctuating
                           SSE, IBM, Cheetah Marine,     renewable energy. ITM are
                           ITM Power, Novel              commercialising
                           Reforming of Bio-Liquids      processing from
                           Shell (NL), Tata Steel,       renewables. During the REF
                           Progressive Energy, TNO,      period ITM increased world-
                           Johnson Matthey               wide production of RH by
                                                         100% and have secured
                           SWIC, Wales’s first           £180M investment.
                           hydrogen cluster consist of
                           the following range of        Founding of SWIC, which
                           companies, authorities and    has won £3M of grants.
                           organisations:
                           CR Plus, Associated British
                           Ports, Capital Law, Carbon8
                           Systems, Celsa
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                            Manufacturing (UK),
                            Confederation of Paper
                            Industries, Connect &
                            Convey, Costain, Dragon
                            LNG, Energy Systems
                            Catapult, Environmental
                            Resources Management,
                            Front Door
                            Communications, Liberty
                            Steel Newport, National Grid
                            Electricity Transmission,
                            Neath-Port Talbot Council,
                            Offshore Renewable Energy
                            Catapult, Progressive
                            Energy, Pembrokeshire
                            County Council, Rockwool,
                            RWE Generation UK, Sector
                            Development Wales
                            Partnership, Siemens,
                            Tarmac, Vale Europe,
                            Valero Energy, Wales &
                            West Utilities, Western Bio-
                            Energy, Western Power
                            Distribution, Milford Haven
                            Port Authority

Optolectronic innovation:   The University of Durham       Increasing the efficiency of
OLED Light efficiency       The University of Stuttgart    the light output from OLED
                            Lomox                          by a factor of three, leading
                            Carbon Trust                   to substantial carbon
                            Oman Government                reduction.
Novel coherent tuneable
laser and vibration         Renishaw, NPL, Airbus,         Innovative low cost robust
elimination                 Boeing, CERN, Bath and         tuneable lasers that enable
                            Huddersfield Universities.     new vibration-free metrology
                                                           applications such as
                                                           photogrammetry of large
                                                           items in real manufacturing
                                                           environments.

Low Cost Concrete           UNESCO                         The cost and environmental
                            Governments of Kenya and       benefits of utilisation of soil
                            Cameroon                       in infrastructure
                                                           development far outweighs
                                                           those of stone or concrete.
                                                           This novel cement using
                                                           steel by-products was used
                                                           in constructing the A420 in
                                                           Buckinghamshire, UNESCO
                                                           supported the use of this
                                                           material for the construction
                                                           of low cost housing in Kenya
                                                           and Cameroon, thereby
                                                           improving quality of life of
                                                           local people.
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



   NOx reduction                    Commercialised by Engie          Melting soda lime glass
                                    (France), and Global             melting furnaces are major
                                    Combustion System Ltd            producers of NOx
                                    (Scotland), working with         emissions. Tan’s auxiliary
                                    customers in France and          combustion process diverts
                                    Spain.                           part of the fuel from primary
                                                                     burners to areas of
                                                                     recirculating combustion
                                                                     products before burning in
                                                                     the combustion air leading
                                                                     to reduction of 5mm per m3.

                                                                                          Table 4

4.2 The wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society.

USW is a member of the University Alliance, ensuring we are well-placed to make national and
international contributions to societies. Our staff contribute directly to our research projects and to
the furtherance of research integrity and good practice at Faculty and University level. They also
contribute to wider research activities by sharing insights effectively (publications, participation in
events and membership of learned societies). A brief summary of such activity is offered below:

                   EXAMPLES OF ACADEMIC LEADERSHIP                                      COUNT
   Fellowships of learned societies/ professional bodies
                                                                                                18
   e.g. FLSW, FRS, IET, IEEE, FHEA, RSC
   Conferences organised or chaired                                                             3
   Workshops, mini-symposia and special sessions organised                                      2
   Plenary lectures                                                                             3
   Invited or keynote lectures                                                                 17
   Editorships of journals, books, or other publications (individual/ joint)                   36
   Member of editorial or journal advisory board                                               40
   National/International professional advisory boards/committees                              43
   Awards, prizes and similar honours                                                          20
   Edited, authored or contributions to books in libraries                                     35
   Statutory Committees                                                                         0
                                                                                          Table 5
Some outstanding activities deserve further detail:

   •   Kinuthia was awarded the Royal Society Brian Mercer award for innovation on unfired
       scaly systems. The deployment of these novel materials into Africa, to provide new
       homes at lower cost, was supported by UNESCO.
   •   Maddy - was a founding member of the South Wales Industrial Cluster (SWIC),
       (Members listed in Table in 5):
   •   Rodriguez is an IET Fellow and a Charted Engineer with advisory roles on FP7, and
       CSIM as well as being the founding member of IEEE Technical Subcommittee on Green
       Communications and Computing.
   •   Esteves was a finalist for the BBSRC Innovator of the Year 2019 under the commercial
       impact category.

International acclaim, esteem and influence are balanced by not losing sight of our roots, and
remaining mindful of how we interact with, support, and develop the communities in which we are
situated.
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our HEFCW-funded Civic Mission Review documents USW’s civic engagement activities and
demonstrates how our research outputs are having a direct impact on our local South Wales
community. HEFCW ‘Higher Education for Future Generations’ (2017), referred to the role of the
Wales Centre of Excellence for Anaerobic Digestion (Esteves, Patterson) in reducing the
amount of waste sent to landfill, and a further, but particularly apt, example of this aspect of our
work is provided by the feasibility study conducted by Esteves (2017) into Recycling of mattress
foams and textiles to biopolymer and biogas on behalf of Rhondda Cynon Tâf/WelshGov with a
Small Business Research Initiative.

We take seriously our responsibilities and duties under the Wellbeing of Future Generations
(Wales) Act 2015, to improve the social, economic and cultural wellbeing of Wales by thinking in
a more sustainable and long-term way about what we do and how we do it.
