Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of the Highlands and Islands

 Unit of Assessment: 15

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The 2014-21 REF cycle has been a transformational period for Archaeology within the University
 of the Highlands and Islands (UHI). In REF2014 the formation of an institute was stated as the
 major objective – one that was achieved the following year in November 2015. The Archaeology
 Institute (https://www.uhi.ac.uk/en/archaeology-institute/), was funded by capacity-growth grants
 totalling £536k over three years from Highlands and Islands Enterprise (HIE), Orkney Islands
 Council (OIC), Robertson Trust and UHI Executive Office (EO). The capacity growth provided
 support posts (operations and administration) and specific tailored appointments (Marketing and
 Promotion, and Outreach and Lifelong Learning) to support and boost the research, knowledge
 exchange and dissemination activities of the Institute, with the aim of enhancing the research
 activities, outputs and impact. Indicators such as increased research income, research outputs
 (including three monographs in the new UHI Archaeology Institute Research Series), reach and
 impact detailed in this submission clearly demonstrate the success of this strategy.

 The Mission Statement of the UHI Archaeology Institute encapsulates its achievements to date
 and its research and impact strategy:
          “The UHI Archaeology Institute is a world-class teaching and research
          organisation dedicated to advancing our understanding of the historic
          environment through the creation, interpretation and dissemination of
          archaeological knowledge. The Institute commits to providing a locus for
          innovative research, university education and lifelong learning in outstanding
          heritage environments. We support local, regional and global communities to
          explore and promote their heritage and development through our expertise in
          consultancy and research. Our forward thinking and interdisciplinary approaches
          to archaeological and heritage research, and our worldwide links and
          collaborations, create in the UHI Archaeology Institute a vibrant international
          centre of excellence.”
 In this the Archaeology Institute (AI) epitomises the UHI Vision: ‘We will be locally based,
 regional in structure and have national and international reach’ and importantly the UHI Mission:
 ‘to have a transformational impact on the prospects of our region, its economy, its people and its
 communities’ (UHI Strategic Vision and Plan 2015-2020). The creation of the Institute was
 supported with development funding because of the recognition in OIC and HIE of the ‘situated
 research’ potential of archaeology in regeneration including strategies to help reverse rural
 depopulation, and to boost the local economy through heritage tourism growth. Both our Impact
 Case Studies (ICS) demonstrate success in these aims. The overall impact that the Institute
 development has had on economic sustainability in the region over the last REF cycle is shown
 by a recent Economic Impact Report (Brian Burns Associates 2020) which calculates a
 contribution to the Orkney economy of £2,134,851 expenditure impacts and the support of 79.3
 jobs for the year 2019-20 through the activities of the AI: given the impact of Covid-19 on
 tourism and fragile rural economies we recognise our role to be even more crucial over the next
 REF cycle.

 The university is a unique institution in having a dispersed partnership structure of 13 regional
 colleges and research units across the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. The Archaeology
 Institute is based in the Orkney College (OC) campus. Our goal for the next REF period is to
 oversee a further transformational step in the development of the Institute to a distributed and
 regionalised Institute led from Orkney with capacity and specialisms at other UHI campuses
 – which it is intended will replicate the economic and social impact of the existing
 Archaeology Institute activity in Orkney - drawing on existing research expertise and UHI
 facilities but also responding to UK and Scottish government demands both for upskilling and
 research innovation within the region (e.g. Scottish Islands Growth Deal) and for the
 internationalisation of research (e.g. through the Scottish Government’s Arctic Connections

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy framework and the launch of the Ireland-Scotland Joint Bilateral Review 2021-25). Digital
 heritage and a focus on the Tourism sector are objectives as part of our contribution to the
 region’s and our own Covid-19 recovery and resilience.

 The additional funding for the creation of the Archaeology Institute in 2015 catalysed a
 substantial expansion of Archaeology academic staff within this REF cycle. From the core UHI
 Archaeology Department academic staff of Professor Jane Downes, Ingrid Mainland, James
 Moore, Scott Timpany and Nick Card, a further six academic posts have been created:
 Professor Colin Richards, Sarah Jane Gibbon, Jen Harland, Daniel Lee, Ragnhild Ljosland,
 Antonia Thomas, with Anne Bevan, Head of Orkney College Art and Design, joining the UoA,
 and augmented by a number of visiting appointments: Visiting Readers Hugo Anderson-
 Whymark, Gerry Bigelow, Olwyn Owen, and Visiting Professors Mark Edmonds, Leslie King,
 Astrid Ogilvie.

 Research Strategy
 In REF2014 our UoA17 interdisciplinary submission jointly with Geography and Environmental
 Studies was encapsulated by two broad overarching research areas: ‘Sustainability’ and
 ‘Landscape & Culture’ with research strengths identified as: Scottish Prehistory; Heritage
 Management, and Marine and Coastal archaeology, with emerging expertise and objectives for
 development within Environmental Archaeology and Historical and Modern Archaeology.

 The new staff appointments together with an ongoing review of our research strengths and
 clusters, a process undertaken collaboratively through UHI Research Area Revalidation (2018)
 and refined through regular research ‘away-days’, has clarified new and emerging research
 priorities, and led to a restructuring of research themes which staff can cross between.
 Sustainability is an overarching concept and provides a framework for our research and impact
 activities and strategy, enveloping the themes: Landscape, Seascape and Place; Prehistories;
 Cultural Heritage; Environmental Archaeology; North Atlantic Communities with Islands
 and Coastal and Climate Change themes of growing importance and Art/ Archaeology as
 growth success within our Interdisciplinary portfolio,.

 Sustainability All staff across the AI are embraced within this paradigm, and
 Sustainability is a cross-cutting strength that has been and will continue to be
 fundamental to the AI. The sustainability of communities and practices in the past and the
 present (see Impact case Studies) is a focus of the AI research activities and includes a
 specific focus on Learning for Sustainability (Downes, Mainland, Richards), Heritage
 Management (e.g. World Heritage) (Downes, Moore, Richards, Thomas, Lee) and on
 societal resilience (Gibbon, Ljosland, Lee) and adaptation to environmental change in
 island and coastal regions (Harland, Mainland, Timpany), with active research projects in
 Orkney, Shetland and the Western Isles (All), Scottish Highlands (Timpany, Lee), Ireland
 (Richards, Timpany), Norway, Iceland and Greenland (Mainland, Gibson, Ljosland), Rapa
 Nui (Easter Island) and the Cook Islands (Richards, Downes), and now Africa (Downes).

 Landscape, Seascape and Place (Bevan, Card, Downes, Gibbon, Lee, Moore, Edmonds)
 Our research within this cluster is concerned with developing methodologies for terrestrial and
 marine survey and also innovative approaches for conceptualising landscapes and seascapes.
 Publication of the Heart of Neolithic Orkney WHS Geophysics survey culminates over a decade
 of work on these important landscapes (Card, Downes, Moore, Edmonds). New appointments
 Gibbon, Lee and Ljosland apply concepts of place and identity to reconceptualise historical land-
 and seascapes through belief systems: pilgrimage in Magnus 900: St Magnus Way (NHLF),
 animism in Landscapes of Change Rousay (OIC, Historic Environment Scotland (HES)), witches
 in Witchcraft Memorial Project (OIC/Orkney Heritage Society) respectively. A place-based
 perspective also underpins Gibbon’s contribution to the Thing Project (NPP), Bevan and
 Downes’ Wilder Being (AHRC/University of London SAAS) and Bevan’s Orkney: Beside the
 Ocean of Time (AHRC) which draws on interdisciplinary approaches within a deep-time
 perspective to map future uses of land and sea.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prehistories (Card, Downes, Richards, Thomas, Timpany, Anderson-Whymark, Edmonds)
 Scottish prehistory continues to be a major strength with the increased scale of research at the
 Ness of Brodgar (Card; OIC, National Lottery Heritage Fund (NLHF), EU Leader, various) having
 wide reaching impacts on understanding of Late Neolithic society as well as making significant
 contributions to economic development and outreach (Impact Case Study Neolithic (ICS Neo)).
 This area has been further strengthened by new appointments, with major monographs arising
 from Richards’ Cuween-Wideford and the Stonehenge Environs projects and Thomas’
 innovative research on art and architecture in Neolithic Orkney. Our world-leading research on
 prehistoric societies has widened to include Polynesian societies, with the GCRF-funded Pacific
 Islands Tangible Cultural Heritage (PITCH) project in the Cook Islands (Richards, Downes 2018-
 2022).

 Cultural Heritage (Downes, Gibbon, Ljosland, Thomas)
 Our research on the Heart of Neolithic Orkney World Heritage Site (HONO WHS) is an exemplar
 of cultural heritage as a vehicle for sustainable development (ISC_Neo), a model which we are
 now applying elsewhere (e.g. Gibbon, Lee; Leader, NHLF), including internationally (Richards,
 Downes; GCRF). Likewise, our work on climate change mitigation and heritage futures has
 expanded from a primary expertise on sea level rises and coastal erosion in Scotland (c.f.
 Downes, Climate Risk Assessment for the Heart of Neolithic Orkney World Heritage Site
 (historicenvironment.scot)) to encompass an international arena of climate impacts more widely
 in Values-based Climate Change Risk Assessment: Piloting the Climate Vulnerability Index for
 Cultural Heritage in Africa (CVI-Africa) (Downes GCRF AHRC/DCMS 2020-21) and
 IOCOMS/CyArk and Google Arts and Culture Heritage on the Edge (Downes
 https://artsandculture.google.com/project/heritage-on-the-edge-rapa-nui).

 Currently, the AI is poised for leadership in the area of Climate Change and Heritage with
 activities already well established, and a strategic objective is to develop the emerging expertise
 and leadership of the AI in sustainability relating to climate change and heritage. Heritage
 tourism, digital heritage, and critical heritage are also research objectives, as well as heritage
 foods such as whiskey and cereals (Downes, Timpany), heritage animal breeds (Mainland) and
 the heritage of belief (Gibbon, Ljosland).

 Environmental Archaeology (Harland, Mainland, Timpany, Bigelow, Ogilvie)
 Identified for growth in REF2014, Mainland has applied stable isotopes and dental microwear to
 explore herd resilience and mobility in the Northern Isles and has advanced understanding of the
 impact of seaweed use/consumption on stable isotope values. Harland is pioneering
 methodologies for identification of fish paleopathologies and is contributing to understanding of
 the process of domestication in fish. Timpany’s work on early Holocene inter-tidal deposits
 across Scotland is furthering understanding of post-glacial palaeoenvironmental and climate
 change and significantly has revealed new evidence of the presence of Mesolithic communities
 in Orkney (Addressing Critical Changes in the Orcadian Landscape; Carnegie) while his research
 on charcoal and other plant remains in Irish burnt mounds is challenging received interpretation
 of these sites. The objective in this theme is the development of further archaeological sciences
 to complement existing strengths (e.g. in geoarchaeology, osteoarchaeology).

 North Atlantic Communities (Harland, Gibbon, Lee, Ljosland, Mainland, King, Ogilvie, Owen)
 Our research here is providing new perspectives on early Medieval through to early 20th century
 N. Atlantic societies applying novel approaches such as the archaeologies of commensality
 (Mainland; British Academy) and pilgrimage (Gibbon; EU Leader; NLFH). Runology and
 historical sociolinguistics (Ljosland) is a further strength. Research is underpinned by fieldwork
 at the Viking to early modern farmstead, Skaill farm (Mainland, Lee, Harland, Gibbon; NLHF,
 OIC, Rousay Egilsay Wyre (REW) Development Trust), and post-excavation analysis of the Late
 Norse site at Tuquoy, Orkney (Owen, Mainland, Gibbon, Harland, Timpany; HES). A significant
 achievement is the 2020-23 joint AHRC-German Research Foundation (DFG)
 (Gibbon/Mainland/Harland) Looking in from the Edge (LIFTE) project on the impact of
 international commercialisation on the North Sea region in the 15-17th centuries AD.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Island and Coastal Archaeology (Downes, Richards, Timpany, King, Ogilvie)
 This emerging theme supports UHI priorities within its UHI Islands Strategy
 (www.uhi.ac.uk/en/t4-media/one-web/university/about-uhi/facts-and-
 figures/publications/pdfs/UHI_IS_ENGLISH_2020.pdf), and poises us to influence and maximise
 the Islands Deal UK Government funding. Strategically, the international AI Inaugural
 Conference in 2017, Our Islands, Our Past connected with the new Scottish Government’s
 ‘Islands Bill’ focussed on islands research and formed the spring-board for the collaboration
 between UHI Archaeology Institute and the Local Authority Archaeologists from Orkney,
 Shetland and the Western Islands to create a Regional Framework for Scottish Islands’
 Archaeology (SIRFA https://www.sirfa.co.uk/), funded by HES 2019-2022, as part of Scotland’s
 Archaeology Strategy (SAS-Delivery-Plan-16Jan2017.pdf (archaeologystrategy.scot)).
 Combining archaeological research with small islands development issues in an international
 context is the 2018-22 GCRF PITCH: Cook Islands entailing co-producing tourism development,
 education and research tools with archaeological heritage assets (Downes, Richards). In Orkney
 the NLHF/OIC/HES-funded Northern Isles Landscape Partnership Scheme (NILPS) has been
 shaped by our Historic Environment Assessment for the programme and resulted in
 collaborative projects (Downes, Richards, Lee, Gibbon) Tombs o’ the North and Oral Traditions.

 Interdisciplinarity Running through all our research activities is a strong commitment to
 interdisciplinary research. The role of Downes and Mainland as UK representatives for the
 Humanities for the Environment (HfE) Circumpolar Observatory (https://hfe-
 observatories.org/observatories/circumpolar-observatory/), a network of researchers and
 institutions across the arctic and subarctic open new research avenues of considerable potential
 in Environmental Humanities. We are also project lead (Lee) in ‘Orkney Energy Landscapes’
 project (2020-21) which offers fresh interdisciplinary perspectives. A new research network
 focussing on Scottish diet (The Taste of the Nation) was also established in 2019-20 (Mainland,
 Worthington (UHI Centre for History) and McRury (UHI Centre for Rural Health) in conjunction
 with universities of Aberdeen and Bradford and NHS Scotland provides an important future
 interdisciplinary focus.
 Art/Archaeology (Bevan, Thomas, Lee, Moore, Downes)
 This has been a key interdisciplinary growth area in our research portfolio, with cross-disciplinary
 output Ocean of Time (Bevan) and being the subject of our impact case study Art/Archaeology
 (ICS A/A). Ongoing projects and collaborations include Bevan’s Co-I role in the Creative
 Landscapes Futures Network (AHRC) is an example of interdisciplinarity across Arts and
 Humanities, which also involves a wide range of stakeholders. Similarly, Thomas’s and Lee’s
 roles in the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) #3M_DO_2019 Network exemplify cross-
 disciplinarity. Other examples the ‘Festival of Deep Time’ (Bevan; AHRC) and YAARP (Moore;
 OIC Culture Fund).

 Approach to impact
 The Impact objectives set out in our previous REF submission have all been met successfully,
 firstly; through the establishment of the University Innovation-funded UHI Knowledge Exchange
 Team, which has provided support to staff to engage with potential users of research outputs,
 has helped foster links with private and public sector users of research, and secondly, provided
 knowledge exchange and public engagement opportunities through sectoral groups, of which AI
 staff play active roles in Creative Industry and Tourism. The marked success of the UHI KE
 strategy (see IES) is evidenced in the awarding of two SCF Standard Innovation Vouchers -
 Discovering Prehistoric Staffin (2015 match-funded Staffin Community Trust, Lee) which has
 been followed through with a Student Placement Innovation Voucher 2020 -2021 funding an
 MRes studentship matched by the same partner (Timpany), and Viking Village in partnership
 with Robert Gordon University for Kyle & Lochalsh Community Trust (Lee).

 The second main impact objective was the creation of new operational units – the objective
 example given as the Aracheology Institute - explicitly oriented to maximising the impact of our
 interdisciplinary research which, as evidenced in this submission, is being fully realised.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 It is prehistoric, Neolithic, research findings that underpin the two impact case studies presented.
 Our impact case study ‘Neolithic archaeology: contributions to the growth in heritage and tourism
 in Orkney and beyond’ is the outcome of sustained research within and around the Heart of
 Neolithic Orkney World Heritage Site and the ‘Art/ Archaeology: Inspiring design and changing
 practice in Orkney’s creative industries’ case study based upon research directly benefitting
 creative industry. These case studies exemplify our approach to achieving impact through:
      • aligning to key sectors in the regional and national economy
      • our signature use of archaeology and heritage as a tool for sustainable development
 Our wider non-ICS contributions to economy and society are detailed in Section 4. Our strategy
 for Impact will in future align to the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (THE 17
 GOALS | Sustainable Development (un.org)) with the aim of promoting a culture of research and
 impact integrity wherein equality and justice are fundamental.

 Open research environment and standards
 Blended learning is a hallmark of the UHI, and it provides a ready-made vehicle for a ‘virtual
 research environment’ in which our research can be readily accessed. This has proved to be of
 exceptional value during the Covid-19 restrictions of 2020-1. An example of this practice is the
 availability on the web of text versions of particular VC seminars (e.g. the UHI HARC/SILK
 Research Cluster seminars: https://idruhi.wordpress.com/), and their recordings
 (https://www.uhi.ac.uk/en/research-enterprise/res-themes/interdisciplinary-research-
 programmes/the-edge-call-for-contributions/recorded-seminars/). Within the UoA monthly
 seminars showcasing our research (together with invited speakers) are accessible across the
 university network and have been opened to the public. The broader promotion of research
 programmes through, international, national and local lectures, knowledge exchange and public
 access to projects in the field and post-fieldwork, were recognised as important from the
 inception of the Institute (and the university), and therefore determine our areas of impact
 planning. Our virtual research profile for the UoA with global reach, and work with social media
 and the press is seen as a model for other HEIs. Openness of environment includes making
 research publicly available through the HES national record Canmore, and through entries in
 Discovery and Excavation Scotland (and therefore with Archaeology Data Service’s OASIS). We
 conform to discipline requirements and best practice for the dissemination and storing of records
 and data. ORCA is a Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CIfA) Registered Organisation and
 the Institute’s professional frameworks and standards are informed through this association and
 staff CIfA members. A related objective is to increase the staff membership of, and engagement
 with, CIfA.


 2. People

 Staffing
 Increasing staff numbers through the REF cycle both testifies to the dynamism of the
 Archaeology Institute and provides a broad range of expertise which allows a diversity of
 research (and attracts rising numbers of postgraduate students). Research (and teaching)
 strategies have created a staffing policy which balances an expansion of our range of expertise
 with providing depth in ongoing research themes (see Section 1). Current Institute staff include
 two Professors (Downes and Richards), a senior lecturer (Mainland), full time lecturer (Timpany),
 and five part-time lecturers (Gibbon, Harland, Ljosland, Moore, and Thomas). Additional staff
 include a lifelong learning and outreach archaeologist (Lee) and senior researcher Card.
 Together with a fully functioning commercial archaeology and consultancy unit (ORCA), and with
 the UHI Art department head (Bevan) this provides a broad and vibrant spectrum of research.
 Enhancing our research environment, the AI Visiting Readers and Professors actively participate
 in all areas, including research collaborations, seminars, lecturing and mentoring. The AI is
 directed by Downes with Mainland as curriculum leader and Richards as head of research;
 together with Higgins of ORCA these form the AI executive committee.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The Institute has a well-balanced age and gender profile with, from 2018, females forming the
 majority of academic staff (Figure 1). New staff appointments have targeted ECR (Thomas,
 Moore) and junior lecturers (Harland, Gibbon, Timpany) to ensure long term sustainability. We
 have a commitment to ensure continuity of service with four staff progressing from fixed-term to
 permanent contracts during this cycle. Career development is supported through initiatives such
 as the Advance HE Aurora leadership to address the under-representation of women in
 leadership positions in the sector, undertaken by Thomas in 2018. All lecturing staff are
 encouraged to seek professional recognition through the UHI ALPINE scheme which allows the
 university to award Fellowship of the UK Higher Education Academy. Since 2014, five Institute
 staff have gained Fellowship of the HEA (Timpany, Gibbon, Thomas, Moore, Ljosland) and one
 Senior Fellowship (Mainland).

 Staff development and mentoring
 The principles of the Concordat for Research Development are enshrined in the UHI research
 strategy and policy, and implemented via support processes and opportunities for staff.
 Research mentorship exists at the university and Institute levels,
 (https://www.uhi.ac.uk/en/learning-and-teaching-academy/prof-devt/mentoring/research/)
 providing peer-support for research staff at all career stages. Institute staff are appraised
 annually through Performance Development Review in parallel with short and long research
 planning and identifying opportunities for research training. This latter is provided internally by
 established researchers in the Institute, through the UHI Research Clusters (e.g. at the biennial
 UHI Research Conference, well attended by Institute staff) and externally through the Vitae
 scheme. All Institute staff are eligible to apply for UHI funded research leave with an internal
 rota in place to ensure equity of access. During the current REF cycle nine have successfully
 applied for a UHI sabbatical, with outputs including a monograph (Richards), a World
 Archaeology article (Mainland) and presentations at international conferences (e.g. Gibbon -
 EEA, Vilnius; Lee – CHAT, Arhus) leading to outputs. All staff are encouraged to apply for
 external funding to support research leave, with Mainland awarded a prestigious British
 Academy Mid-Career Fellowship in 2014, enabling a 12-month sabbatical. Through our
 individual research planning and newly-formed AI Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committee we will focus on training and mentoring junior staff to increase research outputs
 through the new cycle.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 An additional layer of support for all staff and students is via the UHI Knowledge Exchange team
 and sector groups (Helping businesses innovate - Research specialisms (uhi.ac.uk) which
 provide innovation training for researchers and facilitate exchange between academia and
 business. We are systematically made aware of all relevant national KE initiatives, such as the
 Innovation Scotland, Interface, and relevant SFC innovation centres. This has led to several
 successful collaborations with SME and other enterprises (e.g. Innovation Vouchers and ICS
 A/A).

 The staff and research of the AI contributes strongly to the networked virtual research
 environment of the university, and this in turn adds to the vitality of the Institute. An example
 being the UHI HARC/SILK research clusters (co-chaired by Richards and Mainland respectively)
 whose activities include the above-mentioned seminars and conferences. We also host monthly
 Institute Research seminars, again by VC, with international and UK-based speakers and offer a
 monthly VC-based journal club for staff and students where recently published articles are
 discussed and reviewed. During Covid-19 pandemic these virtual events have helped maintain
 our community of practice and have additionally served to widen our reach as the use of VC in
 this way has become normalised outwith the UHI (e.g. a recent seminar by our Visiting Reader
 Bigelow attracted and the launch of the LIFTE project attracted 102 and 93 attendees
 respectively).

 Equality and diversity
 In recognition of high occupational segregation both in local populations and in in professional
 and academic sectors, the UHI is taking targeted action to increase the number of women
 applying to senior roles. Orkney College UHI is pro-actively involved in UHI’s Athena SWAN
 Bronze Institutional reapproval (November 2021), and are looking to submit a departmental
 application for Archaeology. Additionally, we will work to increase visibility of role models
 through UHI STEM Femmes student champions programme. The opportunity to work part-time
 has enabled several members of staff the necessary flexibility around child-care or other
 commitments to return to research. All staff involved in the REF process adhere to the UHI
 REF21 Code of Practice which provide a framework for transparency and equity attended
 relevant training, including for unconscious bias.

 Research Students
 Postgraduate research recruitment has increased significantly since 2014 (Figure 2). Three
 postgraduate research (PGR) students based at the UHI Centre for History and Lochs and
 Rivers Institute are co-supervised by Institute staff, underlining the inter-disciplinary nature of our
 research. University funding through the European Strategic Infrastructure Fund has supported 4
 PGR students (including 1 with History). In 2018 the UHI became a full member of the Scottish
 Graduate School for the Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership,
 bringing access to fully funded UKRI studentships and training opportunities, and in 2019 we
 were awarded our first SGSAH Applied Research Collaborative Studentship (with Heriot-Watt
 University and Orkney Museum). The development of an MRes Archaeology from 2017 has
 enabled a supported and structured route into research level study, including PhD, which is
 proving attractive and adds to the vibrancy of the research student body.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Our approach to postgraduate recruitment is based on research expertise, but additionally on
 capacity and on staff development. Supervisory teams juxtapose experienced staff who are able
 to provide a mentoring role and new supervisors, and where appropriate include staff from other
 UHI centres (e.g. Centre for History, Environmental Research Institute, Institute of Northern
 Studies), supervisors from external universities (e.g. Glasgow, York, Aberdeen) and non-HEI
 research organisations (e.g. HES). Through this mentoring process, and with new
 appointments, the number of potential lead supervisors has grown during this REF cycle from
 two (Mainland, Downes) to five, with three further being mentored. This growth in capacity is
 mirrored by an increase in student numbers. All new supervisors are required to attend
 supervisory training sessions run by the Graduate School and refreshers courses at regular
 intervals subsequently, and all supervisors of SGSAH-funded students have mandatory training.
 Quality of supervisor training is evidenced by Ljosland receiving the UHI Student Association
 Award, 2017: Best Research Supervisor.

 The UHI Graduate School co-ordinates activities relating to PGR student support and training
 (see Institutional Environment Statement (IES)) and students’ support needs are assessed
 through a Personal Learning Support Plan and provided through Orkney College. The biennial
 UHI postgraduate and staff research conference permits students to present to, and interact
 with, research-active staff from across the UHI and to develop their networking skills.
 Employability skills of graduate students are further enhanced through opportunities to gain
 teaching experience as postgraduate demonstrators and tutors. PGR students are encouraged
 to attend and present at the monthly Institute research seminars, UHI Cluster seminars, and are
 active participants of research teams with, e.g. supervisory roles in field projects and similar
 activities. To ensure that research students receive a high-quality educational experience all
 postgraduate research provision at the UHI is monitored by a 5-year cycle of academic area
 approval. This process is led by the UHI Graduate School and involves a panel comprising
 external and internal academics and research students. Archaeology was successfully
 revalidated as a research area in 2018; a future objective is for validation of interdisciplinary Arts
 and Humanities area/s to support anticipated growth in Art/Creative Practice and Archaeology
 PhDs.
 PGR students based in Orkney are provided with their desk-space and IT facilities in a dedicated
 postgraduate room. Financial support towards costs associated with one conference and one
 training event per annum is provided by the UHI Graduate School (e.g. Blanz the Future



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Perspectives for Island Society conference in Japan, 2017). PGRs are also encouraged to apply
 for external funding, with examples including to Forestry Scotland for C14 dates (Sybenga).

 The supportive research environment of the UHI is indicated by the UK-wide Postgraduate
 Researcher Experience Survey (see IES). UHI was comparable or out-performed UK in all but
 Research Skills, and Research Culture. The Institute has contributed with effect to the UHI
 strategy for improvement by strengthening the research culture through leading research
 activities within the UHI Clusters, by increasing supervisory capacity, and engaging with
 SGSAH. Membership of SGSAH brings support to all students registered for PhDs irrespective
 of funding source. Our sustained record of PhD completions and the destination of these is a
 further measure of our success in these areas – two went directly onto UKRI/EU funded PDRAs
 (at the U. of York and U. of Vienna) and four now have posts within HE institutions. A further
 indication is the numerous accolades received by our students – e.g. Blanz best student
 presentation at the AEA conference in Arhus; Renwick and Johnson, UHI PG students of the
 year in 2017 and 2019, respectively; Ackerman, Robertson medal for the most outstanding
 Carnegie PhD scholarship applicant in 2019.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The transition from UHI Department of Archaeology to the UHI Archaeology Institute in 2015
 involved considerable restructuring, new facilities and forward planning. Its success to date has
 depended on the fully integrated structure research, teaching and commercial/consultancy and
 on financial sustainability which has been predicated on carefully staged development. The
 ambitious aim the future regionalisation of the Institute will be realised through careful planning
 and support from UHI for Archaeology as a priority for development.

 Research Income
 Research income for the UoA 2014-20 totals £2,625,396. Since 2014, research funding has
 increased and continues to rise annually with income for 2020 approaching £600,000, a
 significant achievement for a relatively modest research staff base. (Figure 3). Funders include:
 Research Councils (e.g. AHRC, British Academy, Royal Society of Edinburgh, local government
 (e.g. OIC) and national bodies (e.g. HES), Learned Societies (e.g. Society of Antiquaries of
 Scotland), UK-based charities (e.g. Carnegie, NLHF) and due to strong research impact,
 business/industry grants (e.g. Road Transport Scotland A9 Academy). Additionally, over the
 REF period there has been a steady stream of EU funding. Maintaining this diversity in funding
 source is seen as key to long term sustainability.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Investment in staffing and mentoring for new researchers has led to an increase in successful
 funding bids to UKRI and EU, both as lead partners and through collaborations. Examples
 include the joint AHRC/DFG LIFTE project (1st Feb 2020 onwards, AHRC value £355k, total
 value £779k; Gibbon, Mainland, Harland) and ongoing research under the GCRF PITCH Cook
 Islands (£35.5k) (Downes, Richards). The Carnegie Trust and the British Academy have been a
 further significant source of funding (e.g. Timpany, £29k, Bay of Ireland Palaeolandscapes;
 Mainland, £84k. Herding economies, sustainability and resilience in Viking/Norse Orkney). A key
 objective for the next REF cycle will be to increase the proportion of income generated through
 further successful UKRI funding.

 Income generation for primary research through fieldwork has largely been pump-primed
 through small grant applications (e.g. to bodies such as OIC, Orkney Archaeological Society,
 Royal Society Edinburgh, NLHF) but which has none-the-less generated significant funding and
 activity over the census period. The ‘pilot’ work seeded by these and other ‘prime-pump’ funding
 sources is now enabling larger UKRI funding applications, such as the LIFTE project, and further
 larger grant applications are underway (e.g. for Ness of Brodgar; Skaill; Cook Islands). KE
 activities feature prominently in our research, a strength which draws on collaboration with our
 commercial archaeology wing, ORCA. Here, funding sources include HES, Scottish Forestry and
 NLHF - during the REF period, we have had six successful NLHF projects as partners and one
 as project lead (e.g. Northern Isles Landscape Partnership Tombs o’ the North - £59k; Kirkwall
 Townscape Heritage Initiative (THI), £30k). The Ness of Brodgar project is a significant source of
 research income, totalling £651k. This has largely been funded by charitable and personal
 donations but has latterly (2018) attracted EU Leader funding for a future development strategy.
 Future objectives are to capitalise on the opportunity for impact generated by KE activities to
 replace EU funding through, e.g. greater participation in Innovation and Challenge funding
 schemes relating to catalysing impact income.

 We have success in competitive funding for PGR students. This includes a SGS AHRC CDA
 (Rivers) and Carnegie (Ackermann) PhD studentships with a further Carnegie studentship co-
 supervised with UHI History (Worth). EU funding has provided studentships through ESF
 bursaries (Keir, Blanz, Bratt) while industry funding has supported a further PhD (Sybenga;
 Forestry Scotland) and an MRes (Pavilionyte, Road Transport Scotland). Securing funding for
 PhDs is a challenge post-Brexit and remains a strategic objective.

 Infrastructure and facilities

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UHI Archaeology Institute is a self-contained unit within a fully accessible purpose built wing
 of Orkney College UHI. An upgrade of facilities enabled by the creation of the Institute added to
 an already existing well-equipped resource. Facilities include artefact storage and handling
 laboratory, vehicles (four- wheel drive vehicle, crew bus and minibus), geophysical survey
 equipment (magnetometers, resistivity, GPR, EM, Magnetic Susceptibility), and relevant
 software), sub-bottom profiler for marine survey, laser scanner and EDMs, excavation
 equipment sufficient for large field investigations and mobile site hut. New facilities and
 equipment added subsequently are laboratories, finds processing rooms and an environmental
 support unit, and a new minibus. Institute researchers additionally have access to the resources
 (from equipment through to expertise/field knowledge) at other specialist centres within the wider
 UHI network (e.g. Environmental Research Institute (ERI) – specialist microscopy; facilities for
 biomolecular analysis; Scottish terrestrial and marine ecosystems); Agronomy Institute (facilities
 for field-trials; N. Atlantic agronomy); Rivers and Lochs Institute (facilities for molecular genetics;
 aquatic ecosystems). We continue to invest annually through use of BEIS funding and other
 sources for example the recent REG Covid-19 uplift funding will be used to furnish a new
 laboratory space for zooarchaeology and provide additional provision for working with
 volunteers.

 Environmental archaeology has grown to be an important area of our research profile; the
 Institute now has two dedicated laboratories, housing modern reference collections for
 zooarchaeology/archaeobotanical research, microscopy and image analysis facilities, and with
 additional environmental processing and materials processing facilities. UHI Investment in this
 area, though the Institute start-up funds and other sources (e.g. BEIS) underpins projects such
 as the Bay of Ireland (Timpany, Carnegie) and LIFTE (Mainland/Harland, AHRC/DFG). Further
 expansion in this area is a strategic aim, to fill current gaps in archaeological science capability
 (e.g. soil science, biomolecules, osteoarchaeology) and to strengthen existing interdisciplinary
 collaborations with the UHI centres named above with a view to establishing specialist hubs for
 science-based archaeology across the UHI. These intra-institutional collaborations add
 significantly to our research capacity, e.g. currently supporting three research students (with
 Mainland, Timpany, Harland) and a KE project on heritage cereals/beer production (Timpany),
 and contribute to the overall resilience of the UoA.

 Art and archaeology is another growth area. Here Institute researchers benefit from the art and
 creative practice facilities within the Art and Design Department in Orkney College, including
 open plan studio, workshop and technical facilities for printmaking, photography and textiles.

 The Orkney Historic Environment Record is located within the Institute (as is the Regional
 Archaeologist), which is an outstanding research resource for staff and students. As an adjunct,
 we also hold an extensive aerial photographic archive for the north of Scotland. The UHI has
 invested heavily in online library resources, which has supported staff and students well in the
 Covid-19 crisis. Each UHI campus has its own physical library and staff and students can borrow
 books swiftly from the intra-UHI network which gives access therefore to collections which
 support the research of different disciplines and regions. The UHI Orkney College library has an
 excellent and wide-ranging archaeology collection built up to complement the exceptional
 holdings in the Orkney Library and Archives. The Archaeology Institute library collections have
 grown through steady flow of prominent bequests, which attests to our rising research profile.
 Work is ongoing with staff, research students and volunteers to catalogue these collections to
 integrate them into the UHI Library holdings and this affords a novel form of training and
 knowledge exchange.

 Orkney College policy on Equity and Diversity ensures that reasonable adjustments will be made
 to accommodate specific learning needs and other forms of support, e.g. through assistive
 technology and specialist equipment according to need, assessed by the College Learning
 Support Officer. This support can extent to fieldwork and other off-site contexts, such as
 excavation or standing building survey, with access to both these areas having been supported
 in this UoA.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborative research and contribution to the discipline
 Collaborative research has been of vital importance in the development and growth of the
 Archaeology Institute and is a key part of our research planning objectives. An example is
 Downes’ membership of ICOMOS Climate Change and Heritage Working Group (CCHWG)
 leading directly to international collaboration with lead investigators from Queen's University
 Belfast, HES, African World Heritage Fund, local partner organisations Tanzanian Ministry of
 Natural Resources and Tourism, and Nigerian National Commission for Museums and
 Monuments, and other international partner organisations including ICOMOS, Historic England,
 the International National Trust Organisation and the Union of Concerned Scientists on the CVI-
 Africa project (AHRC/DCMS-funded, December 2020-21). In addition, we have used the rich
 archaeological heritage of our region strategically to create opportunities for new collaborations,
 e.g., though initiatives such as the RSE-funded Landmarks workshop (Mainland, Edmonds)
 which brought 20 plus academics specialising in landscape archaeology to Orkney in 2015,
 facilitating a Memorandum of Understanding (2017) with the Deutsches Archäologisches Institut
 Römisch-Germanische Kommission (DAI) and ongoing geophysical survey projects with DAI
 and UC Dublin as part of the Landscapes of Change Rousay project (Moore; Lee). A MoU is
 also in place with the University of Willamette, here enabling international research connections
 between the US and the Ness of Brodgar (Card). Our Gateway to the Atlantic: Climate change
 threats to heritage and island sustainability in the Northern Isles of Scotland joint with Bradford
 University is part of a larger umbrella program North Atlantic Encounters sponsored by the North
 Atlantic Biocultural Organization (www.nabohome.org) (of which AI staff have long been a part)
 and the HfE Circumpolar Observatory which has been endorsed (2020) by the UNESCO
 BRIDGES (Broadening the Application of the Sustainability Science Approach) coalition
 (Mainland, Downes).

 Overall, Archaeology Institute UoA staff are involved as PIs or C0-Is on 30 national and
 international collaborative projects and all submitted staff are participants in one or more
 international collaborations. These include several large internationally funded projects, such as
 LIFTE (AHRC/DFG) with the German Maritime Museum and the U. of Lincoln, research
 (Mainland) on the National Science Foundation (NSF)-funded (£779K) Assessing the
 Distribution and Variability of Marine Mammals through Archaeology, Ancient DNA, and History
 in the North Atlantic led by Western Carolina University, and the EU COST project Ocean Past
 Northern Seas (Harland). Nationally our staff are collaborating with colleagues at more than 19
 UK institutions. Notable examples here include Richard’s role in the Stones of Stonehenge
 project (University College London, Bournemouth) and Timpany’s Carnegie/HES-funded
 Scottish Intertidal Archaeology projects (Birmingham, St Andrews, Aberdeen).

 Audiences, research users and beneficiaries, and reach
 The UHI AI has experience designing and delivering outreach and learning at a range of scales
 and locations, and the Archaeology Institute is an approved outreach and engagement supplier
 for HES. Our approach to engagement in Orkney encompasses engagement with our target
 audiences of primary and secondary schools, archaeology and heritage societies (e.g. Orkney
 Archaeology Society), youth organisations (e.g. Orkney Youth Café, Orkney Connect and
 Orkney Young Archaeologists Club), development Trusts (e.g. REW Development Trust) along
 with adult education (evening classes and short courses) and volunteer training opportunities in
 the field and laboratory, plus contributions to Further Education access and training courses at
 Orkney College (e.g. Pathways to Independence, School Link courses). The figures below for
 the volunteer activities and number of volunteers days and hours worked at Ness of Brodgar
 over the years show the huge scale of volunteer effort:
                                      Ness of Brodgar 2012-19
                  Volunteer Type                            Volunteers
                                                 No. of     Total Days  Total Hours
                                                People       Worked       Worked


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                 1. Fieldwork                    592        11,840        82,880
                 2. Finds Team                   142         2,840        19,880
                 3. Meeters &                     86         2,408        16,856
                    Greeters
                 4. Open Day                      180          360         2,520
                 Total                          1,000       17,448       122,136

 Our engagement with heritage organisations extends to supporting grant applications, partnering
 on projects and providing opportunities for members to participate (e.g. Orkney Archaeology
 Society, Stromness Museum, REW Development Trust).
              Lifelong Learning and Outreach: Activity and Participant Numbers
                      Year              No. of Activities      No. of Participants
              2015                               37                      652
              2016                               53                    1,391
              2017                               61                    1,238
              2018                               44                      784
              2019                               47                    1,141
              Total                             242                    5,206
 The number of participants engaging in our activities is significant, as shown above. The Kirkwall
 THI project 2016 used school classroom and then field based workshops to take 105 Kirkwall
 Grammar School S3 pupils through geophysical survey and excavation at a site in Kirkwall town
 centre (additional visits from 183 pupils). Similar school programmes were run for the Caithness
 Broch Project 2017-18 (280 Pupils from six schools in Caithness) and during the Mapping
 Magnus project. Other examples of community projects are the HONO WHS Fieldwalking
 projects (2016-19, 164 participants) and St Magnus Graffiti Project (2018-19, 66 participants)
 with Orkney Archaeology Society, and “Archaeology Plus” with Orkney Blide Trust mental health
 charity (2018, 20 participants). The HONO WHS Community Map 2016 was delivered using a
 series of workshops at the local primary school, day care centre and for the local community
 (HES-funded, 81 participants) – this is a good example of our intergenerational approach.

 During the REF period we have developed a global media platform for sharing our research and
 activities widely. We have developed a highly successful range of social media output using
 Facebook, Twitter, Instagram which is used to share research, outreach activities, and to recruit
 students and volunteers, and points readers including the press to the AI blog
 (https://archaeologyorkney.com/) which is used to host details stories, host research and
 promote outreach activities. Our YouTube channel is used to share public talks, project related
 videos and training support material. News media in UK and around the world draw upon the
 Archaeology Institute output as a source of ground-breaking discoveries and viewpoints. The
 exceptional reach of our research blogs can be seen in Figure 4.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 This successful strategy in the use of social media can be seen in the follow-through of
 unusually high amounts of appearances of our research in news outlets and popular magazines.
 Figure 5 shows a selection of sites and the media follow up. Across the REF period our research
 was featured in magazines at least 63 times of which 11 features were in international
 magazines.




 We have taken the skills developed in inclusivity using digital media with us into our PITCH
 research in the Cook Islands; in conjunction with the Cook Islands Govt Ministry of Culture our
 Facebook page www.facebook.com/archaeologyci was utilised to live stream interviews and
 fieldwork progress and was accessed interactively by Cooks Islands Maoris both in the diaspora


                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and in New Zealand and Australia. Our research has also featured each year in Cook Islands’
 newspaper articles and radio and TV broadcast.

 Staff have contributed to popular and innovative format books over the period, examples of
 which are Conversations with Magic Stones 2017 (Edmonds, Anderson-Whymark, Thomas),
 Orkney Book of Runes 2019 (Ljosland), Pathways to the Cosmos 2020 (Downes) and Ness of
 Brodgar: Digging Deeper (Card) of which 8,000 were printed in 2015 and 10,000 re-printed in
 2017.

 Wider contributions to economy and society
 Of our wider impacts not captured in the ICSs, we would select some highlights. Within impacts
 on Creativity, culture and society, we have presented a number of museum and gallery
 exhibitions including: The Listening to the Piers project (Lee) exhibition (Stromness Museum,
 2016) based around a series of innovative art-science workshops on a ‘piers day’ in Stromness,
 Orkney (210 participants); HONO WHS Field Walking project (Lee) culminated in an exhibition at
 Orkney Museum curated by the participants (Dec 2016-April 2017, 4799 visitors), with one visitor
 commenting “This is real learning”; Orkney: Beside the Ocean of Time (Bevan, AHRC) exhibition
 2017 in the Pier Arts Centre, Stromness; the Stromness Museum exhibition Distant Shores:
 Orkney to Oceania (2020-21, What's on at Stromness Museum | Stromness Museum ) features
 the GCRF PITCH Cook Islands and AHRC Rapa Nui research of Richards and Downes.
 New cultural artefacts include film: Bevan, Downes, Jenkins et al 2014 Wilder Being- art,
 Archaeology and Environment https://vimeo.com/112154339) and digital exhibits were created in
 Heritage on the Edge (Downes) (Heritage on the Edge — Google Arts & Culture).

 In Public Policy Our researchers are at the vanguard of mitigation policy for climate change
 impacts on heritage: Downes is leading the application and implementation of climatic
 vulnerability indices as a panel member of ICOMOS CCHWG, authored Sustainable
 Development Goals and co-authored High Ambition sections of ICOMOS The Future of Our
 Pasts report (Future of Our Pasts: Engaging Cultural Heritage in Climate Action. July 1 2019.
 Paris: ICOMOS). In 2020 the 20th ICOMOS Triennial General Assembly adopted Resolution
 20GA/15, the resolution CCHWG collectively put forward on Cultural Heritage and the Climate
 Emergency.

 For the Environment with respect to Climate Change new methods and techniques that have
 led to benefits through Climate Vulnerability Index, first employed in a Cultural WHS context in
 HONO 2019 (Downes in Climate Risk Assessment for the Heart of Neolithic Orkney World
 Heritage Site. The subsequent Values-based Climate Change Risk Assessment: Piloting the
 Climate Vulnerability Index for Cultural Heritage in Africa (Downes) project will work with the UK
 Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS) and other similar projects to develop a
 longer term and sustainable Overseas Development Assistance funded workstream, to respond
 effectively to climate change impacts on cultural heritage focused on developing countries.

 In Understanding, learning and participation our strong commitment to participatory
 community archaeology is underpinned by educational initiatives such as Learning for
 Sustainability education and citizen science in including Downes/Keir/Richards research and
 output on Rapa Nui. Timpany’s research with the HE/HLF CITiZAN project has worked with
 volunteers providing training in and understanding of environmental change and climatic impacts
 in coastally inundated areas of England.

 We have two impact examples which contribute to processes of commemoration,
 memorialisation and reconciliation: Magnus 900 celebratory year in Orkney (2017),
 commemorating the 900th anniversary of the martyrdom of St Magnus comprised two elements:
 Mapping Magnus (Lee/Gibbon, Leader, OIC) comprising community archaeology, research and
 training project engaged local residents, school children and tourists providing hands-on training
 in research and fieldwork activities. Participant numbers (total 394) greatly exceeded the project
 targets, including 69 volunteers for field activities and 166 school pupils from six primary
 schools. The project blogs attracted 12,500 world-wide views. Key outputs were two public talks

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (total no.110), a technical project report, contributions to Canmore, and two new information
 boards in Birsay. The AI’s research underpinned the second element, St Magnus Way (Gibbon),
 a new 58-mile-long distance pilgrimage route created for Magnus 900 (with Orkney Pilgrimage).
 Historical research, grant support and volunteer opportunities resulted in the St Magnus Way
 website and also academic outputs (Gibbon, Moore). Commemorating the victims of the Orkney
 witchcraft trials resulted in the creation of a permanent memorial in Kirkwall 2018-20 (Ljosland,
 with Gibbon and Lee, OIC, Orkney Heritage Society). Events leading up to the installation of the
 monument comprised a Creative Day of intergenerational workshops (40 people); Memorial
 Inauguration Day and Conference (audience 100) and New Orkney Antiquarian Journal special
 edition launch virtual seminar (audience 90 worldwide).

 Wider influence and peer recognition




 Examples to highlight include the number of international lectures and presentations. This
 includes keynote papers at the World Archaeological Congress (Kyoto- Card), 42 World Heritage
 Committee session (Manama Bahrain, Downes), Card’s award of the Kress Travelling
 Lectureship from the Archaeological Institute of America (2016-17), following on from his lecture
 tour in Texas USA in 2015.
 Colleagues are regularly invited to present and offer sessions at major international conferences
 (Figure 6, e.g. Timpany - INQUA Dublin; Thomas - International Symposium on Cultural Heritage
 Renmin University China; Gibbon - Viking Congress, Copenhagen. Downes has been invited to
 deliver the Dalrymple Lecture Series 2020-21 Archaeology and Sustainability: Island
 Perspectives 2020 (postponed to 2021 due to Covid-19) (Scottish Archaeological Journal, 42(1),
 pp. v–vi Dalrymple Lecture Series 2020–1 | Scottish Archaeological Journal (uhi.ac.uk)). We
 have hosted conferences for learned societies, such as Contemporary and Historical
 Archaeology in Theory (CHAT) ‘Rurality’ 2016 (Lee, Downes, Thomas) and the Association of
 Environmental Archaeologists’ Spring Conference ‘Isolation and Connectivity’ (Harland) 2016,
 followed by Archaeomalacology ICAZ (International Council for Zooarchaeology) Meeting, all
 attracting significant number of overseas delegates. We act as reviewers for a substantial
 number of academic journals, both in the UK and abroad (Downes, Gibbon, Harland, Ljosland,
 Mainland, Richards, Thomas), and for grant council applications (Downes, Ljosland, Mainland,
 Richards). Downes is on the review panel for the AHRC SGSAH studentships. A number of staff
 are journal editors (Downes, Gibbon, Mainland, Ljosland, Thomas), and editors of journal special
 editions (Ljosland and Thomas). Downes has been granted funding to be visiting researcher at
 Uppsala University Campus Gotland to engage with the Interdisciplinary Island and Seascape
 Research Cluster and the Sustainable Heritage Research Forum and Downes has been invited
 to DAI as Visiting Researcher (both postponed to 2021 due to Covid-19).We have representation
 on Government and national body committees (e.g. Strategic Historic Environment Forum HES-
 led Climate Change committee, Downes) and international committees (Downes- ICOMOS
 CCHWG, Mainland – Viking Congress). Staff also advise government agencies and public
 bodies on the management and interpretation of WHS where research flows into public

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement e.g. Richards 2016- International member of Comité scientifique for WHS bid for
 Carnac megalithic landscape, Morbihan, France; 2020 - Heritage practice advisor for WHS
 bid The passage tomb landscape of Sligo, Ireland.

 Finally, the Ness of Brodgar was Awarded the Shanghai Archaeology Forum Field Discovery
 Award in 2019, which was followed by a Motion in Scottish Parliament lodged by MSP Liam
 McArthur (S5M-19892) of congratulations thanking the AI team for ‘furthering knowledge and
 awareness of Neolithic life in Orkney through their outstanding and innovative efforts’




                                                                                       Page 17
