Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 16 Economics and Econometrics

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy
 a) OVERVIEW AND RESEARCH STRUCTURE
 The Department of Economics (“the Department”) at the University of Southampton is one of the
 oldest economics departments in the UK with a sustained and proven track record of cutting-edge
 research, spanning the entire scope of modern Economics. We are one of the five departments in
 the School of Economic, Social and Political Sciences and a community of 32 (27.55 FTE of which
 77% Male/ 23% Female; 16% UK/84% non-UK) research active academics producing research
 and delivering teaching and supervision to more than 150 Masters and PhD students and about
 600 undergraduates.

 Our key strategic objectives are to produce innovative research that furthers and deepens our
 understanding of economic behaviour and societal problems, informs, and influences economic
 and social policy, explores interdisciplinary approaches to big questions, whilst at the same time
 maintaining global recognition within our own discipline.

 Underpinning these objectives is a research environment guided by the principles of academic
 rigour, relevance and originality, collaboration, inclusiveness, knowledge sharing, and by the
 overarching concern of delivering societal impact.

 These core values have enabled us to achieve our objectives in the form of high quality
 publications (over 240 published outputs during the period), sustained grant income (awards in
 excess of £7 million as PIs and Co-Is with a UoA16 share in excess of £2 million), policy relevance
 of our research (e.g. impact on UK migration policy, impact on EU mergers policies, impact on
 improving UK migration statistics), our direct involvement in both national and international policy-
 making addressing global challenges such as migration (e.g. Wahba as a member of the UK
 Migration Advisory Committee (MAC)), competition policy (e.g. Ornaghi advising the EU on
 mergers policy) and crime (e.g. Giulietti and McConnell’s ESRC funded research on measuring
 the cost of crime in the UK), numerous interdisciplinary initiatives (e.g. our research initiative on
 the credibility of scientific research), the national and international recognition of our research staff
 in the form of State Honours and Fellowships (e.g. Wahba awarded an OBE for services to
 Economic Policy in the Queen’s Birthday Honours Lists 2020, Zenou and Phillips elected Fellows
 of the Econometric Society, Wahba elected member of the Council of the Royal Economic Society
 and Academia Europaea), and the employment and publication success of our doctoral scholars
 benefitting from our rigorous PhD programme (placements at Monash, Munich, Kings, Exeter, UT-
 Sydney, UCD,OECD, NIESR, World Bank and others).

 With more than 18 nationalities and four continents being represented amongst its members, the
 Department is also proud of its rich diversity and international tradition. We strive to create an
 environment that is diverse and inclusive through our active participation in the Athena SWAN
 Charter and the fact that equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) considerations are embedded in
 all our processes (see Section 2c).

 Research in the Department is structured around four interconnected research groups (RGs),
 each contributing to the Department’s aims within their own field-specific theoretical and applied
 paradigms.

 Applied Economics including applied microeconomics, labour economics, development
 economics, economics of education, applied industrial organisation; (Giulietti, McConnell,
 Mentzakis, Ornaghi, Paul, Tonei , Vlassopoulos , Wahba, Zenou).



                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Econometrics including financial econometrics, time-series econometrics, statistical theory;
 (Bhattacharya, Hillier, Kyriacou, Magdalinos, Olmo, Phillips, Pitarakis, Podivinsky, Schluter).

 Economic Theory and Experimental Economics including microeconomic theory, industrial
 organisation, behavioural economics, experimental economics; (Ferreira, Gall, Hellmann, Ianni,
 Kellner, Kwiek, Maniadis, Ozbek, Tong).

 Macroeconomics including macroeconomic theory, international economics, quantitative
 macroeconomics, household finance; (Calvo-Pardo, Forlati, Hatcher, Mennuni, Stepanchuk).

 Each RG is led by a senior colleague whose role is to ensure that the objectives and activities
 align with the broader Departmental strategy and, more generally, to help support its vitality and
 sustainability. This committee-like, field-specific structure is key to aggregating researchers’
 strengths into a coherent and dynamic group whose overall expertise is respected and recognised
 internationally.

 Most of our research staff are active in more than one RG, reflecting an unusually high degree of
 collaboration on research projects, grant applications, authorships, and conference organisation.
 This strong culture of collaboration not only fosters cross-fertilisation of research across fields
 (e.g., micro/macro, micro-theory/experiments, econometrics/finance), but also broadens individual
 research networks (essential for ECRs), improves research productivity, and maintains the vitality
 and sustainability of our research. This culture of collaboration is the result of our recruitment
 strategy, which emphasised the hiring of ECRs (often newly completed PhDs with promising
 pipelines) balanced across our groups with the aim of offering them a supportive environment in
 which to rapidly evolve into successful academics.

 Good cooperation between colleagues within the Department is mirrored by its external network,
 both nationally and internationally. The Department engages formally in significant joint research
 projects, grants and research events involving academics, external University departments and
 international organisations. These include Chicago, Stanford, Northwestern in the US; Toronto,
 McMaster, UBC in Canada; USP in Brazil; Bocconi, Carlos III-Madrid, Mannheim, Paris School of
 Economics, Gothenburg in continental Europe; Monash, Perth, Renmin, BNU, Jinan, SMU-
 Singapore in Australasia; OECD, World Bank and EU Commission (see Section 4a).

 The vitality of our research environment is reflected in how the outside world perceives our
 contributions. According to the IDEAS/RePEc rankings for instance, our research in Econometrics,
 Experimental Economics and the Economics of Migration places us in the top 10% of Institutions
 in the world. The Department as a whole ranks among the top 25% of Economics Departments
 globally (top 12.5% in Europe). The Department also underwent a post REF2014 external quality
 assessment in late 2015. A panel of two distinguished reviewers (Professors Ian Jewitt, Oxford,
 and Richard Smith, Cambridge) and six internal reviewers from other disciplines commented very
 favourably on our research organisation, quality, and roadmap for the future.


 b) RESEARCH and IMPACT STRATEGY
 To achieve our strategic objectives, our research and impact strategy since REF2014 relied on
 creating a “management framework” conducive to producing high quality research, to incentivising
 and facilitating impact, to raising awareness of the importance of funding and interdisciplinary
 opportunities, and to recognising that a strong and vibrant PhD programme is a key component of
 a research-led Department. This process-driven approach to ensuring quality has been vital for
 maintaining the Department’s ascendant trajectory (e.g., annual growth of 15% in funding awards
 over the past 5 years), while cushioning us against adverse shocks hitting our sector. Our
 objectives also align us closely with the University’s commitment to “research that makes a real
 impact on society’s biggest challenges”.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    b-i) Creating an environment and governance conducive to achieving impact
    The Department facilitates and incentivises impact through multiple channels.
    -   To deliver our goals the Department has created two new senior leadership roles, Head of
        Research (HoR) and Head of Impact (HoI), held by two professorial staff
        (Wahba/Vlassopoulos). These roles are important in ensuring that potential research
        synergies within the Department are fully exploited. The HoR provides feedback on all
        funding applications, particularly on pathways to impact. The HoI has responsibility for
        raising awareness and encouraging an impactful approach to research and for identifying
        and supporting specific Impact Case Studies (ICS) by helping staff evidence and collate
        the societal impact of their research. Examples of events include an Impact Training
        session with the University’s Public Policy|Southampton (PP|S) unit on how to achieve
        impact and engaging with policymakers (05/2016, 10/2020) and an Impact Clinic on
        drafting an ICS led by a consultant (11/2016)).
    -   Impact is facilitated by our close relationship with PP|S which regularly initiates interactions
        between our researchers and policy makers. This relationship has been particularly fruitful
        and beneficial to the Department as detailed in b(ii) below.
    -   Impact is incentivised through the yearly appraisal of our staff. This is an important review
        process, during which senior appraisers guide ECR and mid-level colleagues towards
        publicising their academic research and linking it with policy environments, while also
        emphasising the importance of impact for career progression. This process is aligned with
        the University’s staff policies as described in REF5a.
    -   The Department views seminars as key events for maintaining the vitality of our
        environment. Our Wednesday seminar series brings world renowned researchers to
        present their work in Southampton. Other initiatives include a lunch-time Behavioural
        Economics seminar series and a weekly workshop for staff to present their early research.
        During the Covid19 pandemic the Department also initiated an on-line seminar series in
        collaboration with colleagues from Bristol and Warwick (POLECONUK Webinar).
    -   The Department views recruitment and promotions as essential inputs to our research
        and impact strategy (e.g., Giulietti joined us from a Research Director position at IZA, both
        strengthening the quality of our applied group and greatly enhancing our policy
        involvement, including a contribution to our ICSs). This view also parallels the wider
        University strategy of “developing world leading academic staff” (REF5a).
    -   The Department’s commitment to its research objectives is reflected in its efforts to
        facilitate research by providing an environment where teaching loads are kept at
        sustainable levels. A workload model introduced in 2016 has been particularly useful in
        this respect, allowing for a more efficient allocation of resources. ECRs benefit from further
        teaching reductions and are provided with dedicated funds and mentoring by senior
        colleagues during the first few years of their employment. These initiatives are also closely
        linked to our commitment to EDI considerations (see Section 2c). Having a flexible and
        transparent workload model that can adapt and recognise staff members’ personal
        circumstances or help highlight workload imbalances is an important means of ensuring
        reasonable expectations of work-life balance and a workload that is compatible with the
        principles of equality and inclusion.
    -   Our environment has been driven also by the view that a rigorous PhD programme is a
        fundamental prerequisite for the vitality and sustainability of a research-oriented
        Department. We have strengthened our PhD students’ management and since 2014 their
        performance is monitored through a University-wide online system of evaluations and
        appraisals. We have also introduced a PhD job-market coordinator (Maniadis) to mentor
        and support students during the job market process. Our PGRs also benefit from the
        University-wide Doctoral College which coordinates and enhances training across the
        University, including personalised Professional Development Programmes (see REF5a).

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    b-ii) Evidencing the achievement of our strategic aims: Research Excellence, Impact
    and Interdisciplinarity

    -   Producing innovative, state-of-the-art research: Over the REF period, each of our RG
        has published in general interest and field-specific journals such as Econometrica, JPE,
        JEEA, EJ, IER, EER, JoE, ET, JBES, JoLE, JDE, JET, JME, JIE, RFS, GEB, and others.

    -   Producing impactful research: Our 3 ICSs and other policy involvements demonstrate
        that our process-driven approach is successful at connecting our academic research with
        policymakers and other stakeholders:

        Our engagement with PP|S resulted in a policy study by Giulietti and Wahba assessing the
        economic impact of international students in the UK. This was initially in response to a
        Government consultation request but grew into a major initiative to help the ONS improve
        the way it measures international student migration (see ICS16_01: Improving the
        Measurement of international student migration in the UK – Giulietti/Wahba). The impact
        associated with this work has been explicitly recognised by the ESRC with Giulietti and
        Wahba announced as winners of its “2020 Celebrating Impact Prize” in the outstanding
        public policy impact category. The ESRCs Shortlisting Panel’s feedback highlighted that
        their decision was due to “how the impact engendered by our research and engagement
        with the ONS has resulted in broad changes. They noted how more accurate data has
        changed predictions and strategies nationwide and has ultimately shaped how the country
        operates and plan for the future.”

        Our research on the interactions between mergers and innovation has resulted in a policy
        partnership with the European Commission and a vital contribution to the implementation
        of merger control assessment in Europe. Ornaghi is currently advising the Department
        of Competition of the EU Commission on the impact of competition policies on innovation
        in the context of the Pharmaceutical industry (see ICS16_02: Shaping European
        Commission merger policy to preserve innovation in the pharmaceutical and chemical
        industries).

        Our direct impact on UK immigration policy is evidenced through the membership of one
        of our Professors (Wahba) on the MAC to the UK Home Office, advising the Government
        on immigration matters. Professor Wahba is one of the five UK Economists appointed to
        the MAC since 2012 and reappointed in 2015 and 2018. Building upon recent work within
        the MAC, she has also assisted the World Bank and the Malaysian Government in
        designing a skill-based immigration policy - see ICS16_03: Shaping UK and International
        Policies on Skills and Migration. Wahba’s early appointment to the MAC followed her
        cutting-edge research on migration policy highlighted in our REF2014 submission that also
        included an ICS based on her agenda at the time.

        Other areas in which the Department’s research has had notable societal impact include
        advising a major water utility company (Southern Water) on their water metering
        programme (Ornaghi); Our expertise in Labour Economics resulted in important policy
        outcomes at the local government level, such as a policy report on the transition to
        Universal Credit for Winchester City Council (Vlassopoulos/Giulietti/Wahba). Our
        engagement with PP|S resulted in numerous other initiatives e.g., a project by Giulietti
        commissioned by the Home Office to investigate the impact of immigration on the well-
        being of the UK-born population; a response by Gall and Maniadis to the Commons
        Science and Technology Committee’s research integrity inquiry. The Department has
        also showcased its research to the wider public through Paul’s public engagements via the
        British Library.




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    -   Commitment to interdisciplinarity and contributions to societal debates:
        The Department’s research has made important contributions to the debate on the
        Credibility of Empirical Research, anticipating its importance prior to it becoming a major
        international concern. In 2015 we organised an international conference (Maniadis/Gall)
        followed by a multidisciplinary roundtable on the credibility crisis (Medicine, Psychology,
        Demography) in cooperation with colleagues from Psychology. Interdisciplinarity is crucial
        to address big challenges in science and world-leading experts such as Ioannidis
        (Stanford, Medicine), Manski (Northwestern), Camerer (CalTech), Giner-Sorolla (Kent,
        Psychology) gave plenary talks and were hosted by us. This on-going theme in the
        Department’s agenda has generated numerous outputs (e.g., special issue of the
        Economic Journal (10/2017), a PLoS-Biology article joint with Ioannidis, an article in
        Research Policy, a volume on Replication in Experimental Economics in the Research in
        Experimental Economics series and a report on the “credibility of research and scientists’
        incentives” submitted to the UK Parliament.

        Our strengths in Behavioural Economics have also led to a joint initiative with Engineering
        on a study that evaluated behavioural interventions on energy conservation via an on-site
        energy-saving experiment (Ornaghi, EPSRC).

        Our commitment to interdisciplinary research is also reflected in a joint initiative with the
        Schools of Psychology and Mathematical Sciences. The “Modelling Our World: Life under
        the Lens” series of events held in 2015 aimed at fostering interdisciplinary collaborations
        in the application of computer science and mathematical modelling problems of behaviour
        and cognition. This has allowed us to host leading scholars in multidisciplinary research
        (Papadimitriou     (Computer     Science/Berkeley),   Myung      (Psychology/OhioState),
        Wagenmakers (Psychology/Amsterdam), Chater (Behavioural Science/Warwick)).

    -   Research Funding:
        The Department devotes substantial effort to securing external funding. During the REF
        period, staff in the Department have been directly involved in total award values of more
        than £7 million as PIs and Co-Is. Our processes and focus on impact have helped us
        maintain a healthy annual growth of more than 15% in funding awards over the past 5
        years (see section 3).

    -   Disseminating Knowledge through Research-led Events:
        Examples of international conferences include The Review of Economic Studies Tour 2017
        inviting eight of the world’s most promising graduating doctoral students in Economics to
        present their research to audiences in Europe in line with the Review’s tradition to
        encouraging the work of young economists; The Credibility in Scientific Research
        Conference 2015, the Workshop on Financial Econometrics 2017, the Annual Workshop
        on the Economics of Migration (since 2015), the annual Southampton Winter Workshop in
        Economic Theory and others (see section 4).

    -   Nurturing and Developing Young Scholars:
        Most Department members are directly involved with the training of our PGRs because we
        operate a committee-like structure for supervision. Our PhD-workshop series is also an
        important means by which we support our PGRs. The number of papers which staff co-
        author with our PGRs reflects our collegial involvement whilst also facilitating their job
        market success as reflected in our placement outcomes (see section 2).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c) REVIEW OF REF2014 OBJECTIVES
 In the REF2014 the Department formulated the following strategic objectives: to maintain its role
 as an “internationally leading centre of research excellence evidenced through quality
 publications, research collaborations, funding bids, impact, interdisciplinarity and a strengthened
 PhD programme”.

 We were successful in achieving these objectives as described above and in Sections 2-4 below.
 11 new staff were appointed with a focus on scholars with interests in both theory and applications.
 This has helped the Department strengthen its policy-oriented and multidisciplinary research.

 We further strengthened our Applied Group by recruiting Giulietti, who previously was Research
 Director at the IZA and McConnell from the IFS. These appointments generated multiple funding,
 publication and impact-related successes as mentioned above. Members of this group hold
 multiple editorial responsibilities. Zenou became an elected fellow of the Econometric Society. The
 group expanded its agenda on Migration under the leadership of Wahba. Two members
 (Giulietti/Vlassopoulos) were promoted to Chairs. In line with our research objectives, we have
 also recently recruited a Health Economist (Tonei) from York University, with expertise in public
 health and labour economics.

 The Economic Theory/Experimental group benefited from recruiting Kellner (PhD- Northwestern)
 who joined us from Bonn, Ozbek (PhD-Cornell) from St-Andrews, Hellmann (PhD-Bielefeld) from
 Bielefeld and Ferreira (PhD-Aix-Marseille) from U-Lyon. The launch of our Experimental Lab has
 led to a flourishing number of projects including a taught module on the subject. Kellner in
 collaboration with Gall and Ianni organised the Review Economic Studies tour 2017. Another
 noteworthy initiative of this RG was its contribution to the debate on the credibility of scientific
 research. Members of this group also benefitted from promotions (Gall/Maniadis to Associate
 Professorships).

 The Macroeconomics group was strengthened with four new members specialising in
 computational macroeconomics. Forlati (PhD-UPF) and Stepanchuk (PhD-UPenn) joined us from
 EPFL and Hatcher (PhD-Cardiff) from Glasgow. A novel agenda that explores the role of
 expectations as drivers of big events such as financial crises, led by Hatcher, was awarded a grant
 as part of the ESRCs “Rebuilding Macroeconomics” programme. A collaboration agreement on
 the project “Optimal Taxation: A modern macroeconomic approach” funded by the Research
 Council of Norway was also initiated between our Department (Stepanchuk) and Oslo University.

 The Econometrics group was joined by Olmo (PhD-UC3M) at the end of the REF2014 window.
 Olmo’s agenda in Financial Econometrics expanded the group’s expertise to empirical asset
 pricing. The group also developed an agenda on spatial techniques with contributions from
 Hillier/Kyriacou/Phillips. Pitarakis extended his research to model selection and forecasting in high
 dimensional settings and Magdalinos developed methods for the detection of predictability. The
 group was awarded multiple grants from BA/Leverhulme and continued running the yearly
 “Southampton Econometric Workshop” organised by Hillier and Phillips. The group benefitted from
 the recruitment of Bhattacharya (PhD-QMUL) specialising in quantile regressions and the
 modelling of auctions. A senior member of this group (Phillips) is also an elected Fellow of the
 Econometric Society.

 Our goal to expand our PhD programme has been constrained by the challenging environment
 facing research funding. We have maintained a healthy intake of PGRs during the period, but plan
 further interventions over the next 5 years (e.g., launch of an MRes programme).




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 d) THE NEXT FIVE YEARS
 The core principles underlying our REF2021 submission have served us well and we do not
 envisage to implement major changes to the strategic aims put in place since 2014 and outlined
 above. The solid governance structure and processes we instituted will sustain and further
 enhance our research environment. Our overarching objective is to maintain a vibrant, quality-led
 Department, producing state-of-the-art research that is rigorous, informs policy and reaches
 beyond our field. Naturally, our research agendas will adapt to novel priorities arising from the
 proliferation of data and technological developments that influence behaviour (e.g., machine
 learning). Our RGs are well equipped to tackle new challenges both theoretically and empirically
 as described below.

 Going forward, we view the following aspects as particularly important:

    -   Departmental Size and RGs:
        Maintaining strength and balance in all our four RGs through a coherent recruitment
        strategy. Our balanced RG structure was an important driver of the prolific inter-field
        collaborations and research-led events taking place in the Department. We also view the
        appointment of ECRs as allowing us to secure the future pipeline of talent of the
        Department and they will therefore continue to be an important aspect of our recruitment.

    -   PhD Programme:
        A second important goal over the next 5 years is to increase our PGR numbers. We will
        explore the creation of Fellowships, blending tuition-wavers with teaching responsibilities.
        The Department has also launched a new MRes Programme, which we expect to be an
        important feeder for our doctoral programme.

    -   Group Specific Objectives:
        Our guiding principle is that each RG consolidates its international excellence and
        branches out into collaborations within and across disciplines. A selection of themes we
        expect to pursue is as follows:

        We aim to utilise our Applied Group’s world-leading expertise on migration policy to expand
        our research towards the important topic of the economics of discrimination (Wahba/
        Giulietti/McConnell) and social networks (Wahba/Zenou/Giulietti). Our expertise in Health
        Economics is also expected to grow with the recruitment of Tonei and the work of Dr
        Mentzakis’ who is currently on secondment with the Allocation Team within NHS-England.

        Our Behavioural Group’s recent contribution to the debate on the credibility of empirical
        research will expand into a new theme of the “economics of scientific institutions” exploring
        the use of economic methodologies in analysing incentives and institutions in science
        (Gall/Maniadis). The same group has also recently started exploring the impact of new
        technologies and media on populist agendas and trust in experts (Maniadis).

        Our Econometrics group will build on its flagship expertise on spatial and time series
        methods to expand its contributions to big data environments (e.g., Hillier and Pitarakis’
        on-going work on high-dimensional matrices, Magdalinos’ work on hypothesis testing
        under matrix normalisations and Olmo’s recent work on prediction with Machine Learning
        methods).

        Our Macroeconomics group has extensive expertise in computational macroeconomics
        but also a growing interest in the influence of housing policies on the Macroeconomy. The
        group also expects to contribute to our understanding of Financial Crises through Hatcher’s
        new project funded by the ESRC and of tax policy via Stepanchuk’s collaboration with Oslo
        University’s researchers.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 e) RESEARCH INTEGRITY, OPEN RESEARCH
    -   Our researchers are committed to upholding the highest standards of integrity in all aspects
        of research in line with the University’s policy as a signatory to the national Concordat to
        support research integrity (see REF5a). All research work undertaken by staff and students
        undergoes ethics approval via the University’s ERGO system. The Department has also a
        dedicated Ethics Champion (Ornaghi), who provides advice on ethics in research and is a
        member of the School Ethics Committee governing ethics approvals. We also require all
        new PGRs/ECRs to undertake ethics and integrity training via two compulsory online
        modules “Ethical Research” and “Research Integrity”. Research integrity has in fact been
        a research theme itself in the Department thanks to Maniadis and Gall’s pioneering
        initiative on credibility.
    -   Research produced by the Department is made public through our open access Discussion
        Paper series. Our outputs are also archived in our institutional repository (ePrints) where
        accepted versions of all published papers are uploaded by our researchers and made
        publicly available where possible.

 2. People
 a) STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
    a-i) Staffing Strategy

 Key drivers & rationale:
 Our staffing strategy is fundamental to our research strategy. A key factor underpinning our
 research environment and the vitality of our research culture is the world-class quality of our staff.
 Our staffing strategy must ensure that we can maintain strength in all areas of economics
 represented by our four RGs and that each RG is given the means to contribute to our overall
 objectives. Despite our small size, we opted for a generalist model with RGs that encompass all
 key areas of Economics. This means that we paid particular attention to the size and composition
 of each RG, making sure that turnover does not weaken a particular area, i.e., our staffing strategy
 is closely linked to our research strategy. Two further drivers of our staffing strategy are the need
 to secure the future pipeline of researchers through internal promotions and ECR recruitment and
 the view that each RG should benefit from a good seniority balance.

 Recruitment criteria:
 Our criteria for ECR recruitment are the potential to become a research leader, the ability to publish
 world-leading research and the innovativeness and relevance of the research pipeline, which are
 key for attracting funding and generating impact. Senior appointments are expected to be
 accomplished researchers demonstrating high quality outputs, a strong network, funding and
 impact.

 Recruitment processes:
 Recruitment is led by our HoD in collaboration with our professorial staff. In line with the
 University’s recruitment objectives (see Section 3/REF5a) we search for the best possible talent
 internationally, attending key international job-market events.

 As part of our involvement with the Athena SWAN Charter we also pay particular attention to EDI
 aspects during our recruitment and the short-listing of candidates. Our profession is known for its
 gender imbalance with proportionately few women joining or staying in Economics academia. Our
 commitment to improving these statistics is reflected in our alignment with the Charter, flexible
 working and leave policies, career progression support (in alignment with Section 3.2/REF5a) and
 an accommodating and transparent workload model.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Promotions:
 The promotion of existing staff is managed carefully to foster a culture of timely recognition of
 achievements. Promotion candidates are either approached by the HoD encouraging them to
 proceed or following their self-initiated discussions with the HoD and/or other professorial staff.
 Quality of research outputs, evidence of impactful research and successful research funding are
 base prerequisites for promotion for all category staff. The University provides all candidates with
 a formal interview training opportunity. The goal is to support candidates through the entire
 process and maximise positive outcomes. These processes parallel the institutional “Rewards and
 Recognition” framework as outlined in REF5a. Information related to the promotion process and
 opportunities is widely disseminated internally with the HoD taking a leading role in discussing
 expectations and criteria with candidates to ensure an inclusive process through its transparency.

 Highly Influential Economists:
 For over ten years, the Department has also benefitted from the contributions of two highly
 distinguished Economists who are appointed on a part time basis. Phillips (Yale) and Zenou
 (Monash), both Fellows of the Econometric Society and both ranked among the top 10% most
 influential economists worldwide (REPEC-ranking). Phillips and Zenou have been fully engaged
 in the research activities of the Department. Each year, Phillips spends two consecutive months
 and Zenou three periods of ten days each at the Department. Both are involved in the supervision
 of our PGRs, research collaborations with our staff, and organise research-led events. Phillips
 actively collaborates with Magdalinos and Kyriacou, and Zenou with Wahba, Giulietti and
 Vlassopoulos, in addition to collaborating on several externally funded research projects.

 A selection of outcomes of our staffing strategy:
 Our staffing strategy and the principles underpinning it led to highly successful outcomes during
 the current period e.g. McConnell’s agenda on crime and Hatcher’s agenda in Macro led to major
 ESRC grants; Giulietti’s who joined the Department as an Associate Professor and was recently
 promoted to a Chair received ESRC and Home-Office funding in the area of migration, leading to
 an ICS whose exceptional impact has been acknowledged by the ESRC; Stepanchuk’s work on
 taxation led to a major collaborative grant with the Research Council of Norway in 2018;
 The Department was also successful in the promotions of its staff (Giulietti, Olmo, Vlassopoulos
 to Chairs; Gall, Kellner, Maniadis, Stepanchuk to Associate Professorships). This has significantly
 improved the seniority balance within the Department compared to our REF2014 staffing
 composition (9 Professors versus 4 in REF2014).
 On aggregate, and since REF2014, the Department recruited 11 new staff at Lecturer/Associate
 Professor levels, 27% of whom were women. The Department recognises this proportion to be
 low and is very much aware of the low female representation in academic Economics, which is
 also reflected in our own staff composition (according to the 2015 RES survey on the gender
 balance in academic Economics in the UK, women make up fewer than 25% of permanent
 academic staff in Economics). We expect the concrete initiatives we have taken for addressing
 such imbalances (see section 2c) will help reduce the gender gap in the Department.


                                              Lecturer      Professors

                            Total-FTE           10.3           17.25

                            Female              42%            12%
                            Male                58%            88%




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    a-ii) Career Development

 The Department prioritises nurturing and promoting research excellence. It also recognises the
 special professional needs of ECRs if they are to develop into research leaders. Staff from all
 categories benefit from Departmental and University wide support. Currently all members of the
 Department are on permanent contracts.
 Supporting ECRs:
    -   Departmental Level Support
        ECRs are offered teaching load reductions and very limited administrative duties during
        the first three years of their tenure. They are assigned a senior member of staff as their
        mentor during their probationary period. ECRs also receive a dedicated research budget
        to support the development of their own research network.
        The yearly review of ECRs is conducted by the HoD or a Professorial Staff. This meeting
        spans both research and teaching matters and consists of a discussion and feedback on
        achievements, aims and objectives for the following year, opportunities for collaborative
        work, funding, and impact. This meeting is a particularly important career development
        platform for ECRs as it also aims to identify training needs and to provide an individually
        tailored roadmap for career progression through a discussion of promotion criteria and how
        best to fulfil them.
    -   University Level Support
        Incoming ECRs receive rigorous training in teaching organised by the University’s Centre
        for Higher Education Practice. This is a demanding scheme requiring the completion of a
        broad range of assessed modules. Upon completion, ECRs become Fellows of the Higher
        Education Academy.
        The University also organises a diverse range of workshops targeted at ECRs (e.g.,
        applying for grants) and fosters interdisciplinary innovation through the annual
        interdisciplinary ECR research conference.
 Supporting Staff of all Levels:
        The University is signatory to the Researcher Development Concordat and implements its
        principles across the whole institution (REF5a). All staff benefit from an extensive
        University-level support programme that includes awareness raising of the Concordat
        through the Faculty Induction process and an overview of the workings of all professional
        services. The University runs a dedicated website (“References and Resources for
        Research Staff”) making staff aware of a range of opportunities to facilitate their careers
        and improve their well-being, including dedicated resources for Women in Academia,
        leadership workshops etc.
        All academic staff are eligible to apply for Sabbatical Leave, based on one semester for
        every seven semesters worked. Our staff have been successful in being awarded
        sabbaticals during the current REF cycle, and have visited Yale, Caltech, UPenn, NYU,
        SMU-Singapore, UC3M amongst others.
        Encouraging research-led teaching: an important element of the Departmental culture is
        to ensure that all staff members teach in modules linked to their research expertise. We
        highly value the notion of research-led teaching and believe it to be intellectually beneficial
        for both the students and the research skills of academic staff.
        The appraisal process of senior staff is conducted by the Head of School and aims to fulfil
        the same objectives as for ECRs.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b) RESEARCH STUDENTS
 Economics has a long-standing PhD programme whose goal is to train Economists who are well-
 prepared for careers in academia, international organisations, or the private sector. We also
 recognise that having a competitive and vibrant PhD programme is essential for the research
 reputation and sustainability of a research led Department. To achieve these goals, the
 Department recognises the need to provide rigorous training that goes beyond research
 supervision. Our PGRs students are required to complete coursework and present their research
 at intermediate stages of their tenure, in line with University-wide PGR policies and procedures as
 described under Section 3.7 of REF5a.
 PGRs are assigned two supervisors with one of them acting as their main supervisor. This allows
 them to initiate their research agenda immediately and guarantees a rapid integration into the
 research culture of the Department.
 Our programme is embedded within the University’s Doctoral College and a Faculty Level
 Graduate School which also oversee training and professional development and monitor student
 progress (see REF5a). As the Department is part of the South-Coast-DTP, our students are also
 regularly exposed to other disciplines and additional training opportunities (e.g., thesis writing
 bootcamps).
 PhD recruitment is handled by our Head of PhD programmes (Maniadis) who screens applications
 for our baseline admissions criteria prior to circulating them to staff members whose research
 interests match those of applicants. The merits of these applications are subsequently reviewed
 by RG members prior to deciding to engage with applicants via a formal interview.
 Since the REF2014 the Department awarded more than 40 PhDs and at any one time has a cohort
 of about 10 PGRs. Economics at Southampton attracts up to two ESRC studentships each year
 through the South-Coast DTP. Further financial support is provided through University-wide
 schemes such as the Presidential Scholarships.

      Economics-PhD          13/14    14/15   15/16    16/17   17/18    18/19   19/20    Total

      Total entrants         5        5       9        5       5        4       3        36

      Female-entrants        1        0       2        0       1        0       3         7
      Male-entrants          4        5       7        5       4        4       0        29

      Completion Counts      6        3       6        6       7        8       6        42

 PGRs are required to present their research every year to academic staff and their peers as part
 of our PhD-workshop series. Presenters receive feedback on their research directions and are
 given the opportunity to meet all audience members. Our PGRs are also involved in teaching
 undergraduates which we view as an important part of their training. This requires them to
 complete a formal training module organised by the University, greatly enhancing their
 employability as future academics.
 The Department also organises ad-hoc special themed lectures geared towards more specialised
 training (recent events include courses on the Econometrics of Networks, Matching and
 Investments, and a workshop on the Economics of Migration). These events are supplemented by
 specialised courses offered by the Southampton based National Centre for Research Methods
 (e.g. modules on Causal Inference, Writing Skills etc.).
 The good placement record of our PGRs, their success with publishing their work at early stages
 of research and their ability to have their papers accepted in prestigious international conferences
 highlight the quality of our programme and the research culture we are able to transmit to them.
 Recent acceptances of our PGRs include outlets such as JEMS, EJ, EctJ, Journal of Industrial
 Economics, OBES amongst others. Recent placements include academic positions at Monash,
 UCL, Kings, Exeter, Southampton, Sydney, TU-Munich, Max Planck, UCD, Liverpool-U, Sheffield-

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 U, UFOP Brazil, Warsaw School of Economics, Institute of Business Administration Karachi,
 Hunan University, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana; Economist positions at the World Bank,
 OECD, NIESR, Thames-Water, DIT, ONS.

 c) EQUALITY, DIVERSITY & INCLUSION
 EDI considerations are embedded in all our processes as described throughout the above sections
 and are also closely aligned with the University’s policy which sets out the EDI requirements
 (Section 3.8 of REF5a). These include the collection and analysis of relevant data for monitoring
 purposes, training opportunities for awareness raising in relation to cultural, ethnic, religious and
 gender-specific matters amongst other initiatives.
 At Departmental level, the HoR and HoD are responsible for ensuring that the EDI-related Code
 of Practice is adhered to when it comes to our submission of outputs and ICSs (e.g., a gender
 balanced committee for screening and rating outputs). The HoD also ensures that EDI
 considerations are present in our recruitment processes and during the shortlisting of job
 applicants (e.g., gender-balancedness).
 The School of Economic, Social and Political Sciences that Economics belongs to was recently
 awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze recognition, highlighting our commitment to EDI. The report
 recognised numerous good practices across all of the Departments of the School and highlighted
 the good practice and efforts undertaken for the review of our Departmental workload model
 following gendered feedback.
 Further University-wide initiatives also enhance our commitment to Equality and Diversity (e.g.
 peer mentoring programmes and networks such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBT Network,
 Parent’s and Carer’s network). Each staff member completes two mandatory courses (“Safe and
 Supported” and “Equality and Diversity Briefing”) that promote the importance of EDI and fairness.
 The Department recognises that the share of women among academia is low and our staff
 composition reflects this. We pursue several interventions to make the field and the profession
 more inclusive:

    -   The Department is actively involved in outreach activities to increase female student
        numbers in Economics programmes (e.g., delivery of lectures to Sixth-Form students by
        our staff, hosting of Sixth-Form students in the Department).

    -   Improved representation of female researchers as role models by increasing the number
        of female speakers invited to the Departmental seminars (e.g., 5 out of the 12 most recent
        presenters in our POLECON series were female).
    -   Promotions: ensuring support for staff considering promotion is available and accessible
        to everyone equally.
    -   Recruitment: scrutinizing recruitment short-lists for presence of female candidates. This
        intervention is led by the HoD in collaboration with the recruitment committee.
    -   The Department also recognises the needs of staff who experience personal difficulties or
        family-related constraints, offering a flexible stance on timetable arrangements, temporary
        flexing down and leave opportunities.
    -   The Department operates a workload model that allows to incorporate various forms of
        part-time arrangements or to facilitate the transition back to work for staff returning from
        leave periods. Female staff going on maternity leave are given the opportunity to combine
        their leave with their sabbatical entitlement. We also use our workload model for monitoring
        and ensuring balanced workload across genders and seniority levels.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    -    Since 2015 all new staff and PGRs take a mandatory online induction programme, which
         covers EDI training as well as information on flexible working, parental leave, appraisals,
         and promotion processes.
    -    Encouraging Departmental staff to take up University and Faculty wide roles related to EDI
         policies (e.g., the recently appointed School level chair of Athena SWAN and the Faculty
         level EDI Champions are both Economists).

    -    The department also adheres to the EDI guidelines recently formulated by the American
         Economic Association (Best Practices for Economists). Economics staff have been made
         aware of these best practices through communications by our EDI Champions.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
 a) RESEARCH INCOME: FUNDING AWARDS
 Bidding for research income is an essential component of our research strategy, supported by the
 incentives and governance mechanisms put in place via the new roles of HoR and HoI, the
 emphasis on grant bidding as a prerequisite for promotion and recruitment and our close
 cooperation with PP|S. Our staff are expected to set concrete targets for their grant application
 activities in their annual review meetings and support for the application process is provided by
 the University’s Research and Innovation Services (see REF5a).
 This environment has enabled us to bid as PIs or Co-Is for funding in excess of £10 million during
 the REF-cycle leading to awards in excess of £2 million from sources such as ESRC, EPSRC,
 British Academy/Leverhulme (BA), EU, Home-Office, ONS, Southern-Water and others.

                            13/14    14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18           18/19 19/20 Total

        Awards (£k)         £4,051 £203      £268    £151     £1,065 £962      £555    £7,255

        UoA16-shares (£k) £438       £184    £160    £144     £196     £376    £555    £2,053

 Our world-renowned expertise on Migration for instance has been recognised though major
 funding awards from the ESRC and the EU. A selection of funded projects includes:
    -    “Migration and the Reshaping of Consumption Patterns” jointly funded by the
         ESRC/DFG/ANR/NSFC Consortium: IZA, University of Southampton, University of
         Nottingham, CNRS, Beijing Normal University, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences,
         (Wahba-PI), 2015-2018, £390,356.
    -    H2020 - RIA MIGRATION-01-2019 - “Migration Scenarios: Understanding migration
         mobility patterns: elaborating mid and long-term migration scenarios”, (Wahba Co-I), 2020-
         2022, £836,093.

    -    Our expertise on competition and innovation policy has been recognised via the ESRC
         grant “Mergers and inventors’ productivity in the pharmaceutical industry” awarded to
         Ornaghi as PI (2019-2022, £312,556) while our recent agenda on the Economics of Crime
         led by McConnell and Giulietti was awarded ESRC funding via the grant “A unified
         approach to measuring the costs of violent crime risk” (2019-2021, £ 242,299).
 All our researchers are highly active in seeking research funding with numerous successful
 outcomes complementing the above highlights. Our Macroeconomists for instance received major
 grants from the ESRCs Rebuilding the Macroeconomy Programme (Hatcher) and through a
 collaboration with Oslo University/Research Council of Norway to evaluate taxation policies
 (Stepanchuk). An inter-disciplinary initiative with Engineers resulted in the EPSRC-funded project
 “Low-Cost Façade Management in Naturally-Ventilated Buildings” (2014-2107, £493,581) with



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ornaghi as Co-I amongst numerous others (e.g., multiple BA/Leverhulme grants spanning the
 fields of Econometrics, Behavioural Economics, Development).
 A selection of outcomes from our Research Awards
 These grants spawned numerous published papers. Examples include: Review of Financial
 Studies (Magdalinos’ BA grant), Economic Journal (Gall’s BA grant), European Economic Review
 and Games and Economic Behaviour (Kwiek’s BA grant), Journal of Development Economics
 (Wahba’s BA grant), OBES (Pitarakis’ BA grant), Journal of Economic Psychology (Ioannou’s BA
 grant), amongst others. Wahba’s funding from the ESRC led to publications in European
 Economic Review, Journal of Development Economics, Scandinavian Journal of Economics,
 Journal of Population Economics, and numerous other working papers. Ornaghi’s multidisciplinary
 collaboration with engineers led to two articles in Energy Economics and the Journal of Building
 Research and Information. The recent work of Giulietti and Wahba (funded by ONS and the ESRC)
 led to a study on the impact of Brexit on International Student’s return intentions published by the
 IZA in 2018. Equally importantly the above awards were instrumental in contributing to the strength
 of our ICSs. We expect several current working papers stemming from the above grants to be
 published in the coming years.
 The research funded by these grants has informed numerous policy papers, many of which
 published by the ESRC Centre for Population Change (e.g., the CPC Briefing showcased the
 policy implications of Wahba’s and Giulietti’s work on Migration, the status of International
 Students in the UK and the impact of Brexit on International Students). Another channel we have
 used for reaching out to policymakers is the CEPR’s Policy Portal, VoxEU (with contributions by
 Giulietti, Wahba, Ornaghi, Stepanchuk and Hatcher).
 Our funded research has been an important contributing factor to our ICSs. Wahba’s ESRC and
 British Academy funded work on migration for instance is closely linked to our ICS16_03 Shaping
 UK and International Policies on Skill and Migration and similarly for Giulietti and Wahba’s agenda
 on measuring international student migration in the UK associated with our ICS16_01 Improving
 the measurement of international student migration in the UK. Our ICS16_02 Mergers in the
 Pharmaceutical Industry also derives from Ornaghi’s ESRC funding. Key insights and results from
 his work have been cited in White Papers published by the European DG for Competition and
 European Directorate for Research and Innovation. In the US, Ornaghi’s findings have been cited by
 several Economists working for the Antitrust Division of the US Department of Justice.
 EDI Considerations
 As part of the Athena SWAN Bronze Award the Department is also committed to ensuring that
 there is no gender imbalance in research grant applications. The School is in the process of
 implementing a tracking system to evaluate any gender imbalance in grant applications, their
 success rates and value which we expect to also benefit from by helping us in targeting
 interventions, as necessary. In the context of our REF submission the gender composition of our
 ICS authors consists of 50% Female/50% Male staff.

 b) INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 All staff in Economics have individual offices on the same floor of a dedicated School building,
 which also houses our PGRs. The Department offers all state-of-the-art resources needed to
 conduct research in a convivial environment that supports and stimulates collaboration. Our staff
 have access to a rich portfolio of software and to two supercomputers via the High-Performance
 Computing facility of the University (Iridis 4/5).
 The Department has also invested in field-specific facilities in the form of an Experimental
 Economics Laboratory (EEL), offering both staff and research students a state-of-the-art
 environment for running experiments. The availability of the EEL has been crucial for our RG in
 Economic Theory and Experimental Economics including PhD research (e.g., Gall, and
 Vlassopoulos’ research published in JEMS, Ioannou’s BA funded project, Sadeh’s ESRC funded
 PhD thesis).


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has access to a Bloomberg suite providing access to financial data
 (CRSP/WRDS). This is a valuable resource for staff and PGRs working in Financial Econometrics
 (e.g., Olmo’s recent research on optimal asset allocation, Pitarakis’ research on volatility
 forecasting in high dimensional settings). These resources are also important for attracting new
 talent.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 a) COLLABORATIONS
 The Department hosted short-term visitors collaborating with our own researchers from: BostonU,
 INSEAD, Marburg, Sao-Paulo, TSE, Verona, Mannheim, Dusseldorf, Alicante, Western-Ontario,
 UC3M, Tel-Aviv.
 Our own staff visited: ECARES, BostonU, Sao-Paulo, Monash, FGV Sao-Paulo, Paris School of
 Economics, Kyoto Institute of Economic Research, IE-Business School Madrid, Cambridge, UCL,
 Nuffield College, Yale, UPenn, Oslo, Rotterdam, Bolzano, Bar-Ilan, Ca-Foscari, Wisconsin,
 Caltech, Dallas, Humboldt, Cornell, UC3M, Durham, NTNU, Renmin, Beijing Normal, and others.
 Our co-authorship network extends to a broad range of institutions from around the world (70.2%
 of our outputs involved an international collaboration) Focusing solely on international
 collaborations a partial selection of co-authorship and joint funding links includes:
 Calvo-Pardo (PSE, Frankfurt), Forlati (Vienna, CEU, EPFL), Gall (BostonU, Ottawa, Sao-Paulo,
 Stanford), Giulietti (IZA, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Gothenburg, Trento,
 Jinan), Hillier (Toronto, Iowa State), Kellner (Dusseldorf, Bocconi), Kyriacou (Verona, Yale),
 McConnell (UCL, Bocconi), Magdalinos (Yale, AUEB, University of Cyprus), Maniadis (Stanford,
 Chicago), Mennuni (Iowa), Mentzakis (McMaster), Olmo (Arizona-State, Buenos-Aires, UC3M),
 Pitarakis (UC3M), Stepanchuk (Miami, Oslo, WU-Vienna, EPFL), Vlassopoulos (Bolzano, Nova-
 Lisbon), Wahba (Groningen, Monash, Western Australia, Luxembourg, Minnesota).
 All these collaborations produced published work in journals such as JEEA, JPE, EER, EJ, JET,
 ET, JBES and others.
 Our collaborative initiatives also included policymakers and users of our research. The
 Department created close links with a major UK water utility (Southern-Water) via Ornaghi’s grant
 on the Impact of Price Information on Water Consumption. Another policy collaboration derived
 from our work on the effects of mergers and acquisitions on innovation in the Pharmaceutical
 Industry. This has led to close links with the EU Commission (e.g., Ornaghi acting as an external
 advisor to its Competition Policy team). Other examples include recent research by Giulietti for the
 Home Office and concerning the impact of immigration on UK natives, and the consultancy report
 on Universal Credit for Winchester Council by Giulietti, Vlassopoulos and Wahba.

 b) CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY and SOCIETY
 Editorships:
 Members of the Department have been serving in many editorial roles during the current REF
 cycle:
 Journal of Industry, Competition and Trade (Ornaghi), Research in Economics (Ianni, Maniadis),
 Economic Journal (Guest-Editor, Maniadis), Journal of Risk and Financial Management, JRSS-A
 and Bulletin of Economic Research (Olmo), World Development, IZA Journals of Development
 and Migration, Labour & Development (Wahba), Journal of Population Economics (Giulietti),
 Regional Science and Urban Economics, Journal of Urban Economics, Scandinavian Journal of
 Economics, IZA Journal of Migration, Annals of Economics and Statistics (Zenou); Econometric
 Theory (Phillips, Magdalinos); Journal of Time Series Analysis (Magdalinos); Cogent in
 Mathematics and Statistics (Kyriacou).



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Funding Bodies:
 Department members have been contributing to peer reviews for UK Research Councils (Calvo-
 Pardo, Paul, Pitarakis, Schluter and Wahba for the ESRC, Olmo for EPSRC). Wahba serves on
 the ESFs College of Expert Reviewers, the GCRF Peer Review College, the ESRC Expert
 Working Group on Horizon2020, the Commissioning Panel for ESRC-HRC, the Displacement Call,
 the ERC, the ESRC Advisory Group on the UK in a Changing Europe, the Migration Observatory
 Expert Advisory Board (Oxford) and the ERF Board of Trustees. Department members have acted
 as expert reviewers for national funding agencies in Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cyprus, France,
 Germany, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain, Switzerland, and the USA.
 Conferences:
 Calvo-Pardo and Gall served as members of the RES Annual Conference review panel (2017-
 2020); Zenou was member of the programme committees of the World Congress of the Regional
 Science Association (2018) and the European Meeting of the Econometric Society (Lisbon 2017),
 and Chairman of the programme committee of the Meeting of the Urban Economic Association
 (Portland 2015). Giulietti was member of the program committee of the Italian Congress of
 Econometrics and Empirical Economics (Lecce, 2019).
 Conferences organised by the Department include: Review of Economic Studies Tour 2017 at
 Southampton (Kellner, Ianni, Gall); 2017 Southampton Workshop on Finance and Econometrics
 (Olmo, Pitarakis); Credibility of Empirical Research 2015 (Gall, Maniadis); Annual workshop of the
 Economics of Migration 2015- (Wahba); Workshop on Spatial Econometrics 2019 (Kyriacou);
 Bristol/Southampton Winter Workshops in Economic Theory 2014- (Kwiek, Galanis, Makris);
 Southampton Macro Workshop 2016 (Mennuni); Surrey/Southampton Econometrics Meetings
 2015-2018 (Kyriacou, Magdalinos); Southampton Workshop of Applied Microeconomics (Giulietti,
 Vlassopoulos, Wahba, 2019).
 Sessions organised for international conferences include: Wahba: Sustainability and Development
 Conference (UMichigan 2018), International Economic Association Conference (Mexico-City
 2017), Population Association of America (San Diego 2015). Kyriacou: CFE (2015-2018) and
 International Conference on Econometrics & Statistics 2017/2018. Pitarakis: CFE2015, Olmo:
 CFE2018. Giulietti: International Economic Association Conference (Mexico-City 2017), 25th
 EBES Conference (Berlin, 2018), Renmin-GLO Conference (Beijing, 2018, 2019). Hillier
 benefitted from a conference in Amsterdam in May 2015 organised in his honour to celebrate his
 contributions to Econometrics.
 Keynotes and Plenary Talks:
 Wahba delivered multiple keynotes, including at the TRANSMIC Conference-EUI-2017 and at the
 3rd International Conference on Changing Migration Policies, Bucharest-2016. Wahba also
 delivered a Public Lecture on “Population and Migration - Costs and Benefits of International
 Students” (London, 2018) and a keynote at the 2nd CREAM/RWI Workshop on the Economics of
 Migration (2019).
 Pitarakis delivered a keynote at the Workshop on Time Series Econometrics, Zaragoza 2018 and
 delivered the 2019 John Nankervis Memorial Lecture, Essex University.
 Paul delivered an invited Gresham Lecture on the South Sea Bubble (3/2021), an invited talk at
 the Einstein Forum organised by the German state of Brandenburg (11/2020) and a Public Lecture
 on Hyde Bridewell as part of the Hyde900 community project in Winchester, Hampshire.
 Phillips delivered the opening keynote lecture at the International ESSEC-SMU conference on
 Systemic Risk, Singapore-2015, the Special Keynote Address, SETA Conference, University of
 Waikato, 2016, the SIRE Lecture, SIRE Conference on Time Series Econometrics, St Andrews
 2016, the IAAE Lecture and Opening Address, International Association of Applied Econometrics,
 Milan-2018 and the Ted Hannan Lecture, Australasian Meetings of the Econometric Society,
 Auckland-2018.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Zenou was keynote speaker at the 2019 Workshop in Urban and Regional Economics,
 Universidad Javeriana, Colombia and the 2017 Inaugural Urban and Regional Economics
 Conference, SMU.
 Giulietti delivered a keynote at the IAMO Forum (2016).
 Plenary talks were delivered at international conferences and workshops including the 2015 EC2
 Conference (Kyriacou, Edinburgh), the 12th Tinbergen Institute Conference on Inference Issues in
 Econometrics (Hillier, Amsterdam-2017), the 2018 Yale conference celebrating Peter Phillips’ 40
 years at Yale (Hillier, Magdalinos), the III Encontro de Economia Aplicada (Gall Brazil-2018), the
 CEPII-OECD Immigration Conference (Wahba, Paris-2017), the GFMD Side Event on Return
 Migration and Reintegration (Wahba, Marrakech-2018), the Workshop on Advances in
 Econometric Methods (Pitarakis, Istanbul-2018). Wahba was also panellist in the Dialogue on the
 Interrelations between Public Policies, Migration and Development, OECD, 2016, Guest Speaker
 at the OECD Perspectives on Global Development experts' meeting, 2016 and at the Closed
 Round Table Discussion on Arab Gulf Labour Markets and Migration, Doha 2014.
 Learned Societies:
 Both Phillips and Zenou are elected Fellows of the Econometric Society (Zenou elected in 2018).
 Magdalinos is Senior Fellow of the Rimini Centre for Economic Research. Wahba is elected
 member of the Council of the Royal Economic Society and Academia-Europea. Paul is Honorary
 Secretary of the Economic History Society and Honorary Associate Professor at UCL’s Bartlett
 School.
 Press Coverage:
 Research produced in the Department is regularly covered by the specialised press and policy
 portals such as VoXEU. Staff are frequent contributors to The Conversation and NIESR blogs.
 Press coverage of our research includes national (BBC (Giulietti’s research on immigrants last
 names), Financial Times (Wahba on gender issues in the Economics profession)), and
 international media (Bloomberg, New-York Times (Giulietti’s research on racial discrimination by
 government officials), Le Monde (Maniadis research on the credibility of scientific research),
 Icelandic National Radio, La Repubblica (Vlassopoulos and Giulietti’s research on stock market
 behaviour and car accidents), Science Daily (Ornaghi’s research on the Universal Water metering
 programme), Prospect Magazine (Maniadis work on polls and voter behaviour) and numerous
 Radio 4 interventions on the South-Sea bubble by Paul. Most recently Wahba’s contributions to
 research on Migration was also mentioned extensively in the press following her OBE for services
 to Economic Policy in the Queen’s Birthday Honours for 2020.




                                                                                           Page 17
