Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE

  The University of Leicester’s School of Informatics is internationally recognised for its
  excellence across a wide range of fundamental and applied informatics. Our research and
  impact activities thrive through a collegial atmosphere among a team of outstanding research
  staff and students, cutting-edge interdisciplinarity research, and a collaborative approach to
  seeking solutions to major societal and industrial challenges.

  Over the REF period, the UoA has maintained expertise in foundational areas of computer
  science, such as algorithms, formal methods, logic, and semantics. We have substantially
  strengthened areas of challenge-led research, including Artificial Intelligence (AI) and machine
  learning, algorithmics and formal methods, model-driven engineering, and validation and
  verification. Consequently, Leicester is now exceptionally well-placed to provide leadership
  addressing challenges relating to trust in autonomous and data-driven systems.

  Headline achievements during the REF period include:

      1. Major developments in foundational areas of computer science, including, controller
         synthesis and model checking (Piterman, Ringert), design and analysis of data
         structures and graph algorithms (Raman, Erlebach, and Hoffmann), and formal
         specification and formal verification of file systems and network protocols (Ridge).

      2. Novel applications of informatics research in industry and healthcare, including
         machine learning for biomedical applications (Zhou), evolutionary algorithms with
         impact on autonomous planning systems in transport and service sectors (Burke and
         Drake), and validation and verification of autonomous and cyber-physical systems
         (Mousavi).

      3. Significant research impact ranging from improvements to online STEM education
         worldwide (Law, ICS 1) to enhancing the performance and flight time of satellite
         systems (Vladimirova, ICS 2).

      4. Improvements to our research and impact strategy following REF2014 also enabled
         more ambitious interdisciplinary projects. Recent successes include leading the £3M
         ‘UK Verifiability Node’ in the EPSRC Trustworthy Autonomous Systems programme
         (Mousavi), the £2M Personalised Space Technology Exercise Platform project (UK
         Space Agency, Ng), contribution to the development of Space Park Leicester, and the
         establishment of the new Centre for Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics, and
         Modelling Centre.

  The School’s research is organised functionally into three Research Areas: (1) Algorithms
  and Artificial Intelligence; (2) Interaction Design and Evaluation of Socio-Technical
  Systems; and (3) Modelling and Verification of Systems. The Research Areas operate as


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  nuclei for research staff and students with related specialisms. Researchers work seamlessly
  across and beyond these areas, stimulating interdisciplinary interactions and developing
  strong collaborations across the health, space, and engineering sectors.

  The unit’s challenge-led research is now broadly focused around two cross-cutting
  interdisciplinary Research Themes: (1) Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (led by
  Mousavi), which integrates our in-depth expertise in AI, formal methods, human-computer
  interaction, machine learning, model-driven engineering, optimisation, and validation and
  verification to ensure autonomous systems can be built in a way society can trust and use;
  and (2) Biomedical Informatics (led by Heckel), which addresses challenging healthcare
  issues through data science, AI, machine learning, and image analysis.


  RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

  Objective. Our overarching objective is to create a dynamic, scientifically-rigorous, and
  inclusive environment that supports our staff and research students to produce high-quality
  and impactful research. We aim to provide an environment that facilitates productive
  collaborations and interdisciplinarity, stimulating both curiosity-driven and challenge-led
  research with real-world benefits. While maintaining strengths in core computer science
  disciplines, we are quickly emerging as leaders in highly impactful research relating to trust in
  autonomous systems.

  Key principles. The 7 guiding principles of our research and impact strategy are to:

    1. Build on existing and emerging research strengths in trustworthy autonomous systems
       and biomedical informatics.
    2. Support interdisciplinary collaborations tackling societal and industrial challenges.
    3. Facilitate impact, innovation, and application through knowledge exchange activities
       and by working closely with industry.
    4. Recruit, develop, and support outstanding academic staff and mentor early career
       researchers.
    5. Attract and support high-quality research students and develop a community of well-
       rounded and highly employable researchers.
    6. Increase the diversity and volume of our funding portfolio to support research and
       impact activities, and provide support for the preparation of large cross-disciplinary
       research proposals.
    7. Increase engagement with our research by embedding an open research culture.

  Approach to impact
  There has been a significant increase in our outward-facing activities. Impact is now an
  inherent part of our research planning, with six KTPs established during this REF period
  compared to just one in REF2014. The principal beneficiaries of our research are the general
  public, students, teachers, and schools, international space agencies and the UK space
  industry, and health and engineering sectors. We have significantly grown industrial
  informatics, with a 14-fold increase in industrial-related income (£198k).

  In REF2014, we outlined our aim to establish three pipelines to impact:

    1. To identify and develop high-quality research with potential for impact.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         We have appointed an Impact Coordinator (Heckel) and recruited Burke and Anjum
         to provide impact leadership. They support colleagues with identifying and developing
         impact pathways and communicate departmental capability to potential non-academic
         stakeholders. At institutional level, we benefit greatly from the expertise and support
         provided by the University’s Research Impact Team and have been awarded £40k of
         internal funding specifically to pump-prime enterprising and impactful research.

    2. To develop and strengthen engagement with industry and key users.
        By collaborating with industrial beneficiaries, we have been able to identify major
        challenges faced by users of our research. The UoA has provided novel architecture
        for computing systems on board spacecraft, offering highly reliable operation and high-
        performance data processing capability. This led to significant economic benefit for
        international space agencies and industries, such as Airbus, as the flight time of their
        space systems increased greatly (Vladimirova, ICS 2). Participatory approaches to
        understanding user needs has also been key to delivering impact. Our commitment to
        long-term end-user engagement led to the successful translation of end-user
        preferences into technical and practical recommendations for developers of
        international online educational resources (Law, ICS 1). Over the REF period, our
        consultancy and contract research income totalled ~£226k, approximately double
        REF2014.

    3. To develop a collaborative interdisciplinary approach to real-world challenges.
        We believe that social and economic impact benefits from a multidisciplinary approach.
        We encourage our staff to build strategic partnerships with academics beyond
        computer science through key research networks and institutional infrastructure, such
        as the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (Institutional Environment Statement,
        section 2.2). Our engagement with the Leicester Precision Medicine Institute led to a
        significant role in the development of a new mobile application, Personalised Space
        Technology Exercise Platform (P-STEP, £2M, UK Space Agency). P-STEP will use
        space data and AI to deliver personalised exercise advice with pollution warnings, to
        assist patients with health conditions such as heart disease, COPD, and asthma (Law
        and Boronat). Another collaboration bringing together expertise in AI, robotics,
        human-computer interaction, systems and software engineering with colleagues from
        Leeds, Manchester, Sheffield, and York around the theme of trustworthy autonomous
        systems resulted in £3M to lead the ‘UK Verifiability Node’ on the EPSRC ‘Trustworthy
        Autonomous Systems’ programme (Mousavi, PI).

  Achievements since REF2014
  In REF2014, our two core strategic aims were to:

  1) Grow and develop expertise in data mining and machine learning.
  2) Grow and develop expertise in cyber security and trust.

  During the REF period, we have successfully revised and revitalised our research and impact
  strategy to achieve these aims and enable researchers to undertake research of the highest
  quality, relevance, and impact. Through strategic hiring of four Chairs in areas related to AAAI
  (Zhou, Anjum), security (Liu), and trust (Mousavi), as well as two ECRs (Rojas, Ringert),
  the UoA has been able to develop expertise in data mining, machine learning, and verification
  and validation.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The following are brief descriptions of the three Research Areas (including participating
  Category A staff and those who have made a significant contribution to research) and selected
  research and impact highlights, as evidence of our unit’s success within the REF period.

  Algorithms and Artificial Intelligence (AAAI, led by Zhou, with Anjum, Burke, Drake,
  Erlebach, Hoffmann, Liu, Raman, and Vladimirova). This area is focussed on methods for
  large-scale and intelligent data processing. It encompasses sub-topics on intelligent data
  analysis; efficient, fault-tolerant, and distributed data storage and processing; and algorithms
  for complex optimisation problems on (uncertain) data. Our foundational research develops
  algorithms with provable performance and approximation guarantees; efficient and resilient
  distributed data infrastructures; new algorithms for image processing and understanding; and
  novel optimization techniques for NP-hard problems. We apply our research to problem
  domains in transport, health, and security. Highlights include:

    1. Broad industrial impact in a range of industries and sectors, including advancements in
       deep learning in cell line authorisation with AstraZeneca (Zhou) and collaboration with
       CERN on big data analytics for high-energy physics experimental data (Anjum).
    2. Collaboration on the EPSRC ‘OR-MASTER’ project, developing mathematical models
       and algorithms for allocating scarce airport resources and addressing issues of airport
       congestion and capacity, in collaboration with 16 academic and air transport industry
       partners (Drake and Burke).
    3. Leadership in research on succinct data structures (Raman, plenary talks at SPIRE
       2015 and WALCOM 2015, and invited tutorial at ACM SIGMOD-PODS 2018).
    4. Leading investigations into algorithms for computing with uncertainty (Erlebach and
       Hoffmann, EPSRC £401k), e.g., their application to develop a fleet of drones with
       enhanced search and rescue capabilities in the Brecon Beacons (Hoffmann) in
       collaboration with TrailMed, a medical service SME.
    5. Co-founder, with five other UK institutions, of the EPSRC Network on Algorithms and
       Complexity (Erlebach and Raman).
    6. Establishment of the Artificial Intelligence, Data Analytics and Modelling Centre (Liu).

  Interaction Design and Evaluation of Socio-Technical Systems (IDEAS, led by Law, with
  Boronat, Heintz, Kefalidou, and Liu). IDEAS focuses on designing and evaluating interactive
  technologies with Human-Computer Interaction (HCI) methodologies in a range of application
  domains such as education, health, and transport. We have established and developed strong
  relationships with researchers working in mathematics, physics, engineering, medicine,
  psychology, law, business. Its overarching goal is to enhance people’s quality of life through
  technology, as well as advancing key theoretical issues. Highlights include:

  1. Pioneering research into the use of video games in education and usability and user
     experience methodologies has enhanced the learning experience for children worldwide
     (ICS 1, Law). Participatory Design research and implementation of PDot, an online tool,
     resulted in high-quality free online STEM educational resources, with 90,000 students and
     31,000 teachers across 45 countries benefitting from the software (two EU projects: ‘Go-
     Lab’ £713k and ‘Next-Lab’ £290k, Law and Heintz).
  2. Gathering empirical data with a country-wide survey in China to understand the prevailing
     IPR awareness of designers in Chinese creative IT industries and thereby capturing
     requirements to develop a prototype for a mobile app on retrieving patents (£82k, AHRC,
     Law, Int. J. HCI 2020).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  3. Working on social and human-related aspects of healthcare and biomedical systems with
     colleagues in Life Sciences has led to several projects in human-centred approaches to
     healthcare systems and healthcare data-analytics, including the £2M P-STEP project (Law
     and Boronat).
  4. Working on human-centric approaches to the design of autonomous and cyber-physical
     systems; for example, on human-centric approaches for event-driven architectures (Lu,
     IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Systems 2019)
  5. A programme of public engagement activities regarding Trust in Autonomous Vehicles
     (Kefalidou).

  Modelling and Verification of Systems (MOVES, led by Mousavi, with Anjum, Boronat,
  Burke, Drake, Heckel, Piterman, Ridge, Ringert, Rojas, Tuosto, Türker, Ulidowski, Crole,
  and Vladimirova). MOVES focuses on establishing trust in autonomous and data-driven
  systems. We build upon the foundations of systems modelling and develop automated
  software and systems engineering. We perform research on a range of validation and
  verification techniques, including formal verification and synthesis to search-based and model-
  based testing. Our main activities include using AI to develop efficient and effective verification
  of autonomous systems, as well as using rigorous techniques to establish quantitative
  verification results on AI-enabled systems. Highlights include:

    1. Leadership in areas of validation and verification research, including an ERC
       Consolidator Grant for the ‘Distributed Synthesis: from Single to Multiple Agents’ project
       (~£1.3M), developing the theoretical foundations that enable reactive synthesis in the
       context of multiple agents (Piterman). The UoA was also recently awarded ~£3M
       (EPSRC) to spearhead work ensuring that autonomous systems, such as driverless
       cars, drones, and robots, are reliable and dependable (PI: Mousavi. Collaborators:
       Kefalidou, Law, Ringert, Rojas, and Türker).
    2. Advancements in state-space analysis has had a major impact on systems biology
       (Piterman). Piterman’s work has been incorporated into the Bio Model Analyzer tool,
       used to create and analyse executable models of protein interactions. The tool was
       used for models published in several important papers in Nature Comms 2018, Cancer
       Research 2017, and Scientific Reports 2017, on topics related to cancer research.
       Furthermore, Piterman’s work on synthesis describes the technique used to analyse
       blood development in mice in a highly-cited paper in Nature Biotechnology 2015 (FWCI
       12.8).
    3. Development of consistency in distributed systems for the fusion of clinical and genetic
       data in collaboration with Roche, a Swiss pharmaceutical company (Anjum).
    4. Development of rigorous theory, tools, and implementations for consistent data stores,
       including SibylFS mechanized semantics for POSIX and real-world filesystems (Ridge),
       usable from theorem provers such as HOL and Isabelle/HOL, and simultaneously
       functioning as a real-world filesystem testing tool.
    5. Academic leadership in national and international research initiatives, including leading
       the EU COST Action 1405 on ‘Reversible Computation’ (422K, Ulidowski), organising
       Reversible Computation 2018 Conference at Leicester (Ulidowski), and founding and
       directing the Midlands Graduate School on Foundations of Computer Science (Crole).
    6. Marie-Curie Fellowship grant on reversible computation (£131k, Ulidowski and Tuosto)
       and a Marie-Curie mobility grant on concurrency theory (BehAPI, £77k, Tuosto).
    7. Setting the international agenda for hyper-heuristics, motivated by the goal of
       underpinning the development of computational methodologies that can automatically
       build decision support systems (Burke: International Series in Operations Research and

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Management 2019, FWCI 30.61; European Journal of Operational Research 2017,
        FWCI 6.6)

  Governance and integrity. The School’s Research Committee are responsible for reviewing
  our research and impact strategy. This comprises the Research Area and Theme leaders, the
  Head of School, Director of Research, and representatives from early- and mid-career
  researchers. The Committee is responsible for promoting a culture of research integrity and
  we expect all researchers to embed best practice in all aspects of their work. We adhere to
  institutional requirements (IES, 2.7) and ensure all researchers understand the expected
  standards of integrity, as outlined in the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The
  Committee is also involved in other strategic decision making, such as allocation of support,
  travel funds, and other resources for enabling research and impact.

  Open research. In addition to adhering to REF requirements and institutional policy (IES,
  2.6), we are increasing the open accessibility of our research. In Leicester’s first Open
  Research Survey (2020), 83% of informatics researchers agreed that their understanding and
  awareness of open research had improved since 2014 and that they had made more of their
  research freely available and accessible. Many of our researchers are editors and/or on the
  editorial board of open-access peer-reviewed journals, including MDPI Computers (Heckel)
  and Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science (Ulidowski). We regularly share
  preprints, tools, data, methods, and code via open platforms such as Gitlab, Github, and arXiv.

  Future Research Plans
  To support our objective of becoming international leaders in trust in autonomous systems, we
  plan to expand our expertise in: (1) data-driven and AI systems; (2) software and systems
  engineering for autonomous systems; and (3) social aspects of computing and human-
  computer interaction. We will foster interdisciplinary collaborations, particularly with the School
  of Mathematics, where we see excellent collaboration opportunities in AI, risk analysis, and
  simulation and real-time diagnosis of autonomous systems.

  We are also playing a significant role in the development of Space Park Leicester (IES, 2.1,
  4.1). Utilising our expertise in data science, AI, software engineering, validation and
  verification, researchers from this UoA will lead one of the main work packages for the
  Manufacturing, Engineering, Technology and Earth Observation Research Centre project.
  METEOR will be a key part of SPL, bringing together academic research and industrial space
  and Earth observation R&D. The centre represents an internationally unique approach to
  understanding and delivering space capabilities, revolutionising how satellites are conceived,
  designed, operated and produced, as well as how data derived from them is interpreted and
  used to solve real world problems.


 2. People

  STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT

  Staffing strategy. Our overarching goal is to recruit and retain exceptional computer
  scientists to deliver research excellence across our Research Areas. To achieve this, we have
  developed the following strategy:



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. We recruit outstanding staff at all career stages to enhance research and impact.
    2. We target appointments that are in line with our cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes,
       as well as appointments that will facilitate and strengthen links with industry.
    3. We retain staff by providing robust support and career development opportunities and
       recognise and reward success.
    4. We ensure staff can flourish in an equal and inclusive working environment.

  Staff recruitment and composition. All recruitment is conducted in a fair, transparent, and
  flexible way in order to attract a diverse pool of candidates. Appointments are made entirely
  on merit and assessed by diverse selection panels adhering to DORA-compliant principles.
  We value breadth and specialisation across a range of activities. On REF census date, the
  unit comprised 19.7 FTE of Category A Staff: 7 FTE Lecturers (including 3 ECRs), 3.5 FTE
  Associate Professors and Senior Lecturers, and 9.2 FTE Professors. Our research activity is
  further supported by 10.5 FTE of teaching-focussed members and 12 PDRAs and Graduate
  Teaching Assistants.

  During the REF period, we have recruited staff to strengthen expertise and capabilities across
  our Research Areas and Themes. We have invested significantly in Verification and Validation
  research (Mousavi, Chair; Ringert, Rojas, and Türker, Lecturers). New appointments were
  also made in Combinatorial Optimisation and Evolutionary Algorithms (Burke, Chair), AI and
  Data Analytics (Anjum, Chair), Security and Big Data Analytics (Liu, Chair), AI and Image
  Processing (Zhou, Associate Professor), and Optimisation and Evolutionary Algorithms
  (Drake, Lecturer).

  Staff development and promotion. We ensure that the principles of the Concordat to
  Support the Development of Researchers are implemented at School level. All staff have an
  annual Performance Development Discussion (PDD) with the Head of School. Evaluating
  research and impact performance and identifying training needs are core components of these
  discussions. PDD reports are reviewed by the Head of School to identify candidates for
  promotion and consider whether interventions are required, e.g., workload adjustments and
  additional mentoring.

  We have an active and fully-paid study leave programme. Typically, staff can take leave to
  focus on research and impact for one semester in every seven. There are rigorous application
  and evaluation procedures for study leave involving the Research Committee, with
  subsequent review and approval by the College to ensure that staff achieve maximal benefit
  and that study leave goals are ambitious and deliverable.

  All academic staff have access to a dedicated School research and travel fund to support a
  range of activities that support the development of research and impact. This is done by
  redirecting a fraction of grant overheads and QR funds to individual researchers. Under this
  scheme, 22 staff have been granted travel funds and 11 were awarded funds to complete
  follow-up activities. For example, Erlebach’s travel fund in 2018 resulted in a collaborative
  journal article introducing a novel adversarial model for scheduling with explorable uncertainty
  (Algorithmica 2020) and a subsequent EPSRC grant (£400k) investigating algorithms for
  computing with uncertainty.

  Staff across all Research Areas regularly take part in research seminars, providing an
  opportunity to present research, promote best practice, and facilitate collaborations. In
  addition, the UoA facilitates exchanges between staff and non-academic stakeholders through

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  the Leicester Innovation Hub (IES, 2.5), by leading and participating in LIH events that
  demonstrate our expertise and potential to provide innovative product solutions to industrial
  partners.

  We encourage all staff to utilise training provided by the Doctoral College (IES, 3.2). Law and
  Mousavi took part in the Leicester Future Leaders’ Programme, which aims to foster a
  community of diverse leadership talent. For promotion cases, knowledge exchange,
  enterprise, and impact, as well as research, are key parts of the assessment criteria. During
  the REF period, Law and Zhou were promoted to Professor and Ridge was promoted to
  Associate Professor.

  Early Career Researchers (ECRs). All ECRs receive reduced teaching loads and are offered
  flexible start-up packages to accelerate progress. ECRs are assigned a mentor with whom
  they meet regularly to discuss research and impact goals. The School further operates a
  ‘buddy’ scheme, wherein ECRs are paired to facilitate peer support, peer learning, and
  cultivate a productive, collegial, and inclusive research culture. The scheme’s value has also
  been acknowledged through our Athena SWAN Bronze award renewal (2018).

  The School has enrolled ECRs to the University’s EPSRC New Investigator Grant Cohorts
  scheme. All are currently taking part in EPSRC First Grant training and their bids are in
  preparation. The scheme provides training workshops specifically for ECRs to support them in
  formulating and submitting a bid that, if successful, will underpin a self-directed research
  project. Piterman and Minku have attended this training and were successful with their bids,
  respectively, for an ERC Consolidator Award and an EPSRC First Grant.

  ECRs who have been supported through these mechanisms have been successful in securing
  funding for independent research activities, including: An Independent Fellowship (Chitchyan);
  an EPSRC First Grant (Minku); an EPSRC and an ERC Consolidator grant (Piterman, total
  ~£328k); an MRCUK grant (Verdezoto); and a Health Foundation grant (Kefalidou). All have
  gone on to secure more senior academic positions.

  Visiting Scholars. To promote international collaboration, the School regularly hosts visiting
  scholars, for example: Mariangiola Dezani-Ciancaglini (Italy), Ed Fredkin (USA), Frank
  Kammer (Germany), Barbara König (Germany), Simon Puglisi (Helsinki), Zia Qayyum
  (Pakistan), Ivan Lanese (Italy), Norman Margolus (USA), Hernan Melgratti (Argentina),
  Michael P Frank (USA), and Shoji Yuen (Japan). A number of these visits have been funded
  by academic councils and Governments and all have resulted in high-quality outputs, some
  including our PhD students.


  RESEARCH STUDENTS
  We highly value our research students and their contribution to the research environment.
  During the REF period, 58 research students completed their doctorates, representing a 39%
  increase since REF2014. The improvement in the size and success of our PhD community
  reflects both the quality of the research students we attract and a marked improvement in our
  research activity. In the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES2019), 94%
  of informatics PGRs who responded agreed that they were overall satisfied with the
  experience of their research degree programme.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Recruitment. Attracting both national and international research students through
  studentships, robust support mechanisms, and developmental opportunities is a strategic
  priority. Funding for studentships has come from an increasingly diverse range of sources,
  including EU funding, EPSRC, Microsoft, and British Telecom. PhD students are recruited via
  open competition and projects identified by staff are advertised on our web page each year.
  Applications are centrally administered and a panel interviews short-listed candidates.
  Successful applicants are selected primarily based on research potential, performance during
  interview, and academic experience. We also ensure new staff have access to PhD students
  as they begin to grow their teams.

  Supervision. In PRES2019, 94% of our PGRs who responded agreed that their supervisor/s
  provide feedback that helps them to direct their research activities. Students meet with their
  supervisors on a weekly basis and these meetings are recorded by the student so that we can
  monitor engagement and attendance. Secondary supervisors are closely involved in the
  conception and development of the project. Progress is monitored more formally by a panel
  independent of the supervisory team at three and six months, and then annually until the viva.
  For the reviews, students are required to submit a written report detailing their progress and
  future research plans, as well as a training needs analysis form to inform a tailored training
  plan.

  Training and development. In PRES2019, 94% of our PGRs who responded agreed that
  their ‘skills in applying appropriate research methodologies, tools and techniques’ had
  developed during their programme and 100% agreed that ‘skills in critically analysing and
  evaluating findings and results’ had developed.

  Central training is provided by the Doctoral College. At local level, the School trains doctoral
  students in line with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. For example, PGRs are
  required to attend the Graduate Seminar series, comprising short and intensive modules on
  research methodology, presentation and writing skills, and introductory material in areas of
  research. We also play an active role in the Midlands Graduate School, which offers
  specialised training in various areas of computer science.

  We integrate PGRs into the academic community in several ways. PGRS are invited to
  present their research at the annual Informatics Postgraduate Research Day. PGRs are also
  given the opportunity to actively work with more senior colleagues, enabling practice-based
  peer learning. Research students have contributed to bids and collaborated with staff on
  exhibitions and events, e.g., the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition and the
  DriverLeics initiative, a research and public engagement group relating to trustworthy
  autonomous systems. Our PGRs are encouraged to participate in external conferences and
  workshops and all have access to a travel fund. We also encourage participation in research
  competitions, such as the BCS Research Spotlight competition which led to an award for Cauli
  in 2017.

  Employability and next destination. Since REF2014, our PGR graduates have progressed
  to a wide range of highly competitive academic and industry roles. Many graduates have gone
  on to secure academic positions, including: Research Associates (e.g. Oxford, Imperial
  College London, and Cambridge), as well as Lectureships in the UK (e.g., De Montfort and
  Wolverhampton) and overseas (e.g., China, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, and Thailand). Others
  have gone on to secure industry positions, including roles in Software Engineering, Software


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Development, Data Science, and Computer and Data Consultancy, at SMEs, Amazon, and
  Microsoft.


  EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY (EDI)
  EDI is a priority in the School. We adhere to the institutional EDI strategy and policies (IES,
  3.1). We acknowledge that we cannot reach our full potential unless we can benefit from the
  talents of all and are committed to addressing issues of underrepresentation in our School.

  Gender equality. Our work towards tackling gender inequality was recognised by an Athena
  Swan Bronze award (2013, 2018); however, we recognise there is still much work to do. On
  the REF census date, 8.7% of REF-eligible staff were female, 18.2% of Professors were
  female and nearly 30% of research students were female. We seek opportunities to increase
  the visibility of female staff and students and celebrate women in computer science. For
  instance, we invite female guest speakers from academia and industry to our events. We have
  organised successful outreach activities, including an ‘Ada Lovelace’ away-day for schoolgirls
  and the ‘CodeFirst: Girls’ course series for non-CS students. These activities aim to attract
  girls and younger women to informatics and ensure a more balanced gender profile for STEM
  subjects in the future. In 2015, we hosted our first Daphne Jackson Fellow (Severi).

  BAME representation. We support cultural diversity, which is reflected in our international
  profile. On the REF census date, 26.1% of REF-eligible staff were BAME, 45.5% of
  Professorial staff were BAME, and 50% of our female staff identified as BAME. We also
  recently hired members of staff who were born in eight different countries (Bolivia, Bulgaria,
  China, Germany, Greece, Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey) and had their last appointments at six
  different countries (China, Israel, Sweden, Turkey, UK, and USA). Over the REF period,
  48.1% of research students identified as BAME.

  Monitoring and assessment. Feedback from the 2018 Athena Swan award panel agreed
  that the School had ‘good consultation methods’ for self-assessment, identifying issues, and
  creating action plans. EDI, including Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (SAT) reports, is
  discussed in quarterly staff meetings and at Student Staff Committee meetings. EDI activities
  are communicated to staff and students via a dedicated virtual learning environment and
  learning management system. The SAT Chair is a University Equality Champion, meaning
  regular meetings take place to discuss EDI initiatives at a College level. We sustain close
  collaboration with the University Athena SWAN executive panel, the College Gender Equality
  Panel, and an Athena SWAN “buddy” department to exchange knowledge and best practice.

  Inclusion. We ensure that meetings take place within our core hours to support staff with
  caring responsibilities. We also operate Flexible Working and Special Leave policies, and an
  Annual Leave Purchase scheme, to facilitate a healthy work/life balance and provide flexibility
  to staff in times of need. We have a wellbeing tutor to look after the health and wellbeing of
  our PGRs. To celebrate our achievements, we have several annual awards dedicated to
  recognising the contributions of our colleagues, e.g., Law was a finalist for the 2016
  Discovering Excellence award and a nominee for the 2017 Research Impact Award.

  EDI and REF. We are submitting all eligible staff in our REF return. UoL’s REF Code of
  Practice specifies how our REF return has been compiled with due regard to EDI. In advance
  of this, we ensured a diverse mix of staff were involved in output quality review (38% of our
  panel were female). We have a supportive process in place for declaring staff individual

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  circumstances in relation to our REF submission, guided by our EDI Champion (Kefalidou)
  and University’s EDI team. We have robust support structures in place so that even staff
  facing substantial challenges have been able to produce outputs for REF.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  RESEARCH INCOME

  During the REF period, our research income totaled ~£3.8M, with a total spend per FTE of
  £196k—a 74% increase on REF2014 (£112k/FTE). Our principal sources of external research
  funding were awarded by EU governmental bodies (£2.4M), UK governmental bodies (£553k),
  EPSRC (£384k), and industry (£198k).

  Strategy for generating research income. Following REF2014, the School committed to
  increasing its outward-facing activities, the success of which is reflected in a significant
  increase in both the volume and diversity of our funding portfolio. We have made notable
  gains in several areas, including a 1320% increase in industry funding, a 288% increase in
  funding from the UK government and health authorities, and a 107% increase in funding from
  EU government.

  The School capitalises on College- and institutional-level support for the preparation and
  costing of research grant applications, provided by our Head of Department, Director of
  Research, Research and Enterprise Division, Research Institutes, and Key Funder Working
  Groups. Together, they raise awareness of funding opportunities and provide internal peer
  review of early-stage to fully-developed research proposals, mentoring, progress reviews, and
  workshops to ensure a good understanding of funder requirements. This support has enabled
  a sustainable upward income trajectory over the REF2021 period, from £423k in 2013/14 to
  £618k in 2019/20.

  Increase in our research funding has enabled us to conduct innovative research and deliver
  considerable impact. Major grants include:

       A £2.5M European Regional Development Fund grant to underpin the launch of the
        Leicester Innovation Hub (Reiff-Marganiec). Based at UoL, the hub supports businesses
        through incubation, innovation support, and access to facilities, funding, and academic
        expertise. It has worked closely with over 100 companies to turn research and business
        ideas into innovative products, services, and processes.
       A £1.3M ERC Consolidator Grant for the ‘D-SynMA’ project, which has advanced
        distributed synthesis by considering novel interaction and communication concepts that
        have created an adaptable framework of correct-by-construction application of
        collaborating devices (Piterman, TACAS 2019).
       A £422k EU ICT COST Action grant on ‘Reversible Computation’ (Ulidowski). Working
        with over 150 scientists from 28 countries, it aimed to support the growth of foundations
        of reversible computation and apply the research outcomes in practical applications.
        Highlights include work on causal-consistent reversibility and its applications in reversible
        debugging tools, novel techniques for reversing Petri nets with applications in the
        modelling of biochemical reactions and wireless communication networks, design and



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        synthesis of reversible circuits, and applications of reversibility in programming industrial
        robots performing assembly operations.

  Future funding strategy. We recognise that an over-reliance on a small number of sponsors
  creates vulnerability. Our strategy led to a more balanced research income profile with
  charities, industry, Government, and Research Councils, making our current and future
  research income streams more sustainable and robust to external economic and political
  fluctuations. We hope this diversity will provide a degree of insulation against changes in the
  funding landscape, supported by a strengthening of our industrial links and ensuring that we
  seize opportunities in areas relating to Trustworthy Autonomous Systems and Biomedical
  Informatics. With two large multidisciplinary grants already secured in these areas (£3M
  EPSRC, £2M UK Space Agency), we are ensuring that UoL continues to conduct innovative
  and impactful computer science research over the coming years.


  INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

  Informatics researchers are based in the Informatics Building, which includes accessible
  offices, research and seminar space, and laboratories. The University further invested in a
  new modern building dedicated to Computer Laboratories for education and research.
  Construction was completed in 2020, ready for use post-lockdown.

  Specialist laboratories and equipment. During the REF period, the University has invested
  £50k to host our Human Computer Interaction (HCI) Laboratory, equipped with Virtual Reality
  (VR) technologies. The HCI lab has supported projects such as the EU H2020 ARETE
  (£293k). Law and Heintz have made considerable advancements in understanding how
  specific design features of augmented reality can cultivate fruitful learning environments for
  school children, from improvements in literacy and STEM to positive behaviour. They have
  become leaders in successfully applying human-centred design in technology-enhanced
  learning by providing innovative Augmented Reality resources in the education system (Int. J.
  H-C Studies 2020).

  The University has also been provided space to support our Artificial Intelligence Lab, as well
  as investment in a variety of specialist equipment, including high-specification computers,
  Vector robots, autonomous vehicles, and simulators. These led to successful public
  engagement activities (such as the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition) and also in
  student and research projects.

  High Performance Computing (HPC). UoL is renowned for its provision of nationally-
  significant HPC facilities (IES, 4.3). All staff and students in this UoA have access to two large
  HPC clusters, ALICE and SPECTRE, providing maximum performance for the most
  demanding data processing, data analysis, and simulation tasks. These facilities have been
  essential to support the development of our AI-based collaborations, including Zhou’s
  collaboration with AstraZenecta (Cambridge), which aims to enhance the performance of
  recognising contaminated cell lines in cell images whilst minimising errors in identification and
  led to PhD funding.

  Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Data Modelling (AIDAM). In collaboration with the
  School of Mathematics, we launched AIDAM in 2020. The centre carries out, consolidates,
  and integrates research on AI, data science, and machine learning to develop data-driven AI

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  systems that are resilient, robust, trustworthy, and adaptable to changing operational
  conditions. A major objective of AIDAM is to facilitate related fundamental and challenge-led
  research. In line with our two key interdisciplinary research themes—trustworthy autonomous
  systems and biomedical informatics—the centre supports, in particular, collaborations with Life
  Sciences and industry. Examples include the METEOR project with Space Park Leicester. In
  the short time since its launch, AIDAM has supported interdisciplinary projects and industrial
  partnerships totalling over £5.5M.

  Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS). LIAS facilitates new ways of modelling
  and translating interdisciplinary research (IES, 2.2). Our unit has secured and capitalised on
  LIAS-driven funding schemes designed to pump-prime interdisciplinary research networks,
  such as the Leicester Artificial Intelligence Network, and various interdisciplinary projects,
  including: the ‘Digital Technology in Maternity Care’ project, which has transformed the way
  we understand and harness digital technology in pregnancy, maternity care, and early
  parenthood in the UK, India, Peru, and South Africa (Verdezoto); the ‘Leicester Ethnicity,
  Ageing and Dementia’ project, which is developing clinical applications of AI and machine
  learning in healthcare (Law); and the ‘Mental Health and Social Media’ project, which explored
  the positive and negative impacts of social media on adolescents (Law).

  Other institutional infrastructure. The unit has access to Leicester’s award-winning library
  (IES, 4.1), including digital access to Computer Science libraries such as IEEE and ACM
  DL, ScienceDirect, and Springer Link. UoL provides comprehensive support for research,
  enterprise, impact, and knowledge exchange activities through the Research and Enterprise
  Division (RED). RED also provides support for the costing and preparation of research grant
  applications, including mock interviews, and keeps the School informed of new research
  initiatives.

  Future investments. Within the next year, it is expected that the UoA will physically move into
  a newly refurbished building which will host both the School of Informatics and Mathematics,
  an investment worth ~£500k. This will enable a stronger and closer collaboration and joint
  research culture between these two departments, especially within the field and context of
  Trust in AI, Big Data Analytics, and Machine Learning.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 During the REF2021 period, the School has facilitated and strengthened over 100 national and
 international partnerships. This includes collaborative projects with local, national, and
 international researchers, as well as industrial and governmental partners.


 COLLABORATION WITH AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE

 We have been involved in several collaborative interdisciplinary projects. For example, Law (Co-
 I) collaborated with law scholars on ‘Law in Children’s Lives’ (ESRC £20k). By engaging with
 end users, Law designed and evaluated the usability of a tablet-based game that aimed to
 explore how far children see law as an empowering force in their lives. The research led to six
 joint publications (e.g., Law, Int. J. H. C. Studies 2020) and feedback from the young
 participants was extremely positive: ‘The game was AWESOME! And I learnt a lot!’ (Girl, Year



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5). LCL has opened new research opportunities to explore how ‘gamification’ can engage pupils
 and enhance education.

 The UoA utilises its AI expertise to create new collaborative partnerships. With support from
 LIAS, members of AAAI formed the ‘Leicester Artificial Intelligence Network’, the University’s first
 platform to promote interdisciplinary collaborations pivoting on AI. Consisting of 18 faculty from
 the Colleges of Life Science, Science and Engineering, and Social Sciences and Arts and
 Humanities, the network exists to bring together researchers working on all aspects of AI and
 drive innovative cross-disciplinary research agendas. LAIN has facilitated a variety of projects,
 including using AI for diagnosis in cardiac arrests and shoulder diseases and grants, including
 £3M from ESPRC to lead on the ‘verifiability’ aspect of autonomous systems (Mousavi).

 Other examples include Zhou (Co-I) who, with academics from Criminology, Psychology,
 Mathematics, and Geography, is developing close working relationships with East Midlands
 police forces through the ‘Violence Reduction Information Network’, an ESRC IAA Strategic
 Partnership (£46k). VRIN aims to develop knowledge and share information concerning the
 prevention of public space violence, which will have a positive influence on policing operations in
 the region and beyond. Zhou is leading work on AI and face recognition to support the reduction
 of public space violence (IEEE Tran. Image Proc. 2020).


 INDUSTRY COLLABORATIONS, BENEFICIARIES, AND PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT

 Our work in applied informatics involves extensive engagement with industry partners and key
 users. Since REF2014, we have worked with more ~30 organisations across healthcare, space
 and earth observation, travel and transportation, education, and software and services
 companies to address major challenges. We have delivered significant economic and social
 impact, including developing high-performance analytics for medical systems; improving the
 performance of satellite systems; and reducing airport congestion.

 Healthcare. We have initiated several strategic collaborations that will utilise, grow, and develop
 impact from our growing expertise in biomedical informatics, including AstraZeneca, TrailMed,
 and Roche. With Roche, for example, Anjum investigated a blockchain based distributed ledger
 infrastructure for trusted management of data coming from IoT devices in healthcare and
 developed a HyperLedger based infrastructure for an immutable and verifiable record of
 transactions between patients, investigators, and IoT devices.

 Space and earth observation. We contribute to the University’s international reputation as
 world leaders in space and earth observation research. Collaboration with Airbus Defence and
 Space and the European Space Agency led to significant economic impact by extending the
 flight time of satellites (ICS 2). Vladimirova’s research helped to mitigate the effects of some of
 the harsh operating conditions in space that threaten the effectiveness of a satellite’s flight time.
 By developing high-performance embedded computing systems and improving the reliability of
 satellite data processing systems, Vladimirova et al were able to extend the functional life of
 satellites, ensuring these flight times are more cost-effective and addressing gaps in knowledge
 in the space industry. Their research led to six outputs during the REF period, including articles
 in ACM Computing Surveys Journal (2015) and IEEE Trans. Aerospace and Electronic Systems
 (2016).



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With Precise Crop Nutrition, Vladimirova’s research further contributed to the development of a
 system to help farmers make better use of satellite images to develop variable rate nitrogen
 fertiliser application plans for their crops (Innovate UK/NERC, £45k to UoL) Vladimirova’s
 expertise in satellites and high-performance computing helped Precise Crop Nutrition to offer a
 quicker and more flexible way to convert data and allow agronomists and farmers to be more
 closely involved in crop management recommendations.

 Travel and transportation. We have partnered with national and international companies in
 travel and transportation, including Air France KLM, RollsRoyce, Zurich Airport. Burke is leading
 the ‘Mathematical Models and Algorithms for Allocating Scarce Airport Resources’ programme,
 with Drake, colleagues from the Universities of Stirling and Lancaster, and air transport industry
 organisations and policy makers. Tackling growing concerns over airport capacity, rising
 demand, and the impact of congestion, the six-year £2.8M (EPSRC) project is investigating—
 from a mathematical and computational perspective—whether capacity management is being
 realised as efficiently as possible, supporting policy makers and air transport decision makers in
 the UK and overseas to optimally allocate scarce airport resources (SSCI 2019). Furthermore,
 Burke and Drake are working together with Banedanmark to develop a constructive framework
 to tackle the problem of planning preventive maintenance of railway signals in the Danish railway
 system (Journal of the Operational Research 2019).

 Software and Service. A strategic partnership with the Software Engineering Research Group
 at British Telecom led to three industrially-funded challenge-led PhD studentships. This includes,
 for example, a project on ‘Automated Accessibility Testing for Mobile Applications’, to develop a
 fully automated test generation approach to check the accessibility of mobile Android apps and
 evaluate the severity and relevance of the accessibility issues identified (supervised by Rojas
 and Mousavi). Additionally, Drake’s and Burke’s research into multiobjective evolutionary
 algorithms for strategic deployment of resources (Journal of Operational Research 2020), has
 allowed the planning team at BT to understand the unique complexities of maintenance
 problems they face in different areas of the UK, particularly with respect to the choice of number
 of operational units, and has strengthened their ability to design operational units effectively.

 Public engagement and outreach. The School has a strong public engagement component on
 trust in autonomous systems. It includes activities at public fairs and festivals, such as the
 prestigious Royal Society Summer Exhibition and the Science Museum, and several outreach
 activities at open days and schools. The exhibition at the Royal Society Summer Science
 Exhibition 2019 had ~13,000 visitors, including over 2,000 school students. Our Late Event at
 the Science Museum attracted more than 4,000 visitors. We also produce educational material
 for the general public and maintain active web presence and communications for a lay audience.
 We gather data to evaluate public awareness and understanding and outreach. A preliminary
 report of this activity has been published as a paper co-authored by five staff members, two
 PGR, one graduate, and one undergraduate student (DSCI 2019).


 ESTEEM AND LEADERSHIP
 We have a strong base of faculty with prominent leadership roles in the community. We give
 select examples below.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Awards,            National/          Editorships         PC                  Keynotes and
  recognitions,      international                          Memberships         invited talks
  and fellowships    partnerships



  18 awards          131                49 in different     Membership of       69 keynotes and
  4 fellowships      partnerships       journals and        287 international   invited talks
  3 recognitions     worldwide,         venues              PCs
  1 patent           including
                     academia and
                     industry

                            Table 1. Esteem indicators within the unit


 Editorships. Examples include: Editor-in-chief of Journal of Scheduling (Burke); Area Editor of
 the Journal of Heuristics (Burke); Associate Editor of the INFORMS Journal on
 Computing (Burke); Editor of Theoretical Computer Science (Erlebach); Editor-in-chief
 of Science of Computer Programming (Mousavi); Associate editor of IJHCS and Interacting with
 Computers (Law); Associate Editor of Acta Informatica (Piterman); Editor of the Journal of
 Discrete Algorithms 2014-18, Associate Editor ACM J. Experimental Algorithms (Raman);
 Editor-in-Chief of Recent Advances in Electrical & Electronic Engineering and Associate Editor
 of IEEE Transactions on Human-Machine Systems (Zhou).

 Programme committee chairs and steering committee members. Examples include: Chair of the
 Steering Committee of the EPSRC Observatory for Responsible Research and Innovation in ICT
 (Orbit) 2017-present (Burke); Chair of ICGT Steering Committee and Steering Committee
 Member of ETAPS and FASE (Heckel); Steering Committee member of SBMF and PC Chair of
 SBMF 2018, Steering Committee member of SPLC (Mousavi); Associate chair of CHI 2015 and
 2016-2019 (Law); General Chair of SustainCom 2020 and Cyberlife 2019 (Liu); PC Chair of
 HVC 2019 (Piterman); PC Chair of SEA 2017 (Raman); and PC Chair of RC 2018 (Ulidowski).

 Programme Committee membership of high-quality conferences and workshops. Examples
 include: ACM CHI 2015-2019 (Law), CSCW; FM 2018-2019 (Mousavi); MFCS 2015, SEA
 2016, ESA 2017, SOFSEM 2019 (Raman); SODA 2021 (Erlebach); PC Member of FMCAD
 2019, APLAS 2019, and FORTE 2019 (Dimitrova); PC Member of SBMF 2018 and CyPhy2018
 (Ringert); and PC Member of ASE 2018, ICST 2020, and PC Member of ICST 2017-2020 and
 MUTATION 2016-2019; PC Chair of SBST 2019 (Rojas).

 Leadership in professional and academic bodies: Chair of the UK Huawei ICT Academy
 Advisory Board 2017-present (Burke); Chair of the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team for
 ICT 2016-present (Burke); Chair of EASST (Heckel); Secretary of IFIP W 1.P (Mousavi); Royal
 Society Newton Fellowship Reviewer Panel (Raman); member of the EPSRC Strategic Advisory
 Network (SAN) 2019-present (Burke); member of the EPSRC Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Strategic Advisory Group 2019-present (Burke); member of the All Party Parliamentary Group
 on Artificial Intelligence 2017-present (Burke); member of the Expert Panel on Informatics and
 Knowledge Technology for Research Foundation Flanders 2015-2020
 (Burke); EPSRC Responsive Mode panel membership (Erlebach and Raman), and EPSRC


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future Leader Fellowship panel membership (Zhou); and reviewing responsibilities for various
 international funding organisations such as the Dutch NWO, Swiss NSF, French ANU, and the
 EU ERC.

 Awards/Fellowships/Patents: We have won 10 Most Distinguished and Best Paper awards,
 including: Most Influential Paper Award ICFP 2017 (Ridge); ACM Distinguished Paper Award
 ICSE 2017 (Rojas); ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Award ASE 2015 (Rojas); Best Paper
 Award (SBSE-SS Track) GECCO 2015 (Rojas); Best Foundation & ACM Distinguished Paper
 Award MoDELS 2015; and Best Foundation Paper Award at MoDELS 2020 (Ringert).

 Burke was awarded Fellowship in the Royal Academy of Engineering (2020), Turing Fellow by
 the Alan Turing Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (2018), and Companion of
 Operational Research, awarded by the Operational Research Society (2017). He is a long-
 standing FIMA Fellow of the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications, FORS Fellow of the
 Operational Research Society, and FBCS Fellow of the British Computer
 Society. Mousavi and Liu were appointed Fellows of the British Computer Society. Zhou gained
 a three-year Newton Advanced Fellowship, 2017-2020. Boronat won the Tool Transformation
 Contest 2018 with YAMTL. Rojas won the Best Demonstration Award at ICST 2017.
 Piterman won the Microsoft Research Outstanding Collaborator Award (2016). Liu et al were
 granted a patent for ‘A Document Retrieval Method for Peer-to-Peer Online Social Networks
 based on Knowledge Learning’ (Chinese Patent No. 201510955213.4).

 Keynotes/Invited Talks. Examples include: Keynote at the International Conference on
 Concurrency Theory 2015 and Tests and Proofs 2020 (Mousavi); invited talk at the ACM
 SIGMOD/PODS Conference 2018 (Raman); keynote at the Frontiers of Algorithmics
 Workshop 2016 (Erlebach); invited talk at the International Conference on Biomedical
 Engineering and Biotechnology 2018 (Zhou); and keynote lecture at the 20th IEEE International
 Conference on High Performance Computing and Communication 2018 (Liu).

 Final words. During the REF2021 period, the UoA has substantially strengthened its leadership
 position in challenge-driven research, particularly in AI and machine learning, algorithmics and
 formal methods, model-driven engineering, and validation and verification. It established
 interdisciplinary challenge-led themes—trustworthy autonomous systems and biomedical
 informatics—and strategically hired and developed staff with strengths in AI, machine learning,
 and biomedical informatics to support our rapidly growing expertise. As a result, Leicester is now
 exceptionally well-placed to take on interdisciplinary societal and industrial challenges regarding
 trust in autonomous and data-driven systems.




                                                                                             Page 17
