Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 28A Economic History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 Economic History has been part of research at LSE since the subject was first taught at the
 School in 1904 by Lillian Knowles, who became Professor of Economic History (the second such
 appointment in the UK) in 1921. Following the establishment of modern departments at LSE in
 the 1960s, the Economic History department has played a distinctive role in fostering historical
 research with an explicit social science focus. Department research aims to further
 understanding of the causes of economic development in the long run. Department members
 are interested in economic development in all parts of the globe and across all time periods from
 the medieval era to the later 20th century. Our research shows how the changes in scale and
 scope of economic activity in the past contribute to understanding the historical record of human
 societies. We complement research in other disciplines by providing answers to the question
 “how did we get here?” for fundamental issues such as poverty and economic inequality,
 demographic change, gender and childhood development, and the evolution of finance, industry,
 and institutions. International comparisons, and how historical features shape global differences
 in living standards are at the forefront of our work. Our focus on economic development
 complements other approaches to historical investigation, including political history, social
 history, military history, the history of science and technology, and the history of material culture.
 The methodological approaches used by department members reflect developments in different
 areas of study, and colleagues share a commitment to the collection and evaluation of primary
 sources. As a result, Economic History is both a highly specialised department and one with
 significant synergies with other social science units at LSE and with centres of historical study
 outside of the School. These features make for a distinctive research environment within the
 UoA, as the Department’s approach to excellence in terms of research output, grant
 applications, and doctoral student training and placement are notably different from that of a
 typical UK history department.

 Structure:

 Department members come to LSE with a range of academic backgrounds (Economic and
 Social History, Economics, Area Studies, History). The department is united by a common
 research interest in economic history, manifested by our weekly research seminars that regularly
 attract up to 60 participants, our working papers, our workshops, and our research
 collaborations. Within the department we have specific areas of strength that bring together
 colleagues who collaborate through co-authored research, PhD supervision, grants and
 partnerships, and the organization of events and activities at LSE and beyond:

 1. Demography, labour, and living standards: (Cummins, Gazeley, Horrell, Humphries,
 Minns, Schneider, Rosés, Wallis). Our research engages with questions surrounding work,
 migration, childhood development, gender, fertility and mortality, and the economics of the family
 in historical context.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Historical economic geography and long run economic change (Gardner, Schulze
 Ritschl, Rosés, Volckart). Our research is focused on development patterns over space and time
 – what accounts for the rise and fall of nations and regions, patterns of economic convergence
 and divergence, and how core-periphery dynamics have changed over time.

 3. Pre-industrial economic history: (Claridge, Cummins, Horrell, Humphries, Minns, Volckart,
 Schneider, Schulze, Wallis). Our research on pre-industrial economies aims to understand how
 medieval and early modern societies approached economic challenges related to gender,
 education, conflict, finance, and agricultural management.

 4. Firms and finance: (Accominotti, Bakker, Gardner, Irigoin, Postel-Vinay, Ritschl, Roy,
 Ruderman, Volckart). Our research studies the changing fortunes of industries and firms, the
 contribution of financial markets to economic integration, and understanding the causes and
 consequences of past financial crises.

 5. Global economic history: (Deng, Gardner, Irigoin, Ruderman, Roy). Our research focuses
 on long-run international comparisons, emphasizing the development of global trades (silver
 bullion, slavery), and the economic history of colonialism.

 6. Narrative science: (Morgan and Research Officer team). Our research connects historical
 modes of argument (i.e. narratives) with scientific modes or argument based on laws, theories,
 and models. Research stresses links to economics and economic history, history and
 philosophy of science, and the study of technology.

 These research areas arose organically from the department’s appointments in recent decades
 and the research trajectories of our staff. But as important as connections and collaborations
 within these areas are the broad, department-wide discussions between research areas. Work
 on demographic and labour market history has significant connections with research on pre-
 industrial economic history and historical economic geography. The roles of firms and finance in
 colonial development are a key theme in much of the department’s research. Expertise in
 econometrics, GIS-related technologies, and the development of large historical databases are
 shared across all research areas, while Morgan’s approach to narratives, models, and
 measurement are influential in the framing of research questions across the department.

 Academic Staff Numbers:

 Permanent academic staff include 10 full-time Professors, six Associate Professors, and three
 Assistant Professors.

 Academic staff on fixed term contracts include one part-time Professor, one Centennial
 Professor, four LSE Fellows, one Wallander Post-doctoral Fellow, one Research Fellow and
 three Research Officers as part of the Narrative Science team.

 The department currently has 31 PhD students in residence.

 Research objectives, 2013-2020




                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our overarching research objective in the current REF window was to lead intellectual debates
 in economic history and make this research relevant to the broader academic community. To
 achieve this objective, we sought to (1) maximize high-quality research output in economic
 history, (2) extend the reach of our research to related disciplines in the humanities and social
 sciences, (3) improve engagement with the public and targeted key research users and (4)
 provide our students with doctoral training that equips them to publish well and compete on the
 job market, thus ensuring the future of the discipline internationally.

 Our research output in the current REF period speaks to a number of issues in economic history
 that matter to the world. These include the international transmission of financial crises and their
 aftermath (Ritschl; Postel-Vinay; Accominotti), new ways of understanding social and economic
 inequality (Cummins), the contribution of history to biological understanding of human growth
 patterns (Horrell; Schneider), the evolution of political concepts of citizenship (Wallis; Minns),
 and the role of legal institutions in long-run economic development (Roy).

 Research on these and other topics has been disseminated widely through peer-reviewed
 journal publications and monographs. LSE is the largest institutional contributor to publications
 in leading economic history journals between 1997 and 2017, with about 3 percent of articles
 including an LSE author (Cioni, Federico, and Vasta 2018, Table 11). The Economic History
 department has a particularly strong record since 2013, with our members publishing in leading
 journals in economics, history, and other social science disciplines, including Demography, the
 Economic Journal, Journal of Economic Growth, Journal of Social History, Past and Present,
 Theory and Society, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, and Journal of the Royal
 Statistical Society. While the department’s publication profile is more journal-oriented than the
 typical history unit, we also have a good record of published monographs with leading academic
 presses. In the current REF cycle the department has monographs with Cambridge University
 Press, Oxford University Press, University of Chicago Press, Bristol University Press, as well as
 edited collections with Cambridge, Oxford, and Bloomsbury.

 The department has improved engagement with public audiences and other research users. In
 the current REF window the department has hosted numerous events to communicate the
 research insights of our staff. These include inaugural lectures for new professors (Deng and
 Minns), a round-table discussion on regional economic development (Rosés), and a series of in-
 person and online public events supported by the Economic History Advisory Board. A
 conference on child stunting in historical perspective (Schneider) brought together scholars from
 the natural and social sciences, policy makers, and employees of NGOs in developing countries.
 Department members have also actively engaged with non-traditional research users outside
 LSE. Roy’s position as the leading economic historian of India allowed him to make a significant
 contribution to Indian curriculum development, and to bring Indian economic history to non-
 academic audiences through a series of public events.

 The Economic History department is proud of its record in producing excellent doctoral
 researchers. Among PhD students admitted between 2008 and 2015, 90 percent successfully
 completed their doctoral dissertation, with 69 percent of full-time students doing so in four years
 or less. The department also has a strong record of post-PhD job placements. Students
 receiving PhDs since 2013 currently hold posts at LSE, Nuffield College (Oxford), Manchester,
 Newcastle, Reading, Sussex, St. Andrews, Queen’s Belfast, UCL, NYU-Shanghai, Huron
 College (Western Ontario), Gothenburg, and Carlos III (Madrid). Our recent PhD cohorts have

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published revised versions of PhD chapters in Economic History Review, European Review of
 Economic History, Journal of Economic History, and Historical Methods. Our doctoral students
 have won the Economic History Society’s New Researcher Prize (Postel-Vinay), the Business
 History Association’s Coleman prize (Lane), and been finalists for the Economic History
 Association’s Nevins Prize (Geloso). Our success stems from the collaborative research
 environment outlined in Section 2, in which students are treated as equals and encouraged to
 develop as independent researchers.

 Submitted ICSs and approach to achieving impact

 The department’s submitted impact case studies illustrate specific channels through which we
 achieve impact. Gardner’s collaboration with the Smithsonian Institution illustrates how events
 and exhibitions bring insight from our research (in this case, Gardner’s work on African
 economic and monetary history) into direct contact with the public to shape common
 understanding of the past. This ICS goes beyond unstructured interactions with participants at
 the Smithsonian and the museum’s online portal through curriculum-related activities for
 American schools developed with the Smithsonian Institution and a plan to integrate African
 research users (and researchers) into the project in the coming year.

 Ritschl’s work with the German Economics Ministry shows how department members work with
 major economic and political institutions to generate a better understanding of their role in past
 economic development. Ritschl’s history of the German Economics Ministry has been used to
 develop exhibitions and teaching materials for internal training programmes that raised staff
 awareness of how the ministry functioned in earlier decades. The breadth of the contributions of
 the project have received public recognition from senior political figures in Germany. Broader
 societal impacts from the project are arising through changes in how the ministry communicates
 its own history.

 Future research and impact strategy:

 The department’s future research objectives remain broadly similar to 2013-2020: to produce
 high-quality research of societal importance, to ensure dissemination to and engagement with
 academic and non-academic audiences, and to continue to produce PhD students who can
 make important contributions to the field globally. Our strategy to achieve these aims will be
 built on developments initiated during the current REF cycle, including the appointment of new
 staff, successful grass-roots research initiatives, and enhanced contacts with non-academic
 audiences and research users.

 Recent appointments in the department have brought new expertise in medieval economic
 history (Claridge), slavery (Ruderman), gender (Horrell; Humphries), and living standards
 (Horrell; Gazeley). These appointments bring complementary skills to the main research areas
 in the department, while also offering new specialist strengths in terms of research output and
 PhD training. These appointments will allow the department to maintain excellence while
 increasing its range of research contributions.

 The department is well-positioned to further expand our influence outside of history. The
 research expertise of our new appointments are ideal to contribute to debates beyond our sub-
 field, and the department has considerable in-house experience in navigating the publication

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 process in several areas of the humanities and social sciences. Our academic contributions will
 be supported by greater emphasis on collaboration with other units in LSE and communities of
 scholars in other institutions. We have built capacity in this area in recent years through (i) cross-
 department and cross-disciplinary workshops in demographic history and with the LSE
 Economics Department to build a network of scholars with common interests around the School,
 (ii) active participation in collaborative international research and training networks (bEUCitizen;
 MACROHIST) and (iii) establishing an active research collaboration with the British Library of
 Political and Economic Science, a national collection with globally unique holdings of historical
 records and publications. These activities provide a strong base for collaborative research
 engagement within and beyond the School, and through our interactions with the Library we
 have begun to develop plans to generate digital research infrastructure of relevance to scholars
 engaged in social science history across the world.

 To reinforce the position of LSE as the global centre for economic history research we seek to
 further improve engagement with research users beyond academia. We have begun this
 process by making a concentrated effort to monitor public engagement and “grass roots”
 developments from which more ambitious impact and engagement projects can be realised. The
 department uses LSE funds to develop early-stage projects (Ruderman; Wallis) and Department
 internal research awards require recipients to plan an engagement component. We have
 developed staff expertise in running international research engagement projects requiring strong
 institutional connections (Gardner) that can be shared with colleagues in the future. We also
 anticipate building on recent experience working with the Economic History Advisory Board to
 share knowledge with different audiences.

 To enhance the quality of our PhD programme, the department plans to extend the training
 offered to doctoral students by revising current graduate coursework to accommodate additional
 modules on quantitative and qualitative methods. More extensive training will enable students to
 be more competitive for a range of academic positions in different disciplines. In future staff
 appointments we will aim to recruit recently trained scholars equipped with the frontier methods
 that our students will need.

 Progress towards open research environment:

 The department participates fully in LSE’s initiatives to promote an open research environment:
 research is submitted to LSE Research Online (the School’s institutional repository) where full
 text is freely available to all. The department is working with the British Library of Political and
 Economic Science to convert paper-based sources of British historical statistics into digital form,
 and to assist with the preparation of electronic resources. Department members regularly post
 data files and statistical code at ICPSR (Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social
 Research) and other digital repositories. Finally, our working paper series, which includes pre-
 prints of many department publications, is fully accessible online.

 Research integrity:

 All PhD students in the department receive research ethics training, as per institutional
 requirements. Some members of staff have used semi-confidential data for research, and in
 such cases department members comply with LSE’s Research Ethics Policy as well as the
 contractual requirements of external agencies.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 2. People

 Staff development strategy:

 The department aims to maximize the research potential of all staff by taking a long-term
 perspective. Our view is that all appointments should become international leaders in their area
 of economic history, and that interactions with other staff in the department will lead to better
 publications and new research initiatives. Our expectation that new hires will be here for a long
 time helps fuel the collaborative environment we have developed in the department.

 The department provides time and space for Assistant Professors to advance their research
 agenda prior to Major Review and promotion to Associate Professor. This is particularly the
 case prior to Interim Review (normally three years after appointment), where staff typically have
 lighter teaching loads and are not expected to perform major administrative duties.

 The department has a Career Development Review (CDR) process aligned with LSE practice,
 with mentors assigned for both permanent and fixed-term staff. Mentors provide guidance for
 individual CDRs by providing feedback on documents submitted to the School as well as more
 informal guidance on career trajectories within the department, LSE, and the discipline more
 widely. The department’s Professors review the career progress of Assistant and Associate
 Professors annually (at a minimum) and consider cases for promotion and how to support
 mentoring arrangements more generally. Formal arrangements are matched by practices of
 informal mentoring through engagement among researchers with common interests. New hires
 have overlapping interests with several of our main areas of research within which productive
 research conversations occur. Department research events bring colleagues together to talk
 about research and exchange ideas, and have been a starting point for successful collaboration
 and inspired new ideas for projects.

 The department allocates additional income from teaching and research to staff as enhanced
 personal research allowances (prior to COVID-19 financial constraints: £5,000/annum for
 permanent staff; £2,000/annum for LSE Fellows on fixed-term contracts), and all staff and PhD
 students have the opportunity to apply to the department’s research committee for seed money
 or funds to support workshops from our RIIF funds (usually £500 to £2,500 per application).

 Reflecting on past staff development, we see our approach as having been successful. In
 the previous REF exercise 91% of the department’s eligible staff were submitted, showing the
 breadth of research success in the department. Staff development has also underpinned
 successful promotion campaigns and increasingly fluid promotion to Associate Professor and
 beyond, with five promotions to Associate and three promotions to full Professor since 2013.

 Recruitment policy:

 The Economic History department has typically hired junior academics at Assistant Professor
 level, though most of our hires have had some experience as a lecturer or post-doctoral
 researcher/fellow elsewhere before joining LSE. We have focused mostly on the junior market
 because it is an area where we have a comparative advantage relative to hiring Professors or
 Associate Professors. Our most recent Assistant Professor hires have added new research


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise in health (Schneider), medieval economic history (Claridge) and slavery (Ruderman).
 Since 2013 our positions have drawn large fields of high-quality applicants (typically 80-100
 economic historians apply), and we have been able to hire junior scholars with PhDs from
 leading institutions (Yale, Oxford, LSE, UEA) already holding excellent first placements
 (Harvard, Warwick, Sussex). Five successful promotions to Associate Professor confirm that
 our junior-focused hiring strategy has been successful.

 While we typically hire junior academics, we have recently made three senior appointments that
 fit well with the department’s current research strategy. Humphries has joined as a Centennial
 Professor (0.25 FTE), and Gazeley as a part-time Professor (0.3 FTE) following early retirement
 from Sussex. These appointments significantly strengthen our research base on historical
 wages and living standards. Humphries and Gazeley also bring experience in dealing with
 research councils, managing large research projects, and generating impact through public
 engagement. We have also recently appointed Horrell to a professorship in the department.
 Horrell’s appointment brings complementary research expertise with many existing staff, and
 extends our range with her innovative research agenda on the economics of gender and the
 family in historical context.

 Recruitment pattern:

 2015 – Schneider hired as Assistant Professor, promoted to Associate Professor in 2017/18
 2016 – Postel-Vinay hired as Assistant Professor, passed interim review 2018/19
 2017 – Ruderman hired as Assistant Professor, joins department after another year as a post-
 doc at Harvard.
 2018 – Claridge hired as Assistant Professor. Gazeley hired as part-time Professor. Humphries
 joins as Centennial Professor.
 2019 – Horrell hired as Professor.

 Demographic profile:

 The Economic History department is well-balanced in terms of career experience (<15, 15-25,
 25+ years post-PhD). While the largest group among permanent academic staff are Professors,
 this mostly reflects good recruitment and career guidance over the last 10 to 15 years. The
 department’s current profile implies that recruitment will continue to focus on the Assistant
 Professor level.

 The department has a good supply of experienced Associates and recently promoted Professors
 who are familiar with how LSE works and can serve the department and the School well in
 research-related administrative tasks. As a result, the department’s ability to run research
 projects, train PhD students and maintain breadth and strength of publications is not especially
 vulnerable to anticipated retirements.

 ECRs:

 Since 2013 the department has employed a number of LSE Fellows in the department. Fellows
 are appointed on annual non-REF-eligible contracts which can be renewed twice thereafter. The
 department’s objective with LSE Fellows is to provide a springboard towards permanent
 positions in academia. Fellows are fully integrated into department research culture and are

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentored by permanent academic staff. The post includes an annual research allowance, and
 Fellows can apply for internal department funding to organize research events, travel, or to
 complete research projects. Fellows have been active across our department seminar series.
 Gibbs and Hutkova presented in department series in 2018/19, as did Chilosi, Claridge, and
 Yaffe while they were LSE Fellows. The department’s LSE fellows have excellent publication
 records while at LSE, most notably Chilosi’s articles in the Journal of Economic History and
 Hutkova’s monograph with Boydell & Brewer. Our LSE Fellows (and previous fixed-term
 lecturers) have an impressive record securing positions following their fellowships. Over 80
 percent have secured academic positions including posts at Barcelona, Bocconi, Glasgow,
 Groeningen, Halle-Wittenberg, LSE, Surrey, and Venice.

 The department has also hosted a number of research staff tied to specific projects. Since
 2013, two have received major external awards for public engagement activity: Kissane was
 named a BBC New Generation Thinker in 2016 (focusing on food and identity); Berry received a
 British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award for “Narrative Science in Techno-environments”
 in 2019.

 Sabbatical policy:

 The department has typically allowed staff to take accumulated leave once accrued, in line with
 School policy (see REF5a). This includes Assistant Professors prior to major review, where
 periods of study leave may be crucial to completing major pieces of research.

 Stimulating exchanges between academics, business, industry:

 The department’s main conduit for exchanges with the private sector is the Economic History
 Advisory Board. The Board, which was first convened in 2018, comprises six members with a
 strong connection to the department, the School, or the discipline of Economic History. The
 Advisory Board’s primary remit is to assist in promoting the department and its activities with a
 focus on resource development, alumni outreach, departmental events, external relations,
 academic programmes, and research initiatives. Support of the board has been used to
 coordinate a series of events connecting department members and their research interests with
 audiences combining academics, students and private sector professionals. These events have
 been particularly successful in virtual format during COVID-19 restrictions.

 Rewarding staff for research and impact:

 The department actively supports the promotion of staff members who deliver high quality
 research. Our track record on promotion testifies to success on this front. The department
 supports recognition for those who undertake knowledge exchange work, and relief from
 administrative tasks and/or lighter marking and supervision loads are offered when possible.
 Staff engagement with impact-generating activity has been used as part of successful
 nominations for salary increments.

 Quality of training and supervision of PhD students:

 The majority of PhD students in the Economic History department are in residence for three or
 four academic years. We typically have 30 to 40 PhD students in the programme, with

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 admission of six to 10 new students per annum. All PhD students have two supervisors.
 Supervisory pairs are normally drawn from the research areas outlined in Section 1, with
 students also benefiting from access to other colleagues working on related themes. The
 department has a Doctoral Programme Director and dedicated professional staff member to
 oversee PhD progression and provide further support to candidates. Outside of the department,
 the PhD Academy provides an overarching framework for support of PhD research across LSE.

 Formal training for PhD students takes the form of a compulsory course for students in the first
 year of their programme (EH520), which focuses on research design, critical reading of
 economic history research, and the professional skills required to be a successful academic
 post-PhD. This course is taught by the Doctoral Programme Director in conjunction with other
 senior colleagues, who are able to help tailor student progress in the first year as a result. Most
 doctoral students also take additional economic history courses in their first year (often
 quantitative methods), and audit courses outside the department (economics, geography,
 international history, international development) as appropriate. As described in Section 1, the
 department is currently exploring options to expand the range of formal compulsory training
 offered to PhD students.

 Integrating PhD students into research culture:

 The success of our PhD programme reflects the pairing of able and motivated students with a
 department culture that allows them to flourish. Doctoral students are all given office space.
 Since 2015 this is now part of a single building, which provides easy informal access to
 academic and professional services staff when required. The department gives research
 students opportunities and funds to contribute to our research environment. Students are active
 participants in all seminar series as audience and occasional presenters, and run our
 Wednesday afternoon seminar with financial support from the department to cover speaker
 expenses. This seminar series is a mix of our own PhD students, graduate students from other
 departments and institutions, and occasional visiting academics. These seminars provide an
 opportunity to network with scholars outside, to learn how to engage constructively with each
 other’s research, and is a vital check on the progress of their own projects in front of a student
 and staff audience in the department. Our PhD students have also organized occasional
 workshops that have enriched department activities – for example, a series of workshops on
 inter-war economic history, and occasional seminars in Asian economic history. The Research
 Committee has supported PhD applications for small funds to hold these events. PhD students
 also use our department working paper series to release pre-published research.

 Recruitment of PhDs, studentships from major funding bodies:

 The department has a dedicated admissions panel that reviews all applications. The Doctoral
 Programme Director consults the panel at several stages in the process – recommendations for
 our first round of offers, advice on later applications, recommendations for funding offers, and so
 on.

 The department attracts large numbers of high-quality doctoral applicants from around the globe.
 Since 2017 about two-thirds of applications come from outside of Europe and the UK. The
 department is pro-active in encouraging students well-matched to faculty to apply, particularly



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 out of MA/MSc programmes that produce qualified students suited to conducting research in
 economic history at LSE.

 Since 2015, the department has been able to offer one or two LSE PhD studentships and two to
 four ESRC awards per annum. To support additional highly qualified applicants, the department
 has worked with the Economic History Advisory Board to co-sponsor a new department
 studentship from 2021/22. While other funds to part-support PhD students through standard
 research grants (for example, Schneider’s ESRC award) have been used, we have not sought to
 tie doctoral projects to funded staff research commitments, and will continue to support student
 autonomy in research as it has proved successful.

 Monitoring of PhD progress:

 The department applies a two-stage graduate review process. Students are expected to submit
 a complete research paper and thesis plan at the first stage of review (currently 18 months into
 the PhD), and two completed chapters plus a plan for the rest of the thesis at the second stage
 of review (currently 30 months into the PhD). The review process is rigorous – students are
 interviewed by their readers, and may be asked to resubmit, or in extreme cases, to leave the
 programme due to lack of progress. Supervisors are not directly involved in the review process.
 Readers provide detailed written comments on draft material, and typically students and readers
 meet after the review process so that more informal guidance can be given. This process serves
 both as quality control and to ensure that students can communicate the essence of their work to
 a panel of “generalist” economic historians. The department’s view is that this process also has
 helped our completion rates, as students have a firm timeline to work towards, and are better
 prepared for their viva voce examination due to our review process. Having to convince non-
 specialist readers also helps our doctoral students think about how to transform thesis chapters
 into journal article and monographs.

 Skills development and career preparation for PhDs:

 In addition to coursework requirements in the doctoral programme, the department prepares
 students for the academic job market through mock interviews and practice “job market talks” for
 students seeking academic positions. This has proved an effective method to help students
 learn how to deal with critical audiences in high-pressure situations. This approach, which has
 helped with the placement of PhDs described in Section 1, will be reinforced with the
 introduction of a PhD placement officer as a new administrative role from 2020/21. We also
 encourage our doctoral students to take advantage of training and networking opportunities
 outside of LSE. Our PhD students have participated in the Economic History Society residential
 training course in Manchester and summer schools organized by the European Historical
 Economics Society and CAGE (Warwick). Doctoral students in the department have taken
 advantage of exchange and visiting scholar schemes to spend time with expert professors
 and/or primary source research materials at Sciences-Po Paris and UC-Berkeley. We also
 strongly encourage our doctoral students to present their work at conferences and workshops
 early in their PhD studies so that they become familiar with the field outside of LSE and interact
 with historians and social scientists with different specialisms. Conference travel for doctoral
 students is supported by LSE funds or the research accounts of supervisors in the department.

 EDI in recruitment of PhDs and staff:

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The department’s PhD admissions committee is a gender and grade balanced panel which is
 committed to LSE’s EDI policies. Since 2013 the department has avoided male-only (and
 Professor-only) appointment panels and has made a significant effort to account for gender in
 recent recruiting, appointing women to three of five full-time positions offered since 2013. As
 academic staff in the Economic History Department remains about two-thirds male, improving
 gender balance will remain a consideration for future appointments. Recent resignations and
 anticipated retirements are likely to change the demographic profile of the department for other
 characteristics, and the department is actively considering its recruitment strategy to further
 support LSE’s EDI policies.

 Gender has been a consideration in our approach to PhD admissions and funding
 recommendations since 2013. Thirty-three percent of current doctoral students in the
 department are female, and thirty-six percent are BAME.

 EDI in the selection of outputs:

 The department has followed the School’s REF Code of Practice by carefully considering output
 selection where publications are rated below 4* by internal and/or external readers. In such
 cases we have recommended selecting outputs that ensure appropriate representation of staff
 with protected characteristics, relative to department benchmarks.

 Athena Swan:

 The Department anticipates applying for an Athena Swan award in the near future to reinforce
 progress we have made in gender equality and commit to further improvements.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding:

 The department encourages staff to pursue funding opportunities that will support their
 publication objectives. There is an effective culture in the department of supporting and advising
 colleagues on bids for funding. The department has been successful in securing a range of
 research grants that can be directly linked to subsequent research output. Since 2013, the
 department has received significant funds from numerous sources. Leverhulme project grants
 (Hunter, Schulze, Volckart, O’Brien) have led to research published in the Economic History
 Review and Journal of Economic History. ESRC funding (Schneider, Gardner) sponsored
 research appearing in Explorations in Economic History, the Journal of Economic History, and
 Journal of Economic Growth. European Commission funds (Wallis, Minns) are tied to output in
 Theory and Society, the European Review of Economic History, and Journal of Social History.
 Morgan’s ongoing ERC grant underpins recent publications in History of the Human Sciences
 and Studies in History and Philosophy of Science. Recent awards include 2020 SSHRC insight
 development grant funding (Minns), and a set of smaller awards received by our Assistant
 Professors (Claridge – STICERD; Ruderman – Arthur H. Cole grant from EHA) should serve as
 seed money for future large grant applications.

 In addition to project-specific funding, the department has a good record in securing research
 fellowships. Irigoin and Ma have held Leverhulme fellowships since 2013, while Ruderman has


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been awarded an American Council of Learned Societies fellowship for the 2020/21 academic
 year.

 Research income:

 The department’s total research income since 2013/14 is £4.01 million, or £502k per annum.
 This figure is an increase over the previous REF period, where £2.87million was raised (£478k
 per annum).

 Infrastructure to support research:

 The department supports research through regular seminar and workshop series. We have two
 weekly series (external seminar series and PhD seminar series) where the department funds
 visiting speakers from around the world. These seminars are attended by department staff and
 students, but also draw audience members from other London universities and see regular
 “drop-in” attendance from international scholars who happen to be in London for research
 purposes. The department also has an occasional reading group/brown bag seminar to
 exchange ideas within the department or to present preliminary work. These activities have
 continued in 2020 despite COVID restrictions, with over 70 online attendees present at the best-
 attended external seminars.

 The department also collaborates in research events with other units at LSE and institutions
 elsewhere in the UK. These include OWL (an annual Oxford-Warwick-LSE conference in
 economic history), our semi-annual workshop held jointly with the LSE Economics Department,
 and since 2019 an annual workshop in Historical Demography. Department members have
 served as convenors of seminars at the Institute for Historical Research, or contributed as
 presenters and participants.

 To support prospective research bids and new ideas at the grass roots stage, the department
 Research Committee scrutinizes applications for occasional workshops and pilot projects.
 Workshops funded since 2018 include Schneider and Cummins’s historical demography
 workshop, our biennial workshop with the Economics Department (Cummins), Claridge and
 Gibbs’s medieval economic history meeting (Sowing the Seeds), and inter-war and Asia
 workshops referred to earlier. These workshops have served to reinforce informal collaboration
 in our areas of strength that could lead to new projects, and help build interdisciplinary research
 with individuals outside of the department. The Research Committee has also funded pilot
 projects by Gardner, Volckart, and Rosés that are being used to develop large grant applications
 and to extend research collaboration with the Library.

 The Economic History department engages with centralised research support at LSE, with one
 colleague (Ruderman) receiving a School-level Research Infrastructure and Investment Fund
 (RIIF) award, and several others (Accominotti; Claridge; Schneider) small grants from the
 Suntory and Toyota International Centres for Economics and Related Disciplines (STICERD) to
 pursue new research projects and organize events.

 The department is committed to maintaining its record of turning seed funding into major grants
 to support our research. In addition to support from LSE’s Research and Innovation division, the
 department has in-house expertise in grant preparation among academic and professional staff.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future increases in department professional staff may be used to developing discipline-specific
 expertise and assistance in the identification and preparation of research funding bids.

 Since 2015 the department has significant space for research in a single building. This has
 allowed us to offer Visiting Fellows a desk, and has facilitated hosting of research staff on a
 range of projects (Narrative Science, MACROHIST, bEUCitizen). Our current arrangements
 make it easy for colleagues to talk to one another, and has helped fully integrate LSE Fellows,
 research officers, postdoctoral fellow and PhD students into the life of the department.

 EDI issues in research:

 EDI issues in allocating internal funding are considered by the department’s Research
 Committee rather than being left at the discretion of the department head or the deputy head for
 research. The Department EDI Officer (Ruderman) currently sits on the Research Committee as
 well as the School-wide EDI Representatives Network. Since 2018/2019 the department’s
 Research Committee is gender balanced, and also well-balanced across staff grades (two
 Professors, one Associate Professor, two Assistant Professors, one Research Officer). Women
 and visible minority staff members received 56 percent of our external research income since
 2013.

 Infrastructure, facilities, expertise for impact:

 The Department has access to LSE’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) funds for
 engagement and impact (£10,000 / annum since 2018/19), and has used these to organize
 events for the public and to facilitate opportunities to meet with policy makers. Claridge and
 Humphries hosted screenings of documentary films related to department research, while
 Claridge, Gardner, and Rosés participated in a round table at the European Parliament in
 Brussels. The department’s Research Committee places high weight on potential impact when
 allocating department funds for small internal research grants, with recent recipients required to
 commit to some form of impact or engagement work. Gardner has been successful in securing
 two substantial KEI project grants from the School to develop her partnership with the
 Smithsonian Institution, plan a programme of engagement activities, and deliver impacts of the
 type described in her impact case study.

 The department’s impact activities have been supported by the School’s KEI Integrated Service
 who provide advice and financial resources. We have also increased in-house expertise in
 impact, through Gardner’s experience on her Smithsonian project, and through the recent
 appointments of Humphries and Gazeley who bring impact experience gained in their previous
 institutions. An important task for the department in coming years will be to fully benefit from the
 sharing of expertise, and to further develop our ability to broadcast the breadth and relevance of
 our research to non-academic audiences. We have effected some improvements already by
 tracking all impact-related work so that we have a good log from which potential impact projects
 can be identified and interesting activities promoted more generally.

 Specialist research facilities:

 Economic history at LSE has to-date not required extensive in-house research facilities to
 achieve its research objectives. The outstanding collections at the Library – the A.L. Bowley

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collection, Beveridge collection, Women’s Library, and other archival collections – are valuable
 resources for staff and research students in the department, and draw economic historians from
 around the globe to LSE. The Library also has an outstanding collection of government
 documents that have been used extensively by staff and students. The Library is particularly
 strong in terms of international coverage in this regard, and this strength is complemented by
 materials held at other University of London libraries (SOAS, Senate House), the Guildhall
 Library, and the National Archives at Kew to which colleagues have access.

 Collaborative use of research infrastructure:

 We have established an effective working relationship with the Library, who are consulting us
 regarding digital conversion and database generation for a host of British historical documents
 including the Labour Gazette and the reports of the Surgeon General. We anticipate deepening
 the connections between the department and LSE Library in order to combine our significant
 experience in using big historical data to answer research questions and in managing large-
 scale data collection projects with their collections and specialist librarians.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations:

 The department has a range of external research collaborations which reflects the diversity of
 research undertaken by colleagues.

 Between 2013 and 2017, two of our faculty (Wallis; Minns) played leading parts in a group of
 historians and social scientists addressing the ways in which citizenship can operate in a supra-
 national environment of the kind emergent within the European Union. By engaging with other
 historians, political scientists, legal scholars, and sociologists, they showed how insights and
 models drawn from historical experience of different forms of urban, national and economic
 citizenship across Europe could provide resources for moving beyond the constraints of the
 nation-state model that matured in the late nineteenth century. At the same time, they produced
 original research that challenged historiographical assumptions about the extent and nature of
 citizenship between the sixteenth and nineteenth centuries. The project’s contributions were
 presented to the European Commission in 2017.

 After the 2008 financial crisis, recognition that macroeconomic thinking needed to return to
 empirical historical evidence led the department to take a leading role in MACROHIST, a
 partnership bringing together six European departments in economics, history, and economic
 history. The project sought to bring young scholars working on macroeconomic and financial
 history at each institution into contact with interdisciplinary approaches across the partnership.
 The network provided training opportunities and allowed young scholars to spend time at partner
 institutions. Pre- and post-doctoral researchers who spent time at LSE secured excellent
 academic positions following their time here (St. Andrews, Queen’s University Belfast).

 The department sees its contributions as global, and seeks to advance understanding of social
 and economic development through the developing world. Key elements include our
 collaborative Masters degree in the Political Economy of Late Development (PELD) with LSE’s
 Department of International Development which provides economic history training for masters


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students aiming to work in international development. The Department participates in an
 Erasmus Mundus Global Studies programme which includes an inter-university MSc course,
 scholar mobility for faculty, and Summer and Winter schools. Graduates from the MSc have
 advanced to faculty positions. Gardner has a permanent visiting appointment at Stellenbosch,
 and has used her connections there to facilitate visits from African researchers to LSE, and
 travel of our PhD students to Stellenbosch. Two recent PhD students who spent time at
 Stellenbosch have gone on to JRF positions at Nuffield College, and a recent doctoral graduate
 from the department spent two years as a post-doctoral fellow at Stellenbosch. Stellenbosch
 University has also joined Gardner’s impact project with Smithsonian Museum, supported by
 LSE KEI funding.

 Interacting with key research users:

 The department’s interactions with key research users come mainly through our connections
 with policy makers in government. Ritschl’s position on the German economics ministry’s
 advisory board brings his research insights to an influential body in German policy, as well as
 historical reflection on how such institutions functioned in the past. Roy has been commissioned
 to write the history of the Central Bank of India, which will be distributed widely across the Indian
 public sector. Schneider’s conference on stunting in historical perspective included numerous
 policy makers as attendees, including a number of workers for NGOs in developing countries
 where the consequences of poor childhood nutrition remain widespread.

 Wider contributions to economy and society / Wider impact activities/impact not captured by
 ICSs:

 One of the department’s key objectives is to raise awareness of economic history. Colleagues
 who deliver public lectures and interact with the public often do so in part to reshape commonly-
 held beliefs about the topics with which economic historians engage. Roy’s engagement with
 Indian academic institutions is aimed at raising the profile of economic history where it is largely
 unknown both in academia and among the general public. Our events run in conjunction with
 the department’s Advisory Board seek to bring our research insights to an audience that may
 receive limited exposure to ideas from economic history through their professional experience.
 Minns, Ruderman, and Schneider have spoken to primary and secondary school pupils about
 their research and the nature of economic history more generally.

 Contribution to sustainability of discipline:

 The department contributes to the sustainability of both Economic History and History more
 generally. First, our placement of doctoral students in departments and institutions that do not
 have a tradition in economic history has helped the field to expand to new academic audiences,
 often where historical research of any kind has been absent previously. Second, the department
 has contributed to the running of summer schools and short courses intended to raise the quality
 of PhD student research outside of LSE. These include European Historical Economics Society
 summer schools, and the Economic History Society (EHS) residential training course in
 Manchester every December, to which Gardner, Irigoin, and Minns have contributed since 2013.
 Third, department colleagues with extensive networks in regions where the field is
 underdeveloped (Roy in South East Asia; Gardner in Africa) are working to raise awareness of
 the sub-discipline in these locations. Gardner is one of the founding editors of Economic History

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Developing Regions, a journal dedicated to publishing economic history research focused on
 world regions that have been understudied by economic historians for decades. Finally, our
 collaboration with the Library developing digital historical collections will make historical
 evidence of all kinds more accessible to research users who are unable to visit the Library in
 person.

 Support for interdisciplinary research:

 The department supports interdisciplinary research by appointing staff with diverse academic
 backgrounds and encouraging department researchers to engage with interdisciplinary
 collaborative research within the department, with colleagues in other units at LSE, and with
 colleagues in other institutions. Gardner’s ESRC project with Boone (LSE Government) has
 fostered academic connections between the department and political scientists. The Narrative
 Science project (Morgan) is exemplary in bringing a range of disciplinary perspectives together
 in the department and influencing interdisciplinary research developments outside through
 research events and publications.

 Responsiveness to international/national priorities and initiatives:

 Research in the department provides historical perspectives on several national research
 priorities, as defined by the ESRC. Work on long-run trends in national and regional incomes
 (Rosés, Schulze, Gardner) is directly related to the priority area of productivity. Research by
 Horrell, and Schneider has yielded new insights into changes in human health in earlier
 decades. Ritschl’s advisory work with the German economics ministry is relevant for the theme
 of “trust and governance in a turbulent age” through the implications for governance institutions.

 Our research also speaks to the UN’s sustainable development goals, through good health and
 well-being (Horrell, Gazeley, Schneider, Wallis), decent work and economic growth (Gardner,
 Minns), industry, innovation, and infrastructure (Bakker), and reduced inequality (Cummins).

 Wider influence:

 Department members have made a number of important contributions illustrative of wider
 influence since 2013.

 Editorial Roles: Wallis and Roses and currently editors at Economic History Review and
 European Review of Economic History. Gardner is one of the founding editors of Economic
 History of Developing Regions and is book reviews assistant editor at the Economic History
 Review. Horrell was editor of Economic History Review just prior to joining LSE. Ma and Wallis
 have been members of the editorial boards of Explorations in Economic History and the Journal
 of Economic History. Ritschl is on the editorial board of Journal of Political Economy. Morgan is
 on editorial boards at Philosophy of Science, Journal for the History of Economic Thought,
 Journal of Economic Methodology, and History of Political Economy.

 Grant Committees: Minns, Gardner, Ritschl, Roses, Schulze and Wallis have sat on the Institute
 for Historical Research/Economic History Society’s post-doctoral fellowship panel, while Morgan
 has been on British Academy fellowship panels. Minns is currently serving on the Social



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science and Humanities Research Council of Canada’s Partnership Grant adjudication
 committee.

 Fellowships: Department members hold or have recently held visiting positions at Amsterdam,
 Berlin (Humboldt), Duke, Pennsylvania, and Stellenbosch. External research fellowships have
 been awarded to Irigoin, Ma (Leverhulme) and Ruderman (American Council of Learned
 Societies).

 Publication prizes: Schulze won the 2013 Cole Prize for best article in the Journal of Economic
 History. Roy was the winner of the 2013 Sir Timothy Coghlan Prize for best article in Australian
 Economic History Review. Cummins was a collaborating author on Greg Clark’s Ranki Prize
 winning book (2015). Volckart was awarded the prize for best article in German History in 2019.

 Membership of research councils and roles in learned societies: Morgan was Vice President
 (Publications) at the British Academy between 2014 and 2018, and a member of the Managing
 Advisory Committee. Minns is Canadian representative to World Economic History Congress,
 and Trustee of the Cliometrics Society, while Gardner will become Secretary-General of this
 organisation following the upcoming World Congress in Paris. Schneider is a member of the
 Economic History Society’s Council and trustee of the European Historical Economic Society.

 Invited lecture and keynote talks: Deng and Minns have given public lectures at LSE since 2013,
 Schneider, Wallis, and Minns have delivered public lectures outside to London research libraries
 and historical societies in London and elsewhere. Wallis gave the keynote lecture at FRESH
 (2014), and the Sound Workshop in Economic History (2013). Morgan delivered the British
 Academy Keynes lecture (2014), a keynote to the Australian Economic Society (2016), and
 participated in a series of events (including lectures) as part of the Economic Society of Australia
 Eminent Speaker Series (2016).

 Refereeing academic publications, research proposals. Colleagues have refereed for more
 than 20 different journals, numerous publishers of academic monographs, and have reviewed
 research grants for Research Councils in the UK, Europe, and North America.




                                                                                             Page 17
