Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: KING’S COLLEGE LONDON

 Unit of Assessment: 14 GEOGRAPHY & ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context:

 This submission is primarily-based on research conducted by members of the Department of
 Geography, King’s College London. Founded in 1922, it is one of the largest and most
 interdisciplinary in the UK, with over 80 academic, teaching and research staff. It has more
 than 450 undergraduate students on its RGS-accredited BA and BSc Geography programmes,
 290 postgraduate students across six Master’s courses and over 100 PhD students.

 Since 2016, the Department has been part of the new School of Global Affairs (SGA) (Acting
 Head: Herrick), and, from 2018, has been physically co-located with SGA colleagues in the
 Global Institutes, the Department of Global Health & Social Medicine and Department of
 International Development in new accommodation in Bush House, Aldwych. This facilitates
 interdisciplinary problem-solving research that addresses pressing global challenges such as
 climate change adaptation, disaster mitigation, poverty alleviation, sustainable
 development, the reduction of gendered violence and effective water management. As
 such, this submission includes six staff from the Department of International Development and
 the Global Institutes, as well as one member of the Department of European & International
 Studies: all co-operate closely with those in the Department of Geography.

 Geography at King’s has an excellent global research reputation (e.g. one of the top 10 UK
 departments, QS World University Ranking, 2020). It has interdisciplinary expertise straddling
 the social and natural sciences, with a significant proportion of its work concerned with the
 complex interaction of human and physical systems (e.g. as manifest in pioneering work in
 areas including urban political ecology, the conservation of ecosystem services, water
 resource management and the monitoring and management of environmental hazards such
 as landslides, wildfires and floods). This interdisciplinary orientation and applied focus are
 reflected in its research structures.

 Research structure:

 King’s recognises the importance of personal scholarship and research independence but
 encourages collaborative, interdisciplinary research involving teams of researchers at varying
 career stages. Currently, the Department of Geography has five established Research Groups
 (the organisational pillars around which research and research-led teaching is managed), and
 three Activity Hubs (designed to generate impact in areas that cut across physical and human
 geography) (Figure One).

 All academic staff, research staff and PGRs are affiliated to at least one research group, which
 provides them with mentorship, strategic direction and support, including bespoke opportunities
 to present their work in seminars, reading groups and grant workshops. Each research group is
 also directly associated with a Master’s programme that cultivates future research capacity.
 Heads of research groups lead on the implementation of the Department’s research strategy and
 have a small research budget designed to support group activity. All five research groups are
 represented at the Department Research Committee, alongside Department Impact leads
 (Löfstedt and Schreckenberg), the interdisciplinary research champion (Dawson), a PDRA
 representative, the Faculty Research Development Manager and the School Research Manager.
 The Committee meets quarterly, and as well as standing items (research income; REF; impact)
 incorporates regular external presentations on grant opportunities, media & communications,
 open access and Equalities, Diversity & Inclusion. The committee has an £8,000 annual budget
 to pump prime research, and £8,000 to develop research impact.


                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                 Figure One: Organisational structure,
                  King’s College London UoA14 Geography & Environmental Studies




 The five Department research groups focus on demonstrable areas of expertise as follows:

       Contested Development provides critical perspectives on the relations between state
        formation, geopolitics and uneven development. The group incorporates colleagues from
        the Department of International Development and the Global Institutes, and, as such,
        represents one of the largest groupings of development expertise associated with a UK
        Geography department. Members are engaged in projects across Africa (Bracking,
        Brooks, Craggs, Evans, Herrick, Loftus), South/South East Asia and the Middle East
        (Akhter, Goodburn, Mirumachi, Mustafa, Natarajan, Susewind) in addition to parts of
        Latin America (Boesten, McIlwaine) and small island-states (Schofield). Contesting
        simplistic divisions between global North and South, members make critical interventions
        in debates surrounding global poverty, health and migration (e.g. Sumner has developed
        measures of global poverty now adopted by the UNDP and World Bank, Herrick has
        assessed the effectiveness of health partnerships in the context of Ebola, and Brooks
        has challenged orthodoxies of charity-giving through his work on second-hand clothing),
        while work on violence (e.g. Boesten, McIlwaine, Mustafa, Natarajan) offers a
        uniquely-transnational perspective on domestic and political violence (with both Mustafa
        and McIlwaine holding grants in the BA Heritage, Violence & Dignity programme). This
        research group underpins the MSc Environment, Politics & Development.

       Physical & Environmental Geography develops understanding of interacting
        hydrological, geomorphological, ecological and atmospheric processes, including
        indicators of past, present and future climate. Much of this research is applied in nature
        and some directly contributes to decision-support. Studies focus on arid/semi-arid areas
        and aeolian environments (Baas, Breeze, Drake), urban environments (Chadwick,
        Francis), grasslands (Catford), closed canopy forests (both tropical and high latitude)
        (Dawson, Mulligan), and ice sheets (Edwards) as well as lakes, estuaries, rivers and
        the riparian zone (Catford, Chadwick, Francis, Mulligan, Schillereff). The group’s
        work is strongly international in orientation, including major projects conducted at the
        global scale such as the £9m EC Horizon 2020 Protect sea-level change project (Co-I

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Edwards). Notably, it was one of the first research groups in the UK to link computer-
        based simulation and laboratory work to field environmental monitoring using both in situ
        sensor networks (e.g. the low-cost environmental sensors developed by Mulligan and
        Schillereff) and airborne/satellite remote sensing (as manifest in the world-leading
        thermal remote sensing, wildfire and IR spectroscopy projects led by Wooster and his
        extensive team of PDRAs in the NERC National Centre for Earth Observation and the
        associated World Class Lab on airborne instrumentation). This research group links to
        the MSc Environmental Science for Environmental Sustainability.

       Political Ecology & Ecosystem Services represents one of the largest UK
        concentrations of expertise in political ecology, with notable research on infrastructural
        futures (Angel, Akhter, Bryant), the impacts of the privatisation of water (Angel,
        Loftus), plumbing poverty (Meehan) and the calculative challenges associated with the
        financialisation of nature (Bracking, Demeritt, Loftus, Purcell). This newly-convened
        research grouping brings this critical work into dialogue with more applied work at the
        physical/human interface: major foci here includes ecosystem services assessment and
        the social impacts of nature conservation (Dawson, Mulligan, Schreckenberg, Tebbs),
        food security (Dawson) and the relations of development and resource management
        (Akhter, Mirumachi, Mustafa, Schreckenberg). Emerging work on nature-based
        solutions, urban energy transitions and hydropolitics - including the NERC-funded
        Nature4SDGs project (PI: Schreckenberg) and the EC NAIAD and ReSET projects (PI:
        Mulligan) - is establishing a focus on the role of nature in achieving Sustainable
        Development Goals. This research underpins the MA Geopolitics, Territory & Resources.

       Risks, Hazards & Society addresses the interdisciplinary challenges of risk, combining
        natural science expertise on environmental hazards with social science expertise on the
        construction of risk and its communication. Research foci include comparative studies of
        risk governance tools across multiple sectors and nations (Demeritt, Löfstedt,
        Rothstein, Wooster, Mulligan); institutional constructions of climate risk and resilience
        (Adamson, Berkhout, Hulme, now Cambridge); climate-driven migration (Adams,
        Pelling); management of multi-hazard risk (Pelling, Malamud); nature-based solutions
        to climate risk (Mulligan, Francis); environmental and health risk communication
        (Löfstedt); landslide early warning systems (Malamud); and natural hazard
        forecasting (Demeritt, Malamud). Group members are involved in major collaborative
        programmes (e.g. Malamud and Pelling’s role in the £20m UKRI-GCRF Urban Disaster
        Risk Hub; Malamud, Millington and Pelling’s role in the £3.3m DFID/ESRC Urban
        Africa Risk Knowledge programme; and Demeritt and Wooster’s role in the £10m
        Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires, Environment & Society with Imperial College). This
        group links to the MSc Risk Analysis, Adaptation & Resilience.

       Urban Futures builds upon King’s rich tradition of urban geography (via the continuing
        participation of Emeritus staff Tim Butler, Chris Hamnett, and Debby Potts), and offers
        policy-relevant perspectives informed by critical urban theory. Recent research foci
        include the historical and contemporary visioning of the future city (Craggs, Dickens),
        feminist/queer perspective on urban life (Andersson, Hubbard, McIlwaine), questions
        of well-being and health (Green, Herrick, Shiode), urban nature and animal geographies
        (Chadwick, Francis, Hubbard), the geographies of housing affordability (Hubbard,
        Potts, Reades), the monitoring of ‘smart cities’ (Datta, now UCL, Shiode, Zhong),
        infrastructure futures (Akhter, Meehan, Pelling) and socio-technical experimentation in
        cities (Berkhout). As stated in the REF2014 submission, this group is increasingly
        embracing the principles of comparative urbanism (as manifest in work of Datta,
        McIlwaine, Potts), moving beyond a London-centric focus to one considering the
        relationality of cities. This research group links to the MSc Sustainable Cities.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




        Figure Two: Research themes and content, based on word counts of REF2 submitted outputs,
                     King’s College London UoA14 Geography & Environmental Studies




 Research & Impact strategy:

 The Department’s 2014 Research & Impact strategy aimed to improve the quality, scale and
 impact of research so that the majority can be defined as world-leading. This has involved:

        Recruiting high-quality staff from different disciplinary backgrounds to encourage the
         use of diverse methods encompassing qualitative, participatory work (interviews,
         ethnography, and arts-based methods) through to innovative quantitative analyses of ‘big
         data’: this has included early career researchers in emerging fields as well as
         internationally-recognised experts who provide research leadership (e.g. Hubbard,
         Urban Futures; Dawson, Political Ecology & Ecosystems Services, and McIlwaine, and
         Bracking, Contested Development).



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Developing a collaborative intellectual environment that is fully-inclusive, recognising
        that diversity of experience (e.g. ethnic, gender, age) produces research that challenges
        established thinking: to foster collaboration, there are twice-weekly Departmental
        Seminars open to all staff and students, as well as annual lectures, workshops and ad
        hoc events that frequently straddle the human/physical divide.
       Strategically focusing on global challenges through interdisciplinary research - with
        field research conducted in over 95 countries across seven continents (see Section Four)
        - while also using London as a ‘laboratory’ in which physical and human geographers
        cooperate on projects including studies of personal air pollution exposure, flood
        mitigation, and adaptation to heatwave risk, among others.
       Enhancing the quality of research through universal and improved individual annual
        mentoring and Performance & Development Review processes, supportive multiple-
        reviewer grant application peer review processes and REF output feedback exercises
        involving external advisors: regular presentations at staff meetings and individual
        mentoring meetings have defined what is expected of world-leading research, and
        emphasised the importance of quality over quantity as a metric of research performance.
       Supporting staff at all career stages to seek increased research funding, with a central
        aspiration being to develop larger, collaborative projects reflecting our increased
        capability to address global challenges: in this REF cycle, the value of the average
        funding award from external sources has doubled, with many awards of more than £1m -
        including ERC awards (e.g. Catford and Zhong) - and examples of substantial research
        centre funding (e.g. the Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires, Environment & Society lead by
        Demeritt and Wooster).
       Promoting the impact agenda through the appointment of two Department impact leads,
        pump-priming money, and bespoke events fostering engagement with policy-makers: an
        increased share of research is conducted with non-academic beneficiaries, with notable
        secondments including Schreckenberg, Director of the £45m DFID/ESRC/NERC-funded
        Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation research programme (2017-18); Pelling,
        thematic adviser to UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund; Wooster, National Centre
        for Earth Observation (NERC); Adams, seconded to the Cabinet Office as Head of
        Science Engagement for the 26th UN Climate Change Conference, 2021-22.
       Contributing to public and media debates around social and environmental problems
        by exploiting the visibility of our externally-facing Research Hubs, increased use of
        @KCLgeography twitter handle (6,500 followers), and writing for popular news outlets
        (e.g. The Conversation, Guardian Society, and Huffington Post): this has also included
        increased use of our own ‘Exchange’ exhibition space (see Section Three).
       Enhancing future research capacity by developing clearer links between our research,
        our suite of six research-led master’s courses, and pathways within doctoral training
        centres (e.g. ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Science DTP, London Arts &
        Humanities DTP and NERC London DTP), providing a pipeline of future research
        leaders: for example, Leverhulme Early Career Fellow Breeze completed his PhD at
        King’s, while Angel completed King’s Environment, Politics & Globalisation MA before
        his PhD at King’s.

 Future plans:

 Looking forward, the Department’s strategy is to build on recent successes by creating a more
 inclusive research environment, consolidating critical mass in our five research groupings,
 further increasing income generation, and maintaining the vitality of our interdisciplinary
 culture by developing new research priorities within, and across, different research groups. Each
 group has well-developed plans for the next REF cycle, as follows:




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Contested Development will further explore the societal impacts of rapid economic and
        technological change in emerging economies, including studies of environmental, labour
        and gender justice and issues of unequal access to state resources. A notable
        collaboration here will be the participation of members of the Departments of Geography
        and International Development (along with the Department of War Studies) in the Visual
        & Embodied Methodologies network (co-ordinated by Boesten and McIlwaine),
        encouraging the interdisciplinary co-production of arts-based knowledge in areas where
        traditional methods have been found wanting (e.g. the intersection of gendered violence
        and geopolitical conflict).

       Political Ecology & Ecosystem Services will build upon two traditions at King’s
        Geography: one in critical political ecology and the other a more policy-oriented focus on
        ecosystem services mapping, monitoring and modelling. New interests at the interface of
        these groups – and the idea of developing more critical approaches to ecosystem
        services – will coalesce in projects exploring natural resource and energy geographies in
        relation to questions of power and social justice. For example, work on hydro-hegemony
        will increasingly be connected to critical studies of grey and green water infrastructures,
        while the contested politics of climate-driven resource transitions will be a central
        thematic linking this research group to Urban Futures.

    ●   Physical & Environmental Geography will continue to develop innovative, applied
        remote sensing, monitoring and modelling research addressing sustainability challenges.
        It will also further collaborations with other research groups by exploring the links
        between environmental change and security in water, food and ecosystems, with a focus
        on climate change adaptation and mitigation. It will also increasingly address the impacts
        of environmental pollution on human health (including microplastics, air, water and noise
        pollution) using innovative, low-cost sensing. The group will also work with other research
        groups to improve environmental monitoring and forecasting by combining state-of-the-
        art algorithms for analysis of satellite data with local ‘citizen science’ initiatives to provide
        more accurate forecasting of wildfire, droughts, floods and extreme weather.

       Risks, Hazards & Society will build on existing work involving the scientific monitoring,
        remote sensing and modelling of natural hazards such as wildfires, floods and landslides
        (e.g. drawing on ongoing work of the Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires, Environment and
        Society); will undertake international comparative research on risk governance regimes
        and the mobility of policy tools in post-Brexit Europe, and develop research on risk
        communication strategies in the face of climate change in both global North and South.

       Urban Futures will increasingly focus on the impacts of urban infrastructures and
        architectures on health, well-being and security. This will include consideration of how
        changing housing provision and the verticalisation of cities shapes quality of life; how
        plumbing and water poverty shapes health outcomes and how new understandings of
        mental health will shaping the post-COVID city (through engagement with King’s ESRC
        Centre for Society and Mental Health). There will also continue to be profitable
        connections between this group and Physical & Environmental Geography via an
        emergent focus on urban ecologies and animal life in the city.

 Such emerging and new initiatives will be generating visible outcomes and impact over the next
 REF cycle: future strategy will be to ensure the Department maintains the capacity to develop
 and lead large-scale international, collaborative research that is grounded in geographical
 traditions and prepared to address global challenges through interdisciplinary working at the
 physical/human interface. This is encouraged via a pump-priming Faculty Research Fund (16
 awards to Geography in the REF period, total value £167,759) and the College-wide “Kings
 Together” initiative which has funded 21 projects with Geography PIs (total £331,085) since its
 2016 inception. These investments will bear more fruit in the next REF cycle.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 King’s Geography has maintained a strategy of recruiting, developing and nurturing excellent
 researchers at all levels, ensuring there is equality of opportunity for all to benefit from career
 development opportunities. Academic staff are supported to work closely with postgraduates,
 research staff, technicians, and professional services staff, creating a vibrant, collaborative
 culture directed towards the generation of world-leading research. Major steps have been taken
 to ensure that all can participate in this research culture irrespective of disability, ethnicity,
 gender or caring responsibilities: in recognition of this the Department of Geography attained an
 Athena SWAN Bronze award in October 2019. Regular and varied social events linked to
 seminars and student assessments (such as PhD poster sessions), as well as boat trips and
 country walks, contribute to a friendly and inclusive atmosphere.

 Staffing strategy and staff development:

 The current Head of Department, Mulligan, has autonomy within the School of Global Affairs to
 manage staffing resource, with advice from a Departmental Steering Group drawn from all
 genders and career stages. The innovation of three Deputy Head positions (Student Experience,
 Herrick, Research, Hubbard and Education, Malamud) has enhanced leadership capacity and
 succession planning.

 Staff retirements and departures since 2014 have allowed for a renewal of the Department’s
 research culture. For example, the arrival of new Reader and Professorial appointments
 (Dawson, Schreckenberg, Hubbard, McIlwaine, Bracking) has provided research leadership
 on environmental, urban and development research respectively; a range of other appointments
 at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer Level (Akhter, Catford, Dickens, Edwards, Meehan,
 Schillereff, Tebbs) has enhanced capacity in priority areas including global climate change,
 environmental monitoring and urban political ecology. This interplay of research leadership, and
 new, often early career, appointments, exemplifies King’s staffing strategy.

 All new members of academic staff receive induction at Departmental, School and College level.
 The Centre for Research Staff Development (see REF5a) ensures all have access to training
 and development opportunities. As well as induction events and bespoke training for Early
 Career Researchers, there is an Emerging Leaders Programme designed to create a ‘High
 Performance Culture’: those benefiting from this training in the REF period include Mirumachi
 (now leading our Water Hub), while Francis completed the Strategic Leaders Programme and is
 now Associate Dean (Academic Affairs). Additionally, Herrick completed the Senior Leaders
 Programme run by the Leadership Foundation, as well as the Aurora Women’s Leadership
 Programme, both funded by the College: she is now Acting Head of SGA. The Research
 leadership developed within Geography is also demonstrated by the presence of geographers in
 key SSPP Faculty research leadership positions: Dean (Berkhout), Vice-Dean for Research
 (McIlwaine) and Pro-Dean Impact and Innovation (Schreckenberg)

 The College upholds the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (2019), providing clear pathways to promotion and ensuring all research staff (e.g.
 RAs) are aware of relevant training opportunities. Ongoing appraisal of training needs occurs
 through forward-looking annual Performance & Development Reviews, required for all research
 staff and linked to a £1,500 annual research and professional development allowance. The
 success of these processes is manifest in an impressive track record of research staff
 employment after King’s: recently-employed RAs are now in lecturing positions at Bath,
 Birkbeck, Cambridge, CNRS (Paris), Cornell, Huazhong Agricultural University, and the LSE, as
 well as research scientist positions in the Canadian Forest Service, National Physical Laboratory
 (London), and UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 For both academic and research staff, Performance & Development Reviews feed directly into
 mentorship, recognition pay and promotion processes. The latter is tied to the Faculty Academic
 Performance Framework and all who meet the criteria are encouraged and supported to apply.
 The success of this process is evidenced by the large number of internal promotion successes in
 the REF period including Adams, Adamson, Akhter, Andersson, Brooks and Chadwick to
 Senior Lecturer, Baas, Catford, Edwards, Loftus, and Mirumachi to Reader, and Boesten,
 Herrick, Mustafa, Mulligan, Schreckenberg and Sumner to Professor.

 The most important aspect of the strategy for promoting a research environment with a high
 level of participation is ensuring all staff receive a basic research allocation of 40% of their time.
 Additionally, Teaching & Research staff can ‘buy-out’ teaching through grant income (with a one-
 to-one relationship between directly-allocated FTE on research grants and teaching reduction).
 The overall Workload Allocation Model strives to achieve equity in loads across all career
 stages, taking into account all teaching, administrative, supervisory and leadership roles:
 average female and male FTE teaching loads for T&R staff are within one student contact hour
 of each other, as are those for professors and non-professors. All staff can identify one teaching-
 free day in the College timetabled to ensure at least one uninterrupted research day per week.

 As well as ensuring that research activity is explicitly factored into workloads, a vibrant and
 inclusive research culture has been encouraged by:

       Maintaining a one-year-in-seven sabbatical system prioritising large grant applications
        and publishing projects, claimed through an application process, and subject to post-
        sabbatical review.
       Granting staff access to a proportion of research overheads through a Faculty-run
        Principal Investigator Incentivisation fund which gives those with active grants up to
        £3,000 annually to support additional fieldwork, travel or subsistence costs; purchase of
        datasets; or employment of a research assistant.
       Investing in additional professional support services to reduce staff time spent in teaching
        and research-related administration, with digitisation of policies and procedures via a
        fully-live online staff handbook.
       Giving all teaching and research staff research and professional development allowances
        of £1,500 annually to support travel and accommodation associated with professional
        networking activities and research dissemination.
       Providing forums for debate, including the twice-weekly geography research seminars
        that offer a focus for debate and intellectual exchange: external speakers have included
        Yvonne Buckley (2020), Jenny Robinson (2019), Gillian Rose (2018), Uma Kothari
        (2018), Gerry Kearns (2017), David Thomas (2019) and Erik Swyngedouw (2015).
       Supporting staff applications to the King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowship (KURF)
        scheme which allows staff to employ undergraduates as researchers on a £1,000
        bursary: 23 awards have been made to Geography since 2013-14, allowing research to
        be carried out to the mutual benefit of students and staff.
       Managing a peer mentoring system providing all academic and research staff with
        access to an individual research mentor who gives practical advice, constructive criticism
        and encouragement: in addition, College-level peer review of all grants in excess of
        £100,000 is mandatory, and mock interviews conducted in support of these as
        appropriate.

 Mentoring, along with peer review, is also a mechanism to maintain standards of research
 integrity. The Department has three staff members on the College Research Ethics Panel while
 McIlwaine is Faculty Research Integrity Champion. King's is also a signatory of the Concordat
 for Research Integrity (2019), and has governance structures to ensure that research is
 conducted to high standards: all human participant research is subject to ethical scrutiny, and

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fieldwork subject to health and safety reviews by a fully-qualified SGA safety officer. All
 procedures and facilities are now set out in a formal induction pack, and early career T&R staff
 receive an overall 25-50% reduction of teaching and administration loads during their first three
 years to assist them launching their research careers. The College also offers a wide range of
 bespoke mentoring schemes to support ECRs in the crucial transition phase of their careers,
 including the ‘B-Mentor’ programme for BAME academics.

 Research students:

 The current cohort is 106 (88 F/T and 18 P/T, end of 2019-20), as compared with 122 reported
 in REF2014, a decrease reflecting the desire to reduce supervisor loads and increase the quality
 of students admitted. However, this remains one of the largest scholarly research postgraduate
 communities of any Geography Department in the world. This cohort is supported by the PhD
 tutor, admissions team and professional support staff who constitute the postgraduate Board of
 Study (chair: Bracking).

 All students have at least two academic supervisors, both required to complete supervisory
 training. Student progress, and training needs, are formally reviewed twice a year, with self-
 assessment by the student, assessment by the supervisory team and review by the Associate
 Dean (Doctoral Studies). Students must also pass an upgrade after 9-18 months on the
 programme, based on an upgrade report (usually 15-20,000 words) and a viva involving an
 independent assessor and a panel chair.

 All five research groups sustain large and vibrant PGR communities, and require PGRs to
 present their work on at least once during their studies. Intellectual induction into scholarly
 networks also occurs through reading groups, seminar programmes and field excursions
 organised at a Department level, while there are also wider Faculty networks which aim to
 support PGR students (e.g. the Gender Studies Seminar Network convened by Boesten and the
 ‘climate coffee mornings’ organised by Edwards). All Departmental PGR students have access
 to a social/networking budget and conference/travel bursary, whilst College funding is also made
 available for annual, offsite writing workshops. UKRI-funded students have also benefited from
 funded policy internships (e.g. PhD students James O’Neill and Tim Harris were interned in the
 Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology). Formal research methods training is either
 through the ESRC-funded LISS DTP or NERC DTP, while at the College level, the Centre for
 Doctoral Studies ensures all postgraduates are given access to appropriate support services.

 The quality of support for PGRs is evidenced in 152 PhD awards 2014-2020 (cf. 86 awards
 declared in REF2014), 93% submitted within 4 years (cf. 88% in REF2014). First destination
 professional employment is dominated by core academic posts, with applied careers well-
 represented through business and NGO/government employment. First academic destinations
 include many centres of excellence in UK Geography (e.g. recent ex-students in tenured
 lecturing posts in Bristol, Edinburgh, LSE, London South Bank, Nottingham, Reading, UCL,
 UEA) and overseas (e.g. Cornell, George Washington, Stavanger). Others have been able to
 market their expertise: for example, Laura Canevari used her PhD research to create a new
 climate change consultancy (Itaca) based in Panama, and obtained a contract from the
 Jamaican Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries to continue the policy research she started in her
 PhD.

 The outstanding research of our PGR body is signified in the fact that many routinely publish
 first-author outputs in quality journals even before the completion of their PhD: e.g. The
 Cryosphere, Environment and Planning C, Environmental Biology of Fishes, Environmental
 Innovation and Societal Transitions, PLoS One, Sexuality & Culture, Science of The Total
 Environment.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion:

 Given the strategic aim of creating a more diverse and inclusive research environment,
 Departmental policies go beyond College requirements to actively encourage a truly-inclusive
 environment where all colleagues can succeed regardless of background. The fact there is a
 wide range of teaching and research on gender, sexuality and race in this UoA, and a nuanced
 understanding of these issues among staff, has helped create a positive environment where this
 goal has been embraced. This was recognised in the award of an Athena SWAN Bronze award
 in October 2019 which, in part, acknowledges the following steps taken by the Department:

       Chair of the Equalities, Diversity & Inclusion Committee (Schillereff) has been
        established as a key position in Departmental governance: ED&I is a standing item on
        the agenda of all key committees including the Department Steering Group,
        Departmental staff meetings and student-staff liaison committees.

       Recruitment panels for all academic appointments are drawn from all career stages from
        PhD upwards: all appointment panels over the REF period have included at least one
        female member of staff, and typically have been gender-balanced.

       Since 2017/18, promotion requests have been assessed by members of the
        Departmental Steering Group rather than the Professoriate, meaning applications are
        looked at by a mixture of female/male assessors at different career grades: revision of
        the Faculty’s Academic Performance Framework (overseen by Hubbard) means
        promotion is no longer judged against criteria that disadvantage those with caring
        responsibilities (e.g. attendance at overseas conferences).

       The King’s Parents and Carers Fund provides return to work funds for all academic and
        research staff after a period of maternity/adoption/paternity/caring leave (up to £10,000 to
        mitigate the impact of extended leave on career progression due to suspension of
        research activities): two in this UoA have received this support since 2014.

       A Parents’ and Carers’ Conference Fund provides financial support for caring to facilitate
        attendance at conferences and networking events (with a total of £3,000 available to staff
        and postgraduates per annum).

       There is a compassionate system of flexible-working arrangements for staff with caring
        commitments or long-term health issues, with flexible-working both informally and
        formally facilitated: formally, nine requests (5 male, 4 female) for flexible-working
        requests relating to caring or health issues were approved 2014-2020.

       Colleagues are encouraged to keep meetings and other communications within ‘core’
        working hours: seminars alternate between lunchtimes and late afternoon slots to ensure
        all can attend at least some of these, and there is a considerate email policy that strongly
        discourages emailing colleagues outside of the standard 9-5 working day.

 Consequently, the Department has become more diverse in terms of its age, gender, ethnicity
 and nationality since 2014. At that time, only one in five of all senior posts (SL, Reader,
 Professor) in the Department were female, but by 2020 this exceeded one in three. Additionally,
 the overall proportion of female academic staff in the Department has increased from 31% in
 2015 to 40% in 2020 (Figure Three), in excess of subject benchmarks as defined by
 HESA/RGS-IBG 2014.

 Overall, 31% of those included in this UoA submission are female, but they account for 42% of
 submitted outputs, suggesting that efforts to increase diversity are reflected in improved
 research quality.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                   Figure Three: Gender breakdown,
                      King’s College London, Department of Geography 2015-2020


 Since 2014, the gender and age profile of grant holders has also diversified, with more Early
 Career staff contributing to grant applications as PIs and Co-Is and more pro-active support for
 female PIs making large research council applications. Historically, there were a small number of
 key (male) players in the Department winning large grants, but there is now a growing diversity
 in the both the age and gender of those running large, funded projects (e.g. income declared in
 REF4b associated with female-PI projects accounted for £61,000 or 5% of total in 2013-14 but
 rose to £407,000, or 16%, by 2019-2020).

 While there have been positive developments in this REF cycle, outstanding Action Points
 remain from the Athena SWAN submission. Specifically, there is a need to deliver on King’s
 Race Equality Action Plan, noting Departmental academic staff remain majority (85%) white and
 from the UK (70%) whilst King’s UG population is now more than 50% BAME. Here there will be
 implementation of the recommendations of a working group established in 2019 to explore
 BAME experiences within the Faculty, as well as more explicit research on geographies of race
 & racism to assist in the goal of de-colonising the curriculum and our research practices.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Geography’s total earned research income increased from £7m in the last REF cycle to over
 £12m in the current one. The breadth of funders - and the distribution of funding across different
 researchers - shows that King’s geographers are undertaking research that addresses the global
 challenges which constitute the research priority for many funders.

 Research support:

 Since REF2014, research and enterprise activity has been supported by the Arts & Sciences
 Research Office (ASRO), which provides advice in developing, negotiating and managing
 research grants. The Faculty’s Senior Research Development Manager (SRDM), based in
 ASRO, supports the development of high-quality applications by raising awareness of funding
 opportunities, supporting application writing, providing funder-informed critical feedback, hosting
 mock interviews, and communicating funders’ strategic priorities.

 The SRDM is part of the Faculty research leadership team, working closely with the Vice-Dean
 (Research), McIlwaine, who holds a substantial annual budget for research development
 activities and pump-priming. With the SRDM, the Vice-Dean oversees the work of the SGA
 Research Managers who support all elements of grant application, including costings, sign-
 off/approval, and submission.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research income:

 Despite a competitive funding environment, overall Departmental grant activity (in terms of both
 applications and awards per FTE) have increased since 2014 with a total income of £12,622,232
 in the REF period. On average, applications in the REF cycle equate to 1.1 per FTE per annum,
 with an average value of £199,000 (cf. 2014 when this was 0.86 per annum and £138,735).
 Success rates remain ahead of sector norms (e.g. ESRC responsive call success rate of 17%
 and NERC responsive call success rate of 20% as of July 2018) with more than 25% of
 applications resulting in an award across the REF period. There has hence been a sustained
 record of research funding success in this UoA in this REF cycle (see Figure Four).

 Grants come from a diverse range of international (15%) and UK funders (85%), with highlights
 including projects addressing global challenges such as climate change (e.g. Berkhout’s role
 in the £9.58m global Wellcome Trust Pathways project on equitable healthy cities, funding the
 London Hub for Urban Health, £162,540 to King’s), disasters (e.g. Wooster and Demeritt’s role
 in the £10m Leverhulme Wildfire Research Centre, £3,250,000 to King’s), global poverty (e.g.
 Sumner’s role in the ESRC Global Poverty and Inequality Dynamics Strategic Research
 Network, £150,000 to King’s) and ecosystems degradation (e.g. the £1.3m NERC
 ColombioBIO programme, £343,322 to King’s, PI: Dawson).




                 Figure Four: Research Income by Year and New Awards 2013-2020,
                  King’s College London UoA14 Geography & Environmental Studies


 European funding has increased since 2014, and included an ERC Consolidator Award -
 Predicting impacts of alien plant invasions on community diversity (£1,681,757) (PI: Catford
 starting 2021); ERC Starting Grant - Redefining Variability: Evaluating Land Use and Transport
 Impacts on Urban Mobility Patterns (£1,218,750) (PI: Zhong, taken to UCL), European Centre
 for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts - Development of the global fire assimilation system
 (£178,512, PI: Wooster), EC NAIAD - Nature Insurance value: Assessment and Demonstration
 (£222,999, Co-I: Mulligan), EU Horizon 2020 - Projecting sea-level rise (£337,135, PI:
 Edwards), EU FP7 - European Eco-innovation & The Green Economy (£94,926, Co-I:
 Berkhout), European Space Agency - Satellite Air Quality Modelling (£298,314, PI: Wooster)
 and the EU Horizon2020 - Restarting Economy in Support of Environment through Technology,
 £1,756,460, Co-I: Mulligan, starting 2021).



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In addition to these major awards, mid-sized funding from UKRI continues to be a significant
 source of funding (62% of the total), with grants from BBSRC (e.g. UK-China Agritech Challenge
 - Utilizing Earth Observation and UAV Technologies to Deliver Pest and Disease Products,
 £207,341, PI: Wooster), ESRC (e.g. Gentrification, Displacement, and the Impacts of Council
 Estate Renewal in C21st London, £321,412, Co-I: Hubbard), EPSRC (e.g. Fire Emissions
 Factor Measurements to Support Real-Time Air Quality Forecasting, £40,100, PI: Wooster) and
 NERC (e.g. NERC India-UK Water Centre (IUKWC) Synergistic utilisation of EO-based soil
 moisture observations, £10,000, Co-I: Tebbs).

 Other noteworthy sources of funding include charities such as The Leverhulme Trust (e.g.
 Peopling the Green Sahara? A multi-proxy approach to reconstructing the ecological history of
 the Saharan Holocene, £210,106 PI: Drake), the British Academy (e.g. Decolonising
 geography? Disciplinary histories and the legacies of empire, £162,351, PI: Craggs) and The
 Wellcome Trust (Morbidity, Mortality and Occupational Health in the Victorian and Edwardian
 Post Office, £394,762, PI: Green). Additionally, small grants remain of significance, particularly
 in terms of support for ECRs (e.g. RGS - Quantifying phosphorus fluxes using Holocene lake
 sediment, £19,998, PI: Schillereff).


 Infrastructure and facilities:

 In the last REF cycle, Geography was based in split-accommodation in the basement, fourth and
 sixth floors of the King’s Building and the Strand basement. In 2018, Geography moved to the
 refurbished North-East wing of the Grade-II listed Bush House, the former BBC World Service
 building. This has enabled Geography staff, researchers and postgraduates to move into
 bespoke accommodation co-located with colleagues in the Global Institutes and the
 Departments of Global Health & Social Medicine and International Development. Professional
 Services colleagues are also within the same building. As well as teaching space and staff
 offices, Bush House contains multiple informal collaborative spaces and kitchen areas. ‘The
 Exchange’, an open-plan public engagement space fronting on to Aldwych, has already been
 well-used for Geography research exhibits and events, with the Programming Manager (Jayne
 Peake) included as a Co-I in some research grant applications in order to maximise impact and
 facilitate collaborations with artists.

 On the Strand Campus, the John B Thornes Laboratory remains a dedicated teaching and
 research space, consisting of a large central teaching zone complemented by five auxiliary labs.
 This was part of a £1.2m strategic investment from the College, and is used for spectroscopy,
 sediment analysis, quantification of environmental pollutants in water/soil, and light microscopy
 for ecological studies. It also contains an electronics workshop. The latter is a central resource
 for maintaining research leadership in Physical & Environmental Geography at King’s,
 particularly in emerging areas of airborne remote sensing low-cost sensor design. The
 electronics workshop allows the rapid prototyping and construction of low-cost environmental
 sensors (e.g. the King’s FreeStation.org project, which in 2020 collected more than thirty million
 readings from 154 self-built loggers deployed in nine countries), with the aid of an Additive 3D-
 printer, soldering stations, workbenches and specialist staff. The laboratory has recently-
 expanded technical resources, with the procurement of a handheld X-Ray Fluorescence
 analyser, liquid & solid sample Total Carbon analyser and an updated state-of-the-art suite of
 Geospatial equipment, including a portable laser scanner and differential GPS. Laboratory
 instrumentation such as a laser particle sizer, ion chromatograph and workshop resources are
 used by researchers from across King’s (e.g. Informatics and Life Science & Medicine). The lab
 was awarded Gold in the Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework 2020, based on the
 sustainability of procurement, equipment and waste disposal.

 A comprehensive suite of observational equipment is deployed to dedicated monitoring sites in
 the UK and overseas (enabling NERC research by Baas, Mulligan and Wooster), and includes
 a major airborne remote sensing capability that King’s runs on behalf of the NERC National

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre for Earth Observation. Major campaigns using this capability are funded and coordinated
 with the European Space Agency and NASA. Other significant field equipment includes that
 deployed for the measurement of smoke constituents (aerosols, greenhouse gases and other air
 pollutants) from biomass burning in many different biomes worldwide (UK, Canada, Indonesia
 and South Africa) with support from NERC (Wooster). This capability is backed up by a
 dedicated combustion chamber facility developed at BBSRC Rothamsted (funded by EPSRC
 and NERC) enabling controlled fire experiments to be conducted and measurement procedures
 to be optimised. In addition, a human geography ‘laboratory’ provides digital voice recorders,
 camcorders, video technologies, and a range of computer software packages to facilitate data
 analysis. Facilities are managed by full-time, professional services staff, comprising: a
 Laboratory and Resources Manager, Research Computing Support Officer; two Laboratory
 Technicians, an Earth Observation Technical & Planning Specialist and a Field Instrument
 Technician, all of whom are PhD-qualified.

 PGRs have access to all field and laboratory equipment, regardless of their funding, with
 benefits for their projects and research training. Similarly, unfunded pilot work by staff, including
 ECRs, is supported to open up new areas of research via a Department Research Fund as well
 as an annual discretionary Strategic Fund that has allowed for purchase of equipment and
 resources supporting new research techniques (e.g. in 2019, this fund paid for drone pilot
 training to enable select members of the Department to become licensed drone operatives).

 Despite our large PGR population, PGRs are provided with space in Bush House and IT facilities
 that are substantially in excess of UKRI guidelines. All 2nd and 3rd year PhD students have their
 own desk and dedicated PC with IT support; where possible, PGRs in similar fields are grouped
 together to encourage synergy and sharing of ideas. There is also a dedicated Linux research
 computing cluster in the Department and access to the College super-computing cluster
 ‘Rosalind’.

 King’s Library Services support King’s researchers with managing, curating and disseminating
 their scholarly publications and research data, in line with funder policies and the REF Open
 Access policy. They oversee the PURE institutional repository and have delivered a range of in-
 person and online training sessions on Open Access publishing, Research Data Management,
 and REF compliance (REF-returned staff published 178 outputs with ‘gold’ open access in the
 period 2014-2020). The Maughan library on Chancery Lane, obtained by King’s in 2001, boasts
 over 1,250 networked reader places, carrels and group-working areas, and holds more than
 750,000 items including books, journals, DVDs, CDs, and theses.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 King’s has a commitment to society beyond the traditional roles of education and research and
 aspires to serve the wider community and environment (local, national and global) in which it
 operates. To enhance impact and public engagement, the Department is guided by King’s
 Strategic Vision 2029 which prioritises innovative, world-leading research that has a positive
 impact internationally, nationally and regionally, while retaining a particular focus on London as a
 globally-connected and post-colonial city. It recognises that King’s College is particularly well
 placed to influence policy given its physical location between the City of London, government
 and leading arts institutions.

 Geography embraces the challenge of contributing to policy and practice, and encourages staff
 to produce work that engages a wide range of research users, beneficiaries and audiences to
 that end. At the same time, King’s geographers continue to take leading roles within the
 academic discipline, enjoying an increasingly global reputation for research excellence that is
 reflected in multiple international collaborations and connections.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Approach to Impact:

 Producing world-leading and impactful research focused on meeting societal need is central to
 the College’s Research & Innovation Strategy: this is formalised in the College promotion criteria
 and the Academic Performance Framework, and has been recognised externally (e.g. King’s
 was 9th in the Times Higher 2020 Global Impact Rankings).

 At a Faculty level, the establishment of a Pro-Dean for Research Impact (Schrekenberg) has
 supported this goal, guided the development of REF Impact Case Studies and promoted a
 culture of impact. Since 2017, a dedicated Faculty Impact Fund has pump-primed impact
 activities, alongside a smaller Departmental fund. King’s also hosts an EPSRC Impact
 Acceleration Account worth £1.1m, and an ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, worth more than
 £1 million over four years from April 2019 (with awards to McIlwaine, Mulligan Rothstein and
 Schreckenberg).

 The Department of Geography embodies King’s culture of impact. Impact is a standing item on
 the agenda of all Geography staff meetings and Department Steering Group meetings. The
 Department has two impact co-leads, with Schreckenberg responsible for REF impact case
 studies, and Löfstedt responsible for impact activities outside the REF (e.g. an event at the
 House of Commons in Feb 2018, hosted by Stephen Timms MP, showcasing the Department’s
 portfolio of impact activities).

 The range and scale of impact delivered by King’s Geographers touches the intimate and
 everyday (e.g. the Impact Case Study on survivor-led recovery by Pelling) alongside the
 strategic and global (e.g. the Impact Case Study on the measurement of global poverty by
 Sumner). But whatever the scale, King’s Geography is increasingly committed to a joint co-
 production of knowledge with societal partners. It involves collaboration with industry,
 government and civil society, both internationally and within the UK (particularly London). Long-
 standing relationships between researchers, policy-makers and communities lie at the heart of
 this collaborative culture: here it is notable that sixty-plus London-based organisations take part
 in our Environmental Internship programme for Masters students, embedding impact through
 teaching as well as research (100 interns annually).

 While research is organised around groups that are focused on academic contributions and
 traditional modes of research dissemination (i.e. papers and conference contributions), our three
 activity ‘hubs’ act as impact and public engagement platforms bringing King’s interdisciplinary
 research to a wider public and practitioner audience. Significantly, while research groups are led
 by senior staff, activity hubs are generally led by earlier career researchers (Edwards,
 Mirumachi, and Tebbs) adept at working with social media and innovative dissemination
 methods (including work with artists and performers). These hubs – the King’s Climate, King’s
 Water and Earth Observation – are progressing policy and public debate around key
 environmental issues by hosting events involving both academics and practitioners.

 As such, King’s Geographers do not simply disseminate their research widely, but involve
 different user groups in the design and execution of their research, developing pathways to
 impact that challenge established notions that impact follows research (for example, via the co-
 production of knowledge).

 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences:

 King’s Geographers play active roles as advisors to governments and leaders around the world
 in relation to global challenges including poverty alleviation, environmental regulation, risk
 mitigation and ecosystem management. Examples include:




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       International civil society, especially non-governmental organisations and the UN
        family: four UoA members are Coordinating Lead Author (Pelling) or Lead Author
        (Adams, Edwards, Mirumachi) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
        (IPCC) 6th Assessment Report, and Berkhout was a Lead Author on the 5th Assessment
        Report (2014), to which Pelling was also a contributing author; Bracking was keynote
        speaker to the UNCTAD, Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Financing for
        Development, Third Session, Geneva, sponsored by the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung Institute
        (2019); Berkhout was inaugural Director of the ICSU/ISSC Future Earth programme
        (2013-2015); Goodburn contributed to a report on China’s refugee policies to the UNDP
        Livelihoods and Displacement group, informing the UN Global Compact on Migration
        (2018); Loftus was member of an expert panel convened by the Special Rapporteur on
        the Human Rights to Water and Sanitation, and presented to the UN, Geneva (2019);
        McIlwaine has advised UN Habitat and UN Women on SDG 11 and gender (2020);
        Mirumachi was lead-author, UN Environmental Programme GEO-6 Report (2017-19);
        Mulligan is Honorary Fellow of UN Environment World Conservation Monitoring Centre
        and his work is widely used in UN REDD+ forestry investments; Pelling has worked with
        Christian Aid and other humanitarian agencies to strengthen local well-being through
        post-disaster response and reconstruction (see Impact Case Study); research by
        Sumner on the impacts of COVID-19 on global poverty was published as a UNU-WIDER
        Working paper in 2020 and has been cited in over 2,500 news sources internationally.

       National government departments and agencies, including those from overseas
        governments: Brooks and Herrick have undertaken partnership work as part of the
        King’s-Sierra Leone global health partnership; Dawson provided expert assessments of
        marine ecosystems services to the Pitcairn Government Advisory Group, leading to the
        designation of the world’s largest marine protected area, 2017; Demeritt and
        Rothstein’s ESRC-funded ORA research on risk-based governance tools changed the
        way the Care Quality Commission used big data to identify failing hospitals; Demeritt
        was a Member of the Steering Board for the UK Government’s Natural Hazards
        Partnership (2013) and the DEFRA-Environment Agency Flooding and Coastal Erosion
        Risk Management Advisory Committee; Edwards was co-author of the UK Climate
        Projections (2018) and completed an expert review on sea-level rise for the UK
        Government Office for Science (2017); Evans advised the Shadow Attorney General,
        Shami Chakrabarti, and the Shadow Solicitor General, on human rights legislation;
        Hubbard was expert witness to the Scottish Parliament on the regulation of Sexual
        Entertainment Venues (2015) and the All Party Parliamentary Group on Trafficking &
        Prostitution (2015); Löfstedt served on the Grenfell Tower Science Advisory Group
        reporting directly to the Government’s Chief Scientific Advisor Sir Patrick Vallance (2018-
        19), and also the Cabinet Office’s COVID-19 International Best Practice Advisory Group:
        he also conducted a review for the UK Food Standards Agency into food safety policy-
        making; Mulligan provided oral evidence to the Environmental Audit select committee
        (Planetary Health inquiry) and his spatial policy support systems were instrumental in
        building the case for a new 1.5m ha protected area in Bolivia (see Impact Case Study);
        Mustafa is part of a DFID-funded project helping NGOs in Pakistan to perform climate
        vulnerability assessments; Shiode provided expert advice to the initial 2020 ONS
        analysis of geographical concentrations of COVID-19 mortality; Wooster is the only non-
        Canadian on the Canadian WildFire Monitoring Satellite Science and User team,
        advising the Canadian Space Agency on its multi-million dollar satellite programme (see
        Impact Case Study).

       Local actors including community groups, activists, local government and
        businesses: Angel works with Manchester’s Carbon Co-op as embedded researcher on
        their PowerShaper project; Demeritt has helped Greenpeace Unearthed to advocate for
        improved flood defence in the UK; Green has supervised AHRC Case Studentship
        projects with English Heritage and the Postal Museum; Hubbard was consultant on
        Ikea’s ‘Better Lives at Homes’ report, 2020, based on a survey of 38,210 people in 37

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        nations living under COVID-19 lockdown; McIlwaine has worked with the Latin American
        Women’s Rights Service, most recently on the Step Up Migrant Women Campaign, and
        presented this research to London’s Victim‘s Rights Commissioner and at a Houses of
        Parliament event hosted by Jess Phillips MP to lobby the drafting of the 2019 Domestic
        Abuse Bill; Pelling works alongside local authorities, international agencies, urban
        planners and residents to improve the design of disaster-impacted urban neighbourhoods
        and is also giving voice to the marginalised through the Urban ARK research project
        which has been working with Kenyan slum-dweller federation Muungano wa Wanavijiji to
        create inclusive decision-making spaces (see Impact Case Study); Schillereff was
        invited speaker at Cumbria Floods Partnership Knowledge Exchange event on the latest
        science on flood risk in the region.

    Additionally, our three Activity Hubs are designed to promote external collaboration with
    training institutes, government agencies and independent trusts, with examples as follows:

       Earth Observation worked with the government-funded India UK Water Centre (IUKWC)
        using satellite soil moisture data to improve weather forecasting, climate modelling, flood
        prediction and agricultural applications, while ESRC-DFID funded research has identified
        the livelihood impacts of hydropower in Ethiopia for local and national government
        partners (Tebbs). Work with the Zoological Society of London has deployed satellite
        remote sensing for the conservation of marine animals (Dawson), while Dawson,
        Mulligan and Millington have used satellite data to characterise fire regimes over
        multiple spatial and time scales in support of policy-making in Colombia. Wooster has
        developed a series of operational satellite products for fire monitoring (including the ESA
        Sentinel-3 and Meteosat satellites), generating real-time data used by fire responders
        worldwide (see Impact Case Study), and is the Hub’s link to NERC’s National Centre for
        Earth Observation (NCEO) where he is a Divisional Director. Mulligan’s spatial policy
        support systems, including low-cost FreeStation environmental monitoring stations, are
        used by more than 3500 organisations across 183 countries (see Impact Case Study).

       King’s Climate has improved planning for climatic impacts, adaptation and recovery
        amongst a range of agencies (see especially Impact Case Study, Pelling). More widely,
        it seeks to enhance public understanding of the relationship between different forms of
        cultural knowledge about climate change (Adamson, Berkhout, Hulme, now
        Cambridge), encouraging dialogue around the many controversial aspects of climate
        change, with external speakers as diverse as NASA climate scientist Gavin Schmidt,
        former Republican senator John Kyl and broadcaster Helen Czerski. Hub members have
        close links with BEIS, DEFRA, GO-Science, NERC and a number of international NGOs.
        Inés Cámara Leret is artist-in-residence in the hub working with Adamson and Edwards
        to explore how the experience of climate change can be communicated through art, while
        Edwards is a member of one of 30 creative teams awarded £100,000 by Festival UK
        2022 to bid for £4-12m to create a project reaching a public of millions, with a specific
        focus on under-represented voices in climate change.

       King’s Water works in partnership with other training institutes (e.g. IHE-Delft, River
        Restoration Centre) with government agencies (DEFRA, EA), NGOs (WWF,
        Conservation International, Practical Action, Water Aid), intergovernmental organisations
        (UNEP-WCMC) and independent trusts (The Wandle Trust, Thames 21). Notably,
        Mirumachi collaborated with design experts on the Wonderwater café, a pop-up event
        staged in Beijing, Helsinki, London, and Milan, involving ‘water footprint’ menu showing
        exhibition visitors how much water it took to grow the food they were consuming.
        Mirumachi, hub leader, is also a founding member of the London Water Research
        Group, which includes over 100 researchers, practitioners and activists. Mulligan has
        pioneered a web-based policy tool, WaterWorld, used for spatial analysis of water
        resources by a wide range of organisations globally (see Impact Case Study).


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 These examples demonstrate how King’s research is serving society and generating impact.
 This impact is curated through traditional news media, as well as social media, as follows:

       TV appearances: e.g. Adams on sea level rise on the Solomon Islands on Sky News;
        Adamson on BBC World News ‘Deadly Disasters’; Bracking on Anews (Turkey) on
        Biden’s climate policy, Brooks on second-hand clothes in Senegal, Al Jazeera news;
        Edwards on Royal Institute Christmas Lecture 2021, BBC World, BBC News Channel,
        BBC1 News at Ten, BBC2 Newsnight and News at One, ITV News at Seven and Ten,
        Sky News (all on climate science); Green on BBC’s ‘Who Do you Think You Are?’;
        Hubbard on high-street decline and housing issues, BBC South East Today; Mulligan
        on flood management, BBC Look East; Reades on Channel 4 Dispatches ‘The Great
        British Property Divide’; Wooster on climate change and wildfires, ITV News.

       Radio broadcasts: e.g. BBC Radio 3 ‘Free Thinking’ (Akhter); BBC Radio 4 ‘Costing the
        Earth’ (Dawson, Edwards, Mulligan), ‘39 Ways to Save the Planet’, 'Inside Science'
        ‘Today’ and 'World at One' (Edwards), ‘From Rags to Riches’ (Brooks), ‘Thinking
        Allowed’ (Hubbard), and ‘You and Yours’ (Brooks, Hubbard); BBC Radio 5 Live 'Up All
        Night' (Edwards); BBC World Service ‘My Perfect Country’ (Boesten), ‘Weekend’
        (Hubbard), ‘Newshour’ (Edwards) and ‘Science in Action’ (Edwards, Wooster).

       Online news coverage: including Himalayan Times (Boesten); New York Times,
        Washington Post, USA Today, National Geographic, Scientific American, BBC News,
        The Independent, (Edwards); BBC News, FT.com, World Economic Forum (Hubbard);
        Al Jazeera (McIlwaine); Bloomberg, Forbes, CNN (Meehan); DevEx, Huffington Post,
        Slate (Sumner); Economic Times (India) (Susewind); BBC News (Tebbs).

       Print coverage: including The Spectator (Brooks), Le Monde (Brooks, Edwards), New
        York Times (Brooks, Mirumachi), New Scientist (Meehan, Edwards), The Times
        (Edwards, Hubbard), The Daily Times (Pakistan) (Mustafa); Evening Standard
        (Adams); The Sunday Times; Observer (Hubbard), The Economist (Edwards), Sydney
        Morning Herald (Sumner), The Guardian (Edwards, Hubbard, Meehan, Sumner).

 On the basis of media work, some are taking on the mantle of ‘public intellectuals’. Notably,
 Akhter was announced as one of ten AHRC/BBC Radio 3 ‘New Generation Thinkers’ in 2019,
 and Sumner was one of the Huffington Post’s Top 100 ‘Most Influential Voices’. Evans’ podcast
 interviewing academics about their research, 'Rocking Our Priors', has had over 50,000
 downloads. Edwards is one of the highest-profile climate scientists in the media, acts as
 scientific consultant for the BBC, and co-presents the BBC Radio 4 series made in collaboration
 with the RGS-IBG '39 Ways to Save the Planet': she has over 20,000 Twitter followers.

 New audiences for research are also established through co-production and innovative
 projective methods. For example, Green’s £75,000 Wellcome Trust Public Engagement award
 developed an online-mapping interface allowing exploration of data relating to the health of
 postal workers in nineteenth-century London, with a crowdsourced transcription project involving
 over 1,500 volunteers recording details from thousands of nineteenth-century pension
 documents. McIlwaine’s collaboration with actor, playwright and director, Gaël Le Cornec,
 explored the experiences of Brazilian migrant women fleeing gendered violence through a
 verbatim theatre play (Efemera), a voice installation (Believe), and short film (Ana). The ESRC-
 project ‘Sex work in the context of mega-events’ (Co-I: Hubbard) examined the impacts of the
 2016 Rio Olympics on sex working women through auto-photographic methods, resulting in an
 exhibit at the Hélio Oiticica Arts Centre in Rio and at the King’s ‘Sports/Spectacle’ conference.
 The founding of the Visual and Embodied Methodologies network (by Boesten and McIlwaine)
 underscores a commitment to creative research dissemination, as does Dickens’ BA-funded
 ‘Fun Palace and the Future City’ collaboration with the BFI, which pieces together fragments of
 archival film to reconstruct Joan Littlewood’s 1964 utopian urban visions.


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributions to the discipline:

 Researchers in this UoA make significant contributions to geography and cognate academic
 disciplines through service to professional societies, stewardship of journals, peer-reviewing,
 conference organisation and keynote addresses, as well as collaborations with other institutions.
 These contributions are inter- and cross-disciplinary:

       Research networks: Staff are active in major international research collaborations. For
        example, the Wellcome-funded Pathways project on transitions to sustainability (Co-I
        Berkhout) involves eleven partners (including UBC and McGill, Harvard, University of
        Ghana, Bangladesh BRAC University and Tsinghua), while the Horizon2020 PROTECT
        project involves 26 partners (e.g. CNRS, University of Zurich, Potsdam Institute,
        University of Utrecht) in a €10million effort to predict sea level rise (Co-I: Edwards); the
        Belmont Forum and the FACCE-JPI initiative awarded £1m to the ‘Delivering Food
        Security on Limited Land’ (DEVIL) project, an international collaboration involving
        partners from eight countries (Co-I: Dawson); the NERC Global Partnership Seed Fund
        grant ‘Investigating Turbulence-Driven Sediment Transport with Field Applications of
        Particle Image Velocimetry’ is conducted in partnership with US Naval Research
        Laboratory (PI: Baas). Members of this UoA are also highly-active in formal, funded
        research networks e.g. COST Action ProsPol: Comparing European Prostitution Policies
        (Hubbard) and COST Action CONVERGES: Knowledge conversion for enhancing
        management of European Riparian Ecosystems and Services (Francis). Finally, the
        Department has MoU with a large number of international academic partners supporting
        educational exchange and research collaboration, most notably, the PLuS Alliance
        between King’s, Arizona State University and the University of New South Wales. This
        has spawned the development of interdisciplinary fieldwork relating to Global River
        Basins led by Mirumachi, Chadwick and Mustafa, collaboration between Meehan and
        ASU's Global Ethno-hydrology group, and work on informed urbanisation with UNSW’s
        City Futures Group (Hubbard, Reades). More widely, staff in this UoA have written on,
        or worked with researchers in, over 95 nations in the REF period (see Figure Five).




                 Figure Five: Research collaborations and fieldwork locations 2014-20,
                           Department of Geography, King’s College London.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Journal editorship and preparation: Staff have acted as lead editors of the following
        journals in the REF period: Annals of Association of American Geographers (Meehan),
        Antipode (Loftus), Urban Studies (Hubbard), Journal of Southern African Studies
        (Brooks), Journal of Risk Research (Löfstedt), Journal of Arid Environments (Drake),
        Environment and Planning (A) (Demeritt), Earth Surface Dynamics (Baas), Plant
        Ecology (Millington), WIRES Water and Water International (Mirumachi), Anthropocene
        Review (Schillereff), Global Policy (Sumner), Journal of Ecology and Conservation
        Letters (Catford). Green is Chair of the Board of Trustees for the London Journal (with
        Dickens its exhibition review editor). Additionally, Craggs is editor of the prestigious
        Wiley RGS-IBG book series.

       Peer reviewing and support to Research Councils: Staff are heavily-involved in the
        refereeing of grants (e.g. Bracking on ESRC panel C; Reades on awarding panel for
        ESRC Transformative Research 2018; Demeritt, Hubbard and Herrick are members of
        the ESRC Virtual College; Baas and Demeritt members of NERC Virtual College;
        McIlwaine, GCRF Off-Grid Cities panel member 2019-20; Wooster member of NERC
        Capital Round Award Panel 2019-2020; Mirumachi member of ESRC GCRF Virtual
        College; Schreckenberg panel member on GCRF Cultures of Agriculture, Food and
        Nutrition programme) and also oversee major RCUK/UKRI research programmes (e.g.
        Pelling on ESRC-DFID Peer Review College, GCRF Equitable Resilience, panel
        member, 2019 and GCRF Multi-hazard and Systemic Risk, panel member 2019). Beyond
        the UK, members of the Department have reviewed grants for ARC (Australia), ERC
        (EU), Research Council Norway, Formas (Sweden), SSHRC (Canada), NSF (US), Swiss
        National Fund and many others.
       Workshop organisation and research-based CPD: Staff have organised workshops
        for, and on behalf of, professional and learned societies. For example, the annual
        London International Boundary Conference is co-convened by Schofield with the
        international law firm, Volterra Fietta, an event the FCDO has supported: this develops
        multidisciplinary approaches to managing complex boundary disputes; Malamud has run
        workshops for the EGU at Mzuzu University (Malawi) on natural hazards; Mulligan has
        hosted and run multiple RGS-IBG courses for ECRs on building low-cost sensors.
       Provision of open source data, code and applications: Staff provide a range of open
        access resources to the academic community, including smartphone-hosted apps (e.g.
        the Landslide Tracker app designed in collaboration with the BGS, Met Office and
        Practical Action Consulting, Nepal), open source low-cost sensor hardware (e.g.
        FreeStation.org), code repositories (e.g. https://github.com/kingsgeocomp) and
        datasets (e.g. Mulligan’s https://www.kcl.ac.uk/research/geodata-portal which provides
        access to dynamically-updated geodata, and the https://commonwealthoralhistories.org
        site which includes access to Craggs’ interview transcripts and supporting materials from
        her project on diplomatic careers and mobility).
       Leadership within professional associations or learned societies: In the REF period,
        staff have served on professional and academic organisations: e.g. Mulligan Honorary
        Secretary of the RGS Expeditions and Fieldwork Committee and Council member;
        Hubbard RGS-IBG research group committee member for SSQRG; Craggs member of
        HGRG committee, Wooster co-leads the Fire Team of the Global Observation of Forest
        Cover – Global Observation of Landcover Dynamics (GOFC-GOLD) international
        initiative; Berkhout chairs the UK Future Earth committee (which includes
        representatives from the Royal Society, BA and AMS as well as DEFRA and the
        Department of Energy and Climate Change).

 These contributions have been acknowledged via numerous awards. For example, PhD student
 Briony Turner was ESRC Impact Champion 2016 for her work on the ‘Intrepid Explorers’
 initiative; Berkhout and Demeritt have been awarded Fellowship of the Academy of Social
 Sciences; Boesten won the Latin American Studies Association-Peru Flora Tristan Best Book

                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014 Award; Catford won Australian Freshwater Sciences Society Early Career Excellence
 Award, 2014; Edwards won the 2016 British Science Association Charles Lyell Award Lecture
 for ‘cutting-edge research’ in the Environmental Sciences and was nominated for the 2020 Royal
 Meteorological Society Climate Science Communication Award; Löfstedt won the Distinguished
 Educator award at the 2018 Society for Risk Analysis Conference, New Orleans and is President
 Elect of the Society for Risk Analysis; Meehan won the Virginie Mamadouh Outstanding
 Research Award from the Political Geography Specialty Group, American Association of
 Geographers, 2016; McIlwaine won the Guia Londres Brasil Women Awards for contributions to
 Latin American communities in London, 2019; Natarajan was researcher on the Blood Bricks
 project (at Royal Holloway) which was awarded the Times Higher Arts, Humanities & Social
 Sciences project of the year 2020; Wooster received the 2019 Remote Sensing and
 Photogrammetry Society (RSPSoc) Award for his service to Remote Sensing and Earth
 Observation Science.

 Summary:

 This evidence shows the Department of Geography at King’s to be a large and vibrant
 interdisciplinary centre of environmental and social research whose researchers, collectively
 and individually, have made significant contributions to key academic and policy debates in the
 REF period. Equality, diversity and inclusion have been central to these achievements, and in
 coming years, it is anticipated that King’s Geography will consolidate its reputation as a leading
 centre for interdisciplinary research into the major global challenges of our time by further
 developing its collaborative, societally-engaged, and diverse research culture.




                                                                                             Page 21
