Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: C21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Summary of Context
 Our Unit of Assessment (UoA) brings together Sociology@Warwick with a common commitment
 to sustain and develop our international centre of excellence for critical and interdisciplinary
 approaches to the study of society and trailblazing public sociology. Our submission builds on the
 strong foundations of the pioneering research in Warwick’s renowned Department of Sociology,
 which celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2020, and includes work produced in the Centre for
 Interdisciplinary Methodologies, the Centre for Lifelong Learning, and Global Sustainable
 Development. This nexus enables us to realize our aims to innovate and shape the future of
 sociology by conducting both discipline-specific and interdisciplinary research as well as public
 engagement and using our research to create impact, addressing major cross-cutting challenges
 - societal inequality, ecological crises, and technological transformations – facing contemporary
 societies and cultures. We contribute to all six of the University’s strategic research priorities:
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary excellence; transformative interdisciplinarity; excellence with
 impact; global reach and significance; partnership; and innovation (REF5a-2.1).

 We are internationally renowned for our research excellence in a range of sociology sub-fields
 and interdisciplinary research areas, including racial and ethnic studies, gender studies, social
 theory, science and technology studies, interdisciplinary methods, quantitative sociology, cultural
 studies, media studies, digital sociology, migration studies, sociology of education, and nations
 and nationalism. We are also a leading centre for impact work that spans the globe and engages
 a range of publics and policy communities from global to local scales.

 Research Strategy
 The primary aim of our research strategy is to foster critical, cutting-edge and public-facing
 research and impact. To realize this aim, we sustain and expand a publicly engaged, intellectually
 ambitious and collegial environment for research and impact where staff feel supported to produce
 ground-breaking empirical research, theoretical work and practice-based interventions.

 Working across these diverse areas, our work expands the capacity for sociological research to
 inform understanding, engagement and intervention in relation to fundamental societal challenges,
 in the following ways: a) conducting world-class national and international research which makes
 an impact on the social world, b) expanding the involvement of organisations, publics and
 movements in society in engaged research, c) nurturing ground-breaking intellectual debate and
 d) championing new forms of interdisciplinary collaboration.

 After REF2014 we set ourselves the following goals:
      Grow our research strength in relation to fundamental challenges in society with particular
        emphasis on research that can make an international contribution.
      Build a platform for public sociology by developing networks, partnerships and new
        engagement initiatives.
      Strengthen the interdisciplinarity of sociological research by expanding collaboration
        across disciplines, including fields that do not usually engage with one another.
      Help build research capability in the social sciences, by playing a key role in the Warwick
        ESRC DTP and supporting post-doctoral scholars.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Expand the positive impacts of our research on society at large through developing
        strategies for collaborative research and public engagement.

 We have made substantial progress in meeting all these goals. By appointing a new cohort of staff
 with cutting-edge research agendas, we have been able to build international, interdisciplinary
 networks and partnerships that speak to global challenges. We have successfully developed
 interdisciplinary research collaborations that bring sociological perspectives into new areas (such
 as the medical humanities, digital and data studies, cybersecurity and complexity research).
 Nicholas Gane served as head of Warwick’s Doctoral Training Centre from 2015-2018, placing us
 at the centre of regional training for new cohorts of doctoral researchers. We have embedded
 impact in all aspects of our research culture with a comprehensive strategy (see below).

 We developed our existing research agendas and added new research themes to ensure our
 research and impact work advances the discipline and its capacity to inform knowledge and
 intervention in relation to fundamental challenges in society. To make this possible, we put in place
 arrangements to better support colleagues’ research and enable our research to make a difference
 to both the discipline and wider publics. We have deepened our expertise in specific areas - such
 as race, gender, social theory and science and technology studies - and have developed new
 specialisms in others - such as digital sociology and interdisciplinary methods. We have
 implemented our strategy through inter-related activities which support individual scholarship and
 provide a space for collective initiatives in research clusters and centres, and research
 conversations (see People section).

 Research Achievements During Assessment Period
 Our outputs in the assessment period include 31 monographs, 26 edited books, 242 peer reviewed
 articles and 102 chapters in edited collections. We have focused on publishing articles in top-
 ranked sociology and interdisciplinary journals. Our world-class outputs include prize-winning
 books on women and prison (Chamberlen), Muslim women and citizenship (Wadia) and gender
 and higher education (Pereira), and path-breaking articles on citizenship and the state (Osuri,
 Kapoor and Valluvan), education and disability (Chatzitheochari), race and migration (Jones and
 Emejulu) and digital sociology (Marres and Tkacz).

 Staff submitted as part of this UoA are also involved in shaping the field of sociological research
 through leading roles in professional disciplinary and interdisciplinary associations such as the
 American Sociological Association, British Sociological Association, International Sociological
 Association, Society for Social Studies of Science, Association of Internet Researchers, Heads
 and Professors of Sociology; prestigious editorial positions such as the editorship of the journal
 Ethnic and Racial Studies, working as peer reviewers for national and international funding bodies
 such as the European Research Council, Leverhulme, Wellcome, National Science Foundation,
 ESRC, Agence Nationale de la Recherche, SSHRC (Canada), FORTE (Sweden), DFF (Denmark)
 and FWO (Belgium); and acting as external assessors of professorial appointments at other
 universities and external evaluators of departmental performance.

 Research Clusters
 Since REF 2014 we have reframed how our research as a UoA is structured and organised such
 that our research clusters align with wider currents in contemporary sociology and social research.
 Our research is now organised in three clusters: Inequalities and Social Change; Justice, Authority
 and the Geopolitical; and Economy, Technology and Expertise. These clusters identify our key
 research priorities and act as incubators for new ideas, projects and collaborations for colleagues


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and research students. They are well integrated with the UoA’s long-standing research centres
 which in turn, feed the events programming in the Faculty of Social Sciences and the University
 as a whole. Each cluster organises at least one seminar per term and has internal funding for the
 organisation of research activities. Internal peer review of papers and grant applications is carried
 out in clusters. All academic staff submitted to this UoA are members of one or more of the
 clusters. In addition, members of the clusters play a leading role in research centres based in the
 Faculty of Social Sciences and the University as a whole. Both the Social Theory Centre (STC)
 and the Centre for the Study of Women and Gender (CSWG) are university-wide Centres based
 in the Department of Sociology while the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies is an
 independent centre for cross-faculty research established to foster interdisciplinary research
 across the University through methodological innovation. The Centres contribute to the thematic
 clusters, providing specific expertise, and enhancing research grant capture and capacity for
 interdisciplinary exchange.


 Inequalities and Social Change
 Inequalities and Social Change (ISC, led by Solomos) is home to a substantial number of research
 active colleagues and students. Within this cluster we house empirical and theoretical work on
 race and racism (Solomos), gender, sexism, sexuality, queer sociology (Lambert, Hussain and
 Pereira), gender and race (Charles, Thiara and Wadia), activism and social movements (Emejulu),
 animal studies (Charles), sociology of education (Baltaru and Chatzitheochari), interdisciplinary
 methods to study social change and inequality (Lury and Uprichard), social stratification and
 quantitative methods (Liebe and Lampard), and feminist criminology (Chamberlen and Wahidin).

 Key grants awarded in this cluster include Lury’s ESRC Professorial Fellowship ‘Order and
 Continuity: Methods for Change in a Topological Society’, which led to a monograph, an edited
 International Handbook, a journal Special Issue, 5 articles and 3 PhDs, and £1.4million Wellcome
 Trust Medical Humanities Collaborative Award ‘People Like You’: Contemporary Figures of
 Personalisation’. The latter project integrates practice-led research to study emerging
 personalisation processes in data science, health care and digital culture. It identifies
 personalisation as a new mode of stratification with a distinctive logic of distribution.
 Chatzitheochari received a Leverhulme Research Grant on ‘Educational Pathways and Work
 Outcomes of Disabled Young People in England’, which investigates the mechanisms through
 which adolescent disability is translated into social disadvantage. Solomos is the PI on a major
 ESRC award on the ‘Open City’ that explores the everyday realities of living in complex and
 ethnically diverse urban environments such as London.

 Justice, Authority and the Geopolitical
 Justice, Authority and the Geopolitical (JAG, led by Osuri) supports colleagues’ work related to
 changing geopolitical configurations of authority, including theoretical and empirical research on
 citizenship, borders and state violence (Jones, Kapoor, Benjamin, Valluvan and Drnovsek Zorko)
 and sovereignty and democracy (Blencowe, Smith and Turner) and cultures of resistance (Kalra,
 Osuri). Key grants awarded in this cluster include Jones’s ESRC (£174,117) funded project, ‘Go
 Home: Mapping the Unfolding Controversy of Home Office Immigration Campaigns'. Working with
 colleagues at six other British universities, the project examined the effects of British government
 communications about migration on policy, debate and everyday life. This landmark project has
 produced a jointly authored book, a widely read and influential research blog, and a host of
 engagement and co-production activities with civil society organisations across the UK and
 beyond. Blencowe is Co-I for the £250,000 AHRC project, ‘Transforming Atmospheric Authority’.
 Using participatory action research methods, the project explores how residents of the Maré

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 neighbourhood in Rio de Janeiro understand and resist the environmental inequalities they
 experience—particularly in relation to air pollution. Blencowe co-leads a series of workshops in
 Rio working closely with community partners Redes de Maré and academics from Cardiff,
 Warwick, and the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.

 Economy, Technology and Expertise
 Economy, Technology and Expertise (ETE, led by Mah) is a relatively new area of rapidly
 expanding expertise and research excellence. ETE brings together sociologists working in science
 and technology studies (Fuller, Puig, Spencer), economic sociology (Castelle, Gane, Lury,
 Pettinger and Stark), environmental sociology (Mah and Sealey-Huggins), sociology of health and
 medicine (O’Neill, Williams and Dolan), and digital sociology (Marres and Tkacz). This cluster
 examines relationships between economic, scientific, and political forms of technology, expertise
 and innovation, using a rich repertoire of sociological theories and methodologies, including the
 philosophy of science, social theory, ethnography, digital and biosocial methods. Key grants
 awarded in this cluster include Mah’s €1.5millon ERC grant, ‘Toxic Expertise’, which examines the
 global petrochemical industry in relation to corporate social responsibility and environmental
 justice. Stark is the PI for the £2.5m ERC grant, ‘Diversity and Performance: Networks of Cognition
 in Markets and Teams’, which implements an innovative combination of experimental and
 participant observation methods to develop a comprehensive sociological approach to the social
 properties of cognition. Spencer is the recipient of a prestigious UKRI fellowship on ‘Scaling Trust:
 An anthropology of cyber security’. Tkacz was the PI for the £184,651 ESRC grant, ‘Interrogating
 the Dashboard: Data, Indicators and Decision-Making’ which examined the role played by
 dashboards in allowing individuals and institutions to interact with and act upon Big Data in
 organisational and everyday contexts. More recently Tkacz received a UKRI grant on ‘Corona
 Tracking: App Ecologies and Data Flows’.

 Research Centres

 Social Theory Centre
 Founded in 1997, the Social Theory Centre (STC) is a hub for the promotion, development and
 discussion of social theory. STC has a long and distinguished history of fostering a critical research
 environment for mentoring research students and hosting seminars, workshops, masterclasses
 and summer schools with distinguished social theorists from across the globe. Since 2014, the
 Centre has organised symposia and colloquia on the work of Frantz Fanon, Psychoanalysis and
 Sociology, Occupations of Palestine and Kashmir, Karl Polanyi and Markets, Community
 Research and Housing, Decolonising Social Theory, and Joyful Ontologies. In 2017, the Centre
 co-hosted the Critical Legal Studies conference, and co-organised a PhD-led Sociology and
 Literature Conference in 2019 with the Department of English. The Centre acts as a public
 ambassador of the Department’s thriving research in innovative political, social and economic
 theory and praxis.

 Centre for the Study of Women and Gender
 Founded in 1993, the Centre for the Study of Women and Gender (CSWG) provides a focus for
 interdisciplinary research and education on gender, women’s studies and feminism across the
 University and is well known as one of the founding and leading centres in Women’s and Gender
 Studies in the UK. Since REF 2014, CSWG has continued to lead this field with a diverse
 programme of seminars, workshops and lectures addressing issues that are of contemporary
 concern from sexual violence against women in universities through the equality agenda to
 feminist activism and LGBT rights.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CSWG’s events have:
    advanced scholarly debate in topical areas of research
    provided a practical and political impact in the world within and beyond the university (e.g.,
      by engaging with policy, showcasing the work of local organisations and national
      campaigns, or sharing good practice in feminist praxis and pedagogy)
    created development opportunities for our members, particularly PhD students (who are
      invited to act as discussants for invited speakers)

 An example of CSWG’s multi-pronged approach to research and impact is its engagement with
 the Athena SWAN programme. This engagement had a practical and institutional dimension
 (CSWG led Sociology’s successful application for a Bronze Award), but went much beyond that,
 making significant intellectual contributions at the national level as well. In 2017 CSWG organised
 a national, one-day workshop interrogating diversity programmes sociologically, with the aim of
 developing a more critical feminist analysis of equalities work in universities. This was organised
 as a partnership between established and early-career scholars, and it attracted delegates from
 across the UK, led to the setting up of inter-institutional and inter-disciplinary networks for
 information exchange in relation to Athena SWAN and resulted in two important outputs: 1.
 Certifying Equality? Critical Reflections on Athena SWAN and Equality Accreditation (this report
 was authored by then CSWG PhD student, Ruth Pearce, and to date it has been downloaded
 more than 200 times); 2. Pearce’s co-authored article, ‘Moderate feminism within or against the
 neoliberal university? The example of Athena SWAN’ in the highly ranked journal Gender, Work
 and Organization.

 Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies
 Founded in 2012, the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM) is an independent cross-
 faculty research centre with the mission to drive world-class research by pioneering, testing and
 promoting interdisciplinary methods and approaches (REF5a-2.9.4). The Centre’s emphasis on
 interdisciplinary methods development is unique in the UK and worldwide, and enables a vibrant
 academic environment where sociologists conduct research alongside scholars and scientists with
 backgrounds in fields as diverse as computer science, media studies, musicology, anthropology,
 architecture and ecology. The success of CIM’s transformative interdisciplinary, inter-faculty,
 research strategy manifests in the varied sources of its funding including the ESRC, AHRC, the
 Alan Turing Institute, NERC, EPSRC, ERC, Horizon 2020, Leverhulme and Wellcome.

 Key to CIM's strategy for research and impact during this REF period is its focus on:

    a) advancing a distinctive approach to interdisciplinarity which works across disciplines by
       focusing on methodological innovation.
    b) studying, designing and conducting experiments in participation, as CIM academics
       conduct collaborative research projects with academic colleagues across disciplines and
       societal partners and develop participatory methodologies for knowledge and
       engagement.
    c) developing critical, rigorous and reflective approaches to data collection and analytics,
       making use of inventive methods including crowd-sourced data collection, digital mapping,
       DIY sensors, apps and art installations.

 This strategy has enabled CIM to realize a wide range of research collaborations with a diverse
 set of partners, including: the aforementioned Wellcome Trust project People Like You led by Lury
 (in collaboration with Goldsmiths and Imperial); the £3m ESRC/NERC funded Centre for the


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Evaluation of Complexity Across the Nexus (CECAN), hosted by the University of Surrey, of which
 Uprichard is Co-I and which brings together social scientists and mathematicians working in the
 area of complexity to transform the practice of policy evaluation; Matt Spencer’s UKRI Fellowship
 ‘Scaling Trust: An anthropology of cyber security’ which develops an ethnographic approach to
 the management of cyber security, with the UK National Centre for Cybersecurity as project
 partner; and Marres and Tkacz’s collaborations with the Universities of Siegen and Amsterdam as
 well as Sciences Po (Paris) to develop digital methods of app studies and situational analytics,
 with recent funding from UKRI and the ESRC. Puig’s collaborations with soil scientists in Warwick
 and Bangor to improve awareness of the ecological crisis of soils led the recent submission of a
 consortium bid to the UKRI Future of Treescapes call. CIM academics participate in the
 University’s Global Research Priorities (REF5a-2.9.1), Uprichard and Castelle are Fellows of the
 Alan Turing Institute (REF5a-2.12.2), and Tkacz was recently appointed as the Director of the
 newly established Centre for Digital Inquiry, which brings together researchers in the digital
 humanities and social sciences from across the University of Warwick.

 Impact Strategy: Changing the World with Our Research
 Researchers in the UoA have a strong, enduring, commitment to socially engaged research.
 During the assessment period we have focused on recognising and supporting the ways that our
 research can make a difference to the social world, big and small - building an 'impact sensibility'
 that allows us to see the connections between our research findings and practice, and the people
 for whom that research can make a difference.

 Following the 2014 REF, the UoA implemented a thorough strategic approach to developing the
 impact of our research. We created the role of Director of Impact and developed an Impact
 Strategy that prioritised the need to focus support on researchers who have sought to combine
 high quality research with a commitment to making a difference to the world around us.

 These principles have allowed colleagues to recognise that work they did not previously think of
 as 'impact work' may in fact be making a difference outside the academy - and also to build on
 this in ways that are tailored to their research and approach, rather than as a bureaucratic add-
 on. We have nurtured activities that connect our research to non-academics and make our
 research 'useful' to others, resulting in four strong impact case studies that demonstrate the deep
 engagement and international reach of our research and the changes it has led to. We have also
 embedded impact and public engagement across the UoA.

 Building from existing strengths, and on the bodies of work and expertise of established and newly
 recruited staff, we have created new audiences for our rigorous scholarship, and enabled insights
 from our research to be enacted in the 'real world'. Our four impact case studies reflect the reach
 and significance of the change our research makes, from international to neighbourhood levels,
 from changing government policy (Pereira, Thiara) to strengthening civil society organisations and
 grassroots political movements (Jones, Osuri), and in contexts from Uganda (Thiara) to Portugal
 (Pereira) to Kashmir (Osuri) to the UK (Jones, Thiara). But the four impact case studies present
 only a selection of the lively engagement we ensure our research has in the world, and the benefits
 our research has had for society and wellbeing. For example:

       Wadia used her research findings that minoritised women's marginalisation in public and
        civic life does not stem from apathy but from disadvantage and lack of political skills to
        change government policy, increase advocacy and lobbying power of minority women's
        NGOs, and build political knowledge, activist skills and confidence among individual BAME


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        women. Her October 2017 evidence to the House of Lords Inquiry on Citizenship was
        translated directly into Select Committee recommendations which then led to a £10 million
        increase in government support for ESOL in September 2019. Her research-informed
        capacity building work with Muslim Women's Network UK changed the way they work and
        enabled them to gain grants and expand their activities.
       Chamberlen's research on the experience of imprisonment, the politics around punishment
        and the 'crisis' in English prisons drew together 50 former prisoners, prison practitioners
        and employees, criminal justice charities and NGOs, media, researchers, campaigners
        and others in a multi-expert exchange to collectively develop viable ways forward on
        sentencing and public attitudes to prisoners and prisons; diversity in custody; staffing and
        funding; and increases in harm, violence and drug misuse in prison.
       Chatzitheochari's research (with colleagues at IOE and LSE) demonstrated that children
        with disabilities are more likely to be bullied than other children. Building from this,
        Chatzitheochari worked with the national Anti-Bullying Alliance (ABA) to produce an
        animated public information film used as part of ABA's campaigning, which has had 24,500
        views since June 2016.

 Not all of the changes our research makes in the world will be immediately measurable. A realistic
 and inclusive approach to impact means we have not forced more speculative or theoretical
 research to ‘prove’ impact - but nor have we neglected this work in terms of thinking about how
 and where it may influence social change over time. Our research shapes civic engagement as
 well as policy and practice, for example:

       Emejulu’s research into women of colour’s (WoC) resistance has shaped, strengthened
        and influenced women of colour’s activism in Europe by supporting and resourcing
        activists, artists and practitioners. Her research was the impetus to bring together isolated
        activist networks in large scale international public engagement events (over 400
        participants) that have played a key role in transforming how activists think about
        themselves and their work and how they build community and solidarity.
       Postdoctoral scholar Drnovsek Zorko developed her research into Central and Eastern
        European lives in the UK through collaboration with Centrala Space, Birmingham (an arts-
        based venue for East European migrants). Together they organised and hosted a monthly
        series of public discussions and art events ('Wednesday Canvass') in the gallery, relating
        to lives and histories of Central/East European migrant communities in Britain and open to
        all.
       O’Neill is using her wide-ranging research into gendered subjectivity and social inequality
        to collaborate with the arts-based charity, Lon-Art Creative to co-organise Sheroes-
        Revoluciones, a series of free public exhibitions and events on gender-based violence
        taking place in venues across London.

 While recognising that REF impact assessment focuses specifically on effects, changes and
 benefits achieved outside university research and teaching, as a research-led teaching UoA we
 have treated our engagement outside university walls as a fundamental part of everything we do,
 building an 'impact environment' which is holistic and meaningful. For example:

           We established a 'Social Engagement in the Curriculum' fund, which has been used to
            bring expert speakers and research collaborators from the worlds of activism, policy
            and the arts into our undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, often creating or
            cementing research collaborations with the UoA.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           We have developed partnerships with NGOs, arts and museum sector organisations
            which enabled us to secure collaborative ESRC studentships.
           We organise and participate in large-scale public events to connect our research to the
            widest publics. For example: Kalra’s public lectures on decolonising music in Sahiwal,
            Pakistan in 2014, which more than 1000 members of the public attended; Emejulu’s
            public in-conversation with the First Minister of Scotland, Nicola Sturgeon, in Edinburgh
            in December 2018, organised by Scottish Women's Aid.
           We write and publish in fora that will reach people who can use our research outside
            academia. During the period, we have produced over 250 blog posts including
            Emejulu’s article, ‘On the Problems and Possibilities of Feminist Solidarity: The
            Women’s March One Year On’, which is the most read article in the Institute for Public
            Policy Research’s (IPPR) house journal, Progressive Review, since 2018.
           We are active in supporting a culture of research that meets publics where they are for
            the University as a whole. Jones was Academic Lead for Warwick's collaboration with
            the Tate Exchange programme in 2018 and 2019. In 2019, Jones organised a week-
            long Warwick programme of public events at the Tate Modern, featuring researcher-
            artist-public collaborations from colleagues in History, English and Sociology, including
            installations, public theatre, board games and embroidery workshops changing
            people's minds about the conflict in Kashmir (Osuri) and UK prisons (Chamberlen).
            More than 3,000 visitors participated over six days, while a Coventry city centre version
            of the event was held over three days as part of Coventry Peace Festival. The
            independent project evaluation found that the programme 'challenged values and
            changed attitudes… stimulating learning and knowledge exchange… created an
            environment that stimulated and facilitated dialogue and co-production… [and]
            provided individual research projects with opportunities to develop collaborations with
            artists and other non-academic partners’.

 Knowing that across the sector there can be reluctance to engage with frameworks seen as
 involving extraneous work or bureaucracy, we have streamlined our approach to encouraging
 impact as embedded in researchers' existing ambitions for their work, and made efforts to support
 this activity including:

       Creating a Director of Impact role to give strategic direction and tailored one-to-one support
        identifying opportunities for collaboration and impact and managing a small departmentally
        based Impact Fund.
       University- and Faculty-level impact officers supporting design, delivery and evaluation of
        research impact (REF5a-2.6).
       Osuri and Jones received Warwick Impact Leave (buy-out of teaching for one term) to
        support their impact development work.
       Chamberlen, Chatzitheochari, Jones, Osuri, Pereira and Smith received ESRC IAA
        funding to support impact activities (REF5a-2.7) and Wadia received support from the
        Warwick University Impact Fund.
       Dedicated workshops and coaching provided by the DoI and Impact Officers.
       Tailored support for ECRs to develop impact/engagement skills/interventions, including
        dedicated impact workshop for postdocs from the DoI, employing a postgraduate Impact
        Apprentice through the ESRC IAA scheme, and individual mentoring.

 The UoA international impact is boosted by our expertise in bilingual research engagement which
 includes Pereira (Portuguese), Kalra (Punjabi) and Osuri (Hindi), Marres (Dutch). Transnational

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research and impact contexts include the work of Mah (USA, China), Liebe (Rwanda), Emejulu
 (USA, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark and Spain) Lury (Chile), Puig
 (Colombia), Stark (Italy, Hungary and the USA), Tkacz (the Netherlands, Australia), Pereira
 (Portugal), Thiara (Uganda), Wadia (France), Osuri (Kashmir) and Marres (the Netherlands,
 Germany, Australia).

 Future Research and Impact Goals and Plans
 Our research plans are to build on these foundations by enhancing and sustaining our existing
 culture of engaged research that addresses societal challenges and developing high impact public
 engagement work with a focus on the internationalisation of our activities. We aim to achieve the
 following:

       Strengthen our international networks, deepening and expanding our relationship with
        universities in the Global South.
       Further integrate our research into provisioning a decolonised curriculum.
       Build research and engagement capacity by supporting large international collaborative
        bid development.
       Encourage applications from international ECRs.


 Our overarching aim is to expand research capacity in sociology and interdisciplinary
 sociological research to sustain and strengthen both excellence and impact. This ties in with our
 on-going objective to strengthen our public profile for sociological research through ambitious
 publication strategies and impact related activities that speak to different publics in order to
 enhance/expand the public role of sociology. The UoA is well placed to achieve these objectives
 and to train the next generation of world-leading critical and interdisciplinary sociologists.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy, Research Students and Equality and Diversity

 The logic of our staffing and development strategy is to build a UoA that reflects the breadth of the
 discipline of sociology and fosters interdisciplinary research, whilst also deepening expertise in
 our historical areas of strength.

 We have 39 colleagues (36.8 FTE) in our UoA: 12 Professors, 2 Readers, 16 Associate
 Professors, 5 Assistant Professors and 4 Research Fellows. Our academic staff group has a
 higher number of female than male staff and a higher than University average of BAME staff. We
 are distinguished at Warwick and across the Russell Group by having three professors of colour
 (2 women and 1 man) in the Department, including one of the very few Black women professors
 in the whole of British higher education. In addition to our permanent, full time members of staff,
 there are currently 85 PhD students and 4 post-doctoral research fellows working in the UoA. The
 UoA has a long tradition of attracting and supporting outstanding post-doctoral research fellows
 on research grants or fellowship schemes across all our research priority areas. During the
 assessment period, we have attracted significant number of talented research fellows funded by
 Leverhulme (Benjamin, Drnovsek Zorko, Hussain, Zaban), British Academy (Barylo), Warwick’s
 Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS) WIRL-COFUND research fellowships (Chalkidou, Kurnicki,
 Martus, Seeley and Stingl), Marie Curie (Mainsah and Perusset), China Scholarship Council and
 ERC.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staffing Strategy and Development
 Since REF 2014 we have undertaken substantial changes to create a vibrant and collegial
 environment for all staff and students. In the Department of Sociology, we used the opportunity
 provided by the retirement of senior colleagues and strategic investment from the University to
 bring together a group of early career sociologists and mid-career colleagues to provide the basis
 for the future development of the Department and enhance its role within the wider University
 research culture. We have hired the best new talent to lead cutting-edge developments in the
 discipline and support and deepen those areas in which the UoA has excelled historically. For
 example, over the last 5 years, we have rapidly expanded activity in race and gender by hiring
 colleagues with expertise in cultural studies, intersectionality and migration (Kalra, Emejulu,
 Kapoor, Valluvan, Wahidin). Further, we have been able to build on our historic strengths in
 medical sociology to develop new expertise in science and technology studies (Puig, O’Neill,
 Marres, Castelle and Spencer). Traditionally known for social theory, we have expanded this area
 of expertise and diversified a field too often dominated by white male voices, bringing in
 perspectives from the Global South and decolonising theory and knowledge production (Kalra,
 Osuri).

 Since 2015, the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies has grown significantly, more than
 doubling in size by adding 8 new permanent members of academic staff. Half of these are
 submitted to this UoA, contributing new expertise in STS, gender studies, environment and digital
 sociology as well as continuing to contribute to interdisciplinary methodology. CIM has also
 established an Academic Technology Team, with 2 permanent staff, to build research and
 infrastructure capacity in digital sociology and digital humanities research.

 This renewal of the UoA over the past few years has presented the opportunity to ensure that all
 colleagues understand and feel included in our strategic direction. A key mechanism for supporting
 staff has been understanding the career goals of every individual colleague-from teaching fellow
 to early career researcher to full professor. We have captured this information through both
 Personal Development Reviews (PDRs) and Research Conversations, led by Directors of
 Research, the Head of Department and the Director of CIM. PDRs are not conducted as
 performance management tools but as formal mentoring conversations between colleagues. In
 the PDRs, individuals set ambitious yet realistic goals for themselves and discuss appropriate
 strategies for achieving their goals. Throughout the year, the mentor checks in with accountability
 sessions. The annual meeting is to review progress, celebrate successes, console failures and
 set new goals for the forthcoming academic year. Closely connected to PDRs but geared entirely
 to the generation of research outputs and funding, Research Conversations are informal
 discussions that helps colleagues realise their research strategy and goals. Similarly, the DoI
 holds supportive and proactive developmental conversations with colleagues wishing to develop
 the real-world impact of their research. We have seen real successes with this supportive
 approach to staff development. For example, Spencer was able to secure a UKRI Future Leaders
 Research Fellowship in the third year of his first academic appointment. All the Assistant
 Professors who have gone up for promotion during this assessment period, have been promoted
 to Associate Professor (Pettinger, Smith, Chamberlen, Osuri, Jones, Chatzitheochari, Kapoor,
 Spencer and Peirera). Tkacz was promoted to Reader and Marres and Mah were promoted to Full
 Professor.

 Developing Our Research Students
 The UoA has a large and vibrant PhD programme with over sixty doctoral degrees awarded over
 the review period, funded from a variety of sources including: Warwick University’s Chancellor’s
 International Scholarship (2); ESRC (30); European Research Council (2); Gibraltar Research

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Council (1); Mexican Government (1); Colombian Government (1); Ecuador Government (1);
 Chinese Government Scholarship (3); EUTOPIA Alliance (1).

 Because research students play such an important role in our UoA, we have designed a series of
 support, training and mentoring services. These take place via research clusters and centres, the
 Midlands Graduate School ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and Warwick Q-Step
 Centre. Members of the UoA play a key role by delivering core training within the DTP (Uprichard)
 and Q-Step Centre (Castelle), including the key methods training and subject area specialism,
 through the Research Process and Research Design module.

 In the Department of Sociology all PhD students undertake research training in terms 1 and 2 of
 their first year: this provides support for the PhD process and prepares students for their upgrade
 from MPhil to PhD. As part of this programme, students present to and receive feedback from their
 peers on their research. Since June 2017, the Department has run a one-day PhD student
 conference open to all staff, PhD students, MA students and prospective PhD students. All
 doctoral students in their continuation years are required to present and answer questions on
 work-in-progress. This event is an integral part of students’ progress review. All students are co-
 supervised by two members of academic staff on a 50/50 basis.

 Warwick Q-Step Centre delivers a step-change in quantitative skills for our research students by
 providing cutting edge training, otherwise not available within single departmental expertise. The
 Q-Step Centre is a collaboration between the Department of Sociology, the Department of Politics
 and International Studies, and the Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies. The Director is
 Professor Ulf Liebe. Each academic year the centre organises a two-day Spring Camp and eight
 postgraduate masterclasses, offering training in cutting-edge methods. These methods courses
 support long-term skill development for research students and the Spring Camp offers research
 students opportunities to work directly with research and policymaking professionals and to learn
 how to apply advanced quantitative methods outside of academic research.

 The Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies supports a thriving community of doctoral students
 with a range of training opportunities including a regular advanced postgraduate seminar in each
 term, and six times a year a 2-day intensive PhD training camp (consisting of seminars,
 workshops, reading groups and teaching activities) as well as an annual, student-led International
 Postgraduate Conference. CIM also innovates in the area of sociological interdisciplinary research
 by combining engagement and learning events. For instance, the ESRC DTP Advanced Training
 workshop How to Map Issues? (September 2016) allowed colleagues to showcase, discuss and
 test a range of experimental methods and methodologies for analysing and visualising current
 affairs, public controversies and related topical formations. Social researchers were introduced to
 practicing a wide range of interdisciplinary, engaged approaches to issue analysis: including field
 research, documentary analysis, and digital methods.

 Research students actively participate in the UoA wider research activities such as attending
 fortnightly Departmental seminars, CIM’s Research Forum, and activities associated with the UoA
 research clusters and research centres. For example, CSWG has an active interdisciplinary
 Graduate Student Seminar, organised by PhD students and attracting speakers and participants
 from across the country. CSWG also offers a varied gender studies training programme for
 research students, including an interdisciplinary fortnightly work-in-progress workshop for PhD
 students (from within and beyond the UoA) called Producing Feminist Research: A PhD
 Workshop, and regular research methods and academic writing/publishing workshops. The STC


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 houses a PhD led reading group, and its members participate in an eco-system of interdisciplinary
 affiliations through its Authority and Political Technologies network which spans the University.

 Since 2014, more than 30 PhD students in their second or final year have, together with two
 members of staff, attended a writing and publication workshop in Prato, Italy, organised by the
 Department and Monash University. This prestigious workshop enables them to receive mentoring
 from international academics and directly supports them to publish in peer-reviewed journals to
 further their post-PhD career.

 Following completion of their PhD, a number of our students been awarded Warwick IAS Early
 Career Fellowships (REF5a-2.9.2) and other highly competitive and prestigious research
 fellowships: 2014-15: Nazia Hussein; 2015-16: Emine Erdogan and Emma Parfitt; 2016-17:
 Marcos Estrada; 2017-18: Daniel Fairbrother, Kathryn Medien; 2018-19: Elizabeth Ablett, Sara
 Bamdad, Alexandra Kviat, Craig Gent; 2019-20: Demet Gulcicek. In 2018 Wonseok Kim was the
 joint winner of the Peter Lang Young Scholars Competition in Education Studies. Morteza
 Hashemi received an Iranian national award for his book based on his Warwick PhD. Davinia
 Gregory has gone straight from her viva to receiving a tenure track post at Columbia University.

 Equality and Diversity
 As a UoA we have prioritised equality and diversity in all facets of our work. We do not treat
 equality and diversity as an add-on but rather it is integrated into everything we do with regards to
 recruitment and hiring, staff development and research support and mentoring. It is not an accident
 that we are one of the most diverse Russell Group sociology departments in the country in terms
 of both staff and students. This has been a deliberate strategy of positive action to not merely
 encourage women and people of colour to apply to our Department but to create the conditions
 by which traditionally under-represented groups feel that the Department is a space where they
 can thrive and develop their careers, and their work is respected. To that end, we have overhauled
 our departmental culture, firstly by reshaping undergraduate and postgraduate curricula to expand
 the canon of sociological knowledge. Taking this step not only supports students but sends a
 strong signal to staff that we are serious about amplifying the scholarship of the deliberately
 silenced. Complementing that, we have recruited staff that enlarged and troubled our existing
 areas of expertise. Thus, we have hired social theorists who take the Global South seriously as
 well as gender specialists who are experts in intersectionality. This then becomes a virtuous circle,
 further transforming the curriculum and attracting a staff group and research students who are
 enthusiastic in pushing the boundaries of knowledge. This kind of work goes beyond the
 requirements of Athena Swan and the Race Equality Charter Mark and has resulted in our
 unusually high number of BAME and women professors as well as colleagues of colour and
 women colleagues at all ranks achieving promotion, winning career-defining grants and publishing
 prize-winning texts.

 In addition, we have actively contributed to and pushed forward efforts of equality and diversity
 university-wide through the work of the Centre for the Study of Women and Gender. CSWG has
 organised several events addressing equality and diversity on topics ranging from sexual
 harassment and rape in universities to Athena SWAN to trans and intersex rights in education.
 Working closely with the Warwick Student Union and the University’s EDI Unit, CSWG have
 organised projects on sexual consent and on decolonising the curriculum. The Deputy Director
 of CSWG chaired the Faculty Athena SWAN Working Group, sat on the University’s EDI
 Committee, and was a member of the University’s Athena Swan Institutional Self-Assessment
 Team. CSWG led the Department’s successful Athena SWAN bronze submission in 2017. CIM


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has a designated Athena SWAN coordinator, a Head of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion and is
 working towards a bronze submission in November 2021.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 During this assessment period, the UoA has been successful with a diverse range of funders
 including ERC (Mah and Stark), ESRC (Jones, Lury and Tkacz), Leverhulme (Charles,
 Chatzitheochari, Mah, Stark and Pereira), Wellcome Trust (Lury and O’Neill), AHRC (Blencowe,
 Lury), UKRI (Spencer), Horizon 2020 (Lury), the Open Society Foundation (Emejulu), Australian
 Research Council (Lury) and Swiss National Science Foundation (Liebe) as we discussed in
 Section 1. The total volume of research awards in the assessment period is 116. Here is a
 selection of large grant awards:

       Blencowe: Co-I £250,000 AHRC project, ‘Transforming Atmospheric Authority’
       Charles: PI £216,127 Leverhulme Trust funded project, ‘Shaping Inter-Species
        Connectedness’
       Chatzitheochari: PI £250,000, Leverhulme Trust, ‘Educational Pathways and Work
        Outcomes of Disabled Young People in England’
       Emejulu: Co-PI £93,225 Open Society Foundation funded project, ‘Women of Colour
        Resist’
       Jones: PI £174,117 ESRC funded project, ‘Go Home: Mapping the Unfolding Controversy
        of Home Office Immigration Campaigns'
       Kapoor: £100,000 Philip Leverhulme Prize
       Liebe: PI £175,955 Swiss National Science Foundation project, ‘Social status and
        prosociality: A cross-cultural study in four selected countries’
       Lury: PI ESRC Professorial Fellowship, ‘Order and Continuity: Methods for Change in a
        Topological Society’
       Lury: Co-PI £1.4million Wellcome Trust Medical Humanities Collaborative Award ‘People
        Like You: Contemporary Figures of Personalisation’
       Mah: £100,000 Philip Leverhulme Prize
       Mah: PI for the €1.5millon European Research Council grant, ‘Toxic Expertise’
       Pereira: £100,000 Philip Leverhulme Prize
       Puig: Co-I: £524,733 UKRI Newton-Colciencias ODA Award 2018-2020Spencer: £483,272
        2019 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship
       Stark: PI €2.5 million European Research Council grant, ‘Diversity and Performance:
        Networks of Cognition in Markets and Teams’
       Stark: PI $420,368 National Science Foundation grant, ‘Attention Networks and Cognitive
        Challenges: Positional Advantages in Complex and Distant Search’
       Tkacz: PI £184,651 ESRC grant, ‘Interrogating the Dashboard: Data, Indicators and
        Decision-Making’

 With the on-going support of the University, we have a very good record of attracting competitive
 post-doctoral Fellowships to the UoA over the past five years, particularly through the Leverhulme
 Early Career Fellowships and the British Academy. This success has brought a number of early
 career colleagues to the UoA, enhancing our research culture. Since 31 July 2020, we have
 attracted further funding including the ESRC funded ORA Project Shaping AI (Marres and
 Castelle), an AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Puig) to study ecological relations with soils in
 science, art and communities.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In addition to these external sources, staff have been awarded internal competitive grants from
 the following sources at Warwick: European Strategy Fund, GCRF Catalyst Fund, Global
 Research Priorities Fund (REF5a-2.9.1), Humanities Research Centre (HRC), Impact Fund (WIF)
 (REF5a-2.7), Industrial Strategy Fund, Institute for Advanced Study (REF5a-2.9.2), Monash-
 Warwick Alliance (REF5a-2.12.1), Research and Development Fund (RDF) and Strategic
 Partnership Fund.


 Infrastructure
 The UoA research infrastructure is organised to support world-class research and impact in
 sociology and across disciplines. At the Departmental and Centre levels, our research is co-
 ordinated by the Heads of Department, Directors of Research, Directors of Impact and Research
 Administrators. The DoRs convene Research Committees, which in Sociology is composed of all
 research cluster leads, the DoI, the DRA, the Director of the Q-Step Centre, the heads of the
 Department’s research centres and the Faculty Impact Officer. The Department Research
 Committee’s remit is to foster vital and sustainable research culture by supporting and monitoring
 all the research activities in the Department. In addition to the above, DoRs and research theme
 leads host research meetings, including Research Cake meetings at CIM, informal meetings in
 which colleagues share plans and recent successes. CIM’s aforementioned Academic Technology
 Team which supports academic research through the development of research software, tool and
 data hosting and data management, and plays a central role in fostering experimental forms of
 methodological innovation. With their support, members of CIM have developed open resources
 for research as part of a digital lab; this includes bespoke designed tools, curated data sets for
 social media analysis (T-CAT and Le-CAT) and other methodological resources.

 Through individual Research Conversations and (in CIM) research mentor arrangements, which
 are focused on research outputs and grant capture, the HoD, DoR and the DoI assess each
 colleague’s work in progress and construct a timeline of colleagues’ future work, identify potential
 obstacles that might impede their writing and implement bespoke packages of support such as
 conference travel, funding to buy data sets and support for attending writing retreats to help them
 produce outstanding outputs and impact work. The UoA supports full and partial buyouts funded
 by research fellowships and grants. In addition to externally funded research time, the University’s
 study leave allowance is for one term after six terms of teaching for academic staff on standard
 contracts.

 The UoA plays a key role in developing research culture in the University and securing
 representation for social sciences and humanities-led research at the University level. Lury and
 Marres have been members of the University Research Committee (REF5a-2.4). Marres is a
 member of the University’s Open Research Group, which oversees the implementation of the
 Leiden Principles of the responsible use of metrics at the University (REF5a-2.10) and Lury was
 a member of the group which reviewed the University’s Global Research Priorities (REF5a-2.9.1).
 Puig co-founded and coordinates the Environmental Humanities Network since 2018 with
 colleagues in English and support from Warwick IAS (organising a seminar series, a weekly
 newsletter and more than 70 members across all Warwick Faculties). Jones and Wadia co-
 founded the University's cross-faculty Borders, Race, Ethnicity and Migration (BREM) Network
 with a colleague in Politics in 2015, hosting annual public lectures (including Sara Ahmed, Yasmin
 Alibhai-Brown, Lemn Sissay), interdisciplinary symposiums, doctoral training, and community-
 focused discussion events.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University supports the UoA research development and grant capture through its Research
 and Impact Services (R&IS) team (REF5a-1.7). The team has colleagues working at Social
 Science Faculty-level, including a senior Research Strategy Development manager, and staff
 including dedicated research development officers and impact support officers who work closely
 with members of the UoA, providing critical comments and budgeting advice on research and
 impact projects.

 Our success in attracting substantial research funding during this REF assessment period has
 been underpinned by ongoing efforts to encourage colleagues to apply for external sources of
 research support. We have utilised a range of processes, including research study leave, internal
 review of research grant applications, research grant writing workshops and research away days
 to improve the quality of our applications and to improve our success rate. With on-going support
 from the Faculty of Social Sciences and the University we envisage that we shall be able to
 continue to develop this facet of our research culture in the next assessment period.

 Facilities
 The Department of Sociology occupies the entire ground floor of the shared Sociology/PAIS
 building, which is located in the Social Sciences Building complex of the University. CIM
 occupies one corridor on the ground floor of the Social Sciences Building and has recently
 expanded to the second floor. All academic and administrative staff and students have dedicated
 office space and a communal kitchen/common room open to all Sociology staff and students. All
 staff have access to appropriate quantitative and qualitative software for their research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  The UoA has made an outstanding contribution to the vitality and intellectual infrastructure of
 Sociology and related social science disciplines and is shaping interdisciplinary scholarship and
 research at a national and international level. One of the distinctive features of the UoA is that our
 research is shaped by and responds to issues and debates that concern society and diverse
 publics more widely. This is reflected in our commitment to impact, public engagement and
 collaborative research nationally and internationally.

 Collaborations and Contributions to the Research Base and Society
 Our work in public sociology and interdisciplinary research collaboration contributes to both the
 research base and society by expanding the capacity for sociology to inform public understanding
 and intervention. This includes innovation in participatory methods and engaging with diverse and
 plural publics.

 The active involvement of members of the UoA in key organisations in society, such as the Turing
 and Ada Lovelace Institutes, in our research projects is one way in which we build capacity for
 engaged sociology in society. This collaboration is supported by high-profile public lectures in
 academic settings, cultural organisation and public institutions (see also Impact Strategy).

 During this assessment period, colleagues gave more than 100 keynotes at prestigious
 international conferences. For example: Fuller gave the Nostradamus Lecture on the 500th
 anniversary of the publication of Thomas More’s Utopia in Brussels (2016); Kapoor was the
 keynote for Care, Critique, Correction? Engaging with Migration and Crime Control Infrastructures
 conference, University of Minho, Portugal (2019); Puig was the Chair’s Keynote at the Annual
 Meeting of the Royal Geographical Society and Institute of British Geographers, London (2019)


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Stark was the plenary Keynote of SISEC, Societá Italiana di Sociologia Economica, Turin
 (2020). Marres and Puig gave keynote addresses to the European Association for Science and
 Technology Studies Annual Meeting in Lancaster (2018), and Marres gave plenary addresses to
 the 4S Conference in New Orleans (2019) and the BSA Digital Sociology stream (2017).
 Colleagues also gave more than 300 talks at workshops and research seminars across the globe
 including Mah’s talk, ‘Environmental Justice: Looking Back, Looking Forward’, at the University of
 Sydney (2017) and Lury’s ‘The social is us but is it ours?’, at the Universidad Diego Portales
 Santiago de Chile (2015).

 Above and beyond public and academic lectures, the organisation of participatory events is key
 to our distinctive approach to public sociology. We organised more than 120 collaborative
 workshops and conferences, across our research priority areas, working with a range of publics.

 Awards and Prizes
 We have attracted and developed a talented pool of researchers as evidenced by prizes and other
 markers of esteem. Here is a selection:
     Chamberlen won the European Society of Criminology’s Young Criminologist of the Year
       Prize in 2018.
     Chamberlen won the 2019 British Society of Criminology Book Prize for her monograph,
       Embodying Punishment: Emotions, Identities and Lived Experiences in Women’s Prisons.
     Chatzitheochari won the Swiss National Centre for Competence in Research Lives Award
       for Young Scholars for Best Paper in 2016.
     Emejulu won the inaugural Emma Goldman Prize from the Flax Foundation in 2020.
     Jones won the British Sociological Association Philip Abrams Prize 2014
     Mah won the SAGE Prize for Innovation and/or Excellence, 2015 (for 2014 article on ‘The
       Dereliction Tourist’ in Sociological Research Online).
     Pereira won the 2018 Feminist and Women’s Studies Association Prize for her monograph,
       Power, Knowledge and Feminist Scholarship: An Ethnography of Academia. The same
       book was awarded a ‘Knowledge Unlatched Award’ in 2019 and was shortlisted for the
       BSA/BBC Thinking Allowed Prize for Ethnography in 2018.
     Pereira was awarded in 2014 the International Congress of Qualitative Inquiry’s Worldwide
       Award for Best Qualitative Book in Spanish or Portuguese, 2010-2014.
     Pereira, Mah and Kapoor were each awarded a Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2017 and 2020.
     Solomos received the British Sociological Association’s Distinguished Service Award in
       2018.
     Wadia won the 2018 Political Studies Association W.J.M. Mackenzie Prize for her co-
       authored book, Muslim Women and Power: Political and Civic Engagement in West
       European Societies.

 Fellowships/Visiting Professorships
 Staff in the UoA have held a range of visiting positions in prestigious institutions, including:

       Since 2014, Fuller has been Visiting Senior Researcher, Russian Academy of Sciences,
        Institute of Philosophy, Moscow, and in 2017, Fuller was Liu Boming Short-Term Visiting
        Professor of Philosophy, Nanjing University, China. He is also a Senior Research Fellow
        at The Breakthrough Institute in California.
       Marres was the Mercator Fellow at the University of Siegen (2017-2018) and a Visiting
        Fellow at the Berlin Social Science Centre (2015), University of Leiden (2017-2020), the
        University of Vienna (2019).


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Wadia held a Visiting Fellowship (Directeur d’Études invité), École des Hautes Études en
        Sciences Sociales, Paris 2014-2015 and a Visiting Fellowship (Associate Fellow), Institut
        Français des Relations Internationales, Paris 2015-2016.

 Academic Partners and Networks
 Through our research grants and collaborations, we have built a range of academic partnerships
 and networks reflecting our research priorities. These partnerships include: Lury’s 2018-2022
 Wellcome Collaborative Award working with two university partners: Goldsmiths and Imperial.
 Puig’s UKRI Newton-Colciencias ODA Award working with The National University of Colombia,
 the University of Nottingham and Lancaster University; Stark’s 2016-2021 ERC partners are in the
 University of Bologna, Cass Business School, University of Texas-Dallas, Barnard College, Centre
 for Network Science, Budapest. The 2015-18 Leverhulme funded network Performances of Value
 set up by Stark was a collaboration with colleagues at the Copenhagen Business School, the
 University of Modena, Sciences PO and Mines Paris Tech. Matt Spencer is expert fellow for the
 EPSRC Digital Economy Network SRITE+ network. Blencowe convenes the Authority Research
 Network, a research group founded in 2008 which meets annually to develop collaborative
 research with academics from Universities of Exeter, Cardiff, Bristol, Durham, Trinity College
 Dublin and UFPB Brazil. Chamberlen convenes the Law and Violence network with colleagues at
 Glasgow University, Kent University, Birkbeck University, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de
 Valparaiso, Universidad de Chile, and Universidad Austral de Chile.

 Non-Academic Partners and Networks
 We have a concentration of research expertise and activity involving exchanges with the public,
 private and third sectors (see Impact Strategy).

 Visiting Academics
 We have a thriving visiting fellow programme, with fellows from across the globe making the UoA
 their temporary home. Since 2014, the Social Theory Centre has hosted distinguished speakers
 such as Susan Buck Morss (CUNY Graduate Centre), Drucilla Cornell (Rutgers University), David
 Theo Goldberg (University of California, Irvine), Paul Gilroy (UCL), Luce Irigaray, Michelle Lamont
 (Harvard University), Jasbir Puar (Rutgers University) and Imogen Tyler (Lancaster University).
 The Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies has hosted a range of renowned fellows including
 David Berry (University of Sussex), Andreas Birkback (University of Aalborg), Carolin Gerlitz
 (University of Siegen), and Lizzie Richardson (Durham University). The Centre for the Study of
 Women and Gender has hosted Cynthia Enloe (Clark University), Mary Hawkesworth (Rutgers)
 and Jane Maree Maher (Monash).

 Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 As a UoA we play an active role in shaping, sustaining and expanding the boundaries of the
 discipline. We are active members of our main learned societies including the American
 Sociological Association, British Sociological Association, European Sociological Association,
 International Sociological Association and the Portuguese Sociological Association. We also play
 an active role in our key sub-disciplinary and interdisciplinary societies including the American
 Society of Criminology, British Association of South Asian Studies, British Society of Criminology,
 British Society for Population Studies, European Consortium for Political Research, European
 Association for Gender Research, Education and Documentation, European Association for the
 Study of Science and Technology, UK Association for Science, Technology and Innovation
 Studies, European Society of Criminology, Feminist and Women’s Studies Association,
 International Association of Time Use Research, International Association for Media and


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Communications Research and International Research Association of Institutions of Advanced
 Gender Studies.
     In 2018, Marres was elected to the council of the Society for the Social Studies of Science
       (4S) for a three-year term.
     From 2016-18 Solomos was a Member of the 2018 Program Committee of the American
       Sociological Association, set up to work with in-coming ASA President Eduardo Bonilla-
       Silva.
     In 2018, Solomos was Chair of the Evaluation Panel of Swedish Research Council for
       Health, Working Life and Welfare (FORTE), set up to provide the Final Review of 10
       Centres of Excellence and in 2018-19 he was a Member of the ESRC Centres Competition
       Commissioning Panel.
     From 2016 to 2020 Solomos served as Chair of the Heads and Professors of Sociology.
     In 2018-19 Lury was a member of the commissioning panel for the ESRC National Training
       Centre for Research Methods.

 Editorships, Editorial Boards and Journal Advisory Boards
 One of the key mechanisms through which we sustain and shape our discipline is through active
 involvement in editorships, editorial boards, advisory boards and peer review. The labour invested
 in editorial work for journals and book series, grant evaluations and service for research councils
 and learned societies, and in mentoring and training postgraduate and early career scholars plays
 an essential role in ensuring the vitality and relevance of sociology as a discipline. Here is a
 selection of some of our major editorial roles:
      Emejulu is co-editor of Politics, Groups and Identities
      Kalra was co-editor of the Journals Sikh Formations and Khaldunia
      Marres and Puig were co-editors of the Sociological Review (2015-2018)
      Pereira is an editor of Feminist Theory
      Puig is Associate Editor of the Journal of People and Nature
      Solomos is Editor in Chief of Ethnic and Racial Studies
      Solomos is co-editor of the Manchester University Press book series on Racism,
         Resistance and Social Change, and editor of the Routledge book series on Ethnic and
         Racial Studies
      Stark is an Editor of Sociologica: International Journal for Sociological Debate
      Wadia is co-Lead Editor of European Journal of Politics and Gender

 Warwick sociologists serve or have served on the editorial boards of more than 40 scholarly
 journals, including: British Journal of Sociology, British Journal of Sociology of Education,
 Citizenship Studies, European Journal of Cultural and Political Sociology, European Journal of
 Politics and Gender, Identities: Global Studies in Culture and Power, Incarcerations, International
 Journal of Social Research Methodology, Journal of Peace and Democracy in South Asia, Journal
 of Sociology, Media Theory, Patterns of Prejudice, Scottish Affairs, Social Politics, Socio-
 Economic Review, Sociological Review, Sociology, South Asian Diaspora, Space and Culture,
 Theory, Culture & Society, Time Use Research, Work, Employment and Society.

 We provide peer review for a wide range of prestigious journals and presses including: Antípoda,
 Revista de Antropología y Arqueología, Bioethics, Biosocieties, Bloomsbury Academic, Body and
 Society, British Journal of Sociology, British Journal of Sociology of Education, Catalyst, Cultural
 Geographies, Duke University Press, Feminism, Theory, Technoscience, Feminist Review,
 Feminist Theory, Graduate Journal of Social Sciences, Journal of Latin American and Caribbean
 Anthropology Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, Journal of Women Agriculture and

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Human Values, Journal of Cultural Economy, Organization, Science, Technology and Human
 Values, Signs. Journal of Women in Culture and Society, Social Studies of Science, Sociological
 Review, Subjectivity, Theory, Culture & Society.

 We serve as PhD external examiners for a wide range of institutions, including: Aalborg, Aberdeen,
 Australian National University, Barcelona, California-Davis, Cambridge, City College Dublin,
 Copenhagen Business School, GCU, Goldsmiths, Kent, Loughborough, LSE, Manchester, Milan,
 New South Wales, Newcastle, North Texas, Nottingham, Otago, Pelotas, Peshawar University,
 Plymouth, Porto, Queen’s University Belfast, Royal College of Art, SOAS, Sussex, York.

 Our UoA has a strong and sustained commitment to ensuring that our cutting edge,
 interdisciplinary, excellent research makes a substantial contribution to the research base and to
 understanding the many challenges facing our wider societies. We are committed to engaging
 with diverse publics and policy communities to rethink, reframe and help to address the
 challenging, complex and urgent issues that we engage with through our research.




                                                                                            Page 19
