Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview

 The English Language and Literature research environment at the University of Greenwich has
 transformed itself since 2014: we have recruited research-active staff and developed the
 research activity of others; strengthened research leadership with 8 promotions; created a new
 interdisciplinary Centre for Research & Enterprise in Language (CREL); made considerable
 investments in research support through University, Faculty and School research investment
 schemes; increased external research and enterprise income from £112k to over £250k (£500K
 from all sources); increased staff submitted to REF from 11 in 2014 (when Literature and
 Linguistics submitted separately) to 13.85 in 2021; and increased doctoral completions by 260%.

 We make a globally significant contribution to English Language and Literature research with
 particular strengths in the areas of i) creative writing; ii) drama; iii) nineteenth-century and post-
 1960 literary studies and iv) morpho-syntax, language acquisition and translation. This is
 indicated by prizes, research income, reviews, learned society leadership and collaborations
 with high-status institutions in the USA and Europe. In addition, we have very successfully
 mentored published research by our PhD students, and, through a new Faculty-wide Office for
 Undergraduate Research run from the same School, by undergraduates too.

 Our research effort has been reconfigured by the establishment of CREL to become the home of
 the previously separate research groups of Linguistics and of Literature & Creative Writing, as
 well as researchers from Psychology, Computing, and Education. CREL fosters both
 interdisciplinary collaboration and discipline-focussed research through seminar series, training
 and specialist resources.

 Our location in London allows us to key in easily to the many period- and topic-based research
 clusters, libraries and archives of the metropolis. This is hugely beneficial for small UoAs like
 ours: it enables us successfully not only to cover a wide spectrum of research questions and
 methodologies and to keep up to date, but also to make diversity and global exchange the core
 of what we do, features reflected in the biographies and outputs of our members and nurtured by
 the lively conversations across disciplines and cultures that our research strategy and practices
 promote.

 b. Research strategy

 Research in UoA27 is centred in the School of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) which
 also houses History, Social Sciences, and Drama and Performance.

 Belonging to one of the most diverse universities in the UK, we aim to ensure that our research
 reflects the varied interests of our student population and the local and international communities
 from which they and we come – an essential part of our aspiration for research-led teaching that
 is socially relevant. We are committed to the re-evaluation of marginalised knowledges and the
 coherence between what we do and what we are powers our contributions to UoA27.

 CREL was founded in 2019 to formalise and take advantage of this multi-disciplinary and diverse
 position. Collaboration with colleagues from Psychology, Computing, Mathematics and
 Education has opened new avenues of interdisciplinary research and relations with the
 community: quantitative research on the cognitive development of language has been enriched
 via collaboration with colleagues from Psychology and Mathematics; research on Literature and
 Creative Writing has integrated Linguistics, and research on Linguistics has established
 pathways to impact in Education. Collaboration across the disciplines within CREL contributes to

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research outputs and is especially visible in our impact case studies (ICS): “Trading Places”
 uses quantitative linguistic analysis to measure impact while “Bridging the Gap” mixes linguistics
 and education research methods.

 The UoA’s strategy 2019-2027, like that of CREL, was founded on the University mission: to
 transform lives through inspiring teaching and world-class research. It aims to:

    1. Produce internationally excellent and world-leading interdisciplinary outputs with a focus
       on marginalised knowledges
    2. Develop interdisciplinary grant submissions to seek funding from a wide range of sources
    3. Create interdisciplinary PhD projects and develop a strategy to recruit high-quality
       students
    4. Mentor those interested in embarking on research for the first time (or in resuming
       research) in a nurturing environment that promotes respect for diversity and exchange of
       knowledge across boundaries
    5. Encourage a general research culture within the university by welcoming undergraduate
       students and recent graduates from all Faculties represented at the Centre
    6. Promote the internationalisation of staff and students by establishing liaisons with
       institutions, research centres and academics overseas
    7. Organise events to advance new insights, promote new collaborations and outputs, and
       inform debate about new developments in research priorities
    8. Engage communities beyond academia in research findings and activities in order to
       generate social benefit

 Research group structure

 Before CREL, research on linguistics and applied linguistics took place in the Centre for Applied
 Research and Outreach in Language Education (CAROLE), while that around literature and
 creative writing was hosted by the Literature and Drama group (LAD). An increasing disposition
 towards interdisciplinary research in these two areas of the UoA motivated their natural
 integration into CREL.

 Both interdisciplinary and discipline-focussed research is achieved in CREL through
 substructures called “pillars”.

    •   Narrative covers all aspects of the transformation of data into knowledge, with an
        especial focus on exploring the limits and mixtures of fictive and “literary” knowledges
        with the material world: how do they influence each other? This question, especially
        appertaining to marginalised knowledges, is answered by members both in terms of
        politicised print and theatre history (Derbyshire, King, Morton, O’Thomas, Young),
        religion (Stenke) and ecocritical studies (Weston), in terms of engaged creative writing
        (Critchley, Pheby, Smyth, Solanke) and embodied performance (Ramos), and in terms
        of language learning and use (Arche, Liszka, Pettit). Knowledge-exchange here is
        enabled through a series of regular public seminars led by an ECR and a more
        experienced academic (Critchley, Stenke); all sessions have been very well attended by
        participants from both within and beyond the university (35 average).
    •   The Science Practice Hub (SciPHub) is a CREL-led initiative . It is jointly run by Arche
        with Dr Jana Uher, Dr Anna Samara (Institute of Lifecourse Development from the
        Faculty of Education, Health and Human Sciences) and Dr Ana Paula Palacios (School
        of Computing and Mathematical Sciences). The hub has joined the International Open
        Science network RepoducibiliTEA to enhance open discussion about science practice.
        Like the Narrative series, all sessions enjoy a very good attendance rate (45 average).
    •   The Linguistics reading and training sub-group, which Liszka leads, covers both
        theoretical and applied linguistics and produces research on morpho-syntax and
        semantics, second language acquisition and processing and translation. Research on
        language processing has developed at the Neurolinguistics Lab, mainly employing eye-


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        tracking, to generate 3 PhD dissertations this cycle. This pillar oversees the training of
        research students in how to use the equipment.
    •
 Crucial to its sustainability and vitality is CREL’s self-organisation by members guided by senior
 researchers who have time allocated within their workloads for research leadership
 responsibilities. CREL members collectively fulfil the UoA’s aims by

    •   challenging orthodoxy through the exploration of real-world problems regarding
        marginalised social groups and knowledges both contemporary and historical (e.g.
        Smyth on forced migration; Solanke on Africans in Tudor England; Derbyshire on the
        polemical plays of debbie tucker green; King on the importance of trade periodicals and
        popular fiction; Critchley on women’s poetic experiences; Morton on the “worst” poet
        laureate, Alfred Austin; Ramos on the dramatic rituals of dating). [aims 1, 2]
    •   creating a supportive environment with regular meetings to discuss members’ work both
        informally and formally, between individuals and in groups, through in-room and on-line
        interaction [aim 4]
    •   ensuring research students at all levels have a network extending beyond their
        supervisors [aims 3, 5]
    •   developing research networks by arranging seminars and workshops with external
        researchers and bringing onto the board senior colleagues from other institutions with
        recognised academic and practitioner expertise. [aims 6, 7]
    •   building pathways to impact through our ICS and engaging external organisations such
        as the Royal Borough of Greenwich and the National Maritime Museum in the
        Greenwich Book Festival. [aims 7, 8]
     •
 CREL, like its predecessors LAD and CAROLE, currently receives core funding of £11,000 per
 annum which it is free to spend as it thinks most effective, within a range of authorised purposes.
 The funding is mainly spent on workshops, conferences, data collection and transcription,
 specialised training, funding research students to attend conferences, and employing research
 assistants. Additional funds for specific projects are available through application to the Faculty.
 In total, the UoA has received £287,040 in QR and HEIF funding over the REF period.

 In a competitive bidding process, members were awarded 7.5 PhD Studentships by the Faculty
 over 2014-20. Having been formally trained in the interview processes and undergone equality,
 diversity and inclusion training, awardees arrange their own selection of students.

 Governance of research activity

 Research within the scope of UoA27 is governed by University-wide policies and procedures,
 which are overseen by the University and Faculty Research & Enterprise Committees.

 In CREL, research activity is overseen by

    •   an Advisory Board which includes senior members of the university and external advisers
        from institutions in the community and the UK (local schools, industry, speech and
        language therapists, members of the British Academy and Cervantes Institute)
    •   an Executive Committee comprising both senior and early-career researchers from the
        main areas represented in CREL: Arche is CREL director and represents Linguistics;
        King represents Literature and Creative Writing, with Uher (Psychology), Saunders (ECR
        and Mathematics and Computing), and Palumbo (PhD students). The Executive
        Committee makes decisions on the allocation of funding, and reviews progress against
        strategic objectives. Resources are allocated so as to increase the vitality of the research
        environment, and to do so in a sustainable manner, especially by targeting funds to
        invest in ECRs with the objective of generating a long-term return.
        The Committee reports to the Faculty Research and Enterprise Committee.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Review of progress since REF 2014

 In the period since REF 2014, research has been established as both a critical criterion in staff
 recruitment and as a standing item at School meetings, at annual subject reviews and at
 individual annual staff appraisals. The University has invested significantly in the Unit’s research.
 Since 2014 over £150,000 has been invested in the Unit in direct funding, plus 7 x 12-week
 sabbaticals, and 7.5 Vice-Chancellor’s PhD scholarships (whose total value is c. £360k plus fee
 waivers worth an additional £190k). We have increased external research and enterprise income
 from a very low base in 2014 to £250,954. Arts Council and personal grants from other external
 institutions amount to an additional £200,000 (as detailed below).

 This growth has been founded on significant change in the staff base, with targeted recruitment
 of research active staff, especially ECRs, and 8 promotions. The University has sought to
 support researchers

    •   through a research career pathway, with clear criteria for promotion on the basis of
        research excellence and impact;
    •   by allocating specific time for research;
    •   by improving researcher training and development through two new university-wide
        structures, Research and Enterprise Training Institute (RETI) and Greenwich Research
        and Enterprise (GRE), in addition to our Faculty Research Office and research centres.

 Strategic objectives 2021-27

 From Arche’s research into copulas across languages and Pettit’s attention to the elision of
 language switching in dubbed films to Stenke’s recovery of a once-dismissed eighteenth-century
 woman poet and Solanke’s voicing of Black experience on stage, we want to show how it is the
 coherence between what we produce and what we are that provides the vital and sustainable
 energy which powers our contributions to UoA27.

 Guided by the 8 aims described above, we plan to harness that energy to increase by 27% the
 number of research-active staff in CREL who regularly produce outputs of internationally
 excellent or world leading quality. Specifically, we aim by 2027 to increase the proportion of
 academic staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR) on the University’s research
 career pathway from 13.85 (as in the present submission) to 18. The raised profile of members
 in this research period has already paid dividends in terms of attracting staff from internationally
 recognised universities. We will continue to support colleagues with SRR (through QR funding,
 PhD Studentships and allocated time) while, as explained above, also aiming to grow the critical
 mass of SRR staff in all areas. This will involve the continued recruitment of ECRs who will
 extend our research into marginalised knowledges, support for mid-career researchers, and
 selective recruitment of senior researchers to provide leadership (see below on staffing).

 Further development will require external funding. We therefore aim to increase the annual rate
 of external funding by 50% by 2027. This will be achieved by targeted external bidding, staff
 training, providing mentors for less experienced staff, strengthening bidding infrastructure and
 intensifying our extant international networks while extending new ones.

 As the number of SRR staff grows, we aim to increase the number of research students. With
 greater supervisory capacity and more projects suitable for research students, the target is to
 increase the number of PhD completions to 23 by 2027, generating an increase per staff
 member from 0.87 at present to 1.33 while maintaining our rigorous admission standards. We
 aim to build on our experience in attracting external funding for research scholarships in
 partnership with other institutions such as we have already achieved with the double doctorate
 with the University of Gröningen.

 Impact in REF2014 grew out of existing research strengths, just as it has in this submission. As
 explained below, we have sought to mature our approach to generating and tracking impact, so

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that it becomes a core focus both of CREL and individual researchers. We have started to
 document it in the normal course of research activity and shall build future impact case studies
 from this information base. We aim to generate at least 4 Impact Case Studies of internationally
 excellent or world leading quality by 2027.

 Enabling impact 2014-20 and lessons learned for 2021-27

 Our maturing approach to impact has involved the following steps:

    •   Taking account of contribution to research excellence and societal impact when
        selecting new staff. Our selection processes explore contribution to impact, recognising
        that in the case of most ECRs this will amount to the potential for generating impact.
    •   Educating staff and PhD students as to what societal impact means, in particular
        distinguishing it from both academic impact within the discipline and public engagement.
        The education process has taken the form of experience-sharing sessions, formal
        training provided by RETI, multiple one-to-one conversations with researchers and
        mentoring within our ECR development programme. PhD students have been trained in
        gathering and shaping Impact data so that they are better prepared for both academic
        and “alt-ac” careers. These activities will continue with greater intensity.
    •   Signalling to staff the importance of impact and the value we place on it. This has
        been incorporated into the criteria for allocating time for research as well as into the
        promotion criteria on the university’s research career pathway. An Impact champion will
        be appointed to the Executive in CREL in 2021 and Impact will be a standing item at
        CREL meetings. Where appropriate, the objectives agreed in the annual appraisal round
        include contribution to impact.
    •   Incorporating impact within the objectives of CREL. The interdisciplinary nature of
        CREL has already helped with the procedures for impact generation and data gathering.
        CREL will invigorate its commitment by organising its own Impact training sessions which
        take into account the extremely diverse and international nature of our research. Good
        practice will be shared both internally and by speakers invited specially from external
        organisations like the Cervantes Institute and the British Council, as well as from the
        University and Schools sectors.
    •   Advanced training and coaching for impact case study authors. The Impact Case
        Studies prepared for REF 2021 have benefited from expert training provided by Vertigo
        Ventures and one-to-one coaching from the University’s Impact Manager. An additional
        benefit is that this process has created a cadre of researchers with impact experience
        who are able to coach and support other colleagues in future.
    •   Dedicated funding to support the development of impact. The University has made
        grants of up to £9,000 to researchers to develop their ICS which the Unit exploited to
        gather impact data by employing post-doctoral researchers who were, in turn, trained in
        impact, thus ensuring the spread and sustainability of the know-how and understanding
        of impact.

 Interdisciplinary research

 As explained above, CREL was set up precisely to provide a nurturing environment for inter-
 disciplinary and multiple-methods research. Its regular meetings provide a natural forum for
 interdisciplinary themes and projects to be discussed. We find this organic approach more
 effective than artificially prompting inter-disciplinary projects top-down, especially since
 interdisciplinary work was already being undertaken in its predecessor research groups.

 O’Thomas, for example, has combined oral with theatre history and Pettit film and translation;
 King and Morton’s work on nineteenth-century periodicals draws on the disciplines of
 marketing, politics, economics, historical sociology and visual culture as well as more
 traditionally literary modes of reading. Stenke’s published and ongoing research coordinates
 traditional literary scholarship with religious history, visual and print culture and gender studies.
 More recently, and directly as a result of CREL, King has applied research methods to the study

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Victorian periodicals that stem from biology (https://vimeo.com/468539510/18f883e3f7).
 Ramos’s performance research is of its nature deeply interdisciplinary, combining theatre
 performance, marketing, the corporeal and the digital in innovative ways, as detailed in several
 places in this document.

 Further developments in the immediate future include

    a) a new line of linguistics led by Arche awarded a Theme-group fellowship for 2021-22 by
       NIAS at the Dutch Royal Academy specialised in promoting interdisciplinary research
    b) the blend of sociology, literature, music, art and media history in a collection of essays
       with 9 collaborators that King is contracted to submit to Routledge in 2021 as Living
       Work.
    c) Ramos extending Pick Me Up (and Hold Me Tight), an interactive artwork piloted in
       Leeds in January 2020 that responds to rising suicide rates, to all 34,000 public phone
       boxes in the UK ringing at once, scheduled to go national in 2021. £15k funding has
       already been secured.
    d) A collection of 12 essays encompassing literature studies, histories of print and material
       culture, reception studies, cultural and political history, and rhetoric and stylistics, co-
       edited by Stenke, contracted to Bucknell University Press for 2021.
    e) An anthology of contemporary British eco-writing, House on Fire, encompassing literary,
       visual, political and socio-philosophical responses, co-edited by Critchley due for
       submission to Faber in summer 2022.

 Open research environment

 The UoA follows the University’s preference for the Green route for publications by depositing
 appropriate copies into a recognised OA repository (see
 https://docs.gre.ac.uk/__data/assets/pdf_file/0028/198145/UoG-Statement-on-Scholarly-
 Communication-UPDATED-202009.pdf ), but goes further. It is as committed to open access
 (OA) as it is to diversity, international academic collaboration, and public engagement, seeing all
 four as mutually reinforcing . While for this period we have not published OA monographs,
 sessions delivered by OA publishers and authors are scheduled by CREL in 2021 to explain and
 promote this form of publication.

 King founded and edits the OA online journal Victorian Popular Fictions with Mariaconcetta
 Costantini (Chieti-Pescara, Italy) under Creative Commons 4.0 and, since 2017, has generated
 with Morton a series of research-led YouTube videos (“Greenwich Detective Fiction”) with
 20,000+ views as of July 2020. King has also created and is still growing the OA Nineteenth-
 Century Business, Labour, Trade and Temperance Periodicals (BLT19) website, with its wealth
 of OA digitised primary and secondary materials. Critchley co-edited and introduced an OA
 edition of Chicago Review: #MeToo: A Poetry Collective (Summer, 2018)
 (https://www.chicagoreview.org/metoo/). Ramos was appointed to forward the open access
 agenda after his work such as #RioFoneHack in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park June to
 December 2015 engaged over 7,000 non-fee-paying visitors.

 While the generation of measurable social benefit (Impact) by research is important, CREL also
 encourages members to continue with public engagement, as this not only brings benefits to
 wider audiences but also benefits their own work by garnering feedback, often from unexpected
 and energising angles. The ongoing Twilight lectures to school teachers
 (https://www.gre.ac.uk/for-schools/activities/subject-talks) are a regular part of this public
 interaction. They have been supplemented by activities detailed on the CREL website
 (https://www.gre.ac.uk/las/research/crel) of which the following is a selection:

    •   Arche has delivered lectures on linguistics in Spain and the UK to both general
        audiences and schools.
    •   The widely and well-reviewed creative writers Critchley, Pheby, Smyth and Solanke
        have been interviewed many times on BBC and RTÉ radio and TV, on podcasts and in

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the press, in addition to many public readings of their work. Critchley has been
        translated into Finnish, Polish, Greek, Spanish, Catalan, Portuguese and Chinese in just
        this REF period.
    •   The theatre practitioner Ramos has generated a great deal of press. His work, such as
        Pick Me Up (and Hold Me Tight) (2020-) and Binaural Dinner Date (2017-), has been
        praised by Jude Kelly (director South Bank) and many others for questioning the
        separation of audience from actors, and of performed from authentic identities.
    •   Derbyshire continues his collaboration with Pam Schweitzer to activate the
        Reminiscence Theatre Archive, an ongoing project that preserves oral testimony and,
        through cataloguing, digitisation and workshopping, puts them to use for the benefit of
        students and the wider community through performances and interactions targeting
        neglected older age groups.

 Finally, the Greenwich Book Festival is key to showcasing the research of the Unit and, like all
 of the activities above, has generated feedback useful for research directions as well as
 promoting members’ profiles and research specialisms.

 Research ethics and integrity

 Research ethics and integrity are at the core of both the UoA and CREL, and members are
 acutely aware of their importance in their research and publishing practices. UoA members have
 served on the Faculty Ethics committee and King was responsible for the Victorian Popular
 Fiction Association’s and its journal’s first ethics policies and procedures.

 UoA members both read and comment on each other’s papers and funding bids informally, and
 present drafts for supportive comment to senior members. These open collegial interactions
 contribute to a research culture of high quality and integrity, reinforced by University codes of
 practice for integrity in research, by training courses on research integrity, data management
 and data protection and by the regulation of research projects by the Faculty and University
 Research Ethics Committees. The University produces an annual statement on Research
 Integrity that is published on its website, and delivers training to both staff and postgraduate
 research students. The university is a subscribing member to the UK Research Integrity Office.

 The evidence for this policy’s success lies in the complete absence of ethical and integrity
 breaches by members of this UoA.

 2. People

 Staff recruitment

 The UoA celebrates diversity and the international as reflected in the extremely wide
 demographic and geographic origins of its members, many of whom, even when they were born
 in the UK, have benefitted from long periods overseas.

 In this period we have prioritized recruitment of ECRs. Typically, appointments have recently
 completed their doctorate and have at least one high-quality published output indicative of
 research potential. While recruitment focuses primarily on ECRs, University investment has also
 allowed the appointment of more developed researchers to strengthen the critical mass of
 researchers. The success of the recruitment strategy is reflected in a tangible growth in the
 overall number of staff with significant responsibility for research.

 We recognise that staff need stability in order to build research careers. The policy of the School
 is to make appointments on a permanent basis. As well as ethically correct, we feel this policy is
 a competitive advantage in recruiting high quality staff: staff previously employed on a
 succession of short-term contracts at other institutions have joined Greenwich and flourished
 because employment security allowed them both to make longer-term research decisions and
 manage family responsibilities.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We ensure that staff involved in the selection and recruitment process are themselves diverse
 and that all have had EDI training. This is intended to result in recruitment of a diverse set of
 new staff. Of the academic staff recruited since 1 January 2014, 50% have self-identified as
 female, and 13% have identified as being other than white, though these figures do not capture
 our members’ vibrant diversity of class or international origins and experience.

 We consider that the value of our approach to recruitment is borne out by how almost 50% of
 SRR staff included in the REF submission for UoA 27 have been recruited since 1 January
 2014. Demonstrating the importance we are now laying on EDI in recruitment, in the UoA as a
 whole, 53% self-identify as women and 7% as BME.

 Research career development

 Career development for researchers takes place within the framework of the University’s career
 development policies and processes. The heart of this is the Career Pathway framework.

 All academic staff elect for one of three Career Pathways: Teaching and Scholarship; Research;
 or Enterprise. While all academic staff are expected to incorporate all three of these strands into
 their academic activity, the balance between the three varies between Pathways. All staff with
 significant responsibility for research are on the Research Career Pathway.

 All staff have an annual appraisal where, with their appraiser, they review progress over the past
 year; agree objectives for the year ahead; identify development needs and agree ways in which
 those can be met.

 Appraisals also provide an opportunity for discussion of longer-term career development,
 including promotion. There is an annual promotion round to Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor
 and Professor with clear published criteria for promotion to these levels for each of the three
 Career Pathways. Any staff member may apply for promotion. Applications are first considered
 by a Faculty-level panel; and then, if successful at that stage, by a University-level panel.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers developed by Vitae and has created a comprehensive Researcher Development
 Framework (RDF). Furthermore, the University was given the HR Excellence in Research Award
 of the European Commission (https://www.gre.ac.uk/research/governance-and-
 awards/concordat-to-support). Signalling the centrality of diversity to the University, two Equality,
 Diversity & Inclusion Advisers have been appointed to work directly with the VC and HRD, while
 the HR directorate also has a Senior EDI Officer.

 New academic staff are supported by a four-year Early Career Academic Development Plan,
 aligned with the Vitae RDF. This typically involves not only research output objectives but also
 engagement with colleagues in funded research projects and joining doctoral supervision teams.
 While RETI provides standardised training for new researchers and new doctoral supervisors,
 ECRs are individually mentored to meet their plans by senior members of CREL.

 Specific researcher training and development needs are identified through the annual appraisal
 process. Common and ongoing needs are fed through to RETI, where they are incorporated into
 the central research development programme. Since 2018, RETI has chaired the University
 PGR-ECR Forum to provide a space for discussion and review of relevant matters, to feed a
 summary into the university Research and Enterprise Committee, and to share areas of best
 practise with Faculties.

 In addition, the very lively Faculty ECR Faculty network, which reports to the Faculty Research
 and Enterprise Committee, organises a variety of activities from socials to dedicated training
 sessions on, for example, writing for journals and REF requirements. The Faculty ECR Network


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also encourages its members to develop small-scale exploratory projects with specially targeted
 Faculty Research Development Grants of £5k.

 Development programmes

 RETI provides systematic training for researchers from early to established careers. Unit
 members have engaged extensively with regular RETI workshops on Undertaking and Managing
 Research; Recruitment and Selection of PGR students; Supervising PGR students; Developing
 and Demonstrating Research Impact; The Research Degree Examiner; Preparing to be Chair of
 an Examination Panel; Research Ethics; Research Integrity and so on. In this period, successful
 innovations in researcher development include a coaching network, and the Aurora programme
 designed to help all people who identify as a woman to think of themselves as leaders and
 strategists.

 Workload allocation for research

 We strive to ensure that staff have sufficient time for their research. All lecturing staff (whether or
 not on the Research pathway) automatically have 11% of their time reserved for what is termed
 “Research and Scholarly Activity” (RSA) in the employment contract used nationally in most
 post-1992 HEIs. Additional time for research is discussed and agreed with line managers.
 Between 2014-20, staff with SRR had at least 20% of their workload allocated to research and/or
 research leadership and usually more.

 One of the key factors enabling the development of ECRs is the provision of sufficient time for
 their research: they are accordingly allocated substantially lighter teaching loads and minor
 administrative posts for the first 12 months of their appointment, resulting usually in more than
 20% of their workload allocated to research.

 In balancing research with other duties the School attempts to partition time cleanly, so that
 teaching and other duties are confined to specific days of the week or a particular term in a given
 year. The caring responsibilities of staff are also taken into account in this regard.

 The University operates a sabbatical programme which enables staff to concentrate on particular
 research projects or to develop their research experience by working at other institutions.
 Sabbaticals of 6 or 12 weeks are not automatic but must align with both the strategic priorities of
 the University and the individual’s career aspirations and development. 9 members of the UoA
 have been granted sabbaticals in this research cycle.

 Finally, staff who generate external research funding are allocated time to carry it out, with the
 funding applied to free up time on a cost-reflective basis.

 Academic conferences

 Staff with SRR are supported and encouraged to engage with the leading international
 conferences and workshops in their field. We see this as a strategic use of time and cash
 resources, as it enables staff to present and get feedback on their research at a formative stage.
 It also enables them to build their research networks, open avenues to collaboration and
 influence their fields. This strategy has resulted in staff determining the direction of their fields:

    •   Arche is the leader of two biannual international conference series: Workshop of Aspect
        and Argument Structure of Adjectives & Participles (2014, 2016, 2018, 2020) and
        Tenselessness (2017, 2019) in collaboration with colleagues from Tromsø and CNRS-
        Lille. She has led several other workshops both for advanced researchers (Copulas
        Across Languages 2015; Persistent Issues in Language Analysis: the Individual/stage
        distinction 2019) and others which do special service to the PhD community in Linguistics
        across the UK (Syntax of Tense Day 2018, 2019). Arche is also a member of the


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Committee-for-Linguistics-in-Education that produces the official responses to the UK
        government on educational developments on language.
    •   King, having served for some years on the Committee of the Research Society for
        Victorian Periodicals, has been President of the Victorian Popular Fiction Association
        since 2018, the year before he brought the Association’s annual conferences to
        Greenwich and launched the Association’s journal, Victorian Popular Fictions.
    •   Liszka sits on the committees for the annual conferences of the Boston University
        Conference on Language Development and of the European Second Language
        Association and the biannual Tense, Aspect and Modality in L2. She organised an
        Applied Linguistics Postgraduate Conferences in 2014 and co-organised it with the
        University of York in 2015. The following year she was the co-organiser of an
        international conference on generative second language acquisition and foreign
        language teaching at the University of Greenwich.
    •   Young is a member of the Institute of English Studies London Shakespeare Seminar
        organising committee that includes colleagues from King’s, UCL, Roehampton and
        Shakespeare’s Globe.

 Staff exchanges

 We encourage and enable staff to take up visiting positions at other institutions (King at
 Macerata, Italy, 2014; Arche at Gröningen, Netherlands, 2018; Ramos as Research Fellow at
 Concordia University, Montreal, 2019-2022; Smyth on an S.W. Brooks Fellowship at the
 University of Queensland, Australia, in 2019) and have welcomed numerous staff from industry
 and universities across the world not only to give research seminars and teach undergraduates
 and postgraduates, but also advise research students and train staff.

 Reward and Recognition

 The most tangible reward for research excellence is via the promotion system. The promotion
 criteria for staff on the Research pathway cover not only individual research achievements but
 also contribution to the research environment at Greenwich and contribution to the discipline
 nationally and internationally. Over the research period 2014-20, 8 staff have been promoted on
 the research pathway, equivalent to roughly 18 % of the overall academic staff in the School.

 The progression of staff from the 2014 REF submission to positions at King’s College London
 and Emerson College Boston indicate the unit’s ability to support and develop academic careers.

 Research students

 Doctoral student completions have grown from 5 in REF2014 to 13 in this research period.

 Our research students are either self-funded, in receipt of VC scholarships or funded by their
 workplaces. Selection is rigorous: we are very careful to focus on quality rather than quantity,
 while taking into account diversity issues, and this has resulted in our students’ excellent
 publication records and destinations.

 Applicants are required to develop a preliminary research proposal in dialogue with a potential
 supervisor. This is reviewed by the PhD Programme Director and, on their recommendation,
 applicants are invited for interview by a panel comprising the proposed Supervisor and the
 Programme Director. All panel members are required to undertake periodic Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion training. 83% of completions were by women students.

 Students enter the programme on a rolling basis. There is an active doctoral students’ society in
 the Faculty, providing social opportunities for students to mix with their peers. Research students
 are supported by a supervisory team with at least three completions among them, typically one
 or two experienced supervisors and one junior.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alongside regular supervision meetings, research students participate in and help organise
 seminars, meetings and workshops. They regularly present their work to their research group
 and to annual School and University poster competitions. CREL is careful to have postgraduate
 representation on its Executive Committee and provide mentoring for that role so that students
 can gain experience of research management very early in their careers.

 In their first year of study, all research students undertake a common set of block courses
 provided by RETI, encompassing project and self-management skills, research design, research
 methods, teaching and software packages such as nVivo and SPSS. RETI courses are
 supplemented by provision within the School tailored to specialist topic areas, such as using
 periodicals and archives, Humanities academic and alt-ac job markets, publishing in journals,
 impactful research and writing a Humanities thesis. Students also audit advanced courses in
 research-intensive taught post-graduate programmes as needed.

 Each student is funded to support presentation of their work at national or international
 conferences on three occasions during their studies. They also have opportunities to teach in
 order to broaden their academic skills and to undertake the University’s HEA accredited PGCert
 in Learning and Teaching.

 The Unit began an annual conference in 2014 especially so its PhD students could share their
 research and hone their methodological and presentation skills. This was subsequently
 expanded and is now run by the Faculty. Two more innovations have been:

    1. an annual meeting of research students with a staff member outside their supervisory
       team so they can both be better integrated into the unit and learn to communicate their
       research with academics outside their immediate areas
    2. specialist reading groups for linguistics and for literature research students.

 Beyond the immediate support of the supervisory team, student progress is supported by the
 oversight of the Faculty Research Degrees Committee (FRDC). This reviews and provides
 feedback on research proposals after the first 2 months of joining the University. Students
 maintain an online reflective logbook of objectives set by supervision meetings and progress
 towards this, which is reviewed annually by the FRDC. Should difficulties in progress arise, the
 FRDC typically requests the Faculty Director of Research to meet with the students and
 supervisors to determine a remedial plan of action. The FRDC also considers requests to
 interrupt study and for exceptional extensions to registration. Between 6 and 18 months after
 registration, work to date is assessed in an internal examination to ensure the student is ready
 for doctoral-level work. The final, external examination follows before the end of the fifth year.
 The results of both examinations are reviewed by the FRDC before any recommendation of
 award to the University Research and Enterprise Committee and the University Academic
 Committee.

 Our research students in this period have published in international peer-reviewed journals,
 essay collections, and blogs and vlogs of learned societies. Several in this research period have
 held positions in learned societies and institutions such as the Research Society for Victorian
 Periodicals and the Institute for Historical Research, and have won academic prizes. They have
 contributed to catalogues and publications of the University’s Stephen Lawrence Gallery and, in
 order to train them up in the relevant procedures, to the ICS “Trading Places” (and its underlying
 website BLT19.co.uk) and to “Bridging the Gap” (both submitted to REF2021). This contribution
 to the wider academic community and to the sustainability of the discipline is testament to the
 success of the postgraduate processes that the Unit set up and sustains.

 We support our completing PhD students to gain roles in professional research occupations and
 in higher education institutions. Since 2014 our PhD graduates have, for example, taken up
 positions at SOAS, the British Library, the British and Irish Legal Information Institute, the Great
 Diary Project, and been promoted to head of a section in a secondary school. 6 hold or have
 held positions at Greenwich as research assistants and teaching staff.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity

 The UoA, like the University as a whole, staunchly promotes equality and diversity in all
 decisions relating to research leadership, staff appointment and promotion, and resource
 allocation. The University is a member of the Stonewall Diversity Champion programme, a
 signatory to the Time to Change Pledge (mental health), and a recognised Disability Confident
 Employer. It has set up a clear system for declaration of personal circumstances in alignment
 with REF requirements.

 Though the UoA is not requesting any reduction in outputs, it has embraced the principles
 behind the acknowledgement of personal circumstances by giving a total of 17.5 months
 maternity leave to 2 UoA members (plus 0.5 months paternity leave to 1 member) over this REF
 period, and by supporting colleagues in other ways, from the arrangement of teaching timetables
 to help those with caring responsibilities to the appointment of mental health champions for the
 excellent University staff wellbeing services (https://www.gre.ac.uk/hr/occupational-health-and-
 wellbeing) and periodic reminders of the University’s free Legal Advice Centre
 (https://www.gre.ac.uk/legal-advice-centre).

 In terms of staff selection and appointment:

    •   As stated previously, all selection panels are diverse and all members are required to
        have had EDI training.
    •   All posts are made available to applicants who would require a Tier 2 visa if appointed,
        thus ensuring no indirect discrimination against applicants without a current right to work
        in the UK
    •   Virtually all posts advertised are permanent rather than fixed term.

 Since 2014, 8 staff in the UoA have been promoted, 3 to Senior Lecturer and 5 to Associate
 Professor. Of these 8, 3 have been women and 1 BME. One of the two ICS is authored by a
 woman. The Unit’s central organising body, CREL, is led by a woman, as are each of its “pillars,”
 and 52% of the UoA self-identify as female.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In addition to the £250,954 research and enterprise income (£62,093 in HESA returns; the
 enterprise data is available on request), members of the UoA have won over £200,000 of the
 kind described in paragraph 357 of the Guidance on Submission.

    •   Arche won €58,648 as lead applicant to sustain the other 50% of a University of
        Greenwich PhD Scholarship with the University of Gröningen; she also participated as a
        Work Package Leader of Grammar Tools and Perspective Taking in the 7-institution
        project Grasping Meaning across Languages and Learners worth €54,000 (2014-2017)
        by the Dutch Research Council (NWO);
    •   King won competitive funding from the University of Macerata (2014, visiting
        professorship, €5,000 + 12 weeks accommodation costs) and from a fellowship to the
        Harry Ransom Centre in 2016 ($1700) for his outputs on publishing history; 2 x $666 as
        a third of the Colby Prizes (see section 4 below);
    •   Morton $2000 Visiting Scholarship at St Thomas University, USA in 2017, for his work
        on Researching the Nineteenth-Century Periodical Press; 2 x $666 as a third of the
        Colby Prizes;
    •   Pheby $1250 + accommodation from the Winnipeg International Writers festival (2018)
        for work towards Lucia; £3,500 split between publisher and author for 2019 Republic of
        Consciousness Prize (see section 4 below);
    •   Smyth £18,000 through ACE and ACNI awards for the Irish tour of the performance
        version of Famished in 2018;


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Solanke £42,000 Arts Council funding, and funding from the Royal Victoria Hall Awards
        and Unity Theatre Trust for her play East End Boys, West End Girls (2015).

 Greenwich Borough Council contributed £55,000 towards the annual Greenwich Book Festival
 that the Unit, with assistance from the Faculty, ran 2015-19 (interrupted in 2020 by the COVID-
 19 pandemic) and in which members played key roles every year.

 Infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Operational support for research and impact centres on the University’s Greenwich Research
 and Enterprise (GRE) department and its Research and Enterprise Training Institute (RETI).
 Specific to the Faculty is one FTE Faculty Head of Research & Enterprise who manages 2.5
 FTE School R&E Officers, 2.6 FTE Faculty Officers and 1 FTE PGR Officer. These in turn are
 responsible for supporting research group activities, externally funded projects, and PGR
 students and supervisors.

 An Impact Framework Manager trains in impact development, assisting researchers consider
 potential impact at the early stages of research project development and how evidence of
 impact can be documented. For this REF submission, the postholder has had numerous
 discussions both with colleagues at large and, more intensively, with the ICS authors, providing
 feedback, advice and guidance.

 RETI trains staff in external fundraising, while, within CREL, senior researchers discuss and
 review bids before formal review by the University’s peer review college. Reviewers pay
 particular attention to equality, diversity and inclusion in both fundraising training activity and the
 composition of project teams; this is supported by an annual EDI review by the School.

 Bid development, post-award contracting and reporting are supported by specialist staff in GRE,
 whose processes and structures are detailed in the University Research Environment document.

 The £76 million Stockwell Street library (shortlisted for the RIBA Stirling prize) opened in 2014. It
 includes dedicated office space and meeting rooms for PGR students. The School librarian
 provides training in the use of electronic databases for staff and PGR students, calls attention to
 new research and manages the budget. The library spend in the area of English Language and
 Literature (£97,000 2014-2019) has ensured the Unit’s researchers keep up to date with
 secondary sources otherwise not available to them. The unit’s record of published outputs,
 including the full texts of journal papers and many other kinds of outputs, are maintained in the
 University’s digital archive, GALA.

 UoA staff have offices in one wing of the King William Building on the UNESCO World Heritage
 Greenwich Maritime campus. Across a courtyard is the £30 million refurbished Dreadnought
 Building. It opened in 2018 and offers meeting rooms, gym and catering facilities that CREL
 members regularly use.

 The Greenwich campus is very well connected by public transport to central London, a
 geographic aspect of infrastructure extremely beneficial for small Units like ours as it empowers
 us to participate easily in external networks and brings externals to us. This in turn enables us to
 cover the wide range of research and teaching interests and needs of our very diverse student
 body in a manner that both remains abreast of the latest developments in our fields, and that
 drives those fields forward by lively participation in and generation of relevant collaborations and
 networking activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CREL’s research strategy, echoing that of its predecessors in this regard, is founded on the
 development of international and interdisciplinary collaborations so as to give voice to
 knowledges marginalised by time and/ or social hierarchy. Members’ extant interests and

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities fed into the strategy which is why we now play a leading role in energising and
 sustaining national and international research networks.

 The details of our many Research collaborations, networks, partnerships and other activities
 relevant for this section are listed on the CREL website (https://www.gre.ac.uk/for-
 schools/activities/subject-talks) and on staff pages (https://www.gre.ac.uk/people/our-staff; data
 2014-20 available on application). Here we offer a numerical summary 2014-2020 with some
 illustrative highlights.

    •   42% of UoA members play leading roles on the boards of 8 learned societies
    •   29% are on the editorial boards of 8 learned journals

 We have organised 11 conferences both in Greenwich and externally, along with numerous
 workshops (see section 2 above) and have contributed many critical, scholarly and theoretical
 papers beyond those submitted to the REF. We have given plenary addresses and lectures at
 the universities of Victoria (Canada), Freiburg (Germany), Madrid (Spain), Lille (France),
 Pescara and Macerata (Italy), St Paul’s (USA), East Anglia, Loughborough, Kingston, Warwick,
 London and at the Open University. We have contributed articles to encyclopaedias, published
 Oxford Bibliographies and numerous journal articles and essays in edited collections.

 We have won and been shortlisted for 5 prizes. Most notably, King and Morton won the
 Colby prize (for the book that most advances our knowledge of the nineteenth-century press) for
 an unprecedented two years in a row (2017 and 2018) for the Routledge Handbook to
 Nineteenth-Century Periodicals and Newspapers and Researching the Nineteenth-Century
 Periodical Press, while Pheby’s novel Lucia was joint winner of the 2019 Republic of
 Consciousness Prize for the best fiction published by small presses.

 We believe collaborative research with colleagues both inside and outside the University
 brings enormous benefits in terms of generating and disseminating the latest thinking. Arche
 (with Gröningen) established the University-wide model for double doctorates. While we have
 edited 5 collections of essays with international contributors and co-editors, and published
 jointly-written work, we also collaborate with external institutions and industry in other ways, from
 the external examining of undergraduate and MA programmes and PhDs, participation in
 national and international promotions panels and grant applications to partnership with industry.
 In the latter regard, besides the annual Greenwich Book Festival, particularly striking is
 Ramos’s co-founding and directorship of the internationally acclaimed ZU-UK, a theatre and
 digital arts company based in London and Rio de Janeiro, whose performances have taken
 place in four continents and whose collaboration with venues, public and private bodies and with
 audiences themselves constitute a new art form (see https://zu-uk.com/).

 Rigorously maintaining and interrogating standards is key to the UoA’s strategy to ensure the
 vitality and sustainability both of our individual research and of our disciplines at large. We
 believe participating on the panels of funding bodies and reading for learned journals and
 publishers is essential to achieve this. In this REF cycle we have read for 26 journals and 10
 publishers, including CUP, EUP and OUP, and have reviewed funding applications to the
 Spanish Research Agency and the Dutch NWO as well as the AHRC.

 The wide experience of external collaboration and contribution summarised here means that the
 guidance we are able to give to ECRs and PhD students, even beyond our immediate research
 areas, is precise, detailed and focussed. The collegial discussions that CREL has fostered
 enables us to induct colleagues and PhD students into the ways of learned societies, journals,
 publishers and funders so that they learn international standards and come to appreciate the
 diversity of procedure and criteria across contexts and disciplines. Our many close
 collaborations and active participation in networks and partnerships with Language and
 Literature colleagues across the globe are not in this sense only expressions of but themselves
 sustain the vitality of the research environment of the Unit itself.


                                                                                              Page 14
