Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: 32

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1. Overview
Our submission builds upon the research achievements made by the School of Art, Architecture and
Design (AAD), formerly the Sir John Cass School of Art, Architecture and Design, since REF 2014.
The reputation of the School as the ‘Aldgate Bauhaus’ (first coined by Prof. Patrick Brill in a
newspaper article) has served us well, providing a creative impetus for reinventing pedagogical
principles in our curriculum and our institutional structure. This impetus draws on the legacy of the
many eminent academics, practitioners and teachers who have worked in the School (Florian Beigel,
Peter Carl, Robert Mull, Robert Harbison, Helen Mallinson, Tamiko O’Brien, Signy Svalastoga and
others). The continuance of, and commitment to, this culture has seen AAD cultivate a strong
tradition of research through practice and intellectual enquiry for which it is recognised nationally and
internationally. This continuity is reflected in for example those academics who have completed their
doctoral studies in the school since the last REF, each of them supervised by a combination of
current and former staff (Scarso, 2014; Tang, 2014; Clossick, 2017 and Frost, 2019). This coupled
with recent initiatives has contributed to developing a more unified, resilient and truer vision of the
longstanding mission of AAD: to enrich and preserve civic identity and social cohesion through
creative endeavour, expressed as a duty of care to society, cultures and the environment.


Our mission is built on ethical principles underpinning intellectual enquiry and creative practice. Our
submission both reflects these endeavours and demonstrates strong cross-disciplinary fertilisation
and new scholarship at the green-shoots of academic development. As such, the submission
captures an optimistic moment through the establishment of new initiatives, offering opportunities to
consolidate the position of the School and plan for the future at a time of significant social, political
and environmental challenges. This optimism testifies to the commitment, collegiality and passion of
the AAD academic community.


Renewed emphasis on research in the university, following the arrival of a new VC in 2018, has seen
us consolidate our efforts into a single unit (UoA 32), as befits our natural interdisciplinary ways of
working. This has also led to significant investment in the research base of AAD, including three new
academic appointments (Temple, Ling, De Carli), whose areas of research expertise range across
our portfolio of subject areas. We can now reflect on a successful period of redevelopment alongside
the benefits of the new VC to maintaining our AAD home in Calcutta House, Aldgate. Confirmation
that we will stay has allowed us to build upon already established local relationships in a creative
and ethnically diverse community.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The change in University leadership signalled many fresh initiatives, such as the appointment of a
PVC in 2019 to oversee research developments/transformation. Research support has included a
Research and Postgraduate Office (RPO), the creation of School Research Leads, Postgraduate
Coordinators, recognised workload allocations for these positions and a research leave scheme..
Overall, this environment has facilitated our rich and textured REF submission which embraces art,
design and architecture (practical, historical and theoretical).


AAD scholars and practitioners combine research excellence and strong civic engagement. Our
research community is, along with the School of Human Sciences, one of the largest in the
University. The School’s established relationships with external organisations and bodies (practices,
museums, galleries, etc.), and our wide-ranging public events, make us among the most connected
community of academics within London Met, contributing to enhancing the external face of the
University. London Met’s mission to promote and grow research activity, and to give something back
to the city of London and other partners, is one of our central aims. A strategic aspect of this objective
is to play a prominent role in the knowledge economies and creative industries in London,
demonstrated in a recent collaborative initiative in which AAD is leading 12 architecture schools in
the city to create a consortium of researchers and design critics for sharing knowledge and teaching
expertise.


2. Fostering Research
Central to the research and pedagogic ethos of AAD is the conscious joining up of teaching to
research, not only in the paradigm of ‘research-informed teaching’ but also through the application
of a ‘vertical model’ linking student learning, real world engagement, and the research contributions
of staff (both full-time/fractional and associate lecturers). This model is actively supported by leading
practitioners in their fields whose contributions to knowledge in their disciplines take the form of
exhibitions, production of artefacts, sector advocacy, policy engagement, and disciplinary discourse.
We see teaching studios as laboratories for the collaborative, pedagogically-driven, testing and
promulgation of new ideas, products and modes of practice that inform both studio teaching and
research. Although widely accepted in other forms, our studio delivery model is unique in its scope,
bringing together students at both undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) levels with our
practitioners, industry leaders and researchers under thematic programmes, supported by projects,
exhibitions, screenings and public lectures. This embedded connection between research and
teaching across programmes means that our collective expertise is at the heart of curriculum design
and delivery. The benefit of the vertical approach is best demonstrated through the activities of
ARCSR (Architecture of Rapid Changes and Scarce Resources) that fosters connections between
teaching and research from first year, through UG and PG studios, to PhD and staff research. Each
academic year, a range of studio themes is proposed by staff to students, providing an efficient


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
model for integrating research awareness at all levels throughout the School, and embedding the
significant contributions of our practitioner-teachers into our model of knowledge development and
shared intellectual reflection.


Since 2017, the AAD Research Seminar series (now AAD Sessions) has acted as both custodian
and catalyst for new research dialogues and developments. The series is the engine room of our
research ethos, at the point where it is taking shape and where we as a collective can influence it
most. These seminars have continuously sought to diversify its programme and generate new
dynamics of PGR learning, staff development, peer review, and the cultivation of inclusive
scholarship. In parallel, AAD staff have continued to explore and develop consultancy and advocacy
activities across subject areas and research territories. We interrogate the potential for art,
architecture and design to transform lives, regenerate communities, and we draw out meaning from
our shared material cultures in both national and international arenas.


3. Research Landscape
As we confront significant new challenges, and see emerging opportunities for collaboration and
interdisciplinarity, the ‘Bauhaus’ association provides a critical point of reference in our teaching and
research environment. Through our developing model of circular, radiating and interconnected
threads of creative and scholarly activities, the research culture of AAD reflects the increasingly fluid
nature of the disciplines of art, design and architecture today. This interconnectivity has informed
our research infrastructure that comprises a combination of service/support facilities, clustered
research groups/centres and platforms for sharing our research interests across disciplines.


At the heart of this landscape is interdisciplinarity – an innate property, quality or characteristic to
how art, design and architecture researchers typically operate. In the case of UoA 32, this is
demonstrated by a rich diversity of research topics, ranging from architecture and development
studies, architecture and film studies, fashion design and cultural studies, public art and architecture,
art education, architecture and urban design, art history, philosophy and language. Much of this is
carried out in practice or through partnerships, mixing art/design/architecture theories and methods
with those of other disciplines in the social sciences and humanities.


4. Research Themes, Centres and Groups
Research is organised into research centres and groups, sometimes in formal configurations but
also around themes that can be seen to represent shared interests still emerging within the ongoing
development of our research landscape. Our mapping process has seen several iterations and
collaborative initiatives to-date (in 2018 and 2019), that have been consolidated into a new territorial
diagram demonstrating our overarching commitment to public engagement, duty of care to society,
the environment and cultural/civic enrichment.


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The centres and groups provide the intellectual focus to support our thematic studio model, in some
cases channelling funding streams of partnerships, and contextualising the supervision of Masters
and PhD students. This arrangement fosters innovative practice with particular emphasis on live
projects facilitated by AAD Projects. Since the last REF in 2014, we have transformed the structure
and thematic focus, to reflect both the changing research environment (within the institution and
externally) and the significant environmental, social and economic challenges we face. These
changes, moreover, have also been partly driven by the appointment of new staff and the
departure/retirement of older staff members outlined earlier.


The research groups are located within two main research centres: Centre for Urban and Built
Ecologies (CUBE) and the Centre for CREative Arts, culTURes and Engagement (CREATURE).
Each contains three groups that operate as both distinct entities (in their respective areas of research
focus/specialism) and as an integral part of the larger research environment of the centres. In
addition, other staff in AAD are members of three university wide research bodies: Centre for Life-
Writing and Oral History (CLiOH), the Interdisciplinary Research Forum (IDRF) and the Higher
Education Research Group (HERG) that accommodates AAD’s emergent in-house research group,
Pedagogical and Participatory Research in Art, Architecture and Design (PPRAAD).


CUBE (Centre for Urban and Built Ecologies) brings together architects, urbanists, artists and
designers with collective interests in environmental, social and cultural ecologies of cities. CUBE
investigates relationships between spatial contexts, social dynamics and sustainable urban/built
environments, adopting methods of analysis that build upon the critical approaches to the history,
theory and practice of architecture. These develop modes of understanding that are responsive to
the complexity, slipperiness and interdisciplinary nature of urbanity today. Research draws upon a
wide range of themes, topics and issues that emerge through productive exchanges between
architecture and urban design, critical ecological studies in the visual arts, and architectural
hermeneutics. CUBE provides a creative and intellectual platform for cultivating dialogues between
historical, philosophical and critical perspectives on the city.


The research groups in CUBE comprise:


   •   ARCSR (Architecture of Rapid Change and Scarce Resources) is an established
       research group that predicates its outlook on collaboration between NGOs, charities, interest
       groups and academic partnerships. It examines and extends knowledge of how the built
       environment is transformed with an emphasis on pressing areas of policy demand in which
       formal architectural and design processes tend to have little impact, such as slum renewal,
       humanitarian practice, migration dynamics and social development. The focus is on


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       situations where resources are scarce and where both culture and technology are in a state
       of rapid change. ARCSR, which has links with the Centre for Alternative Technology (CAT)
       in Wales, The Water Trust, and international NGOs, has engaged in projects in India, Sierra
       Leone, Kosovo, Nepal, Greece and Italy.
   •   Cities research group strives to address critical urban challenges through a creative and
       collaborative approach. The group utilises a range of inventive visual and design-based
       methodologies at the intersection between the arts, humanities, and social sciences, to tackle
       the most pressing social, economic and environmental issues that cities are facing today,
       relating to urban transformation, community cohesion, grass-roots activism and the
       interpretation of urbanity. Cities actively fosters a co-productive approach to urban research,
       working in partnership with a diverse range of non-academic, community-based and civic
       institutions, in London, Europe and internationally. Alongside academic partners including
       Glasgow University, Ulster University, and The Bartlett School of Planning (UCL), the
       research group has also collaborated with a range of organisations in London, such as the
       GLA, Just Space, and We Made That as well as community groups and local authorities (e.g.,
       LB Southwark, Southwark Planning Network). Other partnerships include local authorities,
       civil society organisations, and research centres and networks in Europe (Belgium, Germany,
       Italy), Latin America (Brazil, Ecuador) and Africa (Sierra Leone, South Africa).
   •   EACHiD (Ecological, Architectural and Civic Humanities in Design) is a new group that
       provides a focus for interdisciplinary research in the fields of architectural, artistic and urban
       design practice and the humanities. The overarching philosophy of EACHiD is guided by the
       need to critically appraise the humanistic and cultural foundations of the creative arts, testing
       the degree to which historical perspectives inform the emergent ecological agendas in design
       and artistic practice today. Building upon the legacies of ARU: Architectural Research Unit
       (led by the late Florian Beigel and Philip Christou) and the scholarship of Peter Carl and
       Robert Harbison, the group draws upon productive exchanges between architectural and
       artistic practice found in the work of Peter St John (Caruso St John Architects) and other
       colleagues and partners to foster knowledge exchange alongside intellectual enquiry. Taking
       traditional principles of civic space as the basis for both collective participation and
       representation, EACHiD develops a hermeneutic approach to examining the city in the light
       of endemic environmental, social, cultural and political challenges, and speculating about its
       future. The group fosters methodological innovation in regard to the hosting and
       dissemination of debate, actively promoting collaborative and disruptive dynamics of
       knowledge production and sharing.


CREATURE (Research Centre for CREative Arts, culTURes and Engagement) brings together
interdisciplinary research in the creative arts, its practice, cultural impact and societal engagement.
CREATURE hosts a range of disciplines, including art and design practices (creative writing, digital


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
arts, fashion and textile, interior design, music, performance arts, photography, visual arts), histories,
and visual material culture. Because it draws on AAD’s tradition of cross-disciplinary studio practice
and collaboration, CREATURE members are uniquely placed to study the changing nature of the
creative arts with new aesthetics, creative processes of making and theorising, and understanding
of cultural production in an evolving society. Through research, practice, commission and
consultancy, CREATURE members have taken the dual role as academic researchers and
art/cultural practitioners with many involved in activism, curation, journalism, and the creative and
cultural industries on a national and international level.


CREATURE currently hosts three thematic groups:


   •   Public-Face offers a context to develop and disseminate research through public and
       performative activities, with a focus on practices in art, architecture and design. As ideas of
       public engagement evolve, shifting between local and global, physical and remote, new
       creative strategies continue to be needed: the public is both a measurable idea and an
       abstract notion, resisting static definitions. Key themes to explore in the group are Public Eye
       (spectatorship and participation); Public Knowledge (epistemological aspects of public
       enquiry); Make Public (how public engagement informs the creative process); and the Public
       Property (the definition and meaning of public realm as shared space). Public-Face
       incorporates research in visual art, performance, architecture, digital media, music,
       installation, design, music and creative writing.
   •   Making Matters deals with the practices, processes and theories of the creative arts. The
       group fosters interdisciplinary exchanges with the purpose of reframing our understanding of
       the act of “making” and how this may be viewed both as a methodological vehicle and as the
       outcome of a rigorous research process. It promotes and supports the creation of new work,
       seen as embodied research and creative innovation. Making, in this sense, is approached as
       a broad concept, embracing both material and conceptual practices across all creative
       disciplines. From exploring how an artwork (object-based, design-based, digital, ephemeral,
       etc.) may constitute research, to developing innovative systems of making creative work,
       Making Matters aims to promote research projects and practice-based investigation in this
       area of inquiry, hosting regular events, exhibitions and seminars.
   •   Transcultural Exchanges and Network considers cultural interaction, transformation and
       entanglements in visual and material culture shaped by transcultural and intercultural
       transactions. It brings together art and design histories, humanities, practices, and industry
       for knowledge exchange. Group members critically approach the study of migration, post-
       coloniality, decoloniality, transnationalism, inter/transcultural identity from Asia to the Global
       South to the fringe of Europe. Their working partners included the Armenian Centre of Social
       Studies, National Museum of Worlds Cultures and the Visual Identities in Art and Design

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Research Centre (University of Johannesburg) among others. Working collaboratively with
       art and design historians, curators and practitioners, Transcultural Exchanges and
       Network has sought seeks to develop partnerships with public and private bodies, and
       engage with the community through public events and impact activities.


The structure and thematic focus of CUBE and CREATURE reflect a shared interest in the
interdisciplinary relationships of art and design research and their ecological dimensions; CUBE, in
its focus on the material, formal and visual arrangements of urban settings, provides a ‘geometric’
and tectonic counterpoint to CREATURE’s ‘organic’ and performance-related interests in the inter-
related threads between making and public engagement in art and design practice.


Higher Education Research Group (HERG): Staff in the AAD research group Pedagogical and
Participatory Research in Art, Architecture and Design (PPRAAD) form part of HERG. The group’s
activities are underpinned by pedagogic research and enquiry through action research, teaching
practice, collaboration, and participation. This cross-disciplinary approach has built a network of
involved in specific themes and projects with the aim of experimentation, sharing effective practice
and incubating new projects, position papers and innovative approaches to teaching.


Centre for Life Writing and Oral History (CLiOH) explores how oral history, practised by
academics and community groups, values subjective experience and the lives of subordinate and
marginalised groups in society. In this way, it seeks to create a ‘history from below’, which includes
more – and more diverse – perspectives on the past and empowers participants. The new centre,
which straddles Schools, aligns with the University’s strategic plan in terms of developing London
Met’s engagement with the local and wider communities, and it works with the East End Archives
and research groups Cities and ARCSR.


5. Research Related Events
Across the year, a wide range of open talks and events takes place at AAD, usually organised by
subject area, but intentionally open to all students and staff in order to promote cross-disciplinary
exchanges and conversations on research topics. The talks, seminars, conferences, exhibitions and
events are grouped under several sub-headings:


   •   AAD Sessions: These serve as a hub of our research ethos at the point where it is taking
       shape and where we as a collective can influence it most. Building upon the PhD Architecture
       Seminars instituted by Prof. Peter Carl (formerly Architecture Research Leader until his
       retirement in 2016) the research seminar programme was reconfigured in 2017 by Jane
       Clossick who, with Matthew Barac, established a pattern of up to 20 events a year. These
       function as a ‘greenhouse’ for growing research capacity and culture in the School. In 2020,


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       a new organising framework heralded the name change to AAD Sessions. We interrogate
       intellectually and creatively the potential for art, architecture and design to transform lives,
       regenerate communities, and we draw out meaning from our shared material cultures in both
       national and international arenas. Seminars typically consist of two short presentations on a
       related theme followed by chaired discussion. Presenting researchers (FTE staff or associate
       lecturers, PGR students, or visitors) often come from different subject areas. All seminars are
       open events and are widely promoted to the public.
   •   Materials Lectures: a programme in which practitioners and specialists address the
       overarching theme of materials, aimed at students and researchers following several
       courses: Interiors, Architecture, and 3D Design. Hosted by Design, this series typically
       addresses current themes in studio projects.
   •   AAD Fine Art Lectures and Events: a series of lectures, exhibitions and events as part of
       The AAD Fine Art cluster, including Fashion Photography, Painting, Practice, Photography
       and Fine Art degree courses.
   •   Visual Communication Hothouse Talks: these feature leading industry creatives in the
       fields of visual communication, illustration, animation, graphic design and publishing.
   •   The Theatre Arts Industry Events: these are weekly events taking place in our Holloway
       Campus, in which industry guests (performance companies, film and theatre directors,
       performers, live artists, writers for stage and screen) share their work in the form of talks,
       performances, masterclasses and open rehearsals.
   •   FormGivers Lecture Series: curated by SL James Payne, this lecture series is for a
       distributed community of young practices throughout Europe, celebrating confident and
       inventive FormGivers – an emerging generation of architects. Guest speakers and lecturers
       discuss architectural language and form in their practice, research or teaching.
   •   Who Cares?: this is a student-led series of lectures, debates and events at AAD in dialogue
       with MASS (The Metropolitan Architecture Student Society), conceptualised within the
       themes underpinning ARCSR. This four-year old programme concerns the interface between
       architecture and humanitarianism through different modes of practice, at home and abroad.
       The work of MASS also informs the research environment of PGRs, through cross-
       fertilisation of research topics and collaborations.


Inevitably, the global Covid-19 pandemic has interrupted many of these programmes. However, staff
both within AAD and across the University have managed to transfer many of the events on-line to
ensure that staff and PGR students continue to benefit from the rich and diverse research community
of the School. In addition, we convene and curate book launches, inaugural lectures, exhibitions and
symposia, often scheduled to align with University-wide, regional or national initiatives celebrating
equality and diversity or other public awareness concerns: Black History Month, LGBTQIA+ History



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Month, and the climate change agenda framed by Extinction Rebellion (with which we engage as
signatories to Architecture Education Declares).


 2. People


6. Staff Composition
In recent years, a concerted effort has been made to re-invigorate our research culture, including
promotions within AAD to Reader, Associate Teaching Professor and Professor grades, in addition
to   a   number     of   research-focused     appointments      referred   to   earlier.   Among     the
promotions/appointments in UoA32, are Dr Matthew Barac (Reader 2018), Peter St. John (Professor
of Architecture, 2018), Dr Jacek Ludwig Scarso (Reader 2019), Christian Frost (Professor and Head
of Architecture, 2019), George Fereday (Assoc. Teaching Professor of Architecture) and Rosemarie
McGoldrick (Assoc. Teaching Professor of Art).


Each new professor is invited to give an inaugural lecture open to staff, students and the public,
followed by a celebratory reception; last academic year both Frost and St. John delivered inaugural
lectures and in the near future four professors are scheduled to give inaugural presentations. These
are traditionally key events in the School calendar, not only to celebrate staff contributions, but also
to highlight the value and richness of our research. As across the rest of the institution, research-
active staff members in UoA32 have been assigned SRR status according to the University’s REF
2021 Code of Practice, being allocated research time and access to university funding support
(through the Transformation and Rescaling funding sources). Meanwhile, staff members aiming to
develop their research activity take part in our programme of mentoring and seminars, with the
prospect of meeting the SRR status requirements during the next REF cycle.


Our 2021 submission comprises 23.11FTE research active staff, with three others from the School
submitted in Area Studies and Education. We have therefore maintained similar volumes of activity
to REF2014, when we submitted in three units. In addition, the School has many fractional
appointments of active practitioners who also exhibit, perform, and design, including seven
professors, three readers, three associate professors, and two Early Career Researchers (ECRs).
This accounts for a total headcount of 32 members of staff.


While our approach to this submission represents the spirit of unification and interdisciplinarity across
the School, we see REF2021 as an important stepping-stone in our research development going
forward, with plans to divide our submissions for the next REF into at least two UoAs. This will allow
our substantial architectural and urban strands to be reviewed within their home UoA (Architecture,
Built Environment and Planning), and at the same time to further develop the significant research
activities of art and design. Senior Lecturers make up the body of the remaining staff members,


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
spread across the subject areas managed by three Heads of Subject in Art, Architecture & Design.
As a practice-based School we champion professional and institutional recognition in tandem with
academic achievements, including chartered members/fellows and academicians of the Royal
Historical Society, the Royal Institute of British Architects, the Royal Society of Arts, Royal Academy
of Arts, Academy of Urbanism and the Higher Education Academy.


Coordination of PGR takes place at University level through the Research & Postgraduate Office
(RPO) and the Graduate School, whilst PhD submissions and viva examinations are organised at
School level given that these are more suited to exhibition or performance-based assessment. The
recent reorganisation of our administrative infrastructure at Aldgate (School Office) is in close and
ongoing liaison with local research leadership including a School Research Leader and PGR Leader.
School committee structures ensure a close and meaningful understanding of practice-based and
design-led approaches to knowledge production through our RSPG (Research Student Progress
Group), RERP (Research Ethics Review Panel), and RKEC (Research Knowledge Exchange
Committee), all overseen by University committees. Most School committees are supported by the
School Office; the exception is the RSPG which benefits from secretarial support from Student
Records and has RPO support.


7. Supporting Research and Practice
We pride ourselves in celebrating a culture of creative productivity and interface with the world of
making, producing and exhibiting. In addition to the AAD Sessions a number of other initiatives
relate to this ethos:
    •   CPED: alongside local activities, academics are encouraged to take part in professional
        development activities organised centrally by the Centre for Professional and Educational
        Development. These build upon the principles of the Researcher Development Concordat
        in order to promote a productive, positive environment in which staff can envision and realise
        their scholarship and potential. The CPED calendar includes multiple events including
        Conferences, Academic Practice Events (seminars tailored on specific funding pro-grammes,
        practical sessions on academic development, sessions on mentoring and supervising
        academic work, REF related seminars) alongside VLE/Weblearn and Professional
        Development training. CPED sessions are freely accessible to all staff with new sessions
        organised in response to popular demand; feedback opportunities gauge and improve staff
        engagement, and AAD staff contribute by delivering or co-producing sessions.
    •   AAD Research Workshops: dedicated workshops led by our staff (often with visiting guests)
        have been organised across the academic year, with the aim of supporting col-leagues in
        identifying and framing practice as research, as well as attaining scholarly development. A
        suite of six workshops has been developed for delivery on a rolling basis: Practice Research,
        Mapping Research, Book Proposals, Writing Research, Developing Portfolio Outputs, Book


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Proposals and Funding Research. In formal and informal feedback, staff have communicated
        tangible benefits from such workshops, both in developing their own research methods and
        in realising the wealth of approaches we foster and encourage.
    •   Research Mentoring: Throughout the REF cycle, staff have voluntarily offered their research
        expertise in mentoring colleagues, in the spirit of collegiality, as well as research ‘coffee
        mornings’ (until interrupted by the pandemic). In alignment with RPO guidance, we have
        established a local research mentoring framework for consistent support across the School,
        structured not only according to the prospect of fruitful, interest-led scholarly relationships
        between staff but also the objective of a continually updated Research Plan for each
        research-active staff member. Led by Prof. Wessie Ling, the focus of this has been to support
        ECRs within the school beyond the REF, with mentors appointed across AAD supported by
        a training course.
    •   Writing Group: initiated in 2019, the writing group aims to meet two mornings per week.
        Staff members come together to write in a supportive environment with minimum distraction.
        ‘Time boxing' is used so colleagues can write uninterrupted for four 25-minute sessions, in
        between which staff colleagues and PGR students discuss their progress.


8. Doctoral Studies
Doctoral provision at AAD is distinguished by its interdisciplinarity, eclecticism and creative
connections with the professional sector, often by building on links with our PhD alumni (including
RIBA Presidents Awards for Research nominees Dr Bo Tang and Dr Paulo Moreira) who are an
intrinsic part of our growing community. A key initiative in this respect has been to provide a stronger
sense of community and visibility across PGR students (MPhil, PhD and Professional Doctorates),
both within AAD and in the University as a whole. Alongside our dedicated Doctoral Studies online
and research training resources, all PGR students are invited to take part in the AAD Sessions,
Research Workshops and Writing Group, in order to promote further links with academic staff.
Since 2014, AAD has seen 25 PhDs to successful completion across our collective disciplines and
there are 22 enrolled PGRs. Research topics reflect subject-specific concerns – typically closely
linked to research group or supervisor interests – as well as explicitly cross-disciplinary or practice-
based approaches adopted by students attracted to our programme by its openness to
methodological flexibility.


As across the whole University, the AAD PGR environment subscribes to the objectives and values
of the VITAE Researcher Development Framework. Together with referencing the broader ethos of
the RDF in identifying effective strategies in planning, evaluating and managing research
development, particular aspects of this are of explicit relevance to the nature of the research
promoted in AAD. Specifically, the role of Creativity (A3) is foregrounded as a parameter to articulate
how disciplines like Art, Architecture and Design can be efficient vehicles to research practice that


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
may take numerous forms but is nevertheless approached with rigour and methodological clarity.
Additionally, the notion of Engagement and Impact (D3) is key to AAD’s ethos to develop projects
that are both public-facing and in most cases created from the start in collaboration with the public,
as well as directly informing the teaching delivery itself (D3 – 1&2).


9. Commitment to Equality and Diversity
Diversity and Inclusivity in AAD are seen as essential aspects to our work, celebrating London Met’s
reputation as one of the most diverse institutions in the country. Ensuring diversity and inclusivity is
in line with the University’s strategy and KPIs, according to specific targets for EDI including Athena
SWAN, BAME attainment gap, Race Equality Charter, Stonewall. The latest plan up-date and
progress report can be accessed here:
https://www.londonmet.ac.uk/about/equity/centre-for-equity-and-inclusion/; further details can be
found   here   (https://www.londonmet.ac.uk/about/equality-and-diversity/).     The    Unit,   like   the
University, is committed to enhancing its offer to BAME colleagues and students, and new PhD
scholarships will be developed going forward which will improve the pipeline of opportunity. We have
reshaped our senior staff with new appointments responding to equality agendas, and aim to
promote further growth in a still more diverse team.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


10. Outline
An important dimension of our research infrastructure is its character as a social as well as a physical
asset; our cultural ethos is predicated on relationships, collaborations, and the supportive exchange
of ideas. The research infrastructure responds to a range of different activities and needs. Our
exhibition spaces and knowledge-sharing mechanisms, informal routines/events such as our coffee
mornings, research mentoring programme, writing groups and social gatherings, provide the glue to
mutuality, peer-review and cross-disciplinary fertilisation essential to the values of intellectual and
creative well-being.


11. Internal Support for Research
AAD has its own budget for incidental research expenses, such as fieldwork and conference
attendance. The University runs three separate funding schemes (Rescaling, Transformation and
Strategic Priority) which are dedicated to support larger, collaborative, interdisciplinary and partner-
focused work. The funds range from £2000 to £50,000 per project. Our UoA has been extremely
successful in winning these annual funding bids. For this academic year we have received funding
for research projects in both CUBE and CREATURE (ARCSR, EACHiD, Cities, Public-Face,
Making Matters and Transcultural Exchanges and Network). These internal funds help leverage
external bidding applications which (for this year) have either been submitted or are currently


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
underway. Guidance for staff on research bids, both internal and external, is included in the AAD
Research Handbook.


12. External Funding
External funding for UoA32 over the REF period amounted to £301K, of which £192K was obtained
through UK-based charities, £18K from UK industry, commerce and public corporations, £14K from
EU government bodies and charities and £77K from non-EU organisations. We are confident that
the recent reshaping of our Research and Postgraduate Office will lead to new and more efficient
strategies in developing successful funding bids, improving our external research funding income in
the next REF cycle. Examples of funding bodies/organisations, where grants have been awarded
recently, include the European Commission, the British Council and the British Academy. To
showcase one example: ‘Designing inclusion LIVE’ (2019-2022) is a €439,000 EC Erasmus+ project
run by De Carli in collaboration with the Politecnico di Milano, with partners KU Leuven, Universität
der Künste Berlin, Architecture Sans Frontières—UK, S27 and Refugees Welcome Italia. Substantial
funding bids are also in progress in partnership with Manchester Metropolitan University (AHRC),
Glasgow University/TU Delft (Medical Research Council – Future Leaders Fellowship), University of
East Anglia (Leverhulme Trust) and other institutions.


13. Research Infrastructure and Facilities
The creative and intellectual activities of AAD are facilitated by an integrated research infrastructure
in the School that can be summarised under four key provisions: AAD Projects, AAD Archives,
AAD Works and AAD Culture. Projects that involve the collaboration of external partnering
organisations are generally coordinated by the Projects Office.


AAD Projects facilitates and enables much of our practice-based research – especially our work at
the intersection of pedagogy and practice. These often entail testing the processes of making and
participating in community environments in projects such as those undertaken in India and Sierra
Leone by the ARCSR research group. AAD Projects is the legacy of Florien Beigel’s in-house
practice (ARU) which continues to have a significant presence in the School for live projects.


AAD Archives comprise a number of collections of archival material within the School used for both
research and teaching: the ARU Archive, the East End Archive (a documentary, photographic and
digital archive of the social and cultural life of the East End of London and its Jewish Diaspora) and
the Parker Collection of chairs (a key to the Parker Knoll archive). London Met recently appointed
an archivist who is charged with redeveloping archives, winning archive accreditation, and linking
the holdings with our core research prioritises in Aldgate, where the majority of the archives are held.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
AAD Works incorporates our substantial technology/IT and workshop facilities, functioning as an
engine room of creativity and experimentation across the School. Run by Marcus Bowerman, an
experienced team of technical staff to support research activity and practice-based projects, AAD
Works has played a major role in facilitating community collaborations as well as public installation
commissions (such as the Toynbee Hall ‘Furniture for the 21st Century Reformer’ project, and the
‘Conversation Pieces’ project of 2012 which was commissioned by the GLA as part of the Olympic
Games celebrations resulting in a 2017 publication launched at Central House).


AAD Culture, led by Joseph Kohlmaier, acts as an event and debating platform for our intellectual
and public facing activities, also serves as the anchor for the cultural context curriculum of the AAD
School, showcasing-project work through its on-line platform ‘Liveness’ and enabling interaction of
our research agenda with our teaching and outside organisations through presentations and
debates.


These levers of practice and research in the AAD give rise to different contours of research activity;
an evolving landscape anchored to core concerns that are committed to our overall mission of social
development and a duty of care to the domains of culture, public life, the professions, and the wider
world.


The Library on our Aldgate Campus is dedicated to our subjects, supports our postgraduate
community, and provides space and resources for practice disciplines. This year, we invested
additionally in online resources expressly for architecture and art and cultural theory. Together with
its extensive print and online catalogue, as well as its range of study spaces and IT facilities, what
makes this Library unique is the presence of our Special Collections. Hosted in a building designed
by architects Wright & Wright, our Special Collections are located in what is known as the Wash
Houses – in recognition of one of London earliest public baths which opened on the same site in
1846. An innovative space in its own right, it includes a designated Reading Room, offering a more
intimate study space for academics and students. Special Collections include the Archive of the
Irish in Britain, the Atkins/Atcraft Archive, an extensive collection of Artists’ Books, the Community
Media Collection, the Frederick Parker Collection, the Jean Stogdon Archive and the Trades Union
Congress Library Collections. The eclectic nature of our Library archives, which also contain a wide
range of objects and artefacts, reflects the versatile and interdisciplinary interests that distinguish
AAD.


Alongside dedicated spaces for public lectures and events, the Atrium Gallery offers a vibrant
exhibition space, as well as representing a popular communal area for staff and students. The AAD
Summer Show takes place in the Annexe Building, as well as site-responsively throughout the
building. Within Calcutta House, numerous dedicated facilities are located, managed under AAD


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Works and accessible to students and staff, upon technical induction. Many of these facilities have
internal windows, making the busy activities inside visible to all visitors: an aspect that contributes to
the exciting vibe in the building.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


14. Outline
Our engagement with the knowledge economy is predicated on a shared ethos across the Art,
Architecture and Design community. This has a fundamental bearing on how we can most effectively
contribute to the research-base of the disciplines of art, design and architecture, reflected in an
emphasis on ‘open research’. This is both in terms of creating accessible resources (highlighted in
both the ARCSR and Cities websites) as well as in our endeavour to facilitate public engagement
with the core of research practice across the art, architecture and design disciplines.


This binding thread, linking social care, creative practice, and open research, is diversified in
disciplinary strands and practices allied to the intellectual leadership of key staff members; the long-
established emphasis of Prof. Mitchell on humanitarian and development concerns in architecture in
the context of resource scarcity (ARCSR); Prof. Brill’s multi-project campaigning approach in his
artist pseudonymous persona Bob & Roberta Smith, arguing that our obligations to the future include
ensuring a pivotal role for art in education; the work of Reader in Metal, ten Hompel in the
Glenmorangie Commissions for National Museums Scotland aims to remake our relationship with
history in material endeavours that reinterpret design and silversmith practice as a vehicle for
preserving and looking after our heritage; and Prof. St John who, in the tradition established by
award-winning sector pioneers ARU (est. 1979) Beigel & Christou, has developed a trajectory of
design research that is intrinsically bound to the idea of visual and tectonic composition as a principle
of cultural custodianship (Caruso St. John Architects).


15. Collaborative Practice
Principles of collaboration, co-production, capacity building and participation are at the heart of many
of our research activities from a methodological point of view, sometimes providing the subject matter
or thematising our approach. Headline examples of collaborative research practice include:
    •   Tate Exchange Associateship: The AAD associateship with Tate Exchange (Tate Modern
        and Liverpool) was mobilised in 2018 through Theatre Arts (Scarso) and Design for Cultural
        Commons (Khonsari). Led by Dr Jacek Scarso, our performance contribution to date
        comprised two large scale projects (2018, 2019) with another lined up for 2020. Both were
        ongoing public installations, merging live performance and VR technology in collaboration
        with A-VR, AVR London and Anise Gallery. The former, In Limbo, later selected for the
        Aesthetica Prize Future Now Anthology, explored the idea of waiting as social phenomenon


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and philosophical theme. The latter, The Pecking Order, looked at spatial proxemics and
       surveillance. Attracting over 3000 visitors in six days each, the projects included a
       programme of curated talks with AAD staff and guest speakers.
   •   Make Art Not War: A Lottery-funded project authored by Brill (Bob & Roberta Smith), this
       project operated as a live campaign designed to shift the focus of the 14-18-Now umbrella –
       a series of WW1 centenary art commissions – from reflecting on the past in terms of war, to
       looking to the future by investigating the prospect of peace. Brill addressed this shift in the
       form of a question put to 16–18-year-olds across the UK: ‘What does peace mean to you?’
       The eight-month project (2018-19), devised alongside Prof. Bill Lucas and Pauline Tambling
       CBE, was produced at large scale by a team. Its core programme offered new creative
       materials including short films (by Brill and his group of internationally-acclaimed artists),
       vibrant curriculum resources, and a mentoring programme rolled out across 103 Sixth Form
       and 213 FE colleges designed for inclusion in A Level, Diplomas and vocational qualifications
       to enable over 45,000 students to engage, producing their own artworks and responding to
       the project with feedback published by 14-18-Now with partners Arts Council England and
       the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport.
   •   Lorenzo Ghiberti’s I Commentarii: A collaborative project between Temple, the Courtauld
       Institute and Rome University (Tor Vergata). This entails a detailed etymological, scientific
       and art-historical analysis of an unpublished 15th century manuscript by the Renaissance
       artist Lorenzo Ghiberti, the first treatise on the visual arts since antiquity. The project, which
       stems from a previously British Academy funded project, will be the first English translation
       of all three commentaries. A joint book proposal has been submitted to the Getty Foundation.
   •   Global Fashion and China in the Museum: Research Center for Material Culture at
       Nationaal Museum van Wereldculturen (NMVW; comprising four museums across the
       Netherlands – Tropenmuseum; Museum Volkenkunde, Wereldmuseum and Afrika Museum)
       awarded Ling (2018/9) Rita Bolland Fellowship to incorporate global fashion in the
       ethnographic setting of NMVW. Through archival research, acquisitions, lecture and
       workshop with curatorial staff and public events, new acquisitions were made following Ling’s
       work which have subsequently become part of a semi-permanent exhibition, Crossroads
       Rotterdam (from Aug 2020) at Wereldmuseum Rotterdam, and a permanent exhibition,
       Tropenmuseum. What’s the Story? (from Jul 2020) at Tropenmuseum Amsterdam.
   •   The Crossings Project in Calabria, Italy: under the ARCSR umbrella, the teaching agenda
       for architectural design studios at UG and PG level functions as a vehicle for collaboration
       with local social development NGO La Seppie (est. 2017) – a non-profit organisation driving
       a programme of events, building social capital for migrant groups and academic as well as
       civic partners. Crossings is a research-productive teaching project built upon coproduction
       and interdisciplinary principles. Embedded within it are three key structures for academic
       collaboration: (1) working with Arts University Bournemouth to develop experimental

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       methods in design visualisation; (2) a study of mental health in migrant groups linked to the
       design-based activities of NGO La Seppie; and (3) developing a research-led partnership
       with Reggio Calabria University which includes a PhD student on a European Doctorate
       pathway as well as a Visiting Professorship.


16. Knowledge Community
We contribute to the popular and intellectual life of our areas of study through public scholarship and
debate, as well as the traditional academic channels of editorial and review work. Many staff
members present at conferences as invited speakers, deliver keynote addresses, engage in
conference organising as scientific committee/advisory board members or convenors, and take up
residencies/fellowships and undertake commissions. Examples include:
   •   Editorial:   Editorial board, journal Architecture & Culture (since 2013), Editorial board,
       Architectural Review (2012-15) Barac; Journal Editor for Lingue Culture Mediazioni /
       Languages Cultures Mediation (2017) Khonsari; Journal Co-editor of 'Planning
       Perspectives- an international journal of history, planning and the environment', Gold; How
       to Age, Pan Macmillan 2014; Picador USA, 2015; and in translation Brazil, 2014; Romania,
       2015; The Netherlands, China, Bulgaria, Korea, 2016; Hungary 2018, Karpf; Co-Editor,
       Journal of Architecture (from 2018); Chief Editor, Routledge Research in Architectural History
       Series (from 2016), Temple.
   •   Keynote and Public Lectures: TED Talk “Harnessing the power of civic commons” ,
       Khonsari; “The Feast of San Giovanni: Architecture, Festival, and Ritual in Contemporary
       Florence” RIBA, London (2016) Frost; Keynote address at Chances conference, University
       of (Bologna 2019) Oropallo; Public Wisdom Conference, Conway Hall, (London 2015),
       Keynote speaker at UN-Habitat conference, Owner-Driven Housing Reconstruction, Sri
       Lanka (2014) Barac; International symposium, University of Liverpool & Aga Khan
       Documentation Center, (MIT 2016); International Symposium: ‘The Legacy of Fundamental
       Structures in Plato’s Timaeus’, Durham University Centre for Ancient & Medieval Philosophy
       (2018); Invited speaker (with Dr Yun Gao), Peter Blundell-Jones Memorial Lecture Series,
       (Sheffield University 2019); International Conference: 'As Profundezas da Cidade/The
       Depths of the City', Gulbenkian Foundation, Lisbon, March 2020 (currently postponed)
       Temple; ‘Global Fashion, Dress-up Protest and the World Contest of Apology’, Fashion Tales
       International Conference, Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, (Milan 2021); "Reading
       Chinese Fashion: Fashion-Making in the Transglobal Landscape", Fu Jen Catholic
       University, (Taipei 2018); ‘Exist, Resist, Indigenise and Decolonise: Unveiling the
       Fashion/Design/Craft Exhibitions from Europe to Asia’ at Thailand Creative and Design
       Centre (Madhidol University, Bangkok, 2018) Ling; Invited presentation: ‘L’abitare informale
       a Milano e San Paolo, Brasile’ (Informal dwelling practices in Milan and São Paulo, Brazil) at
       Café San Siro #6. Politecnico di Milano. Milan, December 2016; Invited presentation:


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       ‘Designing infrastructures for learning: Reflections on Architecture Sans Frontières—UK.’
       University of Johannesburg, Design Society Development (DSD) DESIS Lab. Johannesburg,
       04/2018 De Carli.
   •   Membership of external council, committee, board, network: Board of Advisors, Art
       Institutions of the 21st Century Foundation, London (2018-present), Jury Panel, Nam June
       Paik Award, Seoul, South Korea, (2016) De Oliveira; Founder and Director, Jhalak Prize for
       Book of the Year by a Writer of Colour 2016 and Jhalak Art Residency, (2018), Founder and
       Project Leader, The Richard Schlagman Art Book Awards, (2019) Singh; Steering Group,
       AHRA: Architectural Humanities Research Association (from 2019), RIBA President's
       Awards for Research - Award Jury member (2014-16), Chairman of the Board of Trustees,
       Architecture Sans Frontières - UK (until mid-2014) Barac; Tate Exchange Research Steering
       Group (since 2019) Scarso; Jury member, 26th Chaumont Design Prize, Chaumont, France
       (2015), Executive Committee, Swiss Design History Network (NDG, 2019-ongoing)
       Oropallo; AHRA (Architectural Humanities Research Association) Steering Group (2016-
       2019), New Courses and Course Change Committee at the RIBA. (2013-present),
       Membership Eligibility Assessment Panel, RIBA (2013-present ), National and International
       RIBA Visiting Panel Chair (2009 – present) Frost; Board Member, Development Workshop,
       (2005-ongoing), Director of the Water Trust, Registered Charity, (2008-ongoing), Board
       member, Centre for Urban and Regional Excellence (CURE), Delhi, India, (2012-ongoing),
       Chair, Southwark District Woodcraft Folk (2014-ongoing) Mitchell; Member of the Bogliasco
       Foundation Fellowship Advisory Committee, NY (from 2019); AHRA (Architectural
       Humanities Research Association) Steering Group (2017-2020); Member of the AHRC Peer
       Review College (from 2017), Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (from 2015) Temple; UGC
       Hong Kong Research Grants Council, grant application assessor, 2020; European Research
       Council, grant application assessor, 2019; Advisory Board Member, AHRC project,
       ‘(Multi)Cultural Heritage: New Perspectives on Public Culture, Identity and Citizenship’, 2017-
       9; Vice Chair of Board of Trustees (2011-6), Co-opted-member of Artistic Committee (2016 -
       present), Centre for Contemporary Chinese Art (CFCCA), Manchester Ling; Member,
       Development Studies Association—Urbanisation and Development group (2016-present);
       Member of the Board of Directors at Architecture Sans Frontières—International (2008-2010
       and 2013-2017). Co-responsible for general management of the network. Responsible for
       coordinating lifelong education and capacity development activities across 30 member
       organisations with a focus on the Challenging Practice programme De Carli.
   •   Events: Curator, You’ve Eaten Roses, now you’ll drink the Moon: The Leal Rios Collection,
       Forum Braga, Portugal, 2018 (De Oliveira); The Animal Gaze Constructed, conference and
       exhibition, London Metropolitan University, 2020 - previous editions in 2008 and 2011
       (McGoldrick); In Limbo (2018) and The Pecking Order (2019) at Tate Modern with Tate
       Exchange ; Baroque Intrusions, exhibition and symposium at Museo Del Barocco, Palazzo


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Chigi di Ariccia, Rome (2018, Scarso); International Conference: ‘Regional Urbanism in the
       Era of Globalization’ University of Huddersfield, 2016 (88 papers, 3 days); Co-organiser,
       International Symposium: ‘Optics in the Age of the Renaissance ‘Discovery’ of Perspective’,
       Società Internazionale per lo Studio del Medioevo Latino (SISMEL), Florence (2018),
       (Temple); Conference co-convener, Cultural Sustainability and Fashion Exchanges in China,
       Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 2019 (1 day; 6 papers; 1 roundtable); Conference co-
       convener for co-investigated AHRC project, "1920-45 Inter-Asia Design Assimilation:
       Translations, Differentiation and Transmission" Design Museum, London, 2014 (1 day, 7
       papers) (Ling); Organiser (with C. Macedo): Theory Forum 2018: Journeys/Arrivals.
       University of Sheffield, School of Architecture. Sheffield, 11/2018; Member of the organising
       committee: Architecture and resilience on the human scale. Conference hosted by the
       University of Sheffield, School of Architecture. Sheffield, 09/2015 (De Carli); Venice Biennale
       2018 architectural and curatorial commission (‘Island’) for the British Pavilion (St John).
   •   Consultancies: Consultant on Specialist Assistant Team for GLA, Advising Mayor of London
       on Community engagement in regeneration (Khonsari); Director, Art Institutions of the 21st
       Century Foundation, London 2017-18 (De Oliveira); Consultant for the RIBA on New
       Courses and Course Changes. 2013-present (Frost); Consultant for new recording/sculpture
       studios, 17th century Convent, Tuscany. Sponsored by Universal Music and Benson Taylor
       Music (2019) (Temple).
   •   Awards: Cil Rialiag Residency, Ireland (2014, 2015, 2019. Hewish); RIBA President's Award
       for Research - Outstanding University-Led (shortlist) 2014 - for The Architecture of Three
       Freetown Neighbourhoods (Mitchell); Excellence in Structural Engineering Education
       Award, Institute of Structural Engineers IStructE, Commendation (2017), Derek Osbourne
       Memorial Award - 2nd year making workshop student cohort & staff, London Metropolitan
       University (2017, Fereday); Streetplayer Art Award from Axisweb (2019) Scarso; Bogliasco
       Foundation Architecture Fellowship 2018; Shortlisted by the International Committee of
       Architecture Critics (CICA) for the Bruno Zevi Book Award (2014); nominated for the Alice
       Davis Hitchcock book award (2020) and Colvin Prize (2020), Society of Architectural
       Historians of Great Britain (Temple); Royal Institute of British Architects #EthelDay 2018
       nomination and featured profile as ‘inspirational woman in architecture’ (07/2018) (De Carli);
       ASEAN Research Fellowship, Research Institute for Languages and Cultures in Asia
       (RILCA), Mahidol University (2018), Rita Bolland Fellowship for the Study of Textile, Dress
       and Fashion (2018/9), Research Center for Material Culture at the National Museum of World
       Cultures, Design History Society publication award (2018) (Ling) RIBA President’s Award for
       Research - Outstanding PhD Research (shortlist) 2014 – for ‘Negotiating Shared Spaces in
       Informal Peri-Urban Settlements in India’ (Tang); Awarded OBE (2017) and elected Royal
       Academician (Dec. 2013) (Brill); 2016 RIBA Stirling Prize, The Newport Street Gallery,
       London (St. John)


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


17. Academic Dialogues: Project-based Contributions
Most of our external collaborations benefit from infrastructural support through AAD Projects
(referred to earlier). Established in 2004, AAD Projects provides professional support for our
students and staff, and implements a way of working according to live projects, partnerships and
work placements. AAD Projects contributes to our research efficacy though project-based
contributions, by bridging the worlds of pedagogy and practice, providing students with access to the
University network of professional contacts and stakeholders. These involve projects with a clear
social purpose, and co-ordinating work placements. Completed projects include Agra Sanitation
Infrastructure, School buildings in Hackney, Sierra Leone and India, Toynbee Hall Chair for the 21st
century reformer and Textiles commissions, Hayes Town Centre Project, Kronberg Open Air Stage,
Calcutta House Roof Garden. Where entrepreneurial opportunities or prospects are embedded in
projects, our University business incubator and support unit Accelerator is available to advise and
support on spinoffs, advice and events.


Many projects (49 itemised since the last REF) have been conducted over this REF cycle, some
explicitly contributing to our research productivity (including providing an armature for the
development case-studies and generating project-based data), whereas others play a background
role in resourcing or situating the action research and practice-based endeavours of staff, typically
with hybrid funding from local and institutional sources, and delivering knowledge exchange at
grassroots level. Examples include: in 2019-20 - the Aldgate Square Winter Fair and Lantern Parade
(AAD Product Design, Fashion Accessories and Jewellery, and Interiors) for the City of London
Corporation; in 2018-19 – the Age UK exhibition (AAD Works with Islington Heritage Service) for
Age Concern; Aldgate Places for Play (AAD Architecture Unit 04 with the Portsoken Chess Club) for
Aldgate Square; in 2017-18 - London Design Festival at Loom Exhibition (AAD Art Architecture
Design) for Loom; in 2016-17 - Learning by Play (AAD Design) for Christchurch Primary School;
Solar Decathlon Latin America (AAD Architecture), design research and a public installation for Solar
Decathlon; in 2015-16 – Hayes Town Centre Project               (AAD Architecture, Jewellery and
Silversmithing with YMCA Hayes and Old Vinyl Factory Hayes) a Public exhibition, Industry
consultation and installation for Hillingdon Community Trust and Heathrow Community Trust;
Grundtvig TimeCase (AAD with the Goethe institute) a public consultation project for the European
Commission; and in 2014-15 - Street Furniture (AAD Art, Architecture & Design) a competition and
implementation project for the City of London Corporation; and The Architecture of Three Freetown
Neighbourhoods (AAD Research driven by ARSCR with funding from CESO, The Water Trust, and
the British Council) fieldwork-based research, exhibition and publication for the Water Trust/British
Council.




                                                                                            Page 20
