  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Institution: University of Kent

   Unit of Assessment: 26: Modern Languages and Linguistics

   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
a.
b. Context and Structure
   Research in Modern Languages and Linguistics (MLL) at Kent comprises the work of 29 Category
   A staff in the School of Languages, Linguistics, Literatures, and Cultures. Located until 2019-20
   within the School of European Culture and Languages in the Faculty of Humanities, MML is now
   a distinct School within the newly established Division of Arts and Humanities. The University-wide
   restructure has been particularly welcome within MLL, since much of our research is collaborative
   and interdisciplinary in nature, federated through three well-established research centres: the
   Centre for Modern European Literature (CMEL); the Centre for Language and Linguistics (CLL);
   and the Centre for Film and Media Research. As part of the ‘UK’s European University’, we place
   a particular emphasis on research that is outward looking and international, working with
   colleagues across Europe and beyond to highlight the interconnected nature of disparate cultural
   and linguistic traditions. Our principal research areas are: modern French, German, Hispanic, and
   Italian literature and culture; comparative literature; European cultural history; medical humanities;
   postcolonial studies; and theoretical and experimental linguistics, especially speech and language
   processing and acquisition.

   Our research environment has benefited from a significant increase in research income, from
   £328k (in REF2014) to £883,419 (rising to nearly £3 million once the grants have all been spent).
   This increase is enabling our staff to undertake a wide range of individual and collaborative
   research projects, both nationally and internationally. Grants secured include one ERC award, two
   Leverhulme project grants, five Leverhulme Research Fellowships, five Leverhulme Visiting
   Professorships, four small BA grants, and one learned society prize (Society for French Studies).
   Publications include 20 monographs, 15 edited volumes, over 100 journal articles and book
   chapters, over 200 lectures and talks, and numerous outputs aimed at a broader public such as
   national and international magazine articles, newspaper essays, and media appearances. Our
   staff have also supervised around 40 doctoral students to successful completion, organised over
   30 conferences, workshops, and summer schools, delivered c. 20 keynote lectures, collaborated
   in major international projects and exhibitions, evaluated research across the world, and edited a
   book series (Palgrave Studies in Modern European Literature) and various journals (Film Studies,
   Journal of the International Phonetic Association, Modern Language Review).

   Eight new appointments, twelve promotions, and an overall growth in staff numbers of c. 25%
   since 2014 attest to the success of the unit in challenging times for Modern Languages and
   Linguistics in the UK.

c. Research Strategy 2014-20
   Following the success of REF2014, a strategic decision was taken to pursue ever closer union
   between its component parts: first Modern Languages and Linguistics were fused into a single
   department, then these departments were merged with Comparative Literature into a single
   School. The aim of this consolidation was to ensure critical mass in the pursuit and support of
   research, encouraging interaction and interdisciplinary collaboration wherever possible. It has
   notably enabled the unit:

      1. To enhance its EDI and gender-balance initiatives (see section 2).
      2. To develop and support a culture of research leadership (see section 2).
      3. To organise and enable effective ECR and PGR training, working closely with both the
         University’s Graduate and Researcher College and external partners (see section 2).
      4. To build on proven research strengths in European and comparative literature, in particular
         by giving greater resources to the Centre for Modern European Literature (see section 3).


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. To consolidate its growing national and international reputation in Linguistics, in particular
       through significant investment in new facilities (see section 3).
    6. To contribute significantly to public engagement and impact, and to help publicise the
       discipline(s) of MLL both nationally and internationally (see section 4).
    7. To encourage a collaborative and interdisciplinary research culture in which we enjoy and
       benefit intellectually from working together (see section 4).
    8. To support the institutional Open Access initiative (see REF5a), in particular by publishing
       all articles and chapters on the open-access Kent Academic Repository (KAR).

 This approach has borne fruit not only in the increased visibility of our staff within their respective
 disciplines, but also in the rapid increase in research funding (see section 3). Along with this growth
 in external income, strategic investment of QR from REF2014 has helped to finance the many
 activities of the three research centres. Examples of these activities include:

    •   The organisation of more than 30 conferences, both at Kent and elsewhere, including:
        ‘Suhrkamp and European Literature’ (Deutsches Literaturarchiv, Marbach, 2014); ‘Film
        Criticism in Arts Magazine (1952-1966): Godard, Rivette, Rohmer and Truffaut Away from
        Bazin’s Paradoxes’ (ICA, London, 2014); Association of French Language Studies Annual
        Conference (June 2014); ‘What Commitment? Reshaping Impegno in Contemporary Italy’
        (2015); Poetics and Linguistics Association Annual Conference (2015); ‘Samuel Beckett
        and World Literature’ (2016); Linguistic Association of Great Britain Annual Meeting (2017);
        ‘West-Eastern Lyric: Modernist Poetry between Europe and Asia’ (SOAS, London, 2017);
        British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) Conference (2018);
        ‘Métamorphoses d’Apollinaire’ (Turin, 2018); ‘Alone Together: Changing Forms of
        Sociability from the Rise of Modernism to the Digital Age’ (2020).

    •   Internally funded Visiting Fellowships: Lucie Campos, Collège de France (2014); Rosanne
        Bezerra de Araújo, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil (2015); and Julia
        Engelmann, Independent Writer (2019).

    •   Leverhulme Visiting Professorships: Daniel Brewer (University of Minnesota), who spent
        the Spring Term 2014 at our Canterbury campus lecturing and running research seminars
        for staff and PG students on the French Enlightenment; Dirk van Hulle (University of
        Antwerp), who spent the Spring Term 2016 in Canterbury lecturing and running research
        seminars for staff and PG students on modern European manuscript studies; Vito Zagarrio
        (Università di Roma Tre), who spent a term in 2018 lecturing on Italian film culture; Susana
        de la Sierra Moron (Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha, Director General of the Spanish
        Film Institute), who spent a term in 2018 lecturing on Spanish film culture; and Suzanne
        Guerlac (University of California, Berkeley), whose Spring Term 2020 lectures on the
        relationship between literature, philosophy, and the visual arts unfortunately had to be
        postponed to 2021 on account of Covid-19.

    •   An annual themed research seminar series, with papers delivered by some of the foremost
        academics in their fields: ‘Roland Barthes’ (2014-15); ‘Scandinavian Literature and Film’
        (2015-16); ‘Authorship and the Profane in German-Language Literature’ (2016-17); ‘Travel
        Literature’ (2017-18); ‘World Literature’ (2018-19); ‘Literary Friendship’ (2019-20); and
        ‘Race, Migration, and Decolonisation’ (2020-21). Speakers have included Sarah Colvin,
        Charles Forsdick, and Diana Holmes, among many others.

    •   An invited Speaker Series in Linguistics, hosting talks on topics spanning the entire range
        of linguistic research and attracting an interdisciplinary audience. Speakers have included:
        2014-15: Jason Merchant (Chicago), Antonella Sorace (Edinburgh), Marco Tamburelli
        (Bangor). 2015-16: Arhonto Terzi (Patras), Anja Kuschmann (Strathclyde), Craig Sailor
        (Cambridge). 2017-18: Sylvia Shaw (Westminster), Alessandro Vinciarelli (Glasgow),
        Dimitris Michelioudakis (York). 2018-19: Bettina Beinhoff (Anglia Ruskin), Liliane
        Haegeman (Ghent), Penelope Brown (Max Planck Institute, Netherlands). 2019-

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        20: Dimitris Serafis (USI, Switzerland), Lauren Ackerman (Newcastle University), Peter
        Stockwell (Nottingham).

    •   The book series Palgrave Studies in Modern European Literature, with 26 volumes
        published since 2014, including monographs on topics such as: work and leisure in late
        nineteenth-century French literature and visual culture; Russian Montparnasse; Futurist
        women; time in German culture, 1900-2015; writers as public intellectuals; and political
        dandyism, as well as on authors such as Artaud, Beckett, Flaubert, Proust, and Zola.

    •   Summer schools: Poetics and Linguistics Association (PALA) summer school on critical
        stylistics (2015), Aix Summer School on Prosody (2016), and Principles and Practices for
        Comparative Literature (the UK’s first summer school for comparative literature, held
        annually from June 2018, and funded by the AHRC-supported Consortium for the
        Humanities and Arts South-east England [CHASE]).

    •   Community and outreach events, including ‘The Genius of Language’, as part of the first
        ‘Being Human’ Festival (2014). Events included: an exhibition on language titled ‘The
        Genius of Language’, at the Beaney House of Art and Knowledge, Canterbury; a screening
        of two films, The Linguists and Is the Man Who Is Tall Happy?, followed by Q&A sessions
        with CLL members, at the Gulbenkian Theatre, Canterbury; and a public lecture on
        bilingualism by Antonella Sorace (Edinburgh) at the University.

 Research Strategy 2021-26
 Our research strategy for 2021-26 builds substantially on our commitment to interdisciplinary and
 collaborative research, as reflected at institutional level by the restructuring of the University into
 six fully integrated academic Divisions in 2019-20 (see REF5a). Designed to ensure the vitality
 and sustainability of Modern Languages and Linguistics at Kent, this strategy has the following
 objectives:

    1. To build on the significant increase in external funding in the current REF cycle to support
       research across the full range of MLL’s activities (cultural studies, film studies, history,
       linguistics, literature). Over the next five years, the emphasis will fall on increasing
       collaborative research awards, particularly those that include capacity-building doctoral
       studentships and postdoctoral research assistants. Mechanisms to achieve this include
       annual Individual Research Planning meetings (IRPs), research mentoring, internal
       feedback groups, University-level ‘grant factories’, and internal ‘pump-priming’ from QR at
       both Divisional and University level.

    2. To internationalise our research as much as possible, in order to ensure sustainability
       beyond the uncertain UK environment. Notable plans include using the new Centre for
       Modern European Literature office at the Kent-Paris Research Institute to develop stronger
       links with French universities, as well as to build on existing links with institutions such as
       the Deutsches Literaturarchiv Marbach (where two of our former PhD students now work).
       These plans draw on our growing network of Visiting Professors and Research Fellows:
       former fellows of the Centre for Modern European Literature now occupy senior
       international posts, including: Director of the Goethe and Schiller Archive in Weimar
       (Marcel Lepper); Director of the Villa Gilet in Lyon (Lucie Campos); and Professor of
       Bibliography and Modern Book History at Oxford (Dirk van Hulle).

    3. To encourage collaborative, comparative work across our constituent disciplines, while
       also supporting more traditional, single-subject research. This mirrors the approach taken
       by our Palgrave Studies in Modern European Literature book series, which publishes both
       wide-ranging comparative work and single-author studies.




                                                                                                 Page 3
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      4. To continue attracting and strongly supporting ECRs, and to ensure that we retain a range
         of researchers from junior lecturers to senior professors. Mechanisms to achieve this
         include reduced teaching loads and increased internal funding for ECRs (through the
         School’s Strategic Research Development Fund and Conference Fund), as well as
         Divisional and University support in the form of ECR networks.

      5. To continue investing in PGRs and postgraduate research culture, in particular by building
         on existing initiatives such as the journal Skepsi and the doctoral school in comparative
         literature (see section 2b). External funding, such as that currently received from the
         AHRC-funded CHASE consortium, will be sought in support of such initiatives.

      6. To contribute significantly to the University’s newly established Institute of Cultural and
         Creative Industries (iCCi) and Signature Research Themes (see REF5a), especially the
         ‘Migration and Movement’ theme, notably through Chamorro’s ‘English Hub for Refugees’
         (see section 4) and the Centre for Modern European Literature’s work on the identity and
         culture of Europe (see section 3).

      7. To ensure a diverse, stimulating, and supportive environment in which to work. A striking
         aspect of our research activities is their collaborative nature, with numerous projects
         emerging out of the common interests of members of staff (e.g. Europe, Roland Barthes,
         Cultures of Cinema).

d. Impact Strategy
   Building on the University’s strategy for Public Engagement with Research, in 2014 we took the
   decision, as part of a long-term strategy to encourage impact for both present and future REF
   cycles, to support six impact case studies, all of which focus on very different kinds of impact (see
   section 4): Chamorro (English for Refugees), Kapogianni (Humour), Ogden (Heritage Tourism),
   Read (Literature and the Visual Arts in France), Sobrevilla Perea (Peruvian Politics), and
   Schaffner (Discourses of Exhaustion). These case studies were supported through a four-step
   impact and public engagement strategy:

      1. Embedding impact and public engagement as an essential element in the early stages of
         project development, including providing time and funding for collaboration and
         community/stakeholder engagement.
      2. Providing administrative resources around the planning, delivery, and evaluation of events
         and projects, notably by appointing a dedicated Impact Support Officer to manage data
         capture and evaluation.
      3. Ensuring financial support through enhanced individual research allowances for impact
         activities, internal competition for University impact funding, which enabled us to seed-fund
         projects and initiate collaborations, and external funding.
      4. Collaborating wherever possible with external partners – including museums, galleries,
         political campaigns, and refugee organisations – as a means of broadening both the reach
         and the significance of our research.

   Underlying this impact strategy – for the enactment of which, see section 4 – has been a
   commitment to distinguishing between the differing national and international contexts of research
   in MLL, and to tailoring our approach accordingly. Internationalisation, here as elsewhere, has
   been a key aim: our case studies present impact achieved across the world – notably in France,
   Peru, and the USA – as well as in the UK. In support of these case studies, £15k per study was
   assigned at School level through an Impact Bursary Scheme; £13,780 was secured from the
   Faculty of Humanities, with a further £4,080 awarded from the Global Challenges Research Fund
   for Ogden’s work on heritage tourism in Cuba (see section 4). Our dedicated Impact Support
   Officer helped define and refine the case studies, while staff contacts with relevant media and
   external partners in the UK and abroad were shared across as widely as possible, in order to
   maximise opportunities for impact.


                                                                                                 Page 4
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     As attested by section 4, the impact achieved by our staff’s research goes well beyond that
     documented in the three nominated case studies, in terms both of significance (social, political,
     cultural) and of reach (national and international).

     2. People
•
•    Staffing Strategy
     In line with institutional priorities, our staffing strategy is to identify researchers with the greatest
     potential in their respective fields and to support them through their career development. In MLL,
     we place a particular emphasis on ECRs, principally recruiting scholars at the start of their
     academic careers. To ensure the inclusivity, diversity, and sustainability of our research culture,
     and in accordance with Principle 1 of the ‘Environment and Culture’ section of the UK Concordat
     to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2019), we have also sought, wherever
     possible, to appoint colleagues whose interests go beyond a single area of expertise (e.g. French-
     Chinese, or French-German, or world literature), in order to encourage collaboration and critical
     mass. By prioritising resourcing for research, Kent has managed to increase its staff base across
     the UoA:

         •   Since January 2014, eight members of staff (all ECRs) have been appointed on Education
             & Research (E&R) contracts. Within Modern Languages and Comparative Literature, new
             colleagues have been recruited with the aim of consolidating existing strengths in
             comparative methodologies; in Linguistics, emphasis has been given to strengthening and
             balancing the unit’s research identity, which combines empirical and experimental
             research with a solid foundation in linguistic theory.

         •   In the same period, only two members of staff submitted to REF2014 have left the
             University, which means that our staff base has grown by six, an increase of c. 25%. Our
             strategic commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusivity is reflected in the fact that the
             staffing profile within the School is very close to 50% female / 50% male, as is the portfolio
             of submitted outputs (30 female / 34 male) and ratio of Professors (4 female / 4 male).

         •   There have been 12 promotions since REF2014: Cooper (I.), Duffy, Janke, O’Meara,
             Rathcke, and Novillo-Corvalán to Senior Lecturer; Lazáro-Reboll, Novillo-Corvalán, and
             Schaffner to Reader; Schaffner, Sobrevilla Perea, and Stähler to Professor.

     Staff Development
     Staff development within the School has fully implemented the UK Concordat to support the career
     development of staff at all stages of their careers. This includes holding an annual review of both
     the strategy and the development of staff at an annual planning meeting (Concordat Principle 5).
     New appointees and existing staff receive ongoing mentoring; in collaboration with Human
     Resources, we ensure that career progression is available to all colleagues, be they permanent,
     fixed-term, or postdoctoral researchers. All staff have both an annual Individual Research Plan
     (IRP) review (with the Head of Department, the Divisional Director of Research, and the MLL
     Research Director) and an annual Reflect, Plan, Develop (RPD) appraisal with a trained (but
     independent) colleague. These meetings involve discussion of published criteria for promotion (in
     the form of the University’s new Academic Career Map), and are designed to support staff in
     developing their research and their careers.
     On appointment, our ECRs write a plan for their probation period (usually 3 years), in consultation
     with their probation supervisor (a senior colleague) and their mentor (if they are undertaking the
     Postgraduate Certificate of Higher Education). During probation, teaching and administration
     workloads are reduced by 50% in year 1, 25% in year 2, and 10% in year 3 to enable our ECRs
     to undertake PGCHE training and to develop their research profile. Further support for our staff
     includes the University-wide ECR Network, the Graduate and Researcher College’s Grants
     Factory (providing guidance and feedback on external funding applications), and the Research
     and Innovation Services team, as well as induction events organised through the Graduate and

                                                                                                       Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researcher College. As part of a University-wide initiative to encourage women in leadership, two
 female members of staff (Schaffner, Triana Toribio) have completed Leadership for Areas of
 Significant Responsibility (LASR) training.

 As part of the School of European Culture and Languages (SECL) until September 2020, and from
 then on an MLL-specific School within the Division of Arts and Humanities, we are fully committed
 to promoting and embedding equality and diversity in all our practices and policies. This is
 evidenced by our gender-balanced staffing profile and the fact that in 2019 SECL secured an
 Athena SWAN Bronze Award. EDI initiatives include organising research seminar series on topics
 such as ‘Race, Migration, and Decolonisation’ (2020-21), as well as School-led workshops on
 ‘Unconscious Bias’ and ‘Inspirational Speakers’. We have also introduced reduced teaching loads
 for staff returning from maternity leave (members of staff have moved to fractional contracts to
 accommodate childcare commitments), and have been careful to organise research events at
 times that are family-friendly. We are proud to have an internationally diverse staffing body: our
 29 FTE comprise 12 nationalities, ensuring a breadth of cultural perspectives on both our work
 and our working environment.

 Since much of our research is outward-facing and impact-oriented, ethics and integrity are central
 to our research environment. All projects and engagement activities are reviewed and approved
 by the University’s Research Ethics Advisory Group (REAG), ensuring that the highest ethical,
 legal, and professional standards are upheld. Working with vulnerable groups such as refugees,
 disadvantaged women, and deprived regions (see section 4), we have sought at all times to
 inculcate a culture of research integrity within our work, rigorously implementing the University’s
 code of practice and associated GDPR requirements.

 We are also committed to ensuring mental wellbeing and an appropriate work/life balance
 (Concordat Principles 3 and 4, as enshrined in the School’s, and now the Division’s, Workload
 Allocation Model), as well as to providing teaching relief for ECRs (see above). Examples of
 support to enable our ECRs to develop their careers have included two professors stepping down
 in 2020 to enable junior colleagues to take on the leadership of the Centre for Modern European
 Literature, as well as encouraging ECRs to organise research series (for example, ‘World
 Literature’, convened by S.-L. Cooper) and to apply for major grants (for example, AHRC Early
 Career Leadership Fellowship [Poizat-Amar], DFG-AHRC UK-German Funding Initative
 [Heinrich]). Nominations to external prizes have also been strongly supported: recent examples
 include O’Meara winning the Society for French Studies Prize, 2019. All of our staff have benefited
 from the right to apply for a term of research leave every seven terms (see REF5a); importantly,
 members of staff have also been supported to take research leave in advance of their allowance
 to enable them to bring major research projects to completion. By accommodating such shifting
 schedules, we have been able to respond both flexibly and strategically to the changing demands
 of research timetables as they arise.

 Research Students
 Recruited through a range of funding schemes – Graduate Teaching Assistantships, CHASE
 scholarships, Vice-Chancellor’s Studentships, Collaborative Doctoral Awards – our research
 students are closely integrated into the academic and intellectual life of the School, whilst also
 benefiting from the support and development opportunities provided by the University’s Graduate
 and Researcher College, the Student Learning Advisory Service, Information Services (Library
 and IT as well as the Office for Scholarly Communication), and the Careers and Employability
 Service. Since REF2014, 41 MLL students have successfully completed PhDs (28 female; 13
 male), an increase of c. 200% on the number of completions in the previous REF cycle (14). The
 pathway from PGR to ECR is well established: several of our PGRs have gone on to secure posts
 at other universities (e.g. Kastan at Queen Mary and Westminster) or research institutes (e.g.
 Hundehege and Obermeier at the German Literature Archive, Marbach), while two Kent PhDs
 have secured permanent Education and Research posts within the School (Poizat-Amar,
 Tarabochia) and two have secured Education, Scholarship and Professional Practice posts with
 us (Evangelou, Pettitt). Our PGRs have published in academic journals, in books, and in museum


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 catalogues, and have won prizes, including ‘University Postgraduate Researcher of the Year’
 (Kinzer, 2019).

 On registration, our PGRs are assigned a supervisory team consisting of a primary and a
 secondary supervisor, plus a supervisory chair (the chair must have experience of doctoral
 supervision to successful completion). In accordance with the University’s Code of Practice for
 Quality Assurance for Research Programmes, the Graduate Studies Committee is responsible for
 monitoring student progress, approving the recommendations of review and examination panels,
 and mediating in any disputed cases. Unusually – given the wide range of subjects within the
 School of European Culture and Languages between 2014 and 2020 – the School Director of
 Postgraduate Studies for Research was drawn from MLL throughout this REF cycle: Lázaro-
 Reboll (2014-16), O’Meara (2016-18), Hutchinson (2018-19), and Cooper (I.) (2020), indicating
 the strong commitment of MLL staff to postgraduate culture. In the new Divisional structure, the
 Divisional Director of Graduate Studies and PG Student Experience is also an MLL member
 (Hutchinson).

 Our research culture is predicated on a close working relationship between staff and PGRs.
 Members of staff place great emphasis on helping PGRs to establish themselves as independent
 researchers. Staff guidance has created numerous opportunities for PGRs to publish essays and
 books. Six of our PhD students have been published since 2014: two with Palgrave, three with
 Peter Lang, and one with Honoré Champion. Our PGRs have also been supported to gain
 experience of both attending and organising events (e.g. through convening workshops or
 National Postgraduate Colloquia), and to benefit from international collaboration with both HEIs
 and non-HEIs (e.g. through studentships and internships).

 PGR student wellbeing is overseen by a dedicated PGR officer, who is also our Research Support
 Officer, thus ensuring regular conversations between the research of both staff and students. The
 arrival of Covid-19 and its concomitant anxieties – mitigated principally by the offer of a fee-free
 extension for three months, followed by the possibility of a further three-month extension –
 underlined the benefits of such a position.

 Research training is a key aspect of our PGR culture. Discipline-specific postgraduate training
 includes regular seminars on Applying for Grants (2018, 2019), CV Workshops (2015, 2017,
 2018), Publishing (2018), and Linguistics outside Academia (2018), as well as annual sessions on
 research methodologies and delivering papers at conferences. Such events are also aimed at
 bringing together staff and PGRs, and conceiving them as a continuum: specific research training
 seminars of this sort have included a one-day seminar on ‘R’ by Daniel Ezra Johnson (February
 2014); a two-day workshop on ‘Basic statistics using SPSS’ (June 2016); a three-day seminar on
 Praat scripting by Mauricio Figueroa (July 2016); and annual internal research days at which staff
 and PGRs present work in progress as equals. At the disciplinary level, too, members of staff work
 hard to support the national and international PGR culture, organising summer schools, assessing
 prizes, examining theses, reviewing book manuscripts, and chairing national committees (see
 section 4).

 Our research students are encouraged to participate as fully as possible in PGR culture at this
 wider disciplinary level. National and international postgraduate activities since 2014 have
 included: ‘Merging Media: An Interdisciplinary Conference on the Study of Hybrid Arts’, organised
 by our PGRs in 2014; the National Postgraduate Colloquium in German Studies, organised by our
 PGRs in 2015; internships at the German Literature Archive, Marbach; and participation at the
 Institute for World Literature (Harvard and Istanbul). The Kent postgraduate journal Skepsi,
 established in 2008 by PGRs in MLL, remains a vibrant group over a decade later, with editorship
 and participation having passed through successive generations of PGRs. It organises regular
 conferences that form the basis for annual journal issues; since 2014, these have included:
 ‘Apocalypse and Ghosts’ (2014-15); ‘The Secret in Contemporary Theory, Society, and Culture’
 (2016); ‘Disgust’ (2017); ‘Borders’ (2018); and ‘Remembrance of Things Past’ (2019).



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research students have also benefited from access to a range of international opportunities,
 including joint supervision with partner institutions, Erasmus exchanges, and opportunities to visit
 our European sites, including the University’s Paris School of Arts and Culture. Kent has joint
 supervisory arrangements with a range of institutions in Europe and further afield (see REF5a);
 within the UoA, there is a particularly strong cohort of cotutelle PhDs with Parisian universities, but
 students have also completed cotutelle PhDs with Strasbourg, Lausanne, and L’istituto italiano di
 scienze umane in Florence. Since 2014, seven our our PGRs have graduated with joint
 doctorates, with a further two having been co-supervised with colleagues from other Schools at
 Kent (Anthropology and Conservation; Politics and International Relations).

 In collaboration with the Universities of Essex and East Anglia, Kent forms part of the Eastern
 Academic Research Consortium (Eastern ARC). The three universities have reciprocal training
 arrangements and collaborate by sharing good practice for supporting postgraduates; research
 students have access to mobility funding that enables them to undertake training and collaborative
 work at the other two partner institutions. Since 2014, our PGRs have participated, through the
 consortium, in a number of jointly organised research events, particularly in Linguistics (e.g. the
 ‘Quantitative Methods for Pragmatics’ workshop at UEA, co-funded by CHASE and Eastern ARC
 in July 2017). Our PGRs are also able to apply for scholarships from, and attend training with, the
 ESRC-funded SeNSS and AHRC-funded CHASE Doctoral Training Partnerships (for example,
 the annual summer school ‘Principles and Practices of Comparative Literature’). This provides
 them with access to the academic expertise of staff members from across all the institutions that
 form part of the Consortium for the Humanities and Arts South-east England (CHASE), as well as
 from further afield: students in Linguistics have benefited from the School’s participation in the
 nationwide consortium for Advanced Core Training in Linguistics, for instance, while students on
 the comparative literature summer school have been able to attend lectures by speakers including
 Jessica Berman (Maryland), Rosinka Chaudhuri (Delhi), Duncan Large (UEA), Marcel Lepper
 (Weimar), Francesca Orsini (SOAS), and Wen-chin Ouyang (SOAS).

 At the institutional level, the Graduate and Researcher College works in partnership with academic
 schools to enhance the quality of the postgraduate student experience across all Kent’s campuses
 and centres (see REF5a). It offers a range of student-facing activities through coordination of the
 Researcher Development Programme for postgraduate researchers, the annual Postgraduate
 Research Festival, a monthly postgraduate Research Café, the GradPost (postgraduate
 newsletter), and the Postgraduate Experience Awards (up to £1,500 per student). These provide
 postgraduate students with the opportunity to apply for funding to run an event or project that has
 an interdisciplinary and/or external focus. MLL PGRs have drawn on this funding to organise a
 number of activities, including National Postgraduate Colloquia, Heritage Walks, and events at the
 ‘Being Human’ Festival (see section 1). The University’s Employability Points scheme also offers
 research internships. Established in 2017, these internships provide an opportunity for PGRs to
 work as research assistants on projects undertaken by members of staff. Within MML, interns
 have notably worked on the development of ‘Kent Corpus’, a corpus of spoken and written
 language varieties in South-East England.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In the REF2021 period, our staff have secured a total research income of £2,964,673 (of which
 £883,419 was spent by July 2020), an average per FTE of £92,646. This represents an increase
 of c. 900% on the £328,000 total research income in the previous REF cycle, well exceeding our
 original aim of doubling research income over the REF period. Highlights include an ERC
 Advanced Grant, a Society for French Studies Prize, five Leverhulme Research Fellowships, five
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorships, three Leverhulme Network awards, four small BA grants, and
 numerous conference grants (AHRC, British Academy, Wellcome Trust, Humboldt Foundation).
 Income has also been generated from the AHRC-funded CHASE and the ESRC-funded SeNSS
 consortia, with awards being made within MLL both for ‘Cohort Development’ Graduate Schools
 and for PhD studentships. Our three research centres are funded internally, with annual
 subventions of £1,000 complementing the core funding allocated at foundation (e.g. £50,000 for
 the Centre for Modern European Literature).

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This step change in research income has been made possible by our long-term strategy of
 increasing internationalisation, as evidenced by Arvaniti’s European Research Council Advanced
 Grant ‘Speech Prosody in Interaction: The form and function of intonation in human
 communication’ (2019) and her project on ‘Experimental investigation of prominence and rhythm
 in Korean’ (2014), funded by the Academy of Korean Studies. At the same time, we have also
 pursued a strategy of supporting ECRs in the development of more ambitious grant applications
 once they have secured smaller grants (e.g. Leverhulme Visiting Professorships and BA
 conference funding). Mechanisms for this include:

    •   A dedicated Research and Innovation Services department, providing pre- and post-grant
        support, including costings and sample applications.
    •   A regular Grants Factory organised by the Graduate and Researcher College, at which
        experienced researchers provide feedback on draft applications.
    •   An integrated system of internal peer review, feedback, monitoring, data collection, and
        tailored advice – through annual IRPs and also through informal discussions with the
        Director of Research.

 Since 2014, the proportion of our staff with externally funded projects has increased significantly:
 c. 50% of our staff have benefited from external research funding in this REF period. Funding has
 been secured at all levels of experience, from professors (Arvaniti, Sobrevilla Perea), through mid-
 career staff (Schaffner, Stähler), to early career researchers (Haustein, Marlow-Mann).

 The significant increase in research income in the REF2021 cycle has been used to enhance the
 infrastructure for a range of research-related activities and events. As well as financing teaching
 relief to enable staff to write substantial monographs, external funding has also been used to
 support postdoctoral positions, research assistants, visiting fellows, and laboratory-based
 experiments. Three research centres – in literature, linguistics, and film – organise, synthesise,
 and publicise research in MLL, both within and beyond the University:

    •   Centre for Modern European Literature. Co-directed by Baldwin (French), Hutchinson
        (German), and Weller (Comparative Literature) until 2020, and by Baldwin, Cooper
        (German), and Haustein (Comparative Literature) from 2020, this research centre has a
        membership that includes 40 PGRs. It provides a forum for transnational collaboration
        across the languages, as well as overseeing PGR training (see above), editing a book
        series, organising an annual summer school, and hosting Visting Fellows funded both
        internally and externally (see section 1).

    •   Centre for Language and Linguistics. Directed by Janke (2012-17), Rathcke (co-director
        2014-16), Lengeris (co-director, 2017-19), and Kapogianni (2017-20), this research centre
        has a rolling membership of up to 10 PGRs per year. It organises numerous activities in
        support of research in linguistics, including workshops, reading groups, public engagement
        events, and summer schools (see section 1), as well as hosting research internships,
        managing the various linguistics laboratories (see below) and overseeing the ‘English Hub
        for Refugees’ (see section 4).

    •   Centre for Film and Media Research. Managed by an Executive Committee including
        Lázaro-Reboll (Hispanic Studies), Triana-Toribio (Hispanic Studies), and Marlow-Mann
        (Italian Studies), this centre has a membership that includes 23 PGRs. It organises
        symposia and conferences (both at Kent and elsewhere), hosts Visiting Fellows and
        Professors (see section 1), edits the journal Film Studies, and forms an interdisciplinary
        hub in association with the School of Arts.

 Engaging the public with our research has become an increasing priority, with more experienced
 staff, supported by the Office of Scholarly Communication, mentoring junior colleagues in how to
 maximise the reach and resonance of their work. In order to optimise the quality of both our
 research and our research development (especially with regard to PGRs), all staff regularly


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discuss work in progress with the Centre directors, ensuring a healthy combination of collegiality
 and scholarly rigour.

 Since 2014, our staff have been awarded £44,202 for conferences, £5,930 in support of outputs,
 and £29,557 for strategic development. The Centre for Language and Linguistics has benefited in
 particular from an initial investment in pilot projects and a laboratory manager position (£10,000 in
 2015), followed by significant investment in the following new facilities: a purpose-built acoustic
 booth for research and teaching in phonetics (£40,000); four behavioural testing rooms (equipped
 with new PCs and including treatment to reduce reverberation); a dedicated eye-tracking
 laboratory; a conference/meeting room (including eight new computer stations); a furnished
 waiting area for experiment participants; and storage facilities for laboratory equipment. These
 new facilities have enabled a number of externally funded projects that would not previously have
 been possible, including pioneering techniques for the study of linguistic rhythm such as
 sensorimotor synchronisation with language, using a drumming pad and purpose-built arduino
 device constructed by the laboratory manager. Analyses of the structure and function of intonation
 were expedited through neurophysiological experiments that could be run in the new testing
 rooms; these same rooms opened the door to a series of behavioural experiments, including
 structural convergence/syntactic priming within native and non-native speaker dialogue, and
 elicited production tasks, examining iconicity, transparency and transfer in hearing learners of
 signed languages. The conference room was integral to the success of the ‘English Hub for
 Refugees’ initiative (see section 4).

 Since June 2019, the Centre for Modern European Literature has benefited from an office at the
 Kent-Paris Research Institute (funded as part of the University’s internationalisation strategy).
 Based at Reid Hall in Montparnasse – alongside the Paris School of Arts and Culture – the Institute
 facilitates interdisciplinary research both inside and outside the University; directed as of 2020 by
 Hutchinson, it forms a key element of Kent’s identity as the UK’s European university, particularly
 as we look to the post-Brexit era. The Centre’s presence in Paris enables us to conduct activities
 jointly with Parisian universities (e.g. shared research seminars with Paris III), to hold meetings of
 research groups based on the Continent (e.g. Poizat-Amar’s meetings for the new critical edition
 of Victor Segalen), to host visiting speakers and Fellows, to access the Bibliothèque Nationale,
 and to support applications for European funding.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our staff have worked very hard to build upon the success of REF2014, collaborating and
 contributing to their discipline(s) and to the broader economy and society in a range of different
 ways, including: organising conferences and workshops; delivering invited and keynote lectures;
 sitting on national and international committees and advisory boards; contributing to processes of
 research assessment and evaluation both nationally and internationally; running graduate schools;
 editing journals and book series; writing for the national and international media; campaigning for
 political and social causes; and undertaking a range of impact and public engagement events,
 including projects aimed at the most vulnerable and excluded members of society. Beneficiaries
 of this research – for examples of which, see below – have included refugees, prisoners, charities,
 councils, primary and secondary schools, indigenous peoples, impoverished regions, and forcibly
 sterilised women, as well as the general public both nationally and internationally.

 Contributions to the Research Base

    1. Conference organisation

 A notable aspect of research in MLL at Kent is how collaboratively it is pursued, in line with our
 strategic aim of cultivating a spirit of shared endeavour. Our staff often work together to organise
 research events. In this REF cycle, examples include: the Humboldt-funded conference ‘“Kurze
 Rede, langer Sinn”: The Nineteenth-Century German Short Prose Narrative’ (2014); the seminar
 series ‘What’s So Great about Roland Barthes?’ (2014), which led to a special issue of the journal
 L’Esprit créateur; the British Association of Academic Phoneticians (2018); and the Society for

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Italian Studies conference ‘Visions of Italy’ (2020). Conferences have also been organised by staff
 collaborating with major external institutions across Europe, including a conference on ‘Suhrkamp
 and European Literature’ (DLA Marbach, 2014); three ‘Society of Dix-neuviémistes’ annual
 conferences (Glasgow, 2015; Paris, 2016; Canterbury, 2017); ‘The West-Eastern Lyric: Modernist
 Poetry between Asia and Europe’ (SOAS, 2017); the exhibition ‘Junges Wien’ (Vienna, 2018); the
 ‘Cérisy’ conference on Victor Segalen at Cérisy-la-Salle (2018); and the webinar series ‘The
 Magazine and World Literature’ (jointly organised with SOAS, 2020-21).

 Conferences have also been organised by staff collaborating with various external funders,
 including the Leverhulme-funded workshop ‘New Directions in the Study of Latin American History
 in Europe’ (Kent at Rome Campus, 2015), as well as a subsequent series of related events in
 Colombia, Argentina, and Chile (2015); the CHASE-funded conference ‘Comics Crossroads: An
 Interdisciplinary Symposium’ (2016); the Humboldt-funded conference ‘Celan and Heidegger Fifty
 Years after Todtnauberg’ (2017); the AHRC-funded workshop ‘Using Quantitative Methods in
 Pragmatic Research’ (UEA, 2017); and the Global Challenges-funded workshop ‘La Cuba
 profunda: the compatibilities of local development and international heritage tourism in Granma
 province, Cuba’ (2019).

    2. Keynote lectures and international talks

 Our staff have been invited to deliver keynote lectures at a range of leading national and
 international events, testifying to the regard in which their research is held. Examples include
 Arvaniti at the 6th International Conference on Modern Greek Dialects and Linguistic Theory
 (Patras, 2014) and at the 19th International Congress of Phonetic Sciences (Melbourne, 2019);
 Duffy at ‘Le cas médical: entre norme et exception’ (Paris-III-Sorbonne-Paris-Descartes, 2016);
 Hutchinson at the National Postgraduate Colloquium in German Studies (2015) and at the
 conference ‘Archives of Resistance’ (Leeds, 2018); Lázaro-Reboll at the major UK conference
 ‘Transitions – New Directions in Comics Studies’ (2014); Rathcke at the ‘Linguistic Society of New
 Zealand’ (Christchurch, 2019); Triana Toribo at the symposium 'The Look of Iciar Bollain' (St
 Andrews, 2014); and Weller at the Second Annual Conference of the Samuel Beckett Society
 (University of Antwerp, 2016) and ‘Beckett and the Ends of Literature’ (Reading, 2017).

 Since REF2014, our staff have been invited to speak at over 200 research events, many of which
 – in line with our strategic aim of encouraging internationalisation – have taken place in locations
 around the world. The following examples of international talks do not include the more than 100
 lectures given by our staff at British universities. Arvaniti has spoken on intonation and rhythm at
 the Laboratoroire Parole et Langage, Université Aix Marseille (Aix-en-Provence, 2014), and at the
 universities of Athens and Thesaloniki (2015), Gothenburg (2016), Leiden (2018), Aarhus (2020),
 and Berlin (2020). Baldwin has given talks on Barthes and Proust at the Ecole Normale Supérieure
 in Paris (2014), the universities of Minnesota (2015), California Berkeley (2015), and Bergen
 (2018), and at the Fondation Singer-Polignac (2015). Cooper (I.) has lectured on German poetry
 at the University of Budapest (2014), as well as at the Deutsches Literaturarchiv Marbach (2014)
 and the Göttinger Philologisches Forum (2014). Duffy has given talks on nineteenth-century
 French literature and medicine at ‘Women, Science and Narrative’ (University of Aberdeen, 2015)
 and at ‘Lire Zola au XXIe siècle’, Cerisy-La-Salle (2016). Haustein has lectured on the cultural
 history of breastfeeding at the universities of Geneva (2015 and 2016) and Innsbruck (2017).
 Hutchinson has delivered lectures on German and comparative literature at the universities of
 Vienna (2018) and Aarhus (2018), as well as at the Schloss Herrenhausen Hanover (2016), the
 Van Leer Institute for Advanced Study in Jerusalem (2016), and the Center for European Studies
 in Harvard (2017), and has hosted international webinars for the British Comparative Literature
 Association (2020). Janke has lectured at the Universitat Pompeu Fabra (2016) and at the Max
 Planck Institute (Nijmegen, 2017). Kapogianni has spoken on irony and metaphor at the
 universities of Athens (2015) and Patras (2015), as well as at the 14th International Pragmatics
 Conference (Antwerp, 2015) and the American Pragmatics Association (Albany, 2018). Marlow-
 Mann has lectured on Italian cinema at the Universidad Técnica Federico Santa Maria, Valparaiso
 (2015) and the University of Pittsburgh (2017). Novillo-Corvalán has given talks on modernism
 and Latin America at the Institute of English and American Studies at the Goethe University in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Frankfurt (2016) and at the conference ‘Ciencia, Cultura y Modernidad’ in Buenos Aires (2016).
 Rathcke has spoken at the 7th International Conference on Speech Prosody (Dublin, 2014), and
 at the universities of Berlin (2016), Ghent (2016), Stuttgart (2018), Munich (2019), and Sydney
 (2019). Read has given talks at the Musée Picasso to mark the reopening of the museum (2015),
 at the Institut des Textes et Manuscrits (IMEC), the Ecole Normale Supérieure Paris (2015), and
 the University of Turin (2017). He has also held Master classes at Paris IV Sorbonne (2014) and
 participated in a seminar at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts in Washington DC
 (2014). Sobrevilla Perea has given talks on Latin American history at institutions around the world,
 including the Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú (2014), the Freie Universität Berlin (2014),
 the LASA conference in Chicago (2014), the Sorbonne (2015), the LASA Conferences in San
 Juan Puerto Rico (2015) and New York (2016), and at the universities of Seville (2018), Paris
 (2018), and Chicago (2019). Weller has lectured at the universities of Antwerp (2016), Prague
 (2018), and Brussels (2019).

    3. Advisory boards, committees, and academies

 In line with our strategic aim of encouraging research leadership, our staff have played an
 important role in shaping their discipline(s) by sitting on numerous advisory boards, committees,
 and academies since REF2014. Arvaniti is President of the Permanent Council of the International
 Congress of Phonetic Sciences (2019-23), is a member of the Executive Committee and the
 Council of the International Phonetic Association, and is on the editorial board of Phonology, the
 Journal of Phonetics, the Journal of Greek Linguistics, and Language Science Press. Cooper (I.)
 was a Senior Research Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study (Lichtenberg-Kolleg) at the
 University of Göttingen (2014-16). Hutchinson is a Fellow of the Academy of Europe (elected in
 2016) and a Visiting Fellow at the Forschungsverbund Marbach-Weimar-Wolfenbüttel (2015), as
 well as being Honorary Secretary of the British Association for Comparative Literature (BCLA) and
 on the Advisory Board of the VW-funded project ‘1968: Ideenkonflikte in globalen Archiven’ (DLA
 Marbach). Marlow-Mann is Membership Secretary of the British Association of Film, Television
 and Screen Studies. O’Meara is a member of the Executive Committee of the Society for French
 Studies. Rathcke is on the editorial board of the Journal of the International Phonetic Association.
 Schaffner was an Inaugural Fellow of the Hamburg Institute for Advanced Study (2020-21). Weller
 is on the editorial board of the Beckett Digital Manuscript Project (University of Antwerp and
 Beckett International Foundation, Reading), the Journal of European Studies, the ‘Historicizing
 Modernism’ book series (Bloomsbury), and the ‘Transcript’ book series (Legenda, MHRA).

    4. Editing journals and book series

 Since 2014, our staff have also made a significant contribution to MLL both nationally and
 internationally by editing journals and books series, including the Journal of the International
 Phonetic Association (edited by Arvaniti); Palgrave Studies in Modern European Literature (edited
 by Hutchinson and Weller); Culture and Quarantine (edited by Hutchinson); Language in Society
 (edited by Hornsby); Film Studies (edited by Lázaro-Reboll and Marlow-Mann); Modern Language
 Review (for which O’Meara is French Editor); and the Oeuvres complètes of Victor Segalen (for
 which Poizat-Amar is an editor).

    5. Doctoral schools

 MLL staff have organised a number of doctoral schools since 2014, some of them annually
 recurring. Examples of these schools, which correspond to our strategic aim of fostering the next
 generation of researchers, include the Aix Summer School on Prosody (2016), organised by
 Arvaniti with Rathcke and Mariapaola D’Imperio (Aix-Marseille); and the CHASE-funded summer
 school ‘Principles and Practices of Comparative Literature’ (annually from 2018), founded and
 directed by Hutchinson.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    6. Peer-reviewing, assessing, and examining

 In the RE2021 cycle, our staff have regularly served as examiners, evaluators, assessors, and
 peer reviewers, both nationally and internationally. Such work functions as a natural continuation
 of the activities listed above, with invitations to examine doctoral theses often following from
 summer schools and conferences. In total, our staff have externally examined 48 PhDs (34 in the
 UK and 14 abroad), with a further seven cotutelle examinations jointly with non-UK universities
 and two Habilitations á Diriger des Recherches (HdR), as well as two Junior Reseach Fellowships
 (Oxford, Cambridge) and 10 tenure and professorship reviews. International evaluations have
 been undertaken by: Arvaniti, who reviewed tenure applications at five R1 US universities (2013,
 2016-19); Duffy, who examined PhDs at the Universities of Queensland (2017) and
 Melbourne/Paris 3 (2019); Hornsby, who examined a PhD at the University of Oslo (2016), an
 HdR at the University of Poitiers (2018), and an Hcéres for research and postgraduate teaching
 at the University of Arras (2018); Hutchinson, who has been an International Expert for the
 Research Council of Norway’s Evalulation of the Humanities (2016) and examined an HdR at
 Paris III (2020); Lázaro-Reboll, who examined PhDs at the Universities of Melbourne (2015, 2018)
 and Carlos III Madrid (2015); Rowlandson, who examined PhDs at the University of Oviedo (2013,
 2019); Sobrevilla Perea, who examined a PhD at the EHESS in Paris (2020); Triano-Toribio, who
 examined a PhD at the University of Girona (2015); and Weller, who has examined PhDs at
 Antwerp (2014, 2018).

 Contributions to the Economy and Society
 Both nationally and internationally – in Chile, Cuba, France, Germany, Italy, Peru, Spain, and the
 US – research in MLL at Kent has informed and influenced debates about forced sterilisation,
 forms of exhaustion, modernist art, contemporary cinema, comparative literature, modes of
 speech, heritage tourism, and the linguistic issues related to immigration. Beyond the activities
 attested in our three impact case studies, research by our staff in the REF2021 period has
 benefited a broad range of stakeholders politically, socially, economically, and culturally. These
 activities include:

 Political interventions in the UK and overseas. Sobrevilla Perea has campaigned on behalf of
 indigenous Peruvians and forcibly sterilised women, both at the Houses of Parliament and during
 the Peruvian elections. On the basis of her historical expertise, she was invited to be a member
 of the Congressional Commission to celebrate the Peruvian Bicentenary of Independence in 2021,
 and among other activities she helped the Museum of Memory in Lima create an online repository
 of sources not previously available to the general public.

 Socio-economic interventions in the UK to support vulnerable groups. Chamorro’s English Hub for
 Refugees, a project founded in 2016 by the Centre for Language and Linguistics in collaboration
 with Kent Refugee Action Network, provides language support to young refugees and asylum
 seekers from countries including Afghanistan, Eritrea, Iraq, Sudan, and Syria. Based on
 Chamorro’s research into bilingualism and first-language attrition, the project has provided
 specially tailored English classes to over 200 unaccompanied refugee minors and involved over
 80 university students volunteering as teachers. It has received commendation from the MP for
 Canterbury, Rosie Duffield, and is attracting increasing attention internationally, in the form of over
 27,000 visits to the project website and over 12,000 downloads of its language-learning resources
 – from teachers working at refugee camps, prisons, charities, councils, primary and secondary
 schools, and colleges, and from over 89 different countries including Greece, France, Turkey,
 Azerbaijan, Iran, Palestine, Jordan, Algeria, Pakistan, Israel, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, the
 United States, Canada, and Australia. During lockdown in 2020, the project was also picked up by
 teaching staff at HMP Oakwood (Wolverhampton), who used the project’s resources to continue
 teaching English to prison inmates whose first language is not English.

 Initially financed through internal seed funding (£400 from the School, £1.5k from the Faculty,
 £1,600 from the University), in October 2020 the project was awarded £10,000 from the Orange
 Tree Trust. Its long-term economic impact includes benefits generated for individual learners, for
 the Exchequer, and for society more generally. Recent analysis (OECD, 2016) indicates that for

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individuals with low levels of prior attainment, achieving even modest improvements in literacy and
 ICT proficiencies enhances hourly earnings (up to 10%) and the likelihood of being employed (up
 to 9%). The acquisition of functional literacy and ICT skills also results in an increase in educational
 aspiration, which generates long-term economic benefits for both the individual and the Exchequer
 (estimated to be in the region of £620 per learner). The adoption of the English Hub for Refugees
 resources in HMP Oakwood, a prison with more than 2,000 inmates, underscores the
 transferability of the teaching materials produced: offender learning has been identified to reduce
 re-offending rates by 7.5% (HMPS, 2018), resulting in an estimated economic benefit to the public
 purse of approximately £5,500 per learner.

 Socio-economic interventions overseas to support vulnerable groups. Ogden’s project La Cuba
 profunda involves a multidisciplinary research network of Cuban and UK scholars and practitioners
 from the cultural, economic, and tourism sectors, with the aim of establishing the potential of
 international tourism for local socio-cultural development and heritage preservation in Granma,
 Eastern Cuba. Funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund (see section 1), the network
 explores how economic, environmental and infrastructural resilience can be consolidated in this
 culturally rich but somewhat isolated region of Cuba. The network aims to consolidate a number
 of existing relationships – between different municipalities in Granma province, as well as between
 scholars, practitioners, and policy-makers in Havana and Granma – to deliver sustained capacity
 building and further research. In 2019, the network twice met for workshops and site visits, in
 Granma and in Kent. These events mapped out the broader opportunities and challenges
 associated with this project, both methodologically and conceptually, with a view to establishing
 shared objectives for heritage protection. An AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award, secured in 2021
 in conjunction with the Instituto Cubano De Investigación Cultural Juan Marinello, promises to
 develop the project further.

 Alongside the socio-economic value of such projects, research by our staff has generated an
 overall PR value of £403,226.26 (as established through Kantar statistics). This has been
 achieved through comments and interventions in leading national and international newspapers,
 magazines, podcasts, and radio shows, by public lectures in museums, and by contributions to
 catalogues (see above and our impact case studies). In line with our strategic aim of helping to
 promote the discipline, our staff contribute regularly to the national and international media (both
 print and broadcast), participate in literature and cinema festivals, and disseminate their work to a
 broad general public.

 Hornsby has written for Education Today, and appears regularly on BBC radio to discuss issues
 of language and accent. His appearance on the BBC’s The One Show (2013) is now used in
 secondary school teaching on regional accents. Hutchinson writes for the Times Literary
 Supplement, the Literary Review, the Zeitschrift für Ideengeschichte, and the Neue Zürcher
 Zeitung, and has also written the Very Short Introduction to Comparative Literature (OUP, 2018),
 which he has presented at various public events (e.g. Folkestone Literature Festival, Wimbledon
 Book Festival, ‘Think Kent’ film). He has appeared on the radio in Germany (Südwestdeutscher
 Rundfunk) and created the multilingual initiative ‘Culture and Quarantine’ on behalf of the British
 Comparative Literature Association. Marlow-Mann has introduced public film screenings, including
 at Cine Recobrado film festival in Valparaiso, Chile (2015) and the Roma Tre Film Festival, where
 he was also the President of the International Jury (2017). Read gave the public lecture ‘Apollinaire
 et Paul Guillaume’ (with Laurence Campa) at the Musée de l’Orangerie, as well as the public
 lecture ‘Le Monument à Apollinaire’, at the Musée national Picasso, Paris, and has also appeared
 extensively on French radio (France Culture) and television (Bibliothèque Medicis). Rowlandson
 has spoken at the TEDx Conference about John Lennon and Havana (2015), at the Archivo de
 Indianos about Pablo Neruda and César Vallejo (2014), and at the Iberian and Latin American
 Studies at Queen Mary, London, about Jean-Paul Sartre and Che Guevara (2016), and has also
 appeared on the BBC and CBS to discuss contemporary Cuba, introduced film screenings, and
 given talks to numerous schools across Kent. Schaffner has appeared extensively in the national
 and international media (BBC, British Vogue, National Geographic, Philosophie Magazine,
 Psychology Today, Süddeutsche Zeitung, De Volkskrant, ‘The Art of Manliness’ Podcast), and
 writes regularly for the Times Literary Supplement. Since spring 2020, she also writes a regular

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 blog for Psychology Today. Sobrevilla Perea writes a column in the leading Peruvian newspaper
 El Comercio, and appears regularly in the Spanish-language press.

 As these examples indicate, the contributions made by our staff to the research base, and to the
 economy and society more broadly, are rich and varied, reflecting a research environment shaped
 above all by the values of collaboration and mutual support.




                                                                                         Page 15
