Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 5: Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Comprising the research activity within the School of Biosciences at Kent, this submission reflects
 a Research and Innovation Strategy initiated in 2014 to deliver top-quality research with broad
 appeal and significant end-user engagement. The key tenets of this strategy included:

    •   A drive to generate high levels of research income per staff member, with an emphasis on
        research council funding and industrial buy-in.
    •   A radical programme of staff recruitment and retention over the REF period, tackling
        strategic issues, strengthening research areas, and addressing Athena SWAN priorities
        such as gender balance.
    •   Targeting of research outputs based on fundamental molecular genetics, molecular
        biology, and biochemistry, to journals with the broadest appeal.
    •   The planning and development of new research and teaching hub building, and a
        programme of high-quality laboratory refurbishment in existing space.
    •   A strong commitment to further development of our historically strong engagement with
        industry stakeholders; this resulted in significant industrial funding and numerous projects
        with industry buy-in.
    •   An enhanced commitment to the ‘bench to bedside’ ethos, resulting in many research
        groups contributing directly to end-user engagement in the medical profession and to
        patient care.
    •   All the above towards the goal of greater collaboration and research capability, which
        resulted in a significant increase in staff numbers, PhD awards, high-quality laboratory
        space, outputs, and income since REF2014.
 Our core mission is the pursuit of new knowledge in the molecular life sciences, and its application
 for useful purposes, thereby fulfilling the criteria of Research Excellence and High Impact. Our
 research covers three areas of core strengths, namely: Applied Molecular Biotechnology (AMB);
 Infectious Disease (ID); and Genomic and Cellular Dynamics (GCD). An intentional focus on
 themes, rather than a rigid group structure, enables our staff to participate in more than one
 research area, thereby encouraging collaboration and cross-disciplinary endeavour. Moreover,
 cogent (often multidisciplinary) groups with common interests consisting of multiple academics
 are encouraged where appropriate.

 The Applied Molecular Biotechnology (AMB) theme is characterised by significant industrial
 buy-in and end-user engagement in that it targets the application of fundamental research findings
 to biotechnological solutions. AMB’s activities range from: a) Industrial Biotechnology, with a focus
 on the production of biopharmaceuticals (a longstanding area of success for the School
 (Robinson, C.; Smales; see impact case study); b) the design and improvement of new Synthetic
 Biology products (Lawrence, Moore, Warren); and c) molecular diagnostics for fertility issues
 relevant to human health and agriculture (Griffin, O’Connor; see impact case study). Members of
 the theme have consistent and outstanding successes in accessing industrially oriented funding
 streams, including KTP, Innovate UK, Catalyst, GCRF, Industry Fellowships, and others (see
 section 3 for details). Consequently, this theme accounts for most of the School’s income, from
 research councils, industry, and the majority of the post-doctoral researchers and PhD students.
 Multiple advisory roles with diverse companies originate from this group, and help to maintain a
 strong network with end users. For example, Garrett advised on drug discovery to Kinsensus,
 Azeria Therapeutics, Centauri Therapeutics, and Sierra Oncology; Ortega Roldan on NMR-based
 metabolomics and protein interaction studies to AlgaeCytes and Charles River; Moore on cell-free
 system applications to Oxford Biotrans; and von der Haar on efficient recombinant gene design to
 UCB, ZuvaSyntha, and Phenotypeca Ltd. In collaborative terms, AMB leads the Centre for
 Industrial Biotechnology, which draws in support from the Kent Business School, the Faculty of


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social Sciences (now the Division of Natural Sciences), and the School of Engineering and Digital
 Arts.

 The Infectious Disease (ID) theme encompasses the fundamental study of a range of infectious
 agents, including bacteria, viruses, protozoans, fungi, and prions, with numerous examples of
 biomedical applications. This ranges from studies into nitric oxide metabolism in E. coli
 (Shepherd), evolutionary studies on microbial parasites (Tsaousis), aspects of the biology of
 fungal pathogens (Buscaino, Gourlay, Hall), and studies on viral evolution (Michaelis, Wass), anti-
 microbials (Kad), and fungal prions (Xue, Tuite). While focusing principally on fundamental
 research, this group has also increasingly connected to stakeholders in the human and animal
 health fields, resulting, for example, in one of our impact case studies (on preventing fungal
 colonisation of voice prostheses in cancer patients with laryngectomies; Gourlay), in an
 Interreg2Seas-funded project on the prevalence of Cryptosporidium in European Dairy Cows
 (Tsaousis), and in collaborative work on clinical sample analyses with our regional East Kent
 Hospital Universities Foundation Trust, EKHUFT (Shepherd, Tsaousis). There are two cogent,
 cross-disciplinary groups with more than one academic identity within this theme: the Kent Fungal
 Group (Tuite, Buscaino, Ezcurra, Gourlay, Hall, Mulvihill, Von Der Haar, Tullet, Xue), which brings
 groups researching the fundamental biology, pathogenicity, and biotechnological applications of
 fungal model organisms into collaboration with the Schools of Computing, Engineering, and
 Physics; and RAPID (ResistAnce Pathogenicity and Infectious Diseases) (Shepherd, Wass,
 Tsaousis, Tuite, Gourlay, Buscaino, Michaelis, Robinson, G.), which also draws in support from
 Kent Health, Pharmacy, and Computing.

 The Genomic and Cellular Dynamics (GCD) theme centres around a number of pathways and
 diseases where genomic processes and/or cellular architecture are crucial. It combines
 fundamental research with biomedical application in the areas of cancer, infertility, heart disease,
 deafness, blindness, Parkinson’s and autoimmune diseases. This includes chromosome evolution
 in microbes, birds, and mammals (Buscaino, Ellis, Farre, Griffin) genome function during
 reproduction (Ellis, Griffin), (mal)functioning of genomic processes and cellular signalling in cancer
 (Fenton, Garrett, Kad, Michaelis, Wass), studies of processes that lead to organismal ageing
 (Ezcurra, Korzelius, Tullet), and generation, sensing, and control of mechanical forces in the living
 cell (Geeves, Goult, Gourlay, Kad, Mulvihill). As for ID, much of the fundamental research in GCD
 translates to human health, and members of the group increasingly engage with clinical
 practitioners. This is evidenced, for example, by the co-supervision of doctoral students (Garrett
 with the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust), collaborations with the local East Kent NHS
 Trust (Shepherd, Tsaousis), Guy’s and St Thomas’ (Wass), as well as collaborations with world-
 leading fertility clinics – London Women’s Clinic, CARE fertility (Nottingham), Zouves Fertility (San
 Francisco), CCRM (Colorado), Andrology Solutions (London) – and with diagnostic laboratories
 (Igenomix, Cooper Surgical) (see also impact case study). Two cogent, cross-disciplinary groups,
 plus one Centre, identify within this theme, namely Mechanics and Dynamics of Cells and Proteins
 (MaDCaP) (Geeves, Goult, Gourlay, Kad, Mulvihill), and Evolution, Reproduction and Genome
 Organization (ERGO) (Griffin, Ellis, Farre, Fenton, Wass), forming part of the Centre for
 Interdisciplinary Studies for Reproduction (CISoR), which engages with the Schools of Law, Social
 Policy, Psychology, Philosophy, Anthropology and Conservation, History, and Physical Sciences.

 A key facet of our Research and Innovation Strategy has been in the area of staff recruitment over
 the last six years. This has shaped an interactive, well-rounded, and well-functioning research
 environment. Around half (14 of the current 28.8 FTE) were appointed during this REF period,
 providing a rare opportunity to employ strategically into developing areas. These included:
 Synthetic Biology (Lawrence and Moore complementing existing research in the Warren lab);
 Cancer Research (where Fenton and Garrett complemented the activities of Michaelis and Wass);
 and Evolution, Reproduction and Genome Organization (where Ellis, Farre, and O’Connor formed
 this new group with Griffin). The Infectious Disease theme was joined by Hall and Mulligan, and a
 new activity in Ageing Research was established through the recruitment of Ezcurra, Korzelius,
 and Tullet. Finally, Goult, Kad, Mulligan, and Ortega-Roldan strengthened existing capabilities in
 Biochemistry and Structural Biology.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supported by our mentoring and staff development mechanisms (see section 2), our newly
 recruited staff have been highly successful in producing funded grant applications, and have
 published their work in leading journals, including Nature, Nature-associated journals such as
 Nature Communications and Nature Protocols, eLife, Cell Reports, Current Biology, and PNAS.
 Their contribution to research excellence in the School is thus significant and highly valued.

 2. People

 Summary of Research-Active Staff and Students

 Over the current REF period, 11.2 FTE on Education and Research (E&R) contracts left the School
 through retirement (5.6), through taking up positions elsewhere (4.6), and through transfer to non-
 research contracts (1). This was balanced by the recruitment of 14 new E&R members of staff,
 growing the School to its current size of 28.8 Category A staff. At the time of writing, this includes
 7 FTE at Lecturer level, 8 FTE at Senior Lecturer level, 5 FTE at Reader level, and 7.8 FTE at the
 Professor level. The School houses 3 full-time Research Fellows, and 4 full-time facility managers
 who support our research staff by maintaining and running essential large items of equipment.
 Moreover, 7 academic staff on Education, Scholarship and Professional Practice (ES&P) contracts
 are not directly involved in research, but provide essential support for the School’s research by
 delivering a large share of the teaching duties. Addressing issues of gender imbalance from our
 last submission (where only one female member of staff was submitted), 7 of our current Category
 A submitted staff are female (all newly recruited in this period), and we aim to approach a gender
 equal ratio by the next submission.

 Most of our hands-on research activities are carried out by postdoctoral and technical staff, as well
 as research students, and the School currently houses 35 Postdoctoral Research Assistants, 15
 Technical Staff, 88 Doctoral students, and 25 students undertaking MSc by Research degrees.

 Leadership and Governance

 The University is currently transitioning from a Faculty-based structure (19 Schools and 3 Centres
 housed in 3 Faculties) to one based on six multi-subject Divisions. The transition process took
 place in 2020 and culminated in the formal launch of the Divisions in November 2020. Throughout
 the REF period, our School was part of the Faculty of Sciences, reporting on research matters
 through the Dean and Associate Dean for Research to the University’s Executive Group. The
 School’s activities were directed by the Head of School and a Senior Management Team
 consisting of School Directors of Research, Graduates Studies, Learning and Teaching and
 Student Experience, as well as a School Administration Manager and a Science Support Manager.
 The directors involved staff in governance matters via a devolved committee structure, where
 committees relevant to research matters included the Research and Innovation Committee,
 Graduate Studies Committee, Facilities Committee, and Athena SWAN Committee. These met
 termly to report on relevant matters, to discuss issues within their remit, and, where appropriate,
 to approve of policies related to such issues. All these subject committees reported to an Academic
 Committee consisting of all academics, as well as representatives for postdoctoral research
 assistants, research students, and administrative staff. As a School, we exchanged examples of
 good practice and other information with other Schools in the Faculty through a Faculty Research
 Committee, and with the wider University through a Directors of Research Network that met termly.
 Specific Research Student Matters were governed by the Graduate School (now the Graduate
 and Researcher College), via a Faculty Associate Dean for Graduate Studies.

 The new Divisional structure is intended to facilitate more direct communication routes between
 the centre and the University’s academics, and to increasingly encourage interdisciplinary
 research. The School of Biosciences joined the Division of Natural Sciences, together with the
 Schools of Physical Sciences and Sports and Exercise Sciences, and with the Medway School of
 Pharmacy and the Kent and Medway Medical School as affiliates. Division-level committees led
 by Divisional Directors will continue the activities of previously School-led committees, and we are


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 currently working towards an effective sub-structure in the Division that is conducive to both
 efficient communication and for promoting interdisciplinary research.

 Staff Development

 We are fully committed to supporting staff at all levels to develop their research profiles, through
 a portfolio of measures that are integrated into a wider culture of support and mentoring. All our
 staff are appraised under the University’s ‘Reflect, Plan, Develop’ (RPD) framework, which for
 research-active staff includes discussion of annual Individual Research Plans, documenting both
 successes and challenges to date, and detailing plans for development.

 One central element of RPD discussions is the need for appropriate levels of research income.
 Although the University sets research income targets for Schools, the School decided not simply
 to pass these on to individuals. Instead, our aim is to enable individuals to attract research support
 to a level commensurate with the particular research problems on which they work. The high levels
 of research income of the School overall (see the section on income below) provides a framework
 and system of mentorship to encourage funding success among recently appointed colleagues.

 Both the University and the School offer a number of tools to support research staff specifically in
 their quest to attract research funding. The University’s Grant Factory (organised by the Graduate
 and Researcher College) is targeted primarily at postdoctoral researchers and early career
 academics, and provides training in various generic as well as funder-specific aspects of grant
 writing. The School offers events targeted to discipline-specific funders, including mock-panel
 meetings where early career researchers can gain experience of the decision-making dynamics
 on grant panels. The extensive presence of our more senior staff on actual funding panels (see
 the section below on our contribution to the research base) is a valuable asset in making these
 mock panels a realistic and valuable exercise. During this REF period, we also revised our formal
 procedures and clarified criteria for applying for study leave (modified from the pre-existing
 University policy on study leave). This has since been taken up by typically 2-3 members of
 academic staff per year with a demonstrably positive influence on both grant applications and
 outputs.

 An array of additional training opportunities that promote career development is available to our
 researchers. A number of our staff participated in national leadership training schemes such as
 AURORA (4 participants from the School during this REF period), or in Kent’s Leadership for
 Areas of Significant Responsibility (LASR) scheme (3 participants). During this REF period, the
 University established a scheme enabling postdoctoral workers to apply for independent summer
 studentships. This enables them to gain experience with grant writing, to establish small
 independent projects that are worked on by undergraduate summer placement students, and
 thereby also to gain valuable independent supervisory experience.

 Research Students

 Research students are one of the central pillars supporting our research. They are essential for
 developing research projects to a point where they are suitable for grant applications, and
 frequently also contribute directly to our highest-quality papers. Around a quarter of our submitted
 outputs are co-authored by PhD students.

 During this REF period, the School has trained and graduated on average 20 Research MSc and
 15 PhD students per year. While our MSc student cohort is almost entirely self-funded, most PhD
 students are externally funded, with a smaller number of (mostly international) self-funded doctoral
 students. Despite the cessation of BBSRC-funded studentships awarded to individual research
 departments in 2011, we succeeded in maintaining doctoral student intakes at very high levels,
 given the size of our unit. We were very successful in attracting CASE Studentships, notably in
 2015, when six academics from the School were awarded seven CASE studentships (6 x
 BBSRC,1 x MRC). Since the decision by BBSRC to cease open CASE competitions in 2016, we
 maintained PhD student numbers through a mixture of University-funded Graduate Teaching

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assistantships, direct industrial funding, the Global Challenges Doctoral Centre (established from
 GCRF-related QR funding), charity funding, and philanthropic donations (1 Rogerson and 2 Stolz
 studentships annually). With the award in 2019 of BBSRC DTP3 funding to SoCoBio (a Doctoral
 Training Partnership between Kent, Southampton, Sussex, Portsmouth, and East Malling
 Research), we look forward to continuing the successful provision of high-quality postgraduate
 training.

 Research students typically receive training in subject-specific skills in the School, and training in
 transferable skills through the rich offerings of the Graduate and Researcher College’s Researcher
 Development Programme. Some transferable skills training is also provided by the School, and in
 particular the training provided to those students contributing to our undergraduate teaching was
 mentioned in two consecutive rounds of accreditation of our UG programmes by the Royal Society
 of Biology as sector best practice. All research students are expected to participate in an annual
 Research Student Symposium in which they present their work as posters (MSc and second-year
 PhD students) or oral presentations (third-year PhD students) to the School, and which attracts
 both internally and externally funded prizes (the latter including the Lonza Prize for best oral
 presentation; and the Knowles Prize for best work with an applied aspect). The Research Student
 Symposium always ends with a presentation by an invited speaker chosen for their standing in the
 field and for a track record in inspiring future generations of scientists.

 As part of our preparations for the SoCoBio DTP, we established a coordinated training structure
 that makes both subject-specific and transferable skills training opportunities from Kent,
 Southampton, Sussex, and Portsmouth available to all students associated with the DTP. This will
 further enhance training opportunities.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion

 All Biosciences staff have equal opportunities to make contributions to our research activities, and
 to support them to succeed in their research ambitions is a central goal of the School.
 Consequently, we have made strong commitments to improving our EDI position during this REF
 period. Many of these improvements have been linked to our Athena SWAN Bronze status, which
 was first awarded in 2014, successfully renewed in 2019, and as a result of which we have
 developed an action plan with the aim of achieving Silver status in the next REF period. Among
 changes that have directly improved our practice in this area are the provision of dedicated EDI
 training courses for all staff, as well as Unconscious Bias Awareness training for all decision-
 makers; for example, members of interview panels and the Senior Leadership Team. Moreover,
 since the Athena SWAN award, we initiated regular surveys of our staff to capture diversity better,
 and to highlight areas in need of further improvement. We are currently establishing surveys
 specifically to follow the impact of Covid-19-related restrictions throughout 2020 on individual
 researchers, and this will inform how Covid-19 research mitigation funds made available by the
 University will be spent.

 The School has particularly improved its position with respect to female staff members. As
 mentioned, 7 of the 28.8 FTE academic staff submitted to this REF exercise are female (compared
 to only one in REF 2014), and female staff now constitute one-quarter of our academic staff base,
 including three at Lecturer, two at Senior Lecturer, one at Reader, and one at Professor level. In
 this REF period, the success rate in promotion applications of female staff have exceeded that of
 male staff, leading to an improved balance in representation of staff across seniority levels.

 In order to enable early career members of academic staff to consolidate their research groups
 successfully at a time when they are also likely to start families, the School funds temporary
 laboratory manager positions for research group leaders going on parental leave. This is aimed at
 protecting the continuation of research activities during the period of absence of the PI. It was
 taken up by two staff members (Buscaino, Tullet) during the REF period, both of whom were able
 to start their academic careers very successfully with excellent papers, repeated grant successes,
 and promotions to Senior Lecturer.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Our research is supported by competitive levels of external income from a wide range of funders,
 including Government, charities, and industry. The total external research and innovation funding
 awarded to the School of Biosciences during the REF period amounted to £26.1 million, or an
 average of over £125k per research-active FTE per annum. Our most important individual grant
 funder was BBSRC (accounting for £10.5 million in grant awards during the REF period). The
 remaining funding was awarded by 36 distinct funders, of which the European Commission, MRC,
 and Wellcome Trust awarded between £1 million and £2 million each, and the Leverhulme Trust,
 Innovate UK, and Royal Society awarded between £0.5 million and 1 million each.

 During the REF period, external support for our research broke new ground in several ways. We
 received some of the largest awards ever made to the University, with notable successes including
 the UKRI Strength in Places-funded consortium Growing Kent & Medway to strengthen the
 competitiveness of Britain’s horticulture, food and drink industries (£3.1 million to Kent; Robinson,
 C., Buscaino), a GCRF award on enhancing the capacity for biopharmaceuticals and vaccine
 production in South-East Asia (£2.2 million to Kent; Robinson C., Smales), a BBSRC sLola on the
 Industrial exploitation of bacterial microcompartments (£1.4 million to Kent; PI Warren), and a
 directly industrially funded collaboration with Lonza (£609k to Kent; Smales). We also attracted
 awards for the first time from a number of new funders, including Cancer Research UK (3 awards,
 £437k), the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation (2 awards, £382k), the Human Frontiers Science
 Program (1 award, £239k), and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (1 award, £81k).

 A particular hallmark of the School is the broad distribution of research funding across its staff
 base, with three-quarters of our staff acting as PI on at least one successful three-year grant or
 externally funded three-year studentship during the REF period. More than one-third of our staff
 acted as PIs on multiple three-year grants. Activities under the Applied Molecular Biotechnology
 (AMB) banner were at the forefront of our successful grant writing efforts, with both the Infectious
 Disease (ID) and the Genomic and Cellular Dynamics (GCD) themes also contributing
 substantially.

 As already shown, the School has a strong industrial component to its funding, and this is a major
 driver of the high impact our science achieves. Aside from directly industrially funded projects
 (£978k), we were particularly successful in our participation in the industrially co-funded, BBSRC-
 led Networks in industrial Biotechnology and Bioenergy. Two of the 13 first-round NiBBs that ran
 from 2014 to 2019 were co-led from the School (BioProNET, Smales; Metals in Biology, Warren),
 and our academics successfully bid for proof-of-concept grant or business interaction voucher
 funding awarded through four distinct NiBBs. While the NiBB awards were relatively small in
 monetary value (typically £5k-100k), they drove the development of important, innovative research
 activities that frequently lead to larger grant applications, as well as constituting first points of
 contact with industrial partners for many of our early career researchers. As such these activities
 form one end of a successful pipeline of industrial activities, at the other end of which we held
 successful BBSRC LINK awards (Smales with ICB and with Lonza Biologics; Warren with DuPont;
 Mulvihill with Fujifilm Diosynth; Griffin with JSR Genetics, Topigs Norsvin, and ActivfET), UKRI
 Industrial Biotechnology Catalyst (Robinson, C., Smales), Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 (Griffin, twice with the London Women’s Clinic and once with Oxford Gene Technology; Smales
 with Lonza), Innovate UK grants (Griffin with Paragon and Boviteq; Smales with Lonza), Apex
 (Kad), fielded three Royal Society Industry Fellows (Mulvihill, Smales, Warren; in addition, von der
 Haar was awarded a Royal Society Short Industry Fellowship), generated licensing income of
 £167k, and generated a number of new patents (Warren, Smales, Robinson, C.). The enterprise
 activity CytoScreen Solutions (Griffin, O’Connor – see impact case study; turnover around £100k
 per annum, providing support for one Research Fellow (O’Connor) as well as a 0.6FTE technician
 and one PhD student.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In summary, all aspects of the School’s research are supported by appropriate and competitive
 levels of funding that we generate from a broad array of funders.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The School of Biosciences is physically located in three buildings. The University regularly invests
 funds to ensure appropriate upkeep of the building infrastructure, and to adapt labs and offices to
 changing requirements. During the REF period, this included general building refurbishment at a
 cost of £3.6 million, as well as construction of the Freedman Science Student Hub, which contains
 new staff offices and enabled us to convert previously used student space into additional lab space
 (total cost £1.7 million). Together, these measures have provided some very welcome relief on
 space pressures in the School, and have enabled us to increase the number of research groups
 compared to the previous REF.

 We maintain a number of central facilities in house that support our research. These are targeted
 to provide cutting-edge equipment most beneficial to ongoing research in the School, with
 interactions with external users a secondary consideration in deciding which kind of equipment to
 provide. All facilities are run by experienced managers responsible for planning experiments and
 training new users.

 The Biomolecular Science Facility houses mass spectrometers (Waters Synapt G2Si, Bruker
 micrOTOF-Q, and Agilent single quad GC-MS) for protein and metabolomics work, as well as
 general equipment for chromatography, fluorimetry, and circular dichroism. Our Image Analysis
 Facility houses a Zeiss LSM 880 Elyra confocal microscope with Airyscan and PALM/STORM
 Super Resolution capabilities, a spinning disk confocal microscope, and a Jeol 1230 120kV
 Transmission Electron Microscope equipped with a new Gatan One View 16mp camera with
 automatic drift correction. A Leica EM UC7 ultramicrotome is available for sample preparation for
 the EM. This facility also houses a Bruker Multimode Atomic Force Microscope, which is
 maintained by our Chemical Biology research group (Xue). The Wellcome Trust Protein NMR
 Facility houses a 600 MHz five-channel Bruker Avance III spectrometer equipped with a
 cryoprobe, which can observe a wide range of biologically relevant nuclei at high sensitivity. The
 instrument is also equipped with a 24-place automated sample changer.

 In addition to these long-established facilities, this REF period saw investment in an extended
 central computing facility supporting our bioinformatics groups, as well as other groups’ analyses
 of deep sequencing data (£85k). Two successful BBSRC ALERT bids led by the School enabled
 us to establish innovative facilities that serve the wider UK Science base by providing access to
 cutting-edge equipment not otherwise accessible to UK academics. A successful 18ALERT bid by
 Robinson, C. (250k) funded a Sartorius Ambr250 pilot-scale Parallel Bioreactor Facility, enabling
 academics and industrial end users to explore how experimental biopharmaceutical constructs
 behave under industrially relevant expression conditions. At the time of acquisition, this system
 was one of only two such instruments housed in academic institutions in the UK. The following
 year, a successful 19ALERT bid led by Kad with co-applicants from Sussex and Nottingham (750k)
 funded acquisition of a Lumicks C-Trap instrument for advanced single molecule studies, which is
 being housed in the Kent National Optical Trapping (KNOT) Facility.

 Equipment in our facilities, as well as larger equipment in research labs, is maintained through
 both external grants and internal investment. Overall, investment in equipment totalled £1.5 million
 from central University funds, with notable items including new high-end mass spectrometry
 equipment (£428k) and a significant upgrade of our microscopy capabilities with the acquisition of
 the Zeiss Elyra instrument (£411k); £1.0 million from direct investment of School funds, with
 notable items including microscopy lenses and cameras (£140k); and £1.0 million from Research
 Grants, mostly for more specialised equipment housed in individual research groups.

 Use of our in-house facilities is complemented by excellent levels of access to national facilities,
 as well as facilities at collaborating institutions. This includes time on the National NMR facility and
 Synchrotron time at the Crick Institute, where the School applies for annual allocations, and at the

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Central Laser Facility at Harwell, where members of the School were awarded time and
 consumables to conduct FLIM/FRET & SIM experiments (Gourlay, Mulvihill). Lastly, a number of
 our academics use the extensive Sequencing facilities (including Illumina and Nanopore
 instruments) at East Malling Research, a local collaborating institution that is also a member of
 our SoCoBio DTP.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 National and International Collaborations

 With its clear vision of developing basic scientific discovery into genuinely impactful outcomes,
 Biosciences at Kent is naturally outward-facing, and engages with an extensive range of
 collaborators and stakeholders. This includes national collaborations based on jointly held grants
 (BBSRC, Wellcome Trust, MRC, EPSRC, Leverhulme) with Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol, Warwick,
 Manchester, Queen Mary, Durham, Newcastle, UCL, Southampton, Leicester, and Aberdeen; and
 international collaborations, with more than half of our publications featuring co-authors from other
 countries, selected examples including the University of Innsbruck, ITQB (Lisbon), University of
 Cork, University of Georgia, University of Colorado, Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding
 Research (Cologne), Whitehead Institute (Boston), BOKU (Vienna), the Czech Academy of
 Sciences, SAHMRI (Adelaide), Sharjah (UAE) and the University of Alberta (Canada).

 Interdisciplinary Collaborations

 Our interdisciplinary collaborations are evidenced by joint grants and publications with Computing
 (Tullet, von der Haar, Wass), Chemistry (Garrett, Kad, Smales), Physical Sciences (Griffin,
 Michaelis, Robinson, G., Wass) and Engineering (Gourlay, Michaelis, von der Haar, Wass), and
 extensive collaboration with end users such as industry and medical professionals (outlined in
 detail in section 1 above). Several academics from the School are collaborating members of large
 international research networks, including the Avian Phylogenomics Project (Griffin, Farre, Zhang,
 et al., 2014, Science 346:1311), the wwPDB/CCDC/D3R Ligand Validation Workshop (Brown,
 Adams, et al., 2016, Structure 24:502), the Critical Assessment of Functional Annotation (CAFA)
 network (Wass, Zhou, et al., 2019, Genome Biology 20:244), and the Moore Foundation’s Marine
 Microbiology Initiative (Tsaousis, von der Haar, Faktorova, et al., 2020, Nature Methods).

 These extensive examples illustrate our success in encouraging and fostering collaborations
 across the University and the wider research base, with the aims of addressing significant global
 challenges and maximising impact at the interface between Biosciences and other disciplines. It
 is this approach that has supported several successful GCRF applications that focus on
 challenges in developing countries, with the production of Biotherapeutics and Vaccines in
 Thailand (Robinson, C., Smales), the provision of key nutrients in India (Warren), and the
 development of natural compounds for the treatment of cancer in Vietnam (Garrett).

 Our staff also have strong representation, and make significant contributions, elsewhere in the
 research base. Over the REF period, the School fielded a panel chair (Brown), three core
 members (Buscaino, Mulvihill, Tuite), and six pool members (or specific calls) on BBSRC panels
 (Goult, Kad, Robinson. G., von der Haar, Warren, Wass), and was represented on numerous other
 research funding panels nationally: MRC (Garrett), EPSRC (Kad, Warren), NERC, CRUK
 (Garrett), Breast Cancer Now (Garrett), Wellcome Trust (Gourlay, Michaelis), Leverhulme Trust,
 British Council (Goult), Newton Fund (Goult), MSCA (EU) (Tsaousis), Biotechnology Research
 Council (India) (Smales).

 Shaping Policy

 We have contributed to shaping policy through membership on various advisory panels, including
 the BBSRC Skills and Careers Advisory Panel (von der Haar) and the EPSRC Life Science
 Interface Advisory Panel (Kad). Ezcurra was a member of a panel giving evidence to the House
 of Lords Science and Technology Committee on Healthy Ageing. Garrett co-chaired the CRUK

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New Agents Committee and was a member of the CRUK Small Molecule Expert Review Panel.
 She currently acts as advisor to the CRUK Therapeutic Discovery Laboratories and the CRUK
 Lung Cancer Centre of Excellence, and contributes strongly to shaping the future of cancer drug
 development in the UK.

 Leading Roles in Learned Societies

 A number of our staff take leading roles in learned societies, including: Griffin, who is President of
 the International Chromosome and Genome Society, Treasurer of the Preimplantation Genetic
 Diagnosis International Society (2013-18), and on the board of the British Andrology Society
 (2016-19); Tsaousis, who is Vice-President of the UK Protistology Society and Chair-elect of the
 Eukaryotic Division of the Microbiology Society; Tuite, who was Chair-elect and then Chair of the
 Scientific Conferences Committee of the Microbiology Society; Garrett, who served as General
 Secretary of the British Association of Cancer Research; Mulligan, who is Councillor to the
 International Transmembrane Transport Society; and Hargreaves, who is a panel member of the
 Genes panel of the Biochemical Society.

 Conferences, Workshops, and Training Courses

 During the REF period, Biosciences staff organised or co-organised a large number of national
 and international conferences, workshops, and training courses. One of the flagship events in this
 respect is the EMBO Practical Course, ‘The application of kinetic methods to dynamic biological
 systems’, which has been held in Canterbury bi-annually until 2017 and was organised by Geeves.
 Beyond this, members of the School also contributed to other summer schools (e.g. the 2015
 FEBS/EMBO course on ‘Mitochondria in life, death and disease’, Gourlay), and were involved in
 the organisation of numerous conferences:

    •   Conferences on Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins, Hamburg (2016) and Sheffield
        (2014); session chair: Shepherd.
    •   Gordon Research Conference on the Chemistry and Biology of Tetrapyrroles, Newport,
        Rhode Island, 2014; chair: Warren, also adviser for these meetings in 2016 and 2018 and
        session chair in 2020.
    •   British Association for Cancer Research Conference, ‘Response and Resistance in Cancer
        Therapy’, 2018 and 2020 (postponed to 2021); organisers: Michaelis, Wass, Garrett,
        Fenton.
    •   British Association for Cancer Research Conference, ‘Advances in Cancer Drug
        Discovery’, Cambridge, 2014; organiser: Garrett.
    •   Genes and Cancer Meeting, Cambridge, 2015; organiser: Garrett.
    •   Annual National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) conference, Liverpool, 2016; co-
        organiser: Garrett, also for the same conference in Glasgow 2018.
    •   Alpbach Workshops on Muscle Myosin and Motility, Alpbach, Austria, 2016 and 2019;
        organiser: Geeves.
    •   European Muscle Conference, Canterbury, 2019; organiser: Geeves (also on the
        organising committee for this conference in 2015, 2016, and 2017).
    •   Pig Breeders Round Table, Canterbury, 2015, 2017, 2019; chair: Griffin.
    •   13th Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis International Society Conference, 2014; chair:
        Griffin.
    •   20th International Chromosome Conference, Canterbury, 2014; chair: Griffin, also co-chair
        for the 22nd International Chromosome Conference in Prague, 2018.
    •   XXII meeting of the International Society for Evolutionary Protistology, Cyprus, 2018;
        organiser: Tsaousis.
    •   Microbiological Society British Yeast Group Meeting, Canterbury 2017; organisers:
        Buscaino, Gourlay, Hsu, Tuite, von der Haar.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Public Engagement

 Biosciences staff are actively engaged in public engagement. The School, led by Tuite and
 assisted by many other of its staff, was the principal academic partner for the Wellcome Trust-
 funded Myelin Basic Protein Project (MBP2). This project received widespread acclaim for the way
 in which it engaged secondary-school students in real research, was the forerunner to the National
 Authentic Biology programme, which engaged schools and universities across the UK in
 collaborative projects (including further Kent partnerships between Geeves and the Archbishop’s
 School, Canterbury, and between Warren and Roger Manwood School, Sandwich), and eventually
 culminated in the formation of the Institute for Research in Schools.

 Other flagship activities include sustained public engagement throughout the period through
 documentaries that received UK-wide airing (Griffin, ‘IVF – the Science of making babies’ and
 ‘Love my genome’), and through widely read contributions to The Conversation (Ellis, Griffin, ‘The
 Y chromosome is disappearing’, >2 million reads; Griffin, O’Connor, ‘Jurassic Spark: Can we really
 resurrect a dinosaur?’, >95,000 reads and reprinted in Scientific American). Numerous other
 presentations in Café Scientifique, Pint of Science, and talks to the general public were delivered
 by staff members, including the Nature Blogs and Science Magazine (AAAS) webinars. Griffin has
 recently been awarded a British Film Institute grant (£275,00) to make a series of six
 documentaries on genomics, aimed at 14-18-year-olds.




                                                                                            Page 10
