Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 14: Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview

The School of Geographical Sciences is a thriving, world-leading centre for integrated research in
environmental systems, society, and their interactions. Through a combination of physical, life and
social scientists, humanities scholars, and mathematicians, we address some of the biggest
intellectual and practical problems of the 21st century such as climate change, urbanisation, health
and well-being, poverty and development, biodiversity loss and the ongoing crises in water,
energy, and food security.

Major successes over the REF period are evidenced by a broad range of measures:
    • More than 1785* research publications (>5 per FTE per year), including 20 books and 131
        book chapters, with 8200 external co-authors/collaborators from >4800 different
        organisations, receiving >29000 citations.
    • Increased the number of prestigious NERC Independent Research Fellows and Royal
        Society University Research fellows from 3 to 8*.
    • Expanded our staffing to deliver greater strength, cohesion, and breadth of research,
        through recruitments from ECR to professorial levels, tripling (from 2 to 7*) the number of
        female professors and halving the number of fixed term category A staff.
    • Doubled the number of our PhD awards to nearly 100 and leadership of 3 UKRI
        DTPs/CDTs and two EU ITNs.
    • Research income has grown by 65% to >£25m*. Per annum (pa) income grew from £3.1 to
        £3.6m*. We lead 3 UKRI Large Grant programmes and have diversified funding sources
        and the researchers receiving funding, doubling Human Geography research income to
        £0.7m pa.
    • Impact is embedded throughout our research culture, generating >£537k of direct funding
        and >£2m of in-kind impact funding from government, business, and charities.
    • Staff research has been recognised with multiple awards, including 5 Academy of Social
        Sciences Fellowships, 3 Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Awards, 2 AGU
        Fellowships, the Royal Geographical Society’s Murchison Award and Victoria Medal, and a
        CBE.
Our ambition is to develop new fundamental knowledge that radically transforms our understanding
of the world and to create exciting new approaches to social science-physical science debates,
translating and exchanging our new findings with the broadest range of stakeholders.

Our ethos is to ensure that staff are world leading researchers or on track to become so, that
knowledge is co-produced through our partner networks, and that our work produces highly
impactful research outputs, eliciting societal, operational, and environmental change.

*All data are for the REF2021 census period, and comparisons are to our REF2014 data.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
1.1   Research Structure and Management

Since REF2014, our organisational structure has been refreshed with a strengthening of research
groups and the formation of new, cross-cutting research ‘strands’ in dynamic new areas of our
continually evolving discipline (Figure 1).




(Figure 1: School Research Structure and Management.)



Research strands were developed to meet our REF2014 objective of growing interdisciplinary
research within the School. These represent clusters of collaborative research activity, involving
staff from several research groups, Schools and Faculties. They allow us to rapidly innovate and
lead new developments in cross-disciplinary research. Evidence of their success includes 10 new
interdisciplinary PhD students linked to the Biogeochemistry strand, and multiple GCRF-funded
projects (section 3.1).

Research groups provide the research “home” and provide the management units for our
research activity and have national and international visibility. All staff and students belong to one
group, and groups gradually evolve in response to our strategic aims and developments.
Leadership rotates every 4 years, with groups meeting regularly via seminars, reading groups,
strategy meetings, and social activities, providing peer-to-peer mentoring, training, and support for
all members.

Our School Research Committee manages research within the school. Chaired by our co-
directors of research for physical and human geography, it includes our Impact and Postgraduate
Research Directors and Research Group Leads. This committee develops and oversees delivery
of our research strategy, sets priorities for investment, liaises with our School Health and Safety


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
(H&S), Research Ethics, Laboratories and Facilities, and Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
committees, and feeds into School Board and Faculty Committees. It advises on staff
appointments, promotes research, impact, and knowledge exchange opportunities, manages
Research Away Days, and delivers targeted training, mentoring and support.

Our Research Environment is nested within a series of Faculty, University, strategic regional and
international structures, providing a rich environment that supports and encourages research and
impact delivery from the individual scholar to multi-national research collaborations and strategic
stakeholder partnerships, at all career stages (Figure 2). Staff lead and participate in cross-
disciplinary University Research Institutes and Centres (URIs/URCs) and are supported by the
Research, Enterprise, and Development (RED) group, and Faculty Research Committees.
Strategic regional and international partnerships then provide further opportunities for multilateral
research collaboration and impact, as elaborated in our Institution Environment Statement:
REF5a.




(Figure 2: University Research Environment and Strategic Regional and International Networks.)



1.1.1 Research Group Highlights since REF2014 and Future Strategic Research Aims
(All research highlights are linked to REF2021 research outputs)

Bristol Research Initiative for the Dynamic Global Environment (BRIDGE): focuses on past,
present, and future Earth system through modelling, geochemical, phylogenetic evolution, and
remotely sensed data. Highlights: (1) improved estimates of climate sensitivity from paleo data, (2)
established the origins of photosynthetic eukaryotes from low salinity habitats, (3) improved
understanding of recent methane and CFC trends. Future aims: (a) develop globally important
geochemical inventories; (b) link microbial communities’ evolution to past environmental change;


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
(c) improve translation of model outputs for stakeholders; (d) inform future climate by applying
state-of-the-art Earth system models to the past.

Bristol Glaciology Centre: uses fieldwork, remote sensing, modelling, and experimental
approaches to investigate physical and biogeochemical processes in glacial environments.
Highlights: (1) major revision of Antarctic ice loss due to marine ice-cliff instability, (2) ice sheets as
major source of iron, silica and phosphorous to oceans, (3) ice sheet contributions to future sea-
level rise from structured expert judgment. Future aims: (a) develop new techniques to monitor
present-day and project future ice sheet and sea level trends; (b) understand the stability of the
Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets; (c) quantify the impacts of glacial biogeochemical processes in
shaping the evolution of complex life and regulating global biogeochemical cycles.

Hydrology Group: research global-scale flood risk, dryland hydro-climatology, and aquatic
biogeochemistry through monitoring, experimentation, and modelling. Highlights: (1) first high-
resolution global flood hazard model, (2) major agricultural changes required to mitigate
eutrophication under climate change, (3) proof that climate is a first order control on drainage basin
evolution. Future aims: (a) deliver enhanced tools for flood prediction, risk assessment and
mitigation; (b) determine the impacts of climate change on water and food security; (c) conduct
cross-disciplinary research on the key drivers of water quality degradation and biodiversity loss; (d)
strengthen translation of research to better inform water policy and management.

Quantitative Spatial Science: addresses social, political, economic, and environmental questions
through sophisticated quantitative research methods. Highlights: (1) investigation of urban
geography and protest mobilisation in Africa, (2) understanding intersectionality using multilevel
modelling, (3) developing and supporting numeracy and statistical literacy in Geography. Future
Aims: (a) analyse the 2021 UK Census to determine social, cultural, educational, and economic
shifts; (b) explore space time implications of exposures to multiple contextual environments and
their influence on the life course; (c) pioneer new methods in statistics and data science, made
publicly available in open access software.

Political Economy: applies spatially sensitive approaches to the study of economic, social, and
political phenomena across local to global scales. Highlights: (1) major monograph on “More than
rural: Textures of Thailand's agrarian transition”, (2) translational research from the global south
that has shifted the paradigm of urban studies, (3) pioneering Ecuador experiment in living well.
Future Aims: (a) progress innovative mixed method approaches utilising insights from survey,
visual, narrative, and participatory action research; (b) advance political ontology approaches to
transform postcolonial ecology, socio-technical, social justice, biotechnology/bioethics debates; (c)
enhance thinking in socio-economic justice, sustainability, equality, governance, and the politics of
environmental change through detailed case study work.

Historical and Cultural Geography: focuses on the environmental histories of the early modern
and modern periods. Highlights: (1) major monograph on “Malthus: The Life and Legacies of an
Untimely Prophet”, (2) analysis of internal Migration in England and Wales, 1851-1911, (3)
assessment of the Biogeographies of the Blue Bird of Paradise. Future Aims: (a) novel
reassessments of British migration history from quantitative and qualitative perspectives; (b)
revisionist monographs in environmental history; (c) major theoretical monographs in postcolonial
theory, Spinozist philosophy, and philosophical approaches to the environmental humanities.



                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Personal Finance Research Centre (PFRC): studies personal finance from the consumer's
perspective, providing technical and policy advice to a range of organisations. Highlights: (1)
understanding the poverty premium paid by lower income households, (2) producing practical
resources to support customers in vulnerable situations, (3) examining the role of the financial
services industry in reducing gambling-related harm. Future Aims: (a) explore the potential of
innovation and technology to support the financial wellbeing of lower-income consumers; (b) co-
ideate new methodologies for citizen empowerment in the data economy; (c) examine the impact
of problem gambling on families and their finances.

1.1.2     Current Research Strands and their Strategic Research Aims

Global Development & Environmental Change: integrates physical and human geography
expertise to tackle global challenge research on urbanisation, food security, economic
development, political conflict, environmental degradation, and disease outbreaks. The strategic
aims are to investigate how violent conflict in drylands regions affect land degradation, how
governance structures affect land use and carbon emissions, and how science influences the 2030
Global Development agenda.

Modelling & Geocomputation: This strand allows Human and Physical Geographers to exchange
knowledge and skills through their shared focus on the latest data science, modelling, and
computational methods. The strategic aim is to bring together advanced modelling approaches to
explore alternative solutions to current problems; for instance, how social science modellers can
shed light on climate problems thought machine learning or how physical science modellers can
give insight into population flows.

Biogeochemistry: brings together School researchers and from across the University, to study
pollution, global biogeochemical cycles, and the processes controlling interactions between people,
ecosystems, and environment. The strategic aims are to determine the interlinkages between the
ocean, ice, freshwater and terrestrial biogeochemical cycles, and how we can more effectively
manage the carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus cycles under environmental and social change.

Ethics and Subjectivity: draws together staff across the social and natural sciences to examine
contemporary theoretical and political challenges to ideas of collective life posed by phenomena
including racial injustice, environmental crisis, and the rise of populism. Its strategic aim is to put
ethics at the centre of geographical and interdisciplinary debates, exploring the burgeoning field of
bioethics, the ethical import of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, and the field of non-
western ethics.

Political Ecology: brings together researchers across the university to advance critical scholarship
examining how non-human natures are conceptualised, mapped, governed, and reconstituted in
emerging socio-environmental and resource hotspots. The strategic aims are to examine the multi-
scalar knowledge dynamics and power structures that shape contemporary human-environment
interactions, focusing on contested issues in both urban and rural contexts.

1.2     Research Strategy

Our REF2014 submission was built around the strong performance of our Research Groups and
our strategy for the current assessment period was to retain this strength while developing

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
interdisciplinary and global challenge research. Understanding these challenges and developing
solutions requires an interdisciplinary approach which Geography is ideally placed to lead.

We have achieved all the strategic research goals identified for REF2014 (quoted in italics below).

   •   Recruit additional academic staff in key fieldsREF2014 and Build and retain critical staff
       masses in Research GroupsREF2014. We appointed 22 new permanent faculty staff (growth
       of 7 FTE, ~16% increase) since REF2014, focusing on exceptional research talent, global
       challenges, and interdisciplinary research. This has refreshed our groups and brought new
       Human-Physical foci on development and climate change in Africa and Asia (Parnell,
       James, Duminy, Rigg, Behzadi); global warming, mitigation, and the Anthropocene
       (Palmer, Ganesan, Mitchell, Ginn, Watson); and flooding and water management
       (Johnes, Atkins, Morgan, Coxon).
   •   Growth of Interdisciplinary researchREF2014: We created a structure to promote
       interdisciplinarity through our new Research Strands, increased our leadership of cross-
       disciplinary research in the University via the URIs (section 1.4) and externally through
       multiple strategic regional and international partnerships. We grew our intellectual strengths
       in sustainability research through our new Global Challenges Research Professor
       (Parnell).
   •   Lead the intellectual challenges in the university and beyondREF2014: We have strengthened
       the discipline through chairing and membership of a broad range of UKRI and learned
       society strategic development and funding panels; and advisory roles in Government, third
       sector and a wide range of businesses (see below and section 4).
   •   Build our Postgraduate Community and LeadershipREF2014: PhD student awards increased
       to 97 (from 44.5) and we strengthened our training and pastoral provision. We lead three
       UKRI DTPs/CDTs, led two EU ITNs, and participated in 6 more (section 2.2), allowing our
       postgraduate community to flourish and greatly strengthening our intellectual environment
       (section 2.2).
   •   Increase and Diversify FundingREF2014: Research income grew by 17% pa with reduced
       reliance on UKRI (decreased from 61% to 54% of total funding). EU funding and UK
       Government funding each increased to £0.9m pa. Human Geography research income
       more than doubled to £0.7m pa. while the proportion of staff in receipt of significant
       research funding also increased (section 3).
   •   Lead developments in HPC (High Performance Computing) and maintain cutting edge
       laboratoriesREF2014: We are heavily engaged with management of the University’s High-
       Performance Computing facilities, and Jean Golding Institute for data science, and lead its
       Biogeochemistry Research Platform. We have also invested >£1.9m in School HPC and
       laboratory facilities (sections 1.4, 3).

Our future research strategy builds on these successes, recognising the importance of growing
diversity within our community and all the benefits this brings. It has five key elements:

1. Recruit and diversify staff to build synergies between research groups/strands, focussing on
   fundamental research of the highest intellectual and societal importance.
2. Enhance staff retention by continuing to strengthen the intellectual environment, investment in
   world-class facilities, and maintaining strong support frameworks to allow our staff to grow into
   global leaders.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
3. Expand our research agenda geared toward promoting collaborative research with industry and
   government at city, national and international levels.
4. Further research impact and research-led entrepreneurship through broad and deep
   engagement with industry, government, regional partnerships, and NGOs.
5. Continue to increase and diversify our research income, grow our interdisciplinary research,
   and expand our postgraduate community.

We will use this research strategy to enhance our world-class research outputs and deliver far-
reaching and demonstrable economic and social impact to all communities.

1.3       Generating and sustaining research impact

We contribute to societal well-being, economic growth, and environmental sustainability by
embedding research-user engagement and impact throughout our research (see section 4.2 and
Impact Cases). Our Impact Director oversees our School Impact Strategy, ensuring that impact,
knowledge exchange and outreach are embedded in our research wherever possible. We
undertook an audit of impact activities in 2015, identifying and actioning:

      •    Strengthening human geographers’ research practice to ensure they achieve their full
           impact opportunities, using workshops to illustrate the range of possible impact.
      •    Mentoring staff and providing training on how to access funding and address the impact
           agendas within their work.
      •    Collaborating with Policy Bristol to enhance the impact of our research on policy and
           practice at local to international level.
      •    Promoting and supporting internships for staff and students into policy roles and industry
           and encouraging new start-up enterprises.

This approach is part of our overall Research Strategy and supported by the University’s Impact
and Engagement Strategy (see REF5a). It enables our academic ambitions to be translated into
impacts that are co-ordinated, often co-designed and/or co-produced with end-users, and carried
through into multiple sectors, including industry, NGOs and charities, government departments and
agencies, media, and with schools (section 3).

We continue to strengthen our impact activities and have set new goals for the next 5 years:

      •    Expand the reach and scope of our research, to ensure projects have the widest possible
           external engagement and impact.
      •    Increase our co-produced research as well as knowledge exchange engagement with
           policy makers, NGOs, and industry.
      •    Ensure impact goals and proposed stakeholder partners are routinely integrated into early-
           stage research planning for project proposals.
      •    Sustain the School’s tradition of public engagement through the media and work with
           schools and learned societies.

1.4       Supporting interdisciplinary research

Geography at Bristol is highly interdisciplinary. Most of our grants involve co-investigators beyond
Geography, and many staff have spent part of their careers outside Geography, bringing novel

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
ideas and approaches to the School. We strongly encourage this diversity which allows
interdisciplinary working to be deeply embedded within our research portfolio, while our Research
Strands promote effective sharing of new methods and skills between groups. These have also
allowed us to build stronger research links between physical and human geography, supported by
our strategic appointments. Evidence for success of this strategy is seen in our large range of
national and international collaborations (section 3 and 4).

We are located within the Faculty of Science and collaborate and share facilities in all Faculties,
particularly with the Faculty of Social Sciences and Law and the Faculty of Engineering, which co-
hosts our cross-faculty Hydrology Group. We also have strong links with staff in the new Faculty of
Life Sciences, cemented through multiple shared DTP/CDT studentships and large grant awards.
These provide unparalleled opportunities to develop innovative interdisciplinary research on major
global challenges.

Within the University we are strongly involved in interdisciplinary research via URIs and URCs:

Cabot Institute promotes cross-disciplinary research to develop practical solutions to improve how
we live and interact with the environment. Bates was founding director, the current director is
Wadham, while both Physical (Andrews, Bates, Ganesan, House, Johnes, Mitchell, Monteiro,
Richards, Sanchez-Baracaldo, Valdes) and Human Geography (Atkins, Fox, Jackson, Manley,
Milner, Parnell) staff have led themes, interdisciplinary research projects, and major public events.

Jean Golding Institute (JGI) provides a hub for data science and data-intensive research. Our
Quantitative Spatial Science group is heavily involved with the JGI (Wolf is on Steering Group), as
are Glaciology and BRIDGE groups. It is also linked to the Alan Turing Institute (national institute
for data science) and Wolf, Fox and Tranos are Turing Fellows.

Brigstow Institute brings researchers together with partners across the city and beyond to
experiment in new ways of living and being. Members of the School are extensively involved.
Fannin is a member of the Steering Group and Fannin, Ginn, Jackson, and Patchett lead
funded interdisciplinary projects.

Digital Futures Institute draws together experts in cybersecurity, digital health, and social
sciences. Fannin is involved in the Responsible Research for Innovation theme, and Atkins,
Fannin, MacLeavy, Tranos and Collard are all members of the Digital Futures Research Group.

Environmental Humanities Research Centre works on disentangling the beliefs, values, and
meaning associated with environmental issues that face the global community. Morgan is on the
Steering Group and Millner, Patchett and Ginn are members.

Perivoli Africa Research Centre is a cross-disciplinary community championing transformational
research and partnership to advance Africa’s achievement of its own aspirations. Parnell is on the
Advisory Board and Fox and Duminy are participants.

1.5    Creating an open research environment

The School supports open access (OA) publication as part of our mission to be recognised globally
for the quality of our research. Outputs are freely accessible via the University’s repository, PURE

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
(see REF5a). The only exceptions are non-academic papers, particularly reports for industry or
NGO groups, when copyright may be owned by the funder.

Our OA policy extends beyond publications, supporting openness with our research tools, model
datasets, and genome sequences. For instance, BRIDGE make freely available >10000
paleoclimate model simulations totalling 250TB of data, used by >200 researchers across the
world (www.paleo.bris.ac.uk). Other research data (totalling 71TB) are openly available on the
University’s Research Data Repository service.

Many of our models are freely available, including the LISFLOOD-FP flood inundation and
BISICLES ice sheet models. Many staff maintain GitHub accounts to share research codes. For
example, with other developers, Wolf maintains statistical and Python packages in the geographic
sciences ecosystem, with 0.5 million monthly downloads.

1.6   Supporting a culture of research integrity

We embed research integrity training into our doctoral and ECR training programmes and provide
ethics training for all new lecturing staff. All research involving human participants undergoes
review by our School Ethics Committee, overseen by the Faculty of Social Science and Law Ethics
Committee (at university level see REF5a). Research cannot start until ethical approval is granted.

All research undertaken in the School’s laboratories uses documented Standard Operating
Protocols, including those developed by our researchers. Compulsory training is delivered to new
users in our rigorous H&S protocols and to ensure that data generated are robust and traceable
through external audit. No field or laboratory research can start until a risk assessment and training
have been completed and signed off by our Technical Manager and Laboratories Manager.



 2. People

Overview

Staffing is the most important element of our research strategy. We recruit, support, and develop
outstanding talent. We have grown our category A staff from 46.4 to 49.8, through high-level Chair
(Johnes, Parnell, Rigg) and ECR recruitment (Andrews, Atkins, Behzadi, Coxon, Day, Davis,
Duminy, Ganesan, Gerlach, Ginn, House, James, Jellis, Landy, Mitchell, Morgan, Palmer,
Sanchez-Baracaldo, Tranos, Watson, Williamson, Wolf). Additionally, eleven existing staff were
promoted to Senior Lecturer, six to Reader, and seven to Professor. We have improved our gender
balance at senior level, with female professors rising from 2 to 7 through a combination of
promotion and recruitment. Diversity has also increased but remains an area of concern (BAME
staff increased from 2% to 8%). We also halved the number of fixed-term academic staff.

We have greatly increased, from 3 to 8, the number of prestigious ECR research fellowships, with
five NERC Independent Research Fellows (Arndt*, Ganesan*, Greene, Mitchell*, Watson*) and
three Royal Society University Research Fellows (Gasson, Ridgwell*, Sanchez-Baracaldo*). We
also host two Marie Curie (Jordan, Vishwakarma) and one European Space Agency (Landy*)
fellows. Many have been offered permanent appointments at Bristol (marked *). We hosted three
University Vice-Chancellor Fellows (Hope, Palmer*, Seviour: all have progressed to permanent

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
positions), while Day* is currently fully funded on an ESRC research project.

Our research is strongly influenced by the quality and vibrancy of our postdoctoral researcher
(PDRA) community. We currently have 28 PDRAs (c.f. 22 in 2014) and have employed 71 PDRAs
since REF2014. Senior staff provide mentoring (additional to their PI) and the School and
University offer an extensive set of training opportunities to help develop their careers. Many have
won fellowships and/or moved to permanent academic positions.

Our research students bring raw talent and vitality to our research environment. We have
increased the number of PhD studentships (100% increase in doctoral awards), created a new
MScR scheme attracting 7-8 students per year and lead three UKRI DTPs/CDTs. We have led two
and participated in six further EU ITNs.

Thirteen staff have moved to new posts. Three took positions at UK HEIs, while ten moved to
overseas universities, two left due to retirement and, sadly, one died in post.

2.1     Staffing strategy and staff development

Our staff development strategy is designed to ensure strong, sustained, and responsive support for
scholars at all stages of their careers. All have annual meetings with the Head of School or senior
academic to discuss workload, ambitions, and career progression. New lecturers choose a senior
colleague as mentor, and research staff receive mentoring. University training courses develop
research, leadership, and teaching skills. Mentors also receive training.

Our School Promotions Committee (new since REF2014) gives constructive feedback before
submission of promotion applications. Collegiality, advancement of equality and diversity,
interdisciplinarity, and all forms of impact are promotion criteria, alongside excellence in research,
teaching and administration. As evidence for the effectiveness of our processes, 24 of our staff
(>70% of staff in post >2 years) have been awarded promotion. Our gender and BAME statistics
are discussed in section 2.3.

2.1.1    Staffing and recruitment policy

Our strategy is to attract, develop and retain the best scholars. Our Research Committee collects
ideas from Groups and Strands, identifying strategic opportunities to deepen and widen our
research portfolio. These are then discussed by all staff. EDI issues are addressed throughout the
process, from phrasing of job advertisements to shortlisting and interviews (see section 2.3).

Evidence for success is the high quality of applications (typically >80 applicants from >10 countries
per post) to the resulting world-class appointments and improvements of our gender balance. We
also recruit via the ‘Exceptional Talent’ route, head-hunting staff for their strategic value (e.g.
Johnes) and appointed one of three University Global Challenge Research Chairs, Parnell, to
advance our research on global sustainability and development. We commonly make proleptic
appointments to outstanding research fellows (9 during REF period).

We also offer Visiting Associate and Senior Research Fellowships as dynamic 2-year
appointments which help strengthen the research environment (section 4.1).



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.1.2   Support for ECRs

All ECRs are offered mentors, for PDRAs these are in addition to their PI. We provide targeted
training programmes for ECRs, where senior staff and others offer workshops e.g. How to Write 4*
papers, Winning Fellowships and Funding, and Developing Impact. The University also runs >100
training courses for ECRs. New lecturers are protected from large administrative roles and given a
light teaching load.

We work closely with fellowship applicants, alongside the RED team, to support applicants for the
process. Mock panels help all candidates prepare for interviews and, once in post, our Staff
Review and Development programme provides support for ECRs to implement their long-term
research plans.

2.1.3   Study Leave

All academic staff qualify for a half-year, teaching-free period of study leave every four years,
allowing extended periods of research and/or impact activity. Staff can apply for a University
Research Fellowship, which provides £10k funding to support their leave (awarded to 10 of our
staff during this REF period). Staff are also encouraged to apply for external support for study
leave (e.g. Bamber, Bates and Valdes received Leverhulme senior fellowships). There is a
research stipend of £1000 pa to all staff who are not in receipt of external funding and new starters
receive funds of £5k pa for two years. Results of study leave are monitored and many of our
research outputs, grants, and impact successes have arisen from this leave.

2.1.4   Researcher-Business-Policy Exchanges

Staff are encouraged to undertake business or policy exchanges e.g. House spent 1 year as Head
of Climate Advice at the Government Office for Science, while PDRAs and PhD students have
been seconded to a range of organisations (section 2.2.3). In addition, MacLeavy is a steering
group member for the City Listening Project, Fox, Duminy and Parnell support multi-stakeholder
efforts to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and House co-chairs the Bristol
Advisory Committee on Climate Change, all in partnership with Bristol City Council. Rigg advises
the FAO in Laos. Parnell, Rigg, Fox, Duminy work with multi-lateral and national bodies on a
range of development issues. Several staff are advisors and directors of companies (section 4.3).

2.1.5   Recognition and Rewards for Success.

The most direct expression of success is through the promotion structure. In addition, our research
successes, fellowships, vivas and awards of honours are also announced on our webpage, social
media and notified to the Deans and Vice-Chancellor leading to broader recognition and
celebration across the institution. Major successes are celebrated with a drink’s reception open to
all staff and students.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.2.    Research Students

We provide a vibrant centre for postgraduate research (PGR), with PhD student numbers1
increasing by 100% (from 44.5 to 97), and MScRs rising to 7-8 per year (from 1-2 in REF2014).
Additionally, we are co-supervising with many other UoAs to support our interdisciplinary research.
PGRs have written 129 papers as first author, and 87 papers as co-authors.

PGR students are central to the life of the School, and are fully integrated into research groups,
participating in presentations and seminars, and providing peer mentoring. They work closely with
PDRAs and fellows and benefit from support from researchers across the School. They also
contribute impact through our many CASE studentships (~20% of physical geography
studentships).

Staff play leading roles in postgraduate research training: NERC GW4+ DTP (Director: Valdes),
ESRC SW DTP (Director: Harris), and the NERC Freshwater Biosciences and Sustainability CDT
(co-Director: Johnes), as well as leading two EU ITNs (Flecker, Anesio).

2.2.1    Recruitment

PGRs are recruited via a competitive process, with strategic steers when funded via DTPs/CDTs.
PGRs are also recruited to individual opportunities (e.g. tied to research grants), scholarships (e.g.
overseas governments) and self-funded positions. The PGR Director has oversight of all
applications, to ensure standards are consistent. We have dedicated School PGR administrative
support and all applications are centrally administered. We are heavily oversubscribed, typically
with >4x more applications than funded studentships.

The University annually funds a Postgraduate Teaching Assistant for the School. This provides up
to 4.5 years funding, to include one year of teaching spread over the first three years.

Our recruitment adheres to the University’s EDI Policy. Our ambition is to create a student body
that is balanced and diverse. During REF2021 period, 46%/54% of our doctoral students identified
as female/male, and 20%/77% were BAME/white. Approximately 70% were from the UK, 10% from
EU and 20% other overseas.

In total, 46% of our current students are supported by UKRI bursaries, 6% from the EU, 6% from
overseas government (e.g. China, Mexico), 13% self-funding, and the remainder from a variety of
university, industry, and charitable sources (e.g. Met Office, Wessex Water, CGG-Robertsons, and
UCAS).

2.2.2    Monitoring and Support Mechanisms

The PGR School is led by the Director and Deputy Director of Postgraduate Research comprising
Physical and Human Geography staff, supported by an Administrator and Director of MScR. Four
PGR students represent their community on School and staff-student committees.




1 Where the primary supervisor is one of the staff in the UoA.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Each PGR student has a minimum of two internal supervisors. Many also have external co-
supervisor(s) from another university or research-user organisation. Supervisors meet with their
students at least bi-weekly. Annual Progress Monitoring (APM) is reviewed by the PGR Directors
and follows the requirements of the Faculty in which the student is registered:

  • HG progress: 12-18 months after registration PGR students give a presentation and submit a
    report. This is examined orally by two assessors who recommend either progression,
    revisions and/or further examination before progressing.
  • PG progress: annual meetings examine a formal report, skills audit, and conducts an
    interview with two assessors.
  • All students give an oral presentation to which the whole School is invited.
  • Where concerns about progression are flagged, we operate an enhanced academic support
    process.

2.2.3   PGR support and Integration

Our PGR community is housed in a dedicated space, with each allocated their own desk space
and computer. Support and integration of our PGR community is provided by:

Wellbeing: We have in-house Wellbeing Advisors and University wellbeing schemes (section
2.3.2). All new students are paired with a “buddy” from the existing PGR community, and one
supervisor takes the role of “pastoral tutor”. When wellbeing issues are raised, PGR directors
advise and monitor until the problem is resolved.

Research Culture: Students join a Research Group, playing an important role in the vitality of these
groups, for example organising/chairing seminars/discussions. They work closely with their
supervisor and other members of the group, benefitting from and offering a wide range of peer-to-
peer support.

Supervision: Most of our students form hugely rewarding relationships with their supervisors.
However, occasionally this does not work. Students can raise supervision issues directly with PGR
Directors who will implement improvement strategies. If mediation fails, an alternative supervisor is
provided (<2% of studentships).

Wider Research Environment: PGR students are part of our community through research group
and School-wide activities, attendance at seminars, representation on our committees, and
inclusion in all School social activities. We also fund PGR social events.

Skills development: Bristol Doctoral College provides >200 courses/activities annually covering
research skills, professional development, employability, entrepreneurship, responsible research,
and teaching. Our students on average attend ~8 courses/activities per year. Skills training is
monitored at the APM.

Bespoke training: Our DTP/CDT students have further opportunities for specialist training. Where
possible, this training is open to non-UKRI students, with School financial support for self-funded
students for their academic development.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
In-house training: The School provides tailored training in disciplinary-specific topics such as
Research Design for Human Geographers, Engaging in Outreach, and Training for Vivas. PGRs
who contribute to teaching take the University’s CREATE PGR teaching programme.

Placements/internships: Students have opportunities to widen their experiences through
placements with our many partners. Numerous examples include internships at the Welsh
Assembly Government, Wessex Water, Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, and
Schumacher Institute in the past year alone.

2.3    Equality and Diversity

We are strongly committed to supporting EDI in our community. We renewed our Athena Swan
bronze award and monitor all aspects of School activities for EDI issues via our EDI Committee
which meets termly and reports to School Board.

Recent examples of EDI activities:
   • Our short-listing procedures consider male and female candidates separately, helping
      combat unconscious bias.
   • We ensure that maternity leave is correctly reflected in our study leave system.
   • We raised the profile of women in the School by naming our new study centre after our first
      female graduate: Grace Reeves Study Centre.
   • We run a specific mentoring scheme for female ECRs supported by senior staff (total of
      ~25, 75% of whom have subsequently won permanent posts or fellowships)
   • We advertised a PhD position in Human Geography solely for BAME Applicants.

We have actively encouraged female staff to seek promotion and established a School Promotions
Committee to support such staff. This has increased the number of female staff applying and
gaining promotion. During the REF period, 50% of promotions to readerships and 60% to professor
were female. Currently 60% of readers and 40% of professors are female, and female staff are in
many senior leadership positions (Directors of Education, Research, Impact, and REF Lead)
providing strong positive role models.

Our ethnic diversity has also improved (from 2% to 8% BAME) but unfortunately remains low (c.f.
14% of UK population). Our age structure is relatively young (Figure 3).




                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




(Figure 3: Number of category A staff by age.)



2.3.1   Our EDI policies

Study leave arrangements. Study leave is open to all academic staff and is monitored for EDI
issues, with periods of parental leave and part-time working accounted for when determining staff
eligibility.

Supporting flexible/remote working. Staff are encouraged to make Flexible Working Requests as
required, with seven members of staff currently working flexibly. We also provide for part-time
working with three staff currently on part-time contracts.

Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff. Fixed-term staff on research-only pathways can
be promoted up to full Professorship (e.g. Collard), with tailored promotion criteria. Our few fixed-
term lecturers have equal opportunities for study leave and promotion/progression. Part-time staff
have criteria adjusted appropriately.

Conference/travel support for those with EDI needs. Staff are allocated £1000 pa to support travel
and/or caring support. Where additional funds are needed, staff are supported to apply to Faculty
and/or University schemes.

Support for applying for funding, promotion, and leadership roles. We provide support for all staff
with EDI issues. Senior staff act as mentors for several years providing continuity in support for
career development, funding, and leadership opportunities. Mentors receive training and the
system is monitored through annual EDI review.

Support for staff returning from leave. Staff can request different schedules for returning to work,
and the University’s Returning Carer’s Scheme offers up to £10,000 to help restart research

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
activities, with five staff benefitting from this scheme. Staff returning from longer-term breaks are
also supported: e.g. Sanchez-Baracaldo returned to science after a 5-year career break, won 3
prestigious fellowships, and is now Reader.

Support for staff with protected characteristics. We support several disabled staff and students.
Adjustments are made in discussion with the individual, as they are the experts in managing their
condition. Staff are also helped to use the Access to Work scheme which provides the necessary
practical and financial support.

Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students. We run School yoga and wellbeing
sessions focused on tackling stress and mental health. The University’s Mental Health and
Wellbeing Strategy also provides a diverse range of activities. An annual staff survey allows staff to
raise issues, and we then develop an action plan and monitor its effectiveness through our EDI
review.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Overview

We have substantially diversified and increased our research funding portfolio, benefitting from
significant investment in infrastructure and facilities, direct and in-kind funding from external
partners, and access to national and international facilities, and networks. We achieved all our
REF2014 funding ambitions, including:
     • Research income increased to >£25m (65% increase) and per annum income to £3.6m
         (from £3.1m) from diverse funding sources including government, industry, and charities.
     • Secured major research grants including (as lead PIs) 3 UKRI Large Grants each >£2.3m,
         2 further grants >£1m and 4 ERC grants totalling £7.8m.
     • Greatly diversified the number of staff with research awards with 90% of staff in post >12
         months receiving significant research funding (>£15k per person). c.f. 63% in REF2014.
     • More than doubled human geography research income to £0.7m pa.
     • Expanded the number of ECR research fellows with 5 NERC IRFs, 3 Royal Society
         University Research Fellows, and 3 Vice Chancellor Fellows
     • Strengthened strategic partnerships with: e.g. Met Office Academic Partnership, focussed
         on extreme weather and societal implications and solutions; African Centre for Cities, the
         premier urban research centre on the continent; Asia Research Institute in Singapore,
         Asia’s leading centre for interdisciplinary research.

3.1    Research funding and strategies for generating income.

Our success in winning research funding reflects the quality and ambition of our staff, and our
strategy of encouraging and supporting construction of high-quality proposals. We ensure that all
staff have the time and support to develop, receive feedback, and refine high quality proposals
(49% overall success rate of submitted research proposals during REF period). Staff with EDI
circumstances are supported through mentoring and funding support appropriate for their needs
(section 2.3).

We have targeted large grants as these allow us to undertake large-scale, strategic,

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
interdisciplinary research. Their development requires additional support, and we have five delivery
pathways ranging from school level to URI and GW4 networks, supported by the University’s RED
staff. Our success in securing this funding is evidenced by 21 staff with grants >£500k, with 14
holding grants >£1million. Additionally, our Global Challenges chair (Parnell) has helped
develop new GCRF income routes, including supporting successful bids from 11 staff who are
PI/CoI on GCRF grants.

Our School Research Committee organises peer-review of proposals. RED provides training in
developing and embedding impact, including how to find partnerships and contribute to the
economy and society. They also provide finance, personnel, and policy support, and run mock
interview panels using experienced senior academic staff. Our proposals also benefit from a cadre
of high-level postdoctoral researchers who help co-produce research bids.

Additionally, we support engagement in cross-disciplinary research through our leadership and
collaborations with other researchers via the URIs, and our GW4 Partnership with the universities
of Exeter, Bath, and Cardiff. This stimulates highly impactful cross-HEI research clusters (e.g.
GW4 Water Security Alliance, Johnes is co-director) and access to cutting-edge shared facilities
(>1700 items) across the GW4 partnership. Further strategic research partnerships are described
in section 4.

Research Funding Portfolio
Our strategy has led to substantial success in winning major awards. These include leadership of 3
NERC Large Grants: DOMAINE (PI Johnes, £2.65m) investigating dissolved organic matter in
freshwater ecosystems; Black and Bloom (PI Tranter, £2.45m) how microbial processes
accelerate melting of Greenland; and SWEET (PI Lunt, £2.32m) investigating the Earth’s response
to past high CO2 levels. We also lead a NERC-China collaboration on biodiversity change during
the Paleogene/Neogene (PI Valdes, £1.1m), collaborate on an ESRC Large Grant on
Understanding Inequalities (Co-I Manley, £2.08m, Edinburgh PI), and a cross-disciplinary NERC-
AHRC programme on BioResilience in Colombia (Co-I and Social Science Lead Millner, £1.13m,
Exeter PI). We have won 4 ERC grants: Advanced (Bamber), Synergy (Tranter), Consolidator
(Ridgwell) and Starting (Dixon). We have had considerable success with prestigious research
fellowships (section 2).

Much of our work involves collaboration and leadership of international consortia, tackling
problems of global significance, with awards from NERC directed and highlight topics: Antarctic,
Arctic, Peru Glaciers, Ice Sheet Stability, SE Asia Hazards, SHEAR, Greenhouse Gas Removal,
UK Droughts, Life and Planet, Global Methane Budget, and Changing Arctic programmes
(Wadham, Tranter, Anesio, Payne, Arndt, Landy, Sanchez-Baracaldo, Fox, Bates, House,
Freer, Coxon, Ganesan, Lunt).

We have been funded via Newton Fund programmes on UK-China Critical Zone Science
(Johnes), UK-Vietnam hydro-meteorological hazard (Fox), Climate Science for Service
Partnership research in Brazil (Mitchell) and Impacts of glacier retreat on river water quality
(Wadham). We have several cross-disciplinary UKRI GCRF programmes e.g. South Asia Nitrogen
Hub (Ganesan), Glacial Flour-Power exploring the socio-economic benefits of glacial flour in the
Himalaya (Wadham PI, Ginn, Millner), and WIDER-SOMA on war impact on drylands and social-
ecological resilience in Somalia (Michaelides PI, Sanchez-Baracaldo, Fox). Further GCRF funds



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
were awarded for Education for Sustainable Futures (Parnell), Urban Responses to COVID
(Parnell) and multi-hazards (Rigg).

Large research grants have been secured under the AHRC-REACT scheme on new museum
experiences (Patchett), EPSRC UK-Japan Civil Nuclear Research Programme (Richards), and
Bristol Urban Area Diagnostics Pilot Programme (Manley), and from ESRC via the Quantifying
Cities for Sustainable Development (Fox), and Turing Institute via the Identifying Urban Areas
(Wolf) programmes. We were also awarded a Singapore Research Council grant on
Transboundary Environmental Commons in Southeast Asia (Rigg), while The Gates Foundation
support Family Planning and Reproductive Health and Cities (Parnell, Duminy).




(Figure 4: Comparison of awards by funding sources for REF2014 and REF2021. The larger circle
represents the 17% pa increase.)



Our increased training and mentoring have resulted in diversification of our grant portfolio, with
UKRI/academy funding contributing only 47% of total income (down from 63% in REF2014, see
figure 4). We have been awarded substantial funding from business (water, oil, gas, nuclear, re-
insurance – £1.7m) and government and policy sectors (e.g. Defra, DfiD, Environment Agency,
Natural England, BEIS – £1.1m). Enhanced training has also increased our research impact across
our portfolio of activities. Examples are described in our impact case submissions and section 4.2.




                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


3.2     Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact.

We generally do not make a distinction between supporting research and supporting impact.
Impact is embedded within research and is co-ordinated via our research groups and strands and
overseen by our Impact director. At University level, RED and the URIs provide seed corn funding
and support to cultivate cross-disciplinary research.

RED also coordinate impact acceleration awards to strengthen user engagement, exchange of
knowledge, and commercialisation. We have received 25 such awards totalling £558k to >50% of
our staff, to deliver impact and establish/sustain/develop partnerships with stakeholder
organisations, under the UKRI Impact Accelerator Accounts and Knowledge Exchange
programmes and HEFCE QR Strategic Priority Fund.

Policy Bristol works with our staff to optimise the influence and impact of research on policy and
practice. Recent examples include a policy briefing papers: “Bursaries are an important component
of widening participation in Higher Education”, and “Household finances: income, saving and debt”,
submitted to a Parliamentary Select Committee inquiry.

3.3     Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact.

Our cutting-edge infrastructure comprises HPC, research laboratories, field hydrochemistry
facilities and platforms, extensive library, special collection and archival facilities, and flexible
spaces for creative co-working. These are supported by School, Faculty, and University research
investment, plus substantial income from our portfolio of UKRI, EU and Industry funded research.

3.3.1   Research Laboratories

Our research laboratories comprise AQUALAB (aquatic biogeochemistry), LOWTEX (low
temperature research), BIOGAS (gaseous phase analysis of environmental materials), and
MICROLAB (microbiological and molecular) (http://www.bristol.ac.uk/geography/laboratory-
facilities/. These provide high-throughput multi-element analysis at ultra-low concentration and
form a key node of the cross-Faculty Biogeochemistry Research Platform (led by Johnes).
Through this we have access to the Organic Geochemistry laboratories and UKRI-NERC National
Environmental Isotope Facilities in Chemistry, Bristol Isotope Geochemistry Laboratories in Earth
Sciences, the Bristol Radiocarbon Accelerator Mass Spectrometer, and the Bristol Genomics and
Proteomics facilities in Life Sciences.

New equipment is resourced through research grant applications, and through the annual Faculty
of Science major equipment call, providing ~£1.5m during this REF period. This has enabled
research grant awards for laboratory-based projects, totalling £9.2m.

All labs are 100% Laboratory Efficiency Assessment Framework (LEAF) accredited.

3.3.2   Experimental platforms and field infrastructure

We run the Test Rig for Advancing Connectivity Experiments, a hillslope hydrology facility with
state-of-the-art, large-scale artificial hillslope and accompanying rainfall simulator. We also

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
manage a high-resolution observation platform in the Hampshire Avon catchment (Defra
Demonstration Test Catchments programme), and the NERC DOMAINE platform in the Conwy
catchment, providing access to these platforms and open-access data archives to internal and
external researchers.

3.3.3   High Performance Computing

Much of our research, in both physical and human geography, focusses on modelling and
geocomputation. To facilitate this research, the School supports two small clusters totalling 900
cores for dedicated modelling work, and 8 general purpose servers (totalling 256 cores and 500TB
of storage), funded by industrial and UKRI research income. Research groups have also
purchased 512 cores and 320TB of storage in the University’s high throughput system.

The University has also invested heavily in HPC systems (£9.9m during REF period). The latest
HPC machine, when installed, was the most powerful UK University HPC. We make extensive use
of this, using 27% of the facility (>30m CPU hours per year).

We also use national HPC facilities such as ARCHER and the NERC JASMIN facility (data
intensive supercomputer) allowing us to perform e.g. the first ever simulations of distant past
climates using the latest generation Hadley Centre model (HadGEM3).

3.3.4   Space/facilities for research groups

Academic staff have individual offices clustered by research group to facilitate collaboration.
Research fellows and PDRAs have shared office space, while PGRs have open-plan office space
to enable cross-pollination of ideas. Staff meet through groups, strands, lectures, and social
events. All staff and students are provided with desk, computers, library, and e-resources, and
access to high-performance computing and laboratory facilities as required.

3.3.5   Library, special collection, and archival facilities

All staff and students have access to Bristol Library services, offering access to >10,000 e-
journals. The University has Special and Archival Collections supporting a diverse range of our
research, particularly in our Historical and Cultural research group. For example, Patchett used
the Special Collections to develop a series of research-led workshops; Mayhew used the Penguin
Collection for a research publication; and Fannin used the Feminist Archive South of which she is
now a Trustee. Mayhew was a member of the University’s review of its Library Services Division,
and its Special and Archival Collections, and currently sits on the University’s Special Collections
Steering Group.

3.4     Relevant equality and diversity issues

EDI issues and support are described in section 2.3. They ensure that all staff have sufficient time
and resources to develop research bids and access the research infrastructure. Evidence for the
success of this support is provided in the major leadership roles that female staff hold and awards
and recognition of their standing (section 4.6). For example:




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
      •   Johnes leads a £2.65m NERC Large Grant and chairs multiple grant awarding panels in
          the UK and internationally.
      •   Michaelides is Bristol PI on a H2020 grant and PI on a GCRF award (total £1.5m).
      •   Millner is social science lead on a large NERC-AHRC grant (total £1.1million).
      •   Wadham holds a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award, directs the Cabot Institute,
          and leads >£1.6m grant funding.
      •   ECR Ganesan holds >£1.2m from GCRF and NERC Highlight programmes.
      •   Flecker led an EU ITN on Mediterranean-Atlantic exchanges totalling €2.6million
      •   Parnell is Deputy PI on a GCRF Global Challenges grant (£8m) and chairs many
          international grant awarding panels.

3.5       How infrastructure, facilities and expertise are utilised for impact

Facilities are available free of charge (or at-cost) for our impact and outreach activities, ensuring
that all staff can engage in impact. Once established, further costs are recovered from the
stakeholder or through our UKRI impact plans enabling easy initial engagement with stakeholders
in anticipation of future benefits. We find this “loss-leader” approach is highly successful,
stimulating a range of future engagement and collaborative funded research, while also further
embedding impact activities within our research culture.

We also contribute our expertise to a wide range of public and third sector organisations through
participation in policy placements within the business, NGO, and government sectors, and by
accepting invitations to join advisory panels for external organisations. Recent examples include
PhD student placements with a range of government and business organisations (section 2.2),
while staff have offered evidence and advice to Parliamentary Select Committees, Government
departments and agencies, and the Bank of England (section 4.2/4.3).

3.6       Quality/operation of specialist research infrastructure and facilities

Our world-class specialist facilities and infrastructure are maintained and developed to ensure that
they remain at the leading-edge, as are our shared facilities. Local facilities are funded through
research grants and faculty infrastructure funding. Shared facilities are funded via University
strategic funding and external funding initiatives.

School laboratories are supported by 6.5 FTE core-funded technical staff, overseen by a technical
manager, in liaison with the Director of Laboratories. We also have specialist support for HPC
research, while costs for specialist IT and laboratory technical support are routinely included in
research grant applications ensuring highly skilled staff are available to support research delivery.

3.7       Cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure

As well as ARCHER and JASMIN, additional collaborative HPC facilities include a distributed
computing framework via Oxford’s climateprediction.net system (Mitchell, Watson) and HPC
facilities at ECMWF (Watson) and UK Met Office (Lunt, Valdes). Dutch Super Computing has
also been used with large-scale social science data (Manley), leading to the Dutch national
funding agency initiating a programme for social scientists to use these facilities.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Other NERC and UKRI facilities have been extensively used by a range of our staff, including the
National Environmental Isotope Facility nodes (>15 staff), the Sequencing Facility (Williamson,
Sanchez-Baracaldo) and Diamond Light Source facility (Tranter, Richards), while our field work
in the UK uses the Defra DTC platform (Johnes, Freer) and in Svalbard, Greenland and Antarctica
makes use of national infrastructure managed by British Antarctic Survey (Anesio, Tranter,
Wadham, Williamson).

3.8     Significance of major benefits-in-kind
Many research projects secure substantial benefits in-kind from stakeholders, comprising access
to equipment/facilities, data, staff time, and placements/internships. These benefits provide
significant support for the delivery of our research and impact, and total >£2m of direct
contributions.
Examples include:

      •   Unison, Single Parents Action Network, and Bristol Women's Voice each contributed 2
          days staff time for an austerity symposium organised by MacLeavy.
      •   EU Commission supported priority early access to EU population grid data to explore
          segregation across the EU (Manley)
      •   Wessex, Welsh and Scottish Water, Environment Agency and the Rivers Trust gave free
          access to data, infrastructure, and staff time totalling >£1.5m (Johnes)
      •   GETECH plc gave us free access to paleogeographic reconstructions equivalent to >£2m
          normal commercial access (Lunt)
      •   Walz GmBH provided a prototype fluorometer and Photon Systems Instruments gave
          access to their PlantScreen technology for use in Greenland (Williamson).



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1       Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

We have an outward-looking ethos as evidenced by the many staff who collaborate across
academic disciplines (section 1.4) and with stakeholders. These range from within the University
and City, to national and international networks and are shown below.




                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




(Figure 5. External collaborations: each point represents one or more collaborators. We have a
total of 8200 external co-authors/collaborators from >4800 different organisations.)



We host many external collaborators, providing free visitor space, access to laboratory facilities,
and HPC, helping us develop new funded collaborations. Visiting Associate and Senior Research
Fellowships further strengthen these partnerships. These include 5 Benjamin Meaker Visiting
Professorships (fully funded, 3-6 months), >20 other visiting professorships, and >100 visiting
ECRs collaborating for periods of 1-24 months.

Recent examples of large collaborative activities include:

      •   University-Met Office Academic Partnership brings together Met Office weather and climate
          scientists and Bristol’s researchers. Mitchell is chair, Valdes and Bates sit on the advisory
          panel, James, Andrews, Coxon are on its leadership team, and many staff are in its
          ‘knowledge pool’.
      •   The GW4 Water Security Alliance (co-director Johnes), a network of >200 academic staff
          and research user organisations including Government departments/agencies, water
          industry, conservation charities and consultancies.

4.2       Action to develop impact and enrich the research environment

Staff are actively encouraged and offered support to develop their research impact (sections 1.3,
3.2). Examples are included in our Impact Case Studies but we have many more examples of
substantial success in delivering impact, enriching the research environment for our staff, students,
and collaborator networks.

      •   Valdes and Lunt received >£1M funding from STATOIL and two geoscience consultancies
          to develop Earth system models for past time periods. This helps to infer location of


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
          preferential source rock regions without drilling, potentially saving companies £100’s
          millions in exploration costs.
      •   PFRC (Davies) wrote an ESRC-funded practical guide to demonstrate to businesses and
          policymakers how they could improve products and services to eliminate the poverty
          premium. They then worked with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and Big Society Capital
          to launch the Fair by Design Fund (FbD) to address these issues.
      •   PFRC (Collard, Davies) also offered advice on personal finance issues to UK Government
          (policy on financial inclusion and financial capability), Santander (improving financial
          confidence among lower income households) and Macmillan (the financial costs of cancer).
      •   Our research has also impacted on the development of school geography curricula for
          Singapore (Rigg) and the UK (Harris, Mayhew), and on undergraduate quantitative and
          statistical literacy (Harris) via the Nuffield Q Step programme. Harris also contributed to
          the A-Level Content Advisory Board, the QAA Benchmark Statements for Geography Panel
          and the RGS-IBG Data Skills in Geography project.

This coincidental development of research and impact is part of our research strategy, often
generating further funding, whilst our nascent work is developing future impact, and all are central
to our research and impact culture, enriching our research environment.

4.3       Wider contributions to the economy and society

Our research has made major contributions to the economy and wider society. At governmental
level, staff have contributed to a large variety of activities (e.g. UK Climate Change Research
Assessments, House of Lords Select Committee on The Arctic, Parliamentary all-party group on
new definitions of constituencies, and Bank of England Climate Change Stress Test). Staff are also
members of the Financial Services Consumer Panel, Natural England Science Advisory
Committee, and several DEFRA advisory groups.

Third sector contributions include extensive work with Bristol City Council (e.g. One City Plan,
Climate Emergency Declaration, Committee on Climate Change, Carbon Neutral City Strategy,
Local Review of Progress Towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals, and The City
Listening Project) and other councils (e.g. advice to the Good Work Nottingham council project,
tackling economic insecurity).

Multilateral contributions include advice to: OECD on natural resource funds and on nitrogen;
Asian Development Bank assessment of climate risk management; UN FAO review of Laos; World
Meteorological Organisation Integrated Global Greenhouse Gas System; and the G20 Urban
Technical Task Team. Five of our staff have been IPCC Lead Authors/Editors, contributing to all
three working group reports and four special reports.

We also undertake leadership roles with commercial and charity organisations including
invited membership of Wessex Water’s Catchment Panel (www.wessexwater.co.uk), non-
executive directorship of Greenstone+ (www.greenstone.plus), directorship of Fathom
(www.fathom.global), trustee of two charities for asylum seekers (www.bhn.org.uk) and
(https://hillhouseretreats.com), and technical advisor for Earth System Data
(www.earthsystemdata.com).




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.4       Engaging with diverse communities

Schools outreach

      •   We provide professional development for teachers via the Geographical Association.
      •   We deliver Widening Participation lectures involving ~20 staff each year.
      •   We visit schools in China, Hong Kong, and beyond to develop the profile of Geography
          overseas.
      •   We present our research to support geography teachers’ development via the Princes
          Teaching Institute (www.princes-ti.org.uk) and Inspiring the Future
          (www.inspiringthefuture.org) platforms.
      •   We contribute to popular school’s outreach platforms including the Natural History
          Museum’s Science Uncovered series and its Nature Live Talks.

Public outreach and engagement

We regularly contribute to local and national outreach events. We have also explored novel ways
of engaging the public in our research, including:

      •   An experimental intervention in ‘philosophical outreach’ at Nottingham Contemporary,
          introducing audiences to the work of Felix Guattari as a way of apprehending contemporary
          crises (Gerlach, Jellis)
      •   A new exhibit for the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History (4 million visitors per year),
          showing global mean temperatures throughout the Phanerozoic (Valdes, Lunt)
      •   Climate modelling of Game of Thrones and Middle Earth, to engage the public in
          understanding how climate models work, with >100,000 tweets/retweets during the first 8
          hours and covered in many media outlets (e.g. Guardian, Telegraph, PBS) (Lunt).
      •   Co-production of two films based on our work. “Plight of flying insects in the Anthropocene”
          premiered at the Edinburgh International Film Festival (Patchett)
      •   Co-production of the play “A Sad Tale of a Dying Glacier” via NERC-funded
          Trans.MISSION project run by the Hay Festival 2020 and shortlisted for the AHRC
          Research in Film award 2020, to communicate glacier science to new audiences
          (Wadham).
      •   Our work commemorating the Centenary of Women’s Suffrage led by Fannin used digital
          engagement, educational workshops, and exhibitions to engage nearly 3,000 people across
          the Southwest.
      •   High-profile public engagement events including multiple staff participating in Café
          Scientifique and Pint of Science and exhibits at The Royal Society Summer Exhibitions
          (Sanchez-Baracaldo).

We are active in raising knowledge of environmental change including through schools’ Climate
Question Time, public events by the Royal Institute, Royal Meteorological Society, Extinction
Rebellion, Bristol Youth Strike for Climate Change, Bristol Refugee Network, webinars by the
International Emissions Trading Association, and numerous talks and panels at all recent COP,
OECD, UNECE, UN FAO, and European Commission meetings.

Many staff undertake outreach through social and mainstream media including on the Discovery
Channel programme What on Earth? podcasts on Arctic Sea Ice Extent for the Guardian, and

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
interviews for many broadcast media including: BBC Radio 4 (Today, Farming Today, From Our
Own Correspondent, Counting Carbon, Costing the Earth, Inside Science and Thinking Aloud),
BBC 5 Live, BBC, ITV and Al Jazeera TV news, and China Global Television Network. We were
scientific advisors for a BBC documentary on Icebergs, and consultants for a new BBC series on
Past Environments, airing in 2022.

We also routinely work with local organisations through our student outreach and training
programme, including Bristol City Council, Bristol Zoo, and numerous small charitable trusts with
minimal financial resources who benefit from access to our research facilities and staff.

4.5    Contributions to sustaining the discipline and to interdisciplinary research

We play significant roles in learned societies both within geography and the wider research
communities. Fannin, Gerlach, Ginn, Jellis, MacLeavy, Manley, Rigg and Wolf have contributed
to RGS meeting organisation/sessions/chairing/groups. Bamber was President of the EGU, 2017-
2019 (>20,000 members). Johnes, Lunt, Sanchez-Baracaldo organised Royal Society Meetings
and an International Scientific Seminar series. Multiple staff have acted as authors/editors on
influential interdisciplinary reports from eminent societies including the Geological Society of
London, Royal Society, Royal Academy, Royal Academy of Engineering and Royal Meteorological
Society.

4.6    Our wider influence on the research base

Our wider influence has been recognised in a range of prestigious awards and honours including,
most recently, two Antarctic glaciers named for Bamber and Tranter.

Editorships and Refereeing

Staff are editors, guest editors and on the editorial boards of >40 journals including Progress in
Human Geography (Manley, Parnell) and Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers
(Harris); specialist journals from Environment and Planning B (Wolf) to Journal of Glaciology
(Tranter); and major interdisciplinary journals such as Philosophical Transactions of the Royal
Society (Lunt), Environmental Humanities (Ginn), Manchester University Press (Parnell), and
Agricultural History Review (Morgan). We also edit book series with Routledge (Jackson) and IB
Tauris and Ashgate (Mayhew). In total we peer review publications for >250 journals and book
presses.

Funding Councils

We undertake research grant assessment for major funding bodies including the Royal Society,
UKRI, EU, ERC, NASA, NSF, French National Research Agency, Leverhulme, the British
Academy and many other funders.
Staff have been UKRI chairs (Bamber, Johnes, Valdes, Parnell), panel members (Bates, Lunt,
Mitchell, Tranter) for NERC, chaired cross disciplinary UKRI panels (Johnes), and been panel
members for ESRC (Fannin, Fox, Jackson, MacLeavy, Manley, Parnell), ERC (Fox, Manley),
GCRF (Parnell), Royal Society (Bates, Johnes) and British Academy (Fox, Gerlach, Jackson,
Jellis), while Bates was a member of NERC Science Board 2013-17.



                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Internationally we have assessed grants for >20 national funding councils, chaired a range of
international research panels including for the Academy of Finland, Swiss and Dutch Funding
Councils, Belmont Forum, and International Science Council, while Johnes represented UKRI at
the UK-France-USA-Canada Tetrapartite Meeting on Living Landscapes.

Fellowships, prizes, invited plenaries and keynotes

Our staff routinely attend a broad spectrum of disciplinary and cross-disciplinary
conferences/workshops and have been invited to present >240 plenary, keynote and invited
lectures at international conferences.
As well as our ECR Fellowships (section 2), we have won 3 Royal Society Wolfson Merit Awards
(Bamber, Bates, Wadham), 3 Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowships (Bamber, Bates,
Valdes), a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Mayhew), 2 AGU Fellowships (Bamber,
Bates), 2 British Academy Fellowships (Johnston, Jones), 5 Academy of Social Sciences
Fellowships (Harris, Johnston, Jones, Parnell, Rigg), Fellowship of the Royal Society of Biology
(Johnes), a Rachel Carson Fellowship (Ginn), and 3 EGU medals (Valdes, Tranter, Ganesan)
We take particular pride in securing a British Academy Rising Star Award (MacLeavy) and Alan
Turing Fellowships (Fox, Wolf, Tranos), while the quality of our research has been recognised in
the UK honours system with a CBE (Bates), and awards of the Murchison Award (Jones) and
Victoria Medal (Rigg) by the Royal Geographical Society.




                                                                                        Page 27
