Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)


 Unit of Assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience


 1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1   Unit context

 The submission comprises 47 colleagues (45.4 FTE, 30F:17M), of which 45 (43.6 FTE) are
 members of the Department of Psychology and 2 are affiliated to the Unit through active
 Research Centre membership. The Unit has established research strengths with international
 standing in forensic, comparative, evolutionary, developmental and ecological psychology. This
 is our sixth submission to UoA4. In REF2014 we were commended for our ‘well-developed
 research strategy in terms of supporting current areas of excellence... gaining further external
 support for research [and] delivering future impacts of very considerable reach and
 significance’. Through strategic recruitment of research-active staff (20 (13F:7M) since 2014)
 and enhanced support for existing staff [see section 2.2], we have been able to grow our
 submission by 25.5 FTE (128%). This increase in research activity has enabled the Unit to
 broaden its research focus, diversify funding sources, increase research income by 96%,
 extend the societal benefit of our research, and grow our postgraduate research student
 (PGRS) provision and completions by 292%.

 1.2   Unit structure

 Our research strengths form the basis of the research centres/groups that play important roles
 in catalysing research by providing support, creating a stimulating research culture, sharing
 resources, and focussing expertise and reputation (Figure 1). These groupings reflect
 established expertise as well as areas of targeted investment where we have grown our
 capabilities, in consultation with staff, over the census period. All staff belong to at least one
 group. Three groups are formal University Research Centres, of only 18 across the University
 (REF5a1.0).

  The International Centre for Research in Forensic Psychology (ICRFP), founded in
   1997, constitutes the largest investigative/forensic psychology group in the UK. Research
   focuses on the intersection between psychology and the law, specifically offenders
   (interventions, offender decision-making), investigative interviewing (including deception
   detection), memory in forensic contexts (eyewitnesses, false memories) and person
   perception. The ICRFP’s long history of interdisciplinarity, relevance to societal challenges,
   and inter-sectorial engagement underpinned the creation of the University’s Security and
   Risk Theme (REF5a, para. 9). Notable publications have revealed the changes to
   eyewitness accuracy across the lifespan (Fitzgerald, Psychological Bulletin), determined
   conditions under which victims are likely to be derogated (Gheorghiu, Personality & Social
   Psychology Review) and demonstrated that nonverbal behaviour is an unreliable cue to
   deception (Vrij, Annual Review of Psychology). With significant funding from the FBI (£1.5M)
   and other security organisations including UK police agencies, the ICRFP also plays a



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   leading role in the UK Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats (CREST)
   research consortium, funded by the ESRC since 2015.

  The Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology (CCEP), founded in 2010,
   explores the evolutionary origins of mind and behaviour. One of two main comparative
   psychology groups in the UK, CCEP specialises in social and spatial cognition, emotion,
   communication and facial expression. Recent research includes studies of the neurological
   effects of atypical rearing in chimpanzees (Bard, Psychological Science), affective cognition
   in horses (Proops, Current Biology) and trust in chimpanzee friendships (Herrmann, Current
   Biology). Development of applied research in animal conservation closely aligns with the
   University’s Sustainability and the Environment Theme and has led to the discovery of a
   critically endangered new species of orangutan (Davila Ross, Current Biology). Recent
   funding from sources including the European Research Council (ERC), The Leverhulme
   Trust and The Royal Society, has supported projects that have, for example, elucidated the
   evolutionary links between primate social structure and cognitive ability (Joly, Proc. Roy.
   Soc. B) and vocal communication (Micheletta, Proc. Roy. Soc. B).

  The Centre for Interaction, Development and Diversity (CIDD), founded in 1995,
   champions a characteristic second-person approach by studying psychological phenomena
   within the interpersonal contexts in which they emerge. Since 2014, CIDD has undergone
   realignment to reflect strategic growth of research into early development, alongside
   established research foci in autism, dementia, disability, communication and identity. With
   close links to the University’s Democratic Citizenship and Health and Wellbeing Themes, the
   Centre embraces a community/participatory approach, and hosts the Autism Centre for
   Research on Employment (ACRE) led by López. Significant publications over the census
   period include cross-cultural research discovering that children can delay gratification for
   cooperative ends (Herrmann, Psychological Science) and the development of guidelines for
   the co-production of research with autistic adults (Kapp, Autism). The Department of Health,
   Templeton Foundation, NIHR and the British Academy have all supported projects, including
   an analysis of play in typically developing and neurodiverse children (Reddy, Ecological
   Psychology).

  The Quality of Life, Health and Wellbeing group (QLHWB), identified as a strategic
   growth area in 2011, is now recognised as a strength within the Unit that links to the
   University’s Health and Wellbeing Theme and our institutional partner, Portsmouth Hospitals
   University NHS Trust (PHUT) (REF5a, para. 16). The QLHWB group investigate biological,
   psychological and social mechanisms of health and wellbeing. Specific areas of expertise
   include health behaviours, mental health, management of chronic conditions, evaluation of
   treatments and interventions, and quality of life in educational and work environments.
   Recent studies have also explored emotional contagion (Nierderstrasser, Current Biology)
   and cognitive intrusion of pain (Attridge, Pain). Recent funding (e.g. from Office for Students
   (OfS), Alzheimer’s Society, and Interreg Europe) has supported projects including a multi-
   institutional, interdisciplinary project designing new materials for managing chronic skin
   diseases (DERMA: Al-Abbadey). QLHWB research addresses key societal issues and is
   responding to the challenges of Covid-19 with ongoing funded projects evaluating university
   staff and student wellbeing (Kaklamanou) and alcohol consumption in Canada and the UK




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

    (Stafford), and a commentary on alcohol use during the pandemic published in the Lancet
    (PGRS co-author).


   International Centre        Centre for                Centre for           Quality of Life,
      for Research in       Comparative and             Interaction,           Health and
          Forensic            Evolutionary           Development and         Wellbeing Group
   Psychology (ICRFP)      Psychology (CCEP)          Diversity (CIDD)          (QLHWB)

  NEE                      KAMINSKI                LÒPEZ                    Al-Abbadey (ECR)
  AKEHURST                 BARD*                   DRAHOTA-TOWNS            Attridge*
  BLANK                    DAVILA ROSS             Fasulo                   HOSKINS
  Gheorghiu (ECR)          Fleischman              Gürbüz (ECR)             Kaklamanou
  Harvey                                           Gustafsson*              Niederstrasser (ECR)
                           Herrmann*
  HOPE                                             Kadar                    Sivyer (ECR)
                           Joly (ECR)
  Koppel (ECR)
                           MICHELETTA              Kapp (ECR)*              Moore*
  Leal
                           Milward (ECR) *         Nomikou (ECR)            Stafford*
  Mann (ECR)
                           Morrison                REDDY                    Stores
  Saraiva (ECR)
                           Morris                  Somogyi                  Udell
  Needs*                                           Sonnenberg
                           Proops (ECR)
  Patihis
  Pearson
  Vernham
  VRIJ
  Category B:              Category B:             Category B:
  OST                      WALLER                  COSTALL
  Fitzgerald

   Figure 1. Research Centre/Group membership of staff submitted to UoA4 (Centre/Group
   Lead; PROFESSOR/READER; ECR: Early Career Researcher; new appointments; *cross-
   membership - colour denotes second affiliation).

 Supporting interdisciplinary research (IDR). Multidisciplinary research spans the Unit’s
 research strengths from collaborations of CCEP members with anatomists exploring the
 evolution of facial expressions (e.g. REF2/11213615), to CIDD members and geneticists
 studying causal mechanisms in autism (REF2/11696954) and ICRFP members, health
 economists and statisticians evaluating interventions to reduce prisoner reoffending rates (e.g.
 REF2/11328410). Research Centres play a key role in the development of multidisciplinary
 teams by including members from other Departments, HEIs, and non-academic partners with
 backgrounds in anthropology, biology, linguistics, mathematics, physics, law and health.
 Seedcorn funding facilitates promising new interdisciplinary projects, such as Stores’ study of
 the educational impact of mental health issues on UK University students and Kaklamanou’s
 smoking cessation program for NHS staff. Investment in infrastructure dedicated to
 interdisciplinary work [3.2] includes a new motion capture laboratory enabling research of gait
 biomechanics in collaboration with the School of Sport, Health and Exercise Science (Morris)
 and our virtual reality (VR) suite that underpins collaborative work with the Faculty of Creative
 and Cultural Industries who develop virtual environments to explore burglars’ behaviour (Nee,
 Criminology, REF2/11506265) and new spatial navigation research (Joly), aligned to the
 University’s Future and Emerging Technologies Theme.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 1.3   Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 Throughout the REF period, we have formally evaluated and updated our strategic aims,
 notably in a Departmental Vision Statement in 2017 and an evaluation of our Shape, Strengths
 and Strategy in 2020. The achievement of these aims is summarised below:

  Broadening the scope of research and funding in established and emerging areas of
   strength. As a result of strategic recruitment to research strengths (Figure 1) and the
   support given to extant staff, we have significantly increased the number of staff in the
   submitted Unit (from 19.9 to 45.4 FTE). New staff bring ongoing academic collaborations
   (e.g. Herrmann with the Max Plank Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology) and collaborative
   projects (e.g. Sivyer’s two NIHR funded projects, Antibiotic Review Kit (ARK) and Eczema
   Care Online (ECO) with Southampton, Oxford and Nottingham Universities). Kapp and
   Gürbüz have strengthened our focus on autism and neurodiversity research, enabling us to
   better address societal challenges around diversity and inclusivity, and bringing closer ties
   with the University’s Democratic Citizenship Theme. Targeted recruitment of five new
   members (with research and practitioner experience) to our QLHWB group has ensured
   positive growth and critical mass aligned to national, and international research priorities
   relating to mental health (Sivyer), health behaviours (Kaklamanou), chronic conditions (Al-
   Abbadey), and pain management and ageing (Niederstrasser, Attridge), that are already
   yielding benefits in terms of research output, non-academic collaborations and income
   generation [2.1, 3.1].

   This growth across the Unit has positively affected research vitality, evidenced by a 142%
   increase in the number of peer-reviewed outputs since REF2014 (from 297 to 719). Utilising
   research inductions, training and an incentive scheme for high-quality papers [2.2], we have
   ensured this increase in activity was achieved without compromising quality, as indicated by
   (albeit crude) metric analysis that confirmed that the majority of articles continued to be
   published in top quartile (Q1) journals (from 79% to 76% by SJR (SciVal)) and demonstrated
   an increase in the Unit h-index from 76 to 84 (SciVal). Through a range of staff support and
   pump-priming mechanisms [2.2, 3.1] we have also increased the number of staff contributing
   to external income generation by 108% (from 13 to 27) since REF2014, and diversified our
   funding sources by 85% (from 20 to 37), spanning traditional organisations (e.g. ESRC, The
   Royal Society), national government bodies (e.g. Ministry of Defence, Department of Health)
   and industry and third sector sources (e.g. IBM, Alzheimer’s Society). Projects span smaller-
   scale individual projects, fellowships (e.g. Marie-Curie; Joly), collaborative projects (e.g.
   Leverhulme; Micheletta & Waller), and participation in complex, consortium-based research
   programmes (e.g. TESIS Marie-Curie Innovative Training Network; Reddy), supporting the
   future sustainability of the Unit, and increasing our Unit income by 96% (from 2.45M to
   £4.80M).

  Extending the impact and societal benefit of our research. A key element of our strategy
   has been to promote and support research co-produced with stakeholders in a position to: (i)
   understand societal demands; (ii) implement policy and practice changes; (iii) assist in the
   recruitment of end-users to inform research and dissemination strategies; and (iv) fund
   activities with strategic relevance for their organisations. This was achieved by firmly
   embedding impact in our Unit culture and work structures, including our induction
   programme, mentoring system, appraisal system and internal grant peer-review systems.

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   We also implemented mechanisms to facilitate a vibrant impact culture including: (i) a
   dedicated Impact Lead (0.1 FTE) to provide one-to-one guidance, support non-academic
   collaboration and raise awareness of the knowledge exchange agenda; (ii) a monitoring
   system to identify potential impact, relevant stakeholders and oversee progress on KPIs for
   ongoing projects; (iii) specific workload allocations for impact activities, and flexible working
   arrangements to allow staff to maintain practitioner status and non-academic links; and (iv)
   rapid-response impact funding schemes available to all staff that have helped create a
   vibrant, community-oriented impact culture with regular public and stakeholder engagement
   events [4.3].

   These support mechanisms have enabled the rapid translation of research into societal
   impacts that underpin our four impact case studies and wider impact across the Unit [4.4].
   These benefits include changes in policy and practice in investigative settings in the UK, US,
   Europe and Asia (as detailed in our accompanying ICSs: UoP04Credibility,
   UoP04Interviewing) and new research that has supported animal conservation (e.g.
   UoP04Orangutans) and improved employment prospects for people with autism in the UK
   and Spain (UoP04Autism). Workload allocation, flexible working arrangements and
   seedcorn funding for priority research areas are facilitating new collaborative projects by
   QLHWB members with the British Infection Society, British Society for Antimicrobial
   Chemotherapy and Psychosocial Oncology Portsmouth that will improve quality of life for
   those living with cancer and chronic pain. Unit mechanisms, including organisational visits,
   are also supporting research projects developed with organisations including Age UK,
   National Crime Agency, Education Endowment Foundation and Chimfunshi Wildlife
   Orphanage in Zambia that are helping to make homes safer for elderly people, reducing
   reoffender rates, improving educational outcomes for disadvantaged children, and reducing
   the impact of tourism on African wildlife, respectively.

  Increasing the vitality and sustainability of our postgraduate provision. We have
   significantly increased the range of PGRS funding sources, enhancing the sustainability of
   our provision. These now include the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership
   (SCDTP) with Southampton and Brighton Universities (18 bursaries since 2017), the
   Erasmus Mundus House of Legal Psychology doctoral programme with the Universities of
   Maastricht and Gothenburg (19 bursaries), the CREST research consortium (2 bursaries),
   alongside Faculty bursaries (12), self-funding students and our Professional Doctorate in
   Forensic Psychology (12 students). These students have contributed to research
   programmes and 25 submitted outputs across all four of our Research Centres/Groups. This
   expansion of our provision has increased the vitality of our PGRS community, providing
   students with the opportunity to engage with a wide range of training, networking and
   placement opportunities [2.3]. As a result, PGRS completions have increased by 292% (from
   12 to 47). Our PGRS support mechanisms are sector leading, with top quartile scores in
   every element of the PRES (2019), an overall satisfaction rate of 97%, and progression
   rates well above average (88%).

  Fostering a collegial environment and positive research culture. The Unit’s strategic
   aims are achieved in an inclusive way, empowering all staff to engage with our Research
   and Impact (R&I) agenda within a collegiate environment that values research integrity
   (Departmental Vision Statement, 2017). We have created a dynamic R&I culture through a
   set of support mechanisms [2.2], including: (i) provision of a ‘research culture’ fund to

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   support cross-centre collaboration and individual staff budgets that can be used flexibly for
   R&I activities; (ii) explicit workload allowances for scholarly and research activities that are
   individually tailored; (iii) a comprehensive and thriving seminar culture that includes focussed
   discussion groups with international researchers; and (iv) a range of training and culture-
   fostering events including away-days, writing retreats and research methods workshops.
   Staff viewed their work environment as the most positive element of their job (Staff Survey,
   2017) and this collegial focus results in a highly collaborative research environment, as
   demonstrated by the involvement of eleven colleagues in our four impact case studies.

 1.4   Supporting research integrity, reproducibility and Open Science initiatives

 From recruitment of academics and PGRS (where our commitment to open science is outlined
 in job adverts and explicitly discussed with candidates at interview) to our mentoring, support
 systems and initiatives, colleagues are encouraged to engage with open science practices. In
 2019, we hosted Leverhulme Visiting Professor Steve Lindsay, Chief Editor (at the time) of
 Psychological Science and a key driver of the replicability and open science agenda. He gave a
 series of lectures and workshops co-organised with the Portsmouth Open Science Network (led
 by an external member of CCEP). Following this, our Unit developed a Portsmouth group within
 the ReproducibiliTea initiative that is primarily organised by Psychology PGRS and includes
 seminars on open science and research integrity, and a collaborative replication project.
 Additional replication efforts include participation in the Many Legal Labs Replication Project
 (Hope) and PGRS contribution to one of the first large-scale replication projects: Alogna et al.,
 2014). 99.5% of Departmental papers published since April 2016 and all of our submitted
 outputs are open access compliant, 33% of submitted outputs are gold open access. Datasets
 are deposited in University and national open-source repositories (e.g. Figshare, Dryad, UK
 Data Service) and 55% of the Unit’s outputs are compliant with the University’s Research Data
 Management Policy (REF5a, para. 24).

 We actively support a culture of research integrity, with colleagues and PGRS preregistering
 hypotheses, and involved in Registered Reports (e.g. PROPSERO: Kaklamanou, Drahota-
 Towns). We operate according to best practice guidelines including the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, the BPS Code of Human Research Ethics, NIHR Good Clinical Practice and
 the Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour Guidelines for the Use of Animals. In addition
 to hosting our own ethics committee (Chair: Milward) and subcommittee of the UoP Animal
 Welfare Ethical Review Body (Members: Kaminski & Micheletta), we have a tradition of
 contributing to Faculty- and University-wide ethics committees. Morris, as the Head of the
 Faculty of Science and Health Ethics Committee, led on the development of open science
 principles across the Faculty (e.g. changing existing procedures to facilitate anonymous data
 sharing).

 1.5   Future strategic aims for research and impact

 Our future strategic aims, aligned to the University’s new Vision 2030 and Strategy 2025
 (REF5a2.0), will be achieved whilst maintaining a collegiate environment that places a
 supportive research culture at its heart. Specifically, we will:

  Nurture collaborative, multidisciplinary research across our research strengths. In
   light of the changing funding landscape, we will increase our leadership and engagement in


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

     large, multi-institution interdisciplinary projects, providing the combined levels of excellence
     and expertise necessary to produce world-leading science. Specifically, international
     collaborations around the theme of human and animal diversity, and industry partnerships
     around technological advances in security systems are being explored. Target: Increase
     external funding and contribute to at least two new, large scale, multi-disciplinary research
     collaborations.

  Support research aligned to national and international priorities. We will continue to
   focus upon research that addresses societal challenges across our key fields of expertise,
   including those relating to equality and diversity, policing and counter-terrorism, as well as
   emerging research strands addressing challenges to health and wellbeing, conservation and
   animal welfare. Target: Deliver a strong portfolio of societal impacts across all Research
   Centres.

  Continue to support the development of health and wellbeing research. QLHWB aims
   to become an internationally recognised Research Centre, focusing on mental health, health
   behaviours and chronic condition management. Targeted seedcorn funding will support
   external income generation, and societal impact will be realised through closer
   collaborations with PHUT and networks of key stakeholders. To drive our vision forward, we
   will recruit a senior leader (Reader/Professor). Target: Within QLHWB, support at least 2
   colleagues to become PIs for the first time; 2 colleagues to become research leaders
   (through recruitment and promotion).

  Grow our provision for future researchers. Alongside our ESRC SCDTP, we will diversify
   our funding sources to ensure resilience following the end of the Erasmus programme by
   developing new national and/or international “Doctoral Training Partnerships” aligned to our
   research strengths. We currently have postgraduate taught programmes aligned to three of
   our four Research Centres, enabling us to attract and retain promising researchers/students.
   Target: Develop postgraduate taught provision related to CCEP; develop one new source of
   PGRS funding.

  Ensure the values of research integrity, equality and diversity continue to be
   embedded in our R&I culture. We will continue to lead the open science agenda at our
   institution. Our ongoing commitment to EDI will be reflected in our Unit practices promoting
   an inclusive culture and continued research foci recognising the importance of individual
   differences and diverse study populations. Target: increase preregistration, replication
   studies and open data by 50%; attain Departmental Athena Swan Silver award.


 2      People

 2.1    Staffing strategy

 Our Unit has undergone significant expansion and now includes 47 (30F:17M) academic
 colleagues, an increase of 27 staff since 2014. Our staffing profile balances senior researchers
 (13 Professors and Readers) with ECRs (13) (Figure 1), ensuring we have experienced staff,
 with established reputations, who reliably attract research funding and provide mentorship, as




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 well as ECRs and mid-career researchers who provide a pipeline of talent for future
 sustainability.

 Our overarching staffing strategy has been to recruit for research excellence in areas of
 strength, while supporting strategic growth areas, evidenced by the submission of 20 new staff
 (15 from existing Research Centres, 5 in our growing area of strength: health and wellbeing).
 To achieve this, we have recruited research-active ECRs who make strong contributions to the
 dynamic research atmosphere of the Unit, contributing 33% of articles submitted, including
 outputs in PNAS, Personality & Social Psychology Review, Psychological Bulletin, and Current
 Biology. To ensure the sustainability and growth of impactful research, we also recruited staff
 with a strong track record of delivering research impact aligned to our established research
 strengths (e.g. false memory: Patihis; eyewitnesses: Saraiva) and our emergent strengths (e.g.
 pain management research: Niederstrasser). These appointments bring new non-academic
 funders (e.g. The Donkey Sanctuary: Proops) and extend the scope of our impacts, for
 example, by expanding impact relating to educational attainment to mathematics through
 Attridge’s partnership with the UK charity Mathematics in Education and in Industry. New staff
 with academic and practitioner experience also bring links with non-academic collaborators
 (e.g. Health Psychologist Al-Abbadey with the NHS).

 Moving forward, we will continue to recruit to our strengths, while exploring complementary
 areas of focus that enable us to fulfil our strategic aims. Through new appointments and the
 development of extant staff expertise, we will develop senior research leadership in our
 emerging QLHWB group. Our visiting senior scientist appointments [4.1] will continue to
 contribute external expertise and perspective, supporting a vital research environment.

 2.2   Staff development and support

 Research culture activities. Creating a vibrant, inclusive and supportive research
 environment underpins our staff development activities. This emphasis is evidenced by the
 wide range of activities available, and is supported by the Unit’s flexible Research Culture Fund
 (approx. £4,000 per year) that enables individuals to organise events that benefit colleagues
 across the Unit. Each Centre also operates a distinct programme of activities, supported by a
 small Centre fund. Examples include: meetings that provide opportunities to invite external
 speakers, to discuss advances in their field and gain peer feedback on new research/grant
 ideas. There are also annual one-day conferences (ICRFP and CCEP), away days (CIDD) and
 a bi-weekly journal club to discuss new articles in the discipline (CCEP). The Unit also hosts
 several specialist seminar groups bringing together researchers from across universities. For
 example, the Talking About Research in Memory And Cognition (TARMAC) group holds 2-3
 meetings per year for staff, PGRS and colleagues from UK universities including Birmingham,
 Southampton, Warwick and Winchester to discuss their work and establish collaborations (e.g.
 Ost, Memory, REF2/9002794). Similarly, Conversation Analysis Data Sessions South (CADDS)
 is a monthly discussion group between CIDD, Language and Area Studies at UoP, and the
 Faculty of Medicine at the University of Southampton. The Unit also hosted the BPS Seminar
 series ‘Psychosensory basis of obesity’ (2019-21).

 In addition to large-scale conferences [4.3], smaller in-house workshops and retreats provide
 focussed intellectual stimulation and training. Recent workshops include sessions on meta-
 analysis, experimental software and multilevel modelling. Regular ‘Away Days’ for our ECRs

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 encourage collaborations, discussion of funding plans and ideas for support. Annual R&I ‘Away
 Days’ for all staff promote collaborations, discussion of national/international R&I agendas and
 Unit objectives. Writing retreats, including residential breaks (organised by CIDD), dedicated
 days, or weekly half-day sessions (i.e. our staff-initiated “Shut Up and Write” group) facilitate
 paper/grant writing. Lab visits by researchers at all career stages are supported by the
 Research Centres (financially and by providing office space, facilities and travel advice). For
 example, Visiting Professor Tony Ward collaborated with Nee to develop the theory of
 Dysfunctional Expertise in offending behaviour and provided teaching events for students and
 academics, a public lecture, and practitioner workshop in clinical and forensic psychology.
 Activities are open to all and organised with consideration of EDI issues e.g. seminars are held
 within core hours; away days are scheduled within school terms, but after our teaching ends, to
 facilitate attendance by colleagues with children.

 Staff development schemes that supplement Unit activities include the University Research
 and Innovation Services Development Programme (RISDP) for all staff (REF5a, para. 33-35).
 During the current REF period, 30 colleagues attended ~100 workshops on grant writing, KTPs,
 UKRI impact and media training. Eleven colleagues attended workshops on promotion to
 reader/professor and six have been promoted. One colleague attended our Navigator
 programme for men and seven colleagues attended the “Leader and Manager as Coach”
 programme. Seven colleagues attended Aurora and Springboard Programmes promoting
 female leadership, supporting Departmental, Research Centre and Equality & Diversity
 leadership roles.

 Individual support mechanisms. Our R&I culture activities are complemented by a high
 degree of individual support. All staff have an annual Performance and Development Review
 that ensures linkage of individual and Unit-wide research objectives and identification of
 development needs (REF5a, para. 2). Additional Unit provision includes:

  Mentoring. All staff have a dedicated Mentor, typically drawn from our Professors or
   Readers, and including external Mentors where appropriate (e.g. for senior staff). Mentors
   provide advice on R&I plans, teaching, career prospects, and often give feedback on funding
   applications and journal manuscripts. Workload allocation is provided for this purpose (10
   hours per year per mentee). A Mentor Coordinator (Hope) organises twice-yearly meetings
   for Mentors to share best practice, identify systematic issues and increase consistency of
   support. This mechanism is seen as beneficial by 95% of our staff (Mentoring Survey, 2020),
   and has supported Joly’s career path from Marie Curie Research Fellow to Senior Lecturer
   and PGRS supervisor, and Fitzgerald’s path from ESRC New Investigator to Associate Head
   for Research (2017-2019).

  ECR and new staff support. New staff have a 0.2 FTE teaching workload reduction in their
   first year and 0.1 FTE in their second year. The Unit provides start-up funds (up to £5,000)
   to facilitate the establishment of their research programmes (e.g. Harvey’s research
   investigating the effects of alcohol on attention (REF2/11237587)). Priority is given to ECRs
   (supported by experienced colleagues) when allocating internally funded PhD bursaries (e.g.
   Proops’ research on working equid welfare). ECRs are also supported to produce joint
   funding bids with senior colleagues as PI/CI teams (e.g. British Academy Grants awarded to
   Gürbüz for research with autistic students in HE and to Milward for research into the effects
   of stress on children supported by López and Waller, respectively). Beyond the Unit,

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   Gheorghiu is Deputy Convenor of the University-wide Researchers’ Network which provides
   workshops, networking and training opportunities, primarily for ECRs and mid-career staff,
   including support around wellbeing and, most recently, work-life balance during the Covid-19
   pandemic (REF5a, para. 41). Our recruitment policy and positive environment ensures a
   healthy pipeline of research leaders for the future, with 11 Unit colleagues promoted from
   Lecturer to Senior Lecturer during the census period.

  Postdoctoral research staff support. Research fellows make important contributions to
   our research activity, co-authoring 12% of our submitted outputs. In line with the Concordat
   to Support the Career Development of Researchers, our Research Fellows have the same
   support and development mechanisms available as other academic staff, including
   individually tailored mentoring and career advice (REF5a, para. 41-42). As a result, all of the
   11 Research Fellows employed during the census period have progressed to permanent
   lectureship positions (6), further Postdoctoral Research Fellow positions (4) or non-
   academic research posts (1). Leal and Mann, now promoted to Senior Research Fellows,
   are submitted to REF, reflecting progression to research independence through the
   generation of external funding to support their own research programmes. Research Fellow
   Mielke, previously working on a Leverhulme grant, developed an independent project,
   securing a prestigious British Academy Newton International Fellowship at Oxford
   University. Research staff are represented at Department and Faculty R&I Committees (e.g.
   Mann served as Faculty representative (2018-2020)) and through the University-wide
   Research Staff Forum, promoting engagement with wider research agendas and ensuring
   that the unique set of challenges faced by research staff are addressed.

  Our transparent workload model provides explicit allowances for scholarly, research and
   impact activities. Research-active staff (those regularly publishing research articles) are
   allocated a minimum of 0.2 FTE for research activity, with additional time allocated for
   specific activities e.g. 100 hours when applying for a large grant, with a sliding scale for
   smaller grants or Co-I contributions. Specific allowances are also assigned for outreach or
   impact-related activities including partnership development, networking, advocacy, and
   community engagement. All colleagues can apply to University sabbatical schemes (REF5a,
   para. 36) allowing them to concentrate on strategic research or impact activities, for
   example, a sabbatical helped Nee submit a grant proposal and write a career-defining paper
   (Criminology, REF2/11506265).

  Financial support includes individual allowances (typically £2,000 annually per staff
   member) that can cover a wide range of activities, including conference attendance,
   impact/outreach activities (e.g. Pearson’s stakeholder event disseminating his research on
   prisoner self-service technology that led to further stakeholder-funded events), visiting
   scholar activities, and external training (e.g. Somogyi and Fasulo completed external
   mindfulness in school training (MiSP), gaining new skills to that enabled them to support a
   successful SCDTP bursary application on this topic). This fund also supported small-
   scale/pilot research that led to outputs in high impact journals (e.g. Kaminski & Waller,
   PNAS, REF2/16024928). A competitive impact fund (typically £4,000 annually), supports
   engagement of staff with stakeholders. Examples include: holding focus groups to support
   the employment of autistic adults (UoP04Autism) and training of non-academic partners in




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   methods to improve the release success of rehabilitant orangutans in Malaysia
   (UoP04Orangutans).

 Staff are recognised and rewarded through workload allocation for the production of high-
 quality research or impact activities. Staff receive a small financial incentive for high-quality
 outputs, to be used flexibly for R&I activities and OA publishing. Colleagues can also receive a
 Vice Chancellor’s Award for outstanding performance (e.g. Kaminski for research excellence
 and media engagement and López for work supporting the employment of people with autism
 (REF5a, para. 55)). These support mechanisms help colleagues develop as leaders of
 research groups and intellectual leaders in their field and facilitate career progression. In the
 current REF period, 53% of Unit members were promoted including ten colleagues to Reader
 or Professor (8F:2M).

 2.3   Research student support and development

 Our increased portfolio of funding mechanisms [1.3], supported a consistent growth in PGRS
 completions (292% increase since REF2014) and will ensure the future sustainability of our
 provision, with 58 PGRS (39FT; 19PT) currently registered compared to 26 in 2014 (Table 1).

 Table 1. Annual PGRS completions

  Year              13-14      14-15       15-16      16-17      17-18      18-19      19-20
  Completions          2          6          3          9          5          9          13

 Selection, supervision and monitoring. Selection procedures differ according to funding
 stream but all members of interview panels complete the UoP “Best practice in the Selection &
 Admissions of PGRS” training. Supervisory teams comprise three supervisors, with a
 combination of expertise and experience. External supervisors from other academic or clinical
 institutions, or the sponsor organisation, join teams as appropriate. The agenda, minutes and
 outcomes of regular meetings with the primary supervisor and full team are recorded on an
 online platform (Skillsforge) and progress is monitored by independent assessors in annual
 reviews. PGRS are supported by a Departmental Research Degrees Coordinator (Fasulo) and
 have representation in Departmental and Faculty decision-making committees and our Athena
 Swan Working party. The SCDTP is organised into 5 Thematic Cluster Pathways and our
 students are supported by Bard and Stafford who co-ordinate the “Learning, Knowledge and
 Behaviour” and “Population Change, Health and Wellbeing” pathways, respectively. Our
 support and supervision is highly effective, evidenced by our 97% satisfaction score in PRES
 2019 for questions relating to supervision. Coupled with a vibrant and inclusive research
 culture, this support results in sector-leading progression rates (i.e. top quartile, 88%).

 Networking, placements and impact. All PGRS are financially supported for international
 conference attendance, participant payments and equipment purchases. PGRS are
 encouraged to secure competitive external research or conference travel grants (e.g. the UKRI
 Globalink Exchange Scheme enabling visits to the Canadian Institute for Substance Use
 Research to develop skills in demographic analysis and to Simon Fraser University to work with
 a unique longitudinal dataset and learn new data collection techniques). All bursary funders
 provide valuable opportunities for academic research placements or internships with non-
 academic organisations, including a mandatory 6-month laboratory visit for Erasmus students.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 Recent placements include a research visit to McGill University, Canada, resulting in a
 collaborative paper; institutional placements with the ONS to gain additional ‘big data’ statistical
 skills; and the Home Office, providing insights in to evidence-based policy making. PGRS are
 also encouraged to consider the potential impact of their research, and, where appropriate
 engage with stakeholders. The Unit Impact Lead delivers targeted workshops and supports
 students in developing a detailed impact strategy. Our PGRS community contributes to the
 organisation and delivery of public engagement events (e.g. Pint of Science). A high proportion
 of PGRS engage with non-academic partners to produce research relevant to key societal
 challenges, including joint doctoral research projects with the NHS Solent Trust on autism
 diagnosis practice and The Donkey Sanctuary on global working equid welfare.

 Training and culture. We foster PGRS engagement across the wider Unit (e.g. through
 inclusion in Centre meetings and Unit social events), while also providing opportunities for
 students to develop their own community. PGRS can access Unit research culture funds to
 support meetings and workshops, e.g. the monthly student-led “Pretty heavy Discussions”
 (PhD) group to discuss their work with their peers. They engage in a range of seminars,
 workshops and training events related to our funding streams, including ESRC SCDTP
 conferences and ‘Away Days’, ERASMUS House of Legal Psychology Summer/Winter Schools
 and CREST training opportunities. The Unit hosts biannual PGRS Research Days, featuring
 talks and poster presentations, and PGRS participate in the University annual Festival of
 Doctoral Research. In line with Vitae requirements, students attend a minimum of 10 days
 training/professional development per year. A bespoke Unit programme, devised in
 consultation with PGRS reps, includes subject-specific training in statistics, impact, paper/grant
 writing and career advice, and is supplemented by the extensive University Graduate School
 Development Programme (REF5a, para. 38) and further supervisor-led training, as required. All
 students undertaking teaching responsibilities are enrolled in our University-wide GPROF
 training programme, enabling them to work towards Associate Fellowship with Advance HE.
 The success of our inclusive programme of events is evidenced by top quartile satisfaction for
 research culture in PRES 2019. The training opportunities we provide ensure that our students
 develop their skills in research methodologies, tools and techniques during their study, as
 evidenced by a 100% satisfaction score for research skill development (PRES, 2019).

 Indices of success. Notable student awards include the Kuwait National Youth’s Excellence
 and Creativity Award and research awards from the Society for Applied Research in Memory
 and Cognition, European Association for Psychology and Law and International Investigative
 Interviewing Research Group. The Psychology Department pioneered the “compilation style”
 thesis at UoP, where chapters of the thesis are research papers. This supports employability by
 ensuring students have a track record of publications upon completion of their PhD and has
 resulted in 34% of papers submitted by established staff (i.e. employed before 2018) being co-
 authored with our PGRS. Our destination data are positive. The majority of PGRS want a
 career in academia (67%, HEPI, 2020), and more of our PGRS (47%) were able to achieve this
 than the sector average (30%), with a further 28% either in research posts outside academia or
 practitioners in health, forensic and educational fields (19% unknown). Evidence of the
 excellent support and development mechanisms we have in place is best demonstrated by our
 latest PRES survey results where we were placed in the top quartile compared to the sector
 average across all subscales. Overall, satisfaction was 97% and supervisors received 100%
 satisfaction scores for their subject knowledge, contact time and feedback.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 2.4    Equality, diversity and inclusion

 Table 2. Profile of our Unit
                                Proportion of Cat A staff          Doctoral         Outputs
       Indicator
                                Sector       Submitted staff       degrees         submitted

       Gender (Female)           62%1              64%                74%              62%
       Ethnicity (BAME2)          7%1              10%                24%              9%
       Declared disability        6%1               7%                11%              8%
       Age (36-55)               51%1              60%                n/a              59%
       1-Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Advance HE, 2020; 2-Reported as Black,
       Asian and Minority Ethnic

 Composition of the Unit. The profile of our Unit closely aligns with the sector average (Table
 2) and we have returned 88% of our academic staff, exceeding the estimated national average
 of 73% (Research England REF communications, 2020). We have a proud history of female
 leadership, including Heads of the Department of Psychology, Reddy 2005-2010, Hoskins (now
 Dean of the Faculty of Science and Health) 2010-2017 and Akehurst since 2019. The gender
 balance of the Unit leadership team (67%) reflects the wider Unit and is well above sector
 averages (40%). More of our Professors (83%) are female than the sector average (23%), 67%
 of our ECRs are female. Our gender pay-gap data indicate parity, with a mean difference of 4%
 in favour of female staff. Unfortunately, data regarding other protected characteristics are not
 available at the Unit level. The Unit is also able to attract global talent and has a long tradition
 of internationality (45% international staff from 14 different countries). The diversity of our staff
 is testament to our understanding of the benefits that diversity brings to research and teaching
 activities.

 Policy and practice to support E&D. The University supports the Race Equality Charter, is a
 Stonewall Diversity Champion, Disability Confident employer, and holds an Institutional Athena
 Swan Bronze Award (REF5a, para. 43-45). The Department of Psychology holds an Athena
 Swan Bronze Award (since 2014) and we are aiming for Silver in 2023. Our Departmental
 Athena Swan self-evaluation team is in the process of transitioning to an EDI Team,
 broadening their scope to all protected characteristics. Our decision-making groups are
 representative of the Unit and, since 2014, we have formalised key processes into policy (e.g.
 our enhanced parental leave policy), reduced core hours (10am-4pm), improved record
 keeping and have held workshops to identify barriers to career progression, acting on the
 results (e.g. ensuring equality of experience by providing guidance to line managers, promoting
 consistency among Mentors, and communicating our commitment to EDI to new staff). All
 colleagues are required to complete ‘Unconscious Bias’, ‘Equality and Diversity’, and ‘Bullying
 and Harassment’ training (REF5a, para. 47). In our latest recruitment round, we explicitly
 sought expertise in EDI research, or practice, in our candidates. Our Unit supports a healthy
 work/life balance to promote staff wellbeing; staff are encouraged to utilise their annual leave
 allocations and are only expected to respond to emails during their working hours.

 We support colleagues with special/health needs and/or caring responsibilities to fully
 participate in all activities. Flexible working arrangements are offered on an annual basis, with

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 32% of the Unit benefiting from individually tailored working arrangements over this
 assessment period, including temporary reduction in working hours, condensed working hours
 or constraints on teaching timetables (REF5a, para. 46). On the census date, 5 staff were on
 part-time contracts to either assist transition to retirement or to enable them to keep their
 practitioner work external to the University. Our policies facilitate conference attendance by
 staff with caring responsibilities (e.g. by providing financial support for childcare). Parental
 leave arrangements, taken by 8 (5F:3M) staff, involve regular “keeping in touch” days (if
 desired) and teaching workload adjustments to allow returning members of staff to focus on
 their research. We make individually-tailored adjustments for staff with special/health needs, for
 example, by hiring a support person or reducing/adapting workload.

 Research supporting the EDI agenda. The Unit has a strong tradition of teaching and
 research concerned with equality and diversity, including by staff Kapp, López, Hoskins, and
 Gürbüz. For example, research programmes to help close the attainment/awarding gap of
 disadvantaged students (Hoskins), research by Kapp, who self-identifies as autistic, supporting
 neurodiversity, and López’s award-winning Autism Centre for Research on Employment, which
 has recruited several autistic individuals as research assistants and research students over the
 census period. This research translates into a deeper understanding of the benefits that staff
 diversity brings and positively impacts our engagement with diversity in our research
 environment. Moreover, the international diversity of our staff provides an excellent
 environment for cross-cultural research.

 Policy and practice for our REF submission. Equality and diversity was considered
 throughout our submission and in accordance with the University’s Code of Practice (REF5a,
 para. 50). The Unit REF team (4F:2M; 5 nationalities; representatives of each research group)
 attended an ‘Equality and Diversity in the REF’ workshop (Advance HE, October 2019) in
 addition to mandatory training. Outputs were reviewed by at least three independent internal
 raters plus further external review as necessary (134 external reviews, 4 (3F:1M) reviewers).
 ECRs were not under-represented (average of 2.5 papers per person), nor our senior
 researchers over-represented (average of 2.2 papers per Reader/Professor). Our output profile
 closely matches our staff profile for the characteristics reported (Table 2). Overall, we are
 confident that outputs were selected fairly and without regard for any characteristic other than
 the quality of the work itself.


 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Income

 Our income strategy has focussed on diversifying our sources of income and ensuring that our
 funding supports the rapid translation of research into impact. We have achieved this through:
 (i) developing collaborative networks with academic partners; (ii) promoting increased
 engagement with key stakeholder groups; and (iii) supporting more of our staff to become
 research leaders. Through the support mechanisms outlined below we have delivered this
 strategy. Since REF2014, we have increased the number of colleagues contributing to income
 generation by 108% (from 13 to 27), increased the number of successful bids by 147% (from
 38 to 94), and diversified our funding sources by 85% (from 20 to 37), which includes funding
 from NIHR, reflecting the increased health-related focus of our research. Together, this has


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 supported a 96% increase in research income (from £2.45M to £4.80M), with income from UK
 Research Councils and Royal Societies increasing by 133% (from £529k to £1.2M). Our impact
 strategy, which sees non-academic partners as co-producers and funders of research, has
 further contributed to our income diversification, increasing income from UK charities by 138%
 (from £377k to £897k) and non-EU government sources by 108% (from £921k to £1.9M).

 The Unit encourages and supports funding bids through our mentoring and appraisal systems.
 This is complemented by University-level mechanisms including funding schemes to pump-
 prime strategic research (REF5a, para. 12) that have supported five Unit colleagues. This has
 been particularly valuable for our developing QLHWB research, supporting ongoing projects
 including research into adherence to national Covid-19 guidelines (Al-Abbadey). Grant peer-
 review systems at Department (small grants) and University level (larger grants, REF5a, para.
 56) improve the quality of applications through expert feedback. Staff also share their research
 ideas with Mentors and research centre members at the earliest opportunity, gaining advice
 from experienced colleagues at the point where feedback is most effective in shaping ideas.
 We also have a dedicated Unit Grant Officer (Vrij), a highly successful colleague with extensive
 experience of successful income generation (£4.8M from 2006-2020 at UoP) who provides
 subject-specific support for grant applications, for example, supporting Mann to secure her first
 grant as PI from the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory. In addition, we support grant
 writing through workload allowance, grant writing workshops and retreats. These mechanisms
 have facilitated the achievement of our strategic aims for income:

  Support collaboration networks with academic partners. Our strategic focus on forging
   academic interdisciplinary partnerships with global reach, enabled by mechanisms including
   individual budgets to facilitate institutional lab visits [2.2, 4.1], facilitated some notable
   successes including: (i) £1.5M ESRC funding (Vrij, Hope) as part of the CREST consortium
   to lead collaborative projects relating to investigative interviewing with Lancaster University
   and, in the current round, University of Bath, University College London, University of
   Central Lancashire and University of Stirling; (ii) £1.6M European Research Council funding
   (Waller) for collaborative research with the University of Liverpool and the Medical Research
   Council (MRC) Centre for Macaques investigating the social function, anatomy and
   evolutionary origins of individual facial expressivity; (iii) £127k from NIHR (Drahota-Towns)
   for joint projects with the Universities of Southampton and Cardiff investigating flooring
   effectiveness in care homes for older adults; and (iv) £208k to develop a Marie-Curie ITN
   (Reddy) to investigate human intersubjectivity in collaboration with 12 other European
   research centres.

  Promote engagement with key stakeholder groups. Through our support of impact and
   engagement activities and one-to-one mentorship by our Impact Lead, staff are encouraged
   to view stakeholders not just as recipients of our research, but active agents in informing and
   funding it. As a result, income from non-academic organisations has increased by 145%.
   Examples include 13 projects from the FBI’s High-value detainee Interrogation Group on
   forensic interviewing and lie detection, totalling £2.5M since 2014 (Vrij; UoP04Credibility),
   new partnerships (e.g. with the Education Endowment Foundation) supporting research
   evaluating Changing Mindsets training in schools (Hoskins, £289k), business partnerships
   (e.g. with Unilink Software and Psychology International Ltd.) supporting development of
   self-service technology in prisons (Pearson, £40k) and the development of the Autism
   Centre for Research on Employment (ACRE), in partnership with local councils and Autism

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   Hampshire, funded by Autism Innovation Fund, Department of Health, Research Autism,
   IBM, Southampton and Portsmouth City Councils and Solent Local Enterprise Partnership
   (López, £135k).

  Develop our staff to broaden our funding base. To promote the sustainability of our
   research, we encourage and support grant submissions by new PIs and ECRs, including
   Fitzgerald who secured an ESRC Young Investigator Award (£190k). We also attract
   promising ECRs to join the Unit on externally-funded Fellowships, with experienced
   colleagues acting as hosts and Mentors (e.g. Joly hosted by Waller, Marie Curie Research
   Fellowship, £230k). ECRs are supported to collaborate in grant bids with experienced
   colleagues, often targeting seedcorn funding for pilot research to underpin larger grant
   applications (e.g. Vernham & Nee, British Academy, £10k). Micheletta, a junior colleague at
   the time, was supported in securing a large grant from The Leverhulme Trust by
   collaborating with Waller (£305k) and has recently been promoted to Reader (2020).

 3.2   Infrastructure

 The Head of Department (Akehurst) works with the Associate Head for Research and
 Innovation (AHRI: Proops, 0.5 FTE), REF Coordinator (Blank, 0.2 FTE), and the Impact Lead
 (López, 0.1 FTE) to develop and deliver our R&I strategy. Our Centre Directors provide
 operational leadership and strategic input, working with the Departmental leadership team to
 ensure the R&I objectives for each group are aligned with, and supported by, the wider Unit
 vision. The Department’s Research and Innovation Committee (DRIC), chaired by the AHRI, is
 inclusive in terms of gender and career stage and comprises Professors and Readers,
 Research Centre and PGRS representatives and our Lead Technician. The DRIC develops the
 Departmental R&I strategy, agrees the distribution of funds (e.g. through individual budgets,
 output incentives, equipment purchases, culture and impact funds), considers equality and
 diversity issues, manages research integrity and monitors delivery against KPIs and the
 Research Concordat.

 3.3   Facilities

 The Unit endorses an equal access policy whereby equipment/physical resources are available
 to all (staff, PGRS, and for teaching) and ensures laboratory spaces are accessible to
 colleagues with a physical disability. Unit research is supported by a team of five technicians
 (3F:2M) trained in the use of specialist equipment and software.

 Unit facilities. Serving our strategic research priorities and growing research remit, we have a
 range of specialist facilities that aid the work of our Research Centres. Supporting CCEP
 colleagues, our Dog Cognition Centre, unique in the UK, provides room and facilities for
 running controlled experiments with dogs, supporting the work of 2 funded PGRS and enabling
 research into the evolution of social cognition and communication in dogs that has resulted in
 the production of 6 outputs in Q1 journals since 2014 (e.g. Kaminski & Waller, PNAS,
 REF2/16024928). Investment in thermal imaging technology enabled the development of
 ground-breaking methods to monitor physiological activity based on facial temperature
 distributions in humans and other primates (e.g. Davila Ross, Frontiers in Behavioral
 Neuroscience). The Toddler Lab, mimicking a domestic environment, and the Infant Lab,
 equipped with purpose-built 'double-recording' equipment to examine social interactions,


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 supports developmental psychologists in CIDD. A new Psychophysiology Lab (NeuroScan EEG
 system £70k, two BioPac physiological systems £20k) supports neurological research into
 decision-making and anxiety in QLHWB (e.g. Moore, REF2/15982504), and our Forensic
 Interviewing Suite enables the work of ICRFP members and has been instrumental in Vrij’s
 investigative interviewing research that has attracted £3M since 2014 and underpins
 UoP04Credibility.

 Many of our specialist facilities are co-utilised by colleagues across the Unit, fostering
 collaborative projects and interdisciplinary research [1.2]. Since 2014, we have invested in a
 state-of-the-art Motion Capture Lab (65 m2, £100k) for biomechanical analyses of human
 movement, supporting CCEP and ICRFP colleagues who previously depended on external
 facilities to study non-verbal cues to aggression and physical attractiveness (e.g. Morris,
 Journal of Nonverbal Behavior). Five eye-tracking systems (2 lab-based and 3 mobile) and 2
 VR systems with eye-trackers support interdisciplinary collaborative research within the Future
 and Emerging Technologies Theme including projects on burglars’ behaviour (e.g. Nee,
 REF2/11506340, ICRFP) and spatial cognition (Joly, CCEP). Our Biomarkers, Olfactory and
 Gustatory Lab supports research from all our groups, including new programmes exploring the
 relationship between olfaction, over-eating and emotion (e.g. Stafford, QLHWB), hormonal
 influences and sexual behaviour (e.g. Fleischman, CCEP) and alcohol and cognition (e.g.
 Harvey, REF2/11237587, ICRFP).

 As part of our IT infrastructure, the Psychology of Applied Cognition Lab includes 10 computer
 workspaces separated by screens for multiple participant testing, two smaller labs with multiple
 computers, plus 14 individual cubicles for one-to-one testing. An Observation Suite is used for
 unobtrusively observing social interactions, with extensive equipment (e.g. cameras, recording
 devices, tablets) supporting laboratory and field observational research (e.g. animal behaviour,
 children-mother interactions, forensic interviewing). In addition to supporting open source
 options, we have software licences/accounts for questionnaire-based research (e.g. Qualtrics),
 experimental research (e.g. E-Prime), observational research (e.g. Observer), transcription and
 coding software (e.g. Interact), and programming and analysis software (e.g. MatLab). The Unit
 recently invested in a Gorilla licence (£24k) to assist staff and PGRS creating online
 experiments and supports the use of online participant recruitment platforms (e.g. Prolific) to
 facilitate data collection.

 We have created distinctive participant databases aligned to our research strengths and
 supporting research sustainability. These include a unique database of autistic jobseekers,
 resulting from collaborations with the DWP, autism charities (e.g. Spanish Autistic Society), and
 local councils (e.g. Portsmouth City Council) which underpinned the development of the ACRE
 Profiling Assessment tools to support autistic adults into employment. A distinctive dog owners
 database of ~800 dogs/owners provides participants for research at the Dog Cognition Centre.
 We have also established a general community database of adult participants, a parent and
 infants database of families and have access to the University of Portsmouth Ageing Network
 database.

 Access to external facilities. Our staff also have access to UoP facilities outside of the Unit,
 including a Forensic Investigation/Crime Scene house available for ICRFP research, and
 access to biochemical testing facilities in the School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences for
 interdisciplinary research by CCEP members including Milward (funded by the British

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 Academy). Access to infrastructure through national or international collaborations also
 enhances our research, for example, Nee’s research on virtual burglary uses a VR lab at the
 Free University of Amsterdam, Hope’s research benefits from collaboration with a commercial
 ‘Escape Room’, and Proops’ research utilises the extensive equine facilities located at our
 educational partner, Sparsholt College. An extensive network of field sites, often with long-term
 demographic data of populations, support CCEP’s work in animal behaviour and conservation,
 across a wide range of taxa. Examples include Chimfunsi Wildlife Orphanage, Zambia (Davila
 Ross, REF2/11695801), The Caribbean Primate Research Centre (Micheletta,
 REF2/11213358) and the Bornean Sun Bear Conservation Centre (Davila Ross,
 REF2/16024872). In addition, research sites in Kenya, Indonesia, and Mexico support research
 and community programs with human participants, enabling impact related to conservation and
 animal welfare (e.g. Proops, Equine Veterinary Journal), and facilitating CIDD’s emerging
 strength in multicultural research (e.g. Herrmann, REF2/25065808).


 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1   Research collaboration

 Our strategic focus on supporting collaborations to enhance the quality of our research and
 income generation is evidenced by 72% of our submitted outputs published with international or
 national co-authors and 51% of our external income from non-UK funding sources including the
 FBI, John Templeton and The Leakey Foundations. Our participation in international research
 consortia promotes reproducibility, generalisability and open science, while producing rigorous
 research outputs e.g. the ManyPrimates project (Joly & Herrmann, REF2/10377717), Dognition
 project (Kaminski, REF2/11695920), Many Legal Labs Project (Hope) and Manybabies project
 (Herrmann). The Unit encourages international researcher visits (e.g. by providing office and
 research facilities). Since 2014, we have hosted 11 international visiting Professors who
 contributed to our research through collaboration, mentoring, seminars, workshops and joint
 publications. For example, Professor Amy Leach (University of Ontario, 2013-2014) developed
 collaborations that led to the publication of two articles on deception detection with Akehurst,
 Vrij and Vernham. We hosted 2 visiting researchers, including Chantelle Lachance (Canadian
 Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health, 2019-21), who is collaborating on NIHR funded
 research with Drahota-Towns. We also welcomed ~20 international PGRS on research
 internships (including from Brazil, Czech Republic, Colombia, Germany, Italy, Netherlands,
 Poland, Spain), some contributing to research publications (e.g. Blank & Launay, 2014). The
 Unit also enables staff to visit other institutions by providing financial support and adjusting
 workloads accordingly. During the census period, several colleagues were/are visiting
 professors in the UK or overseas, including Hope (Harvard University, USA, 2015-19; Leuven
 University, Belgium, 2019-); Nee (Max Planck Institute for the Study of Crime Security and Law,
 Germany, 2019-); Blank (University of Mannheim, Germany, 2018); and Reddy (University of
 Copenhagen, Denmark, 2014).

 4.2   Contribution to, and recognition by, the research base

 Contributions to the wider scientific community are recognised in workload allocations and are
 an important vehicle for extending intellectual leadership and ensuring the sustainability of our
 discipline. Ten colleagues serve(d) as Editor-in Chief or Associate Editor of academic journals


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

 including Animal Cognition and Emotion Review (Bard), Frontiers in Psychology (Nomikou),
 Legal and Criminological Psychology (Hope) and Psychology, Crime & Law (Nee). Other
 colleagues have edited special issues for journals including Memory (Blank, Patihis), Patient
 Education and Counselling (Fasulo) and Chemical Senses (Stafford), and Somogyi served as a
 topic editor for Frontiers in Neurorobotics. Fourteen colleagues serve(d) on editorial boards of
 23 different journals, including Psychological Science (Blank), Clinical Psychological Science
 (Patihis), Journal of Applied Research on Memory and Cognition (Hope and Vrij), and Journal
 of Experimental Psychology (Hope). Unit staff have also served on committees of diverse
 funding bodies including ESRC peer review college (Blank), ESRC DTP peer review college
 (Hope), Irish Research Council: Government of Ireland Postgraduate Scholarship Programme
 (Hope), NIHR: Health Services and Delivery Research Programme (Drahota-Towns), UKRI:
 call delivered by ESRC, MRC and National Sciences Foundation China (Drahota-Towns).

 All colleagues in the Unit are expected to participate in peer reviewing of manuscripts for
 journals and grant applications for national (e.g. BBSRC, ESRC, MRC, NIHR, Leverhulme) and
 international (e.g. NIH (US), ANR (France), DFG (Germany)) funding agencies. Unit members
 organised three international conferences over the REF period (e.g. Bard: Ernst Strüngmann
 Forum on attachment, Frankfurt, 2016). Bard, Blank, and Proops were on the programme
 committees of major international Primatology, Applied Memory and Cognition, and Equitation
 Science conferences, respectively. Bard, Fasulo, Hope, Patihis, Proops, Reddy, Vrij and Waller
 delivered keynote lectures (~50 in total) at international academic conferences.

 Our contributions to the research base have been recognised through academic prizes/awards
 and elections to learned societies. Needs received the BPS (Division of Forensic Psychology)
 Lifetime Achievement Award (2020), Vrij received the IIIRG (International Investigative
 Interviewing Research Group) Tom Williamson Lifetime Achievement Award (2016), and
 Fitzgerald was elected an American Psychological Society (APS) Rising Star (2019). In
 recognition of their contributions to research, Blank (2015) and Hope (2020) have been elected
 APS and Psychonomic Society Fellows respectively and Hope received the 2019 IIIRG
 Academic Excellence Award. Prizes/awards for individual papers or books include the
 American Psychological Association Ursula Gielen Global Psychology Book Award (2018) to
 Bard. López won the National Autistic Society Award for Outstanding Adult Services and the
 Mexican National Council for Science and Technology, Priego-Hernandez Award (2016). In
 addition, staff take on key roles in scientific organisations including Kapp who is a founding
 member of the International Society for Autism Research’s Autistic Researchers’ Committee
 and Reddy who was Chair of the BPS Developmental Psychology Section (2015-17).

 4.3   Dissemination and engagement with diverse communities and publics

 Our research has wide-ranging societal relevance (e.g. security and law, health and wellbeing,
 diversity, education and animal conservation), and clear pathways to impact (e.g. Participatory
 Action Research) that are enabled by an impact strategy supporting collaborations and
 engagement with the community and key stakeholders. Our dissemination and impact activities
 include:

  Publication of guidelines, newsletters and books based on research expertise. These
   are for practitioners, end-users and/or researchers interested in engaging with beneficiaries.
   For example, Kapp co-wrote the AASPIRE guidelines for inclusion of autistic adults as co-

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   researchers and guidelines for avoiding ableist language in autism contexts. Proops’
   research underpins equine management guidelines of several equine welfare charities
   including World Horse Welfare and The Donkey Sanctuary, Stores published a booklet with
   the national Down's Syndrome Association for parents and practitioners on 'Managing sleep
   problems in children with Down's Syndrome’ (downloaded over 5,000 times). Hope and Vrij
   have written several Practitioner Briefings and Guides on memory, deception and
   investigative interviewing. We also produce research newsletters for parents, autistic and
   Down’s Syndrome communities around requested topics that are distributed at public
   events, on internal or external websites (e.g. Down’s Syndrome Association) or through our
   public email list. For lay readership, Gustafsson wrote a book about parenting, and Kaminski
   on dog behaviour and cognition.

  Contributions to national and international media. Since 2018, our Press Office has
   tracked 1209 local, national and international news articles and broadcast clips related to our
   Unit, demonstrating the global reach of our research. Prominent examples include: facial
   mimicry in sun bears reported in The Independent, The Daily Telegraph, Daily Mail, New
   Scientist, National Geographic, Newsweek and the New York Times (Davila Ross); domestic
   dog facial expressions reported across BBC Radio and TV, Sky News, The Guardian, The
   Times, New York Times, TIME magazine and New Scientist (Kaminski); burglary research
   reported in the NY Times, The Times and BBC World Service (Nee); flower scent discussed
   on BBC TV’s Countryfile (Stafford) and human biases discussed on BBC Radio 4 (Blank and
   Gheorghiu). Documentary coverage includes Kaminski and Proops on BBC 2 documentary
   series Animal Einsteins; Proops’ research in award winning three-part documentary Equus:
   Story of the Horse (aired in 6 countries to date) and Reddy interviewed for Babies
   documentary series by Netflix. We also make regular contributions to social media through
   Research Centre and Departmental accounts. Three of our submitted papers feature in the
   Top 100 Altmetric lists for online presence: REF2/16024928 ranked 27th in 2019,
   REF2/2340701 ranked 35th in 2020 and REF2/11695802 ranked 72nd in 2017, with a
   combined Altmetric score of 8888.

  Public and stakeholder events and training. These are firmly embedded in our Unit
   culture. We regularly organise events to disseminate our research in the local community by
   participating in national schemes (such as Pint of Science, Café Scientifique, the University
   of the Third Age), local schemes (e.g. Portsmouth Skeptics), and our own targeted events
   for the general public (e.g. ‘Super Saturday’ Psychology Day, where we open the
   Psychology Department to members of the public to showcase our R&I activities). We have
   delivered talks (e.g. contributions to Macaque Awareness Week, Winchester Science
   Festival, talks in schools), organised stakeholder conferences (e.g. University of Portsmouth
   Ageing Network Conference) and are members of community fora aligned to our research
   expertise (e.g. Portsmouth Autism Community Forum, Autism Hampshire Experts by
   Experience). Events targeted to specific stakeholders include the ICRFP 20th anniversary
   event showcasing research to key stakeholders and practitioners. Our practitioner training
   events include courses on judging credibility in the courtroom, specialist interviewing and
   statement validity assessment for UK police forces and the International Criminal Court (e.g.
   Akehurst, Hope). Vrij and Leal provide annual deception detection training to intelligence
   and police officers in Europe, America and Asia (UoP04Credibility). Hope held a series of



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   stakeholder events in the UK and Norway for over 200 attendees on eliciting information
   (UoP04Interviewing).

 4.4   Benefits to society

 Our research expertise, coupled with our outreach and engagement activities, delivers a range
 of societal benefits that are responsive to national and international priorities, including:

  Improved security and law enforcement. ICRFP members have increased understanding
   and countering of security threats in the UK and internationally. Notably, the Cognitive
   Credibility Assessment information-gathering procedure, developed by Vrij and team, and
   included in UK, FBI and Singapore interrogation policy, increases lie detection rates from
   56% to 71%, and has been taught to 18,000+ security officers (UoP04Credibility). Hope
   developed the Self-Administered Interview and Timeline Technique to elicit comprehensive
   memory accounts from witnesses, adopted into policy in the UK, US and Europe
   (UoP04Interviewing). In addition, Pearson’s research on the use of digital technologies has
   reduced prisoners’ reoffending rates and informed prison infrastructure developments in the
   UK and overseas, whilst Nee and Vernham’s research on burglars’ decision-making
   processes (with the insurance company Direct Line and Neighbourhood Watch) has led to
   improved home security. Ost’s expertise in false and recovered memories of abuse led to
   consultancy roles for the Society of Law, the British False Memory Society, and Courts of
   Justice trials. Hope is working with the International Criminal Court to enhance the
   prosecution of war crimes, human trafficking, terrorism and organised crime.

  Animal conservation and welfare. CCEP members have extensive collaborations with
   relevant stakeholders that facilitate impact from their research on primates (e.g. Macaca
   Nigra project in Indonesia, Monkey Haven, Isle of Wight), equids (e.g. The Donkey
   Sanctuary), and dogs (e.g. Pet Professional Guild UK). Such collaborations led to the
   discovery of a critically endangered orangutan species (UoP04Orangutans) and have
   informed educational conservation programmes in Indonesia (Micheletta), Department for
   Environment, Food & Rural Affairs and European policy guidelines on equid welfare
   (Proops) and policy on dog training in Spain, Germany and Switzerland (Kaminski). A new
   collaboration with Chimfunshi Wildlife Orphanage in Zambia is reducing the impacts of
   tourism on elephants (Davila Ross), whilst Herrmann’s appointment brings connections with
   education networks in Kenya (e.g. Ol Pejeta Conservancy, Sweetwaters Chimpanzee
   Sanctuary) that are promoting the sustainable conservation of African wildlife.

  Improved wellbeing and employment opportunities for diverse and vulnerable
   populations. The ACRE profiling assessment tools developed by López have enabled
   employers to make tailored adjustments for their autistic employees, leading to higher
   employment and wellbeing in autistic adults and the adoption of these tools by the
   Department for Work and Pensions, UK and Spanish autism professionals (UoP04Autism).
   In addition, work by Kapp, a researcher at the forefront of the neurodiversity movement,
   combined with research on the mental health of university autistic students by Gürbüz, will
   significantly enhance university and public provision of services over the coming years.

  Improved educational practice. The Growing Learners programme, based on mindset
   research (Hoskins, QLHWB), has been used to train teachers in 250 schools and to develop


                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

   parent-administered mindset storybooks to improve metacognitive skills and pupil
   engagement. Hoskins’ research collaborations with the OfS and Education Endowment
   Foundation have also informed the design of programmes aimed at closing the attainment
   gap for disadvantaged students and led to new learning gain measures. CIDD members
   have introduced mindfulness interventions to local schools and the Growing Places nursery
   network to improve staff wellbeing and prosocial behaviour in children (Somogyi, Fasulo,
   Nomikou).

 Our final example of contribution to, and recognition by, the research base and wider society is
 the invitation of Reddy (2015) to discuss her research on early development of self-
 consciousness as part of the prestigious Dialogues with the Dalai Lama series. This high-
 profile, week-long event brought together scientists, philosophers and spiritual leaders in
 discussion with His Holiness the Dalai Lama, and was live-streamed to audiences across the
 world.




                                                                                           Page 22
