Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1   Context and Structure:

 Bournemouth University’s 2018-2025 strategic plan has identified four cross-university Strategic
 Investment Areas (SIAs): (i) Assistive Technology (AT), (ii) Animation, Simulation & Visualisation
 (ASV), (iii) Medical Science (MS) and (iv) Sustainability, Low Carbon Technology & Materials
 Science (SLCTMS). The Unit is contributing to all the above SIAs in terms of engineering,
 science and technology [cross-refer 5A].

 Between 2005 and 2015 research in the Unit was organised within two research centres: (1)
 Sustainable Design Research Centre (SDRC) led by Professor Zulfiqar Khan and (2) Design
 Simulation Research Centre (DSRC) led by Professor Siamak Noroozi. According to REF2014
 Panel Unit Feedback, “SDRC had the highest proportion of outputs judged to be internationally
 excellent”.

 A merger between SDRC and DSRC led to the establishment of a Unit wide multidisciplinary
 research platform. The Unit has a multidisciplinary ethos, employing academic staff with diverse
 academic backgrounds, for example, engineering, design, and electronics. Research within the
 Unit is organised into research themes /groups: (1) Biomedical/Mechanical Engineering
 (BE/ME), (2) Materials Science & Testing (MST) and (3) NanoCorr, Energy & Modelling (NCEM)
 including Tribology and Design (T&D). This enabled more focused research such as lower limb
 prosthesis (industry funding), functional electrical stimulation (NHS collaborations), 2D material
 synthesis and process (industry funding) and nanocoatings and energy technologies (industry
 funding, patents and impact case study). These three major themes have cross-disciplinary
 research and cross-links for example, BE/ME and NCEM utilise and develop simulation and
 modelling techniques. MST and NCEM have cross links in terms of materials. MST has a focus
 on process and synthesis whilst NCEM investigates mechanics and failures. Both research
 groups have been developing energy storage techniques. MST focuses on chemical batteries
 research and development whilst NCEM has a focus on thermal and chemical energy storage.
 All three research groups are closely aligned with the university SIAs which enable them to
 capitalise on the BU platforms for furthering research and innovation.

 Our mission is to conduct internationally leading research to advance fundamental impactful
 research. There has been a period of rapid growth since 2014. For example, an increase in the
 numbers of research active staff, attributed to existing staff achieving PhD: workload balance
 (teaching Vs research), recruitment of research active staff, capital investment in resources,
 central support in terms of research bidding, encouraging industry collaborations and by
 providing anchors for staff in the form of university strategic investment areas, internal pump-
 priming initiatives such as internally funded studentships, structured mentoring and coaching of
 staff at all career levels. Staff in the Unit has almost doubled with 21 staff (19.3FTE) submitted
 compared to 12 (10.4FTE) engineering staff submitted in REF14 an 86% increase. Total
 research funding of £963,402 over the REF period has been secured, this is an increase of 20%
 since REF2014. A strong portfolio of industrial and charitable funding supports fundamental
 research that advances the intellectual boundaries of our engineering disciplines.

 There were 33 PhDs completions since 2014, represented which is an increase of 208%, see
 Fig 1. The vitality of the research environment has resulted in substantial growth in all areas of
 the Unit’s themes. The research portfolio and activities within the Unit were also supported by
 significant investment (£5.63M) to enhance facilities (over £3.79M) new labs in material science,
 thermofluids and heat transfer and equipment (over £1.84M), material synthesis and process,
 corrosion testing, nano characterisation system, nanocoating and fluid characterisation and heat
 transfer equipment.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Unit staff produced 374 outputs during the REF period contributing to: engineering (29.5%),
 material science and energy (25%), physics, maths, computer science (22%), medicine, health
 and social sciences (17.1%) and other (6.4%). The Unit has contributed to over 70 topics in the
 top 10% of worldwide topics by prominence including; prosthesis, lubricants, coatings,
 nanofluids, corrosion protection and bearings etc. This underpins technological innovation,
 evidenced by 5 patents (2 international and 3 UK) in energy and corrosion monitoring. One
 international patent is pending. Energy patents are being commercialised by Future Energy
 Source Ltd (industrial partner).

 We have developed a strong portfolio of international collaboration through the appointment of
 several Visiting Professors and Visiting Fellows who participate in the unit research and
 academic development. Research groups and the unit have also developed longstanding
 industrial collaborations with the Ministry of Defence UK, Future Energy Source Ltd, Schaeffler
 Technologies AG & Co. KG, SKF Engineering and Research Centre BV, ASM Assembly
 Systems Ltd, Balmain Environmental Conservation Trust, Royal Bournemouth & Christchurch
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Longitude Engineering, Odstock Medical Limited, Daido Metal
 Co Ltd, The European Technical Centre (UK), The Royal National Lifeboat Institution, Hyderco
 Hydraulics Ltd and Precision Acoustics Ltd. Industrial research funding forms a significant
 proportion (35%) of our research income.

 Staff are recognised leaders in their field; 4 staff are Fellows of IMechE/ IET. Staff have 19
 awards/honours, approximately 50 invited lectures, facilitated/organised 22 public engagement
 events and have been contributing to peer review such as EPSRC.


                                   Growth over REF period
   35

   30

   25

   20

   15

   10

       5

       0
                   FTE Submitted             PGR Completions             Income (£100K)

                                     REF 2014 (Eng. only)   REF 2021

 Figure 1. Comparison of REF 2014 (Engineering proportion only) and REF 2021.

 1.2       Research and Impact Strategy:

 All research groups share a common high-level strategy; to encourage growth and to achieve
 critical mass in targeted research areas, through two categories of scope and scale, explained
 as:

 Exploratory Research, supported through investment of pump priming funds from university
 initiatives such as research fellowships, fusion investment fund, charity impact fund and Higher
 Education Innovation Fund for new ideas and research areas (typically up to a year duration,
 total investment since 2014 £103.4k), leading to developmental research. 8 staff were supported
 through the above strands in 6 exploratory research initiatives.


                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Developmental Research, larger projects, within or cross research groups, funded by industrial
 consortia, other external sources, university and industrial supported match funded studentships
 and research assistants (typically 1-3year duration, total external income since 2014 £963K).
 This includes strategic investment in staff, space and new laboratories. For example, BU
 invested £184K in 2018 to establish an Advanced Materials Laboratory to further support the
 MST group. This is aligned with the BU2025 ‘Sustainability, Low Carbon Technology & Materials
 Science’ SIA. As a newly developed group there has been some progress mentioned below
 which has the potential to emerge as a key theme in REF2027.

 The Unit has been investing QR funds (£222K) which is a 28% increase from REF14 (£159K) to
 accelerate, track and record impacts of our research. New researchers have been supported
 and encouraged to apply for university impact funding initiatives. Unit level PPDP have been
 continued over the REF period and have been facilitated by university, unit and external experts
 in research impacts. The Unit has invested in recruiting postdoctoral assistants to identify
 pathways to impact, track evidence and support staff in developing impact narratives. New staff
 Dr Diogo Montalvao was support by QR funding (£10,465) to establish research in fracture risk
 in NiTi endodontics and led to an Anglo-European College of Chiropractic match funded
 collaborative studentship. Dr Philip Sewell was supported by a Fusion Investment Fund and
 HEIF funding (£41,929) in collaboration with RNLI resulting in a delivery plan created for
 implementation of a fabrication lab within the RNLI to encourage innovation, prototyping and
 manufacturing amongst all departments of the organisation. New staff Dr Adil Saeed was
 supported by QR funding (£5,000) in magnetic flat cell corrosion condition monitoring which has
 led to the development of a proposal in Smart Systems Technology for Assessing and
 Monitoring Micro-Electromechanical Failures for Leverhulme call. QR funding (£1400) was used
 to support Dr Yi Huang’s work on bimetallic composite, which led to two journal publications in
 collaboration with the: University of Southampton, Warsaw University of Technology (Poland)
 and Oxford University. Dr Kyungjoo Cha was supported by QR funding (£1600) to promote
 research in eco-design which led to Kia Motors funding (£86,000) to investigate digital life of Kia
 Z generation autonomous vehicle design. Dr Roya Haratian was supported by QR (£5,700)
 which has led to an EPSRC funding application.

 1.2.1   Evidence of achievement of strategic aims for research since REF 2014

 The unit has focused on four key priorities: (1) pursuing research excellence to enhance
 reputation and sustainability; (2) interdisciplinary research; (3) engagement with external
 stakeholders to facilitate societal relevant research, and (4) raising our international profile.
 These had been described in the REF2014 environment narrative (Unit15) and were aligned to
 BU’s Strategic Plan (BU2018).

 The Unit forward strategic direction (2018-2025) is informed by the 100 BU2025 actions, which
 make up the strategic plan. The unit has organised its research within key themes in alignment
 with the university strategic investment areas, incorporating: fusion of research, education and
 professional practice, leadership and impact, reputation and networks, people, performance &
 resilience. In turn, leadership and impact focuses on significantly improving our research
 performance in the unit. We are aspiring to: (a) grow our internationally excellent and world-
 leading research; (b) increase our research and knowledge exchange funding; and (c) develop
 impact. Long term strategic planning has led to publication of national and international patents
 and an average of 8 patent citations received per 1,000 outputs published by the unit. 20.9% of
 publications are in the top 10% most viewed publications worldwide with an average of 1.4 field-
 weighted views impact of unit. Collaborations have been extended to Asia (China, India,
 Pakistan, Malaysia), Europe (Italy, Poland, Portugal), the USA and UK HEIs.

 Research in the Unit has been organised as follows to realise the unit strategic goals and
 enhance our portfolio from REF14.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biomedical/Mechanical Engineering (BE/ME):

 Professor Siamak Noroozi leads the BE/ME research group, which focuses on prosthesis.

 Professor Ian Swain’s research on Functional Electrical Stimulation, Tetragrip I INSPIRE project
 (£26,000) led to Tetra II INSPIRE PDRA (£157,440) and two further projects (£48,000), match
 funded by Dorset Creative and Odstock Medical Limited, in hip surgery simulator and a walking
 aid for stroke or multiple sclerosis affected people respectively. This has enabled the
 development of work on Functional and Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (FES and NMES)
 to expand into the field of Orthopaedics. Prof Swain established cooperation with the local NHS
 hospitals. Staff in the Orthopaedic Research Institute (ORI) consists of a part time Prof of
 Clinical Engineering, an Associate Professor, Research Manager, two Research Fellows, two
 Research Assistants, PhD students and 3 Hip Fellows who are Orthopaedic Surgeons
 undergoing research training just prior to taking up Consultant posts. This close cooperation
 between clinical and academic staff ensures that the research undertaken is of direct relevance
 to NHS patients and services.

 External Prosthesis – Smart socket/Socket comfort:
 BE/ME developed the first AI-based socket interfacial load transducer that can inform and
 facilitate the management of interfacial load distribution between a socket and the residual limb.
 This research was supported and funded by both Chas A Blatchford & Sons Ltd and the
 EPSRC. The smart prosthetic socket has been the subject of Blatchford research for the last 10
 years and this prototype developed by BE/ME allows real time measurement and monitoring of
 interfacial forces on the socket leading towards the goal of assessing the socket comfort. This
 has led to further research (£78K) in collaboration with Zimmer Biomet and RBCH (Royal
 Bournemouth and Christchurch Hospital).

 External Prosthesis – Deltoid Tension Meter:
 BE has major contributions on the understanding and the science of amputee running, using
 High Tech Composite Energy Storing and Returning (ESR) Prostheses made by OSSUR. This
 research, supported by OSSUR and in collaboration with the University of Malaya enabled BE to
 develop the theory behind the Dynamic Elastic response of the ESR feet to impulse
 synchronisation. This research has helped in the identification of the dynamic characteristics of
 all OSSUR feet and the advantages of Bilateral amputee over Unilateral amputee in longer
 distance races due to the existence of beat frequency and symmetric gait as evidenced by the
 outcome of the 2012 London Olympics.

 Internal Prosthesis:
 BE are pioneers in the development of joint assessment transducer technologies. This work was
 sponsored by the NHS and in consultation with other interested parties. The first transducer
 artefact that enables surgeons to measure joint contact force and subsequently estimate the
 initial deltoid tension during total reverse shoulder arthroplasty (TRSA) has been developed at
 BU.

 Another research programme at BE is the investigation of running gait in patients after total knee
 replacement. The “Orthopaedic Joint assessment Technology Research Group” is developed at
 BU and will concentrate on investigating different joints in the body to design & develop a range
 of transducers for joint assessment before, during and after operation. This work was jointly
 supported by Lima Corporate (Italy) and Royal Bournemouth and Christchurch Hospital.

 The mechanical engineering research theme has established two research collaborations with
 Hydreco, a local hydraulics company, to design and develop the next generation of rotary
 hydraulic valves and the new generation of computer-controlled valve control systems.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Materials Science & Testing (MST):

 The MST research theme is led by Dr Amor Abdelkader. This is an emerging theme in terms of
 materials synthesis and process and is currently being developed through university pump
 priming funding, including £184K in equipment and 3 x internally-funded PhD studentships. The
 current research focus is on batteries and material synthesis. In addition, MST is supported by
 PlanetOne Rotterdam (~£110K) for research in "Porous nanostructures from recycling materials
 and its application in energy storage", Ministry of National Education, Turkey (£50K) for research
 in "Nanostructured zirconium carbides and borides".

 Northeastern University (China) and Bournemouth University established the NEU-BU Joint
 Research Centre for Advanced Materials in 2019. The Centre aims to build a strong link in
 developing novel materials with new properties. The Centre will be a platform for staff and
 student exchanges, in line with the Unit’s strategy to increase international collaboration.

 NanoCorr Energy & Modelling (NCEM)/ Tribology & Design (TD):

 Professor Zulfiqar Khan established the NanoCorr, Energy & Modelling (NCEM) research group
 in 2015. NCEM’s research portfolio of direct, capital and in-kind funding since 2014 is c. £1.3M.
 Professor Mark Hadfield leads the Tribology & Design (TD) strand of research in NCEM. Four
 staff members, Dr Adil Saeed, Dr Nigel Garland, Dr Ben Thomas and Dr Mehran Koohgilani
 work on cross-themes within NCEM/TD such as tribology and wear and corrosion engineering.

 Following are the NCEM’s wider Developmental and Exploratory Research activities:

 Sustainability (Sustainable methodologies of preventing corrosion and coating failures in large
 complex interacting systems)

 The main aim of this thematic research is to provide sustainable conservation methods applied
 to high value assets in the museum environment and extending these solutions to military
 applications. Research into sustainable methodologies to enhance corrosion resistance of large
 vehicles and coating failures mechanisms have been conducted since 2010. This area provides
 a strategic focus for inter-disciplinary Developmental Research in advanced materials,
 mechanical and chemical engineering. Research in this area was supported through several
 projects including: 2 x PGRs match funded by Defence Science and Technology Laboratory
 DSTL, MoD (£47K), 1 x PGR match funded by The Tank Museum (£25K) and 1 x PDRA by
 Wessex institute of Technology (£20K). This theme and the Advanced Materials theme are
 supported by 2 x Global Visiting Fellows (£38K investment). Both Fellows are from Tsinghua
 University Beijing PR China. Work in this theme has led to one patent in, “Telescopic
 Electrochemical Cell (TEC) for Non-Destructive Corrosion Testing of Coated Substrate, patent
 number GB2018/053368” and a 2nd patent is pending. BU has recently employed a
 commercialisation manager who has been exploring commercialisation of this patent.

 Advanced Materials (Nanocomposite coatings for tribological applications)

 The aim of this theme is to provide nanostructured surfaces and interfaces to reduce frictional
 losses and in turn energy recovery and enhanced durability within complex interacting systems.
 This area is mainly funded by ASM Assembly Systems Weymouth Ltd (1 x PhD project £51K
 direct funding, £170K equipment/patent), Schaeffler through 2 x PhD projects (£122K (£50K
 direct funding + £72K in-kind)) focusing on the development and application of novel non-
 corrosive, non-wearable nanocomposite coatings for bearing applications, and a 3rd PhD in
 modelling rolling contacts (£26K). Two x PhD exchange students from the University of Nevada,
 Reno, USA each spent 3-6 months at BU which led to joint publications and joint work is in
 progress in terms of exchanges. A 4th project is funded by Daido Metal Co Ltd, The European
 Technical Centre (UK) (£4K). This theme has overlapped with the Tribology & Design theme in
 terms of wear-corrosion study.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Low Carbon Technology (Energy generation, conservation and storage)

 Energy conservation Developmental Research was established in 2012 and has since been
 funded by Future Energy Source Ltd UK. This area has been funded by Future Energy Source
 Ltd through fully funded 2 x PGRs, 2 x PDRAs, 1 x in-kind support for PGR, 1 x technician
 support, 1 x admin support, 1 x intellectual proprietary advisor and laboratories support (£533K
 direct and in-kind funding). One x PhD exchange visit from University of Sciences & Technology,
 Houari Boumediene (USTHB), Algeria has led to a joint publication with BU and University
 Miguel Hernández, Elche, Spain.

 This research has led to the development of a novel solar collector design and the development
 of nanoenhanced thermo-fluids for sustainable and low-cost energy. Four patents have been
 granted in: (1) “A Solar Energy Capture, Energy Conversion and Energy Storage System, patent
 number GB2540670”, (2) “A Working Fluid, patent number GB2557739”, (3) “A solar energy
 capture, energy conversion and energy storage system, patent number WO2017221197A2” and
 (4) “A Working Fluid. Patent number WO2019106628A1”. These patents are exploited by Future
 Energy Source Ltd for commercialisation; impacts have been tracked to develop an impact case
 study for REF2027.

 Another Developmental Research programme on energy storage systems applied to solar
 collector design and nanocoatings and subject to Thermofluids lubrication are match funded (2 x
 £23K) by the National University of Sciences & Technology NUST Islamabad Pakistan. One
 PGR from this programme has been employed by Daido Metals Europe Ltd Ilminster Somerset
 with whom research collaborations are ongoing. A second PGR has been appointed by NUST
 as assistant professor which will further strengthen existing collaborations.

 Tribology & Design (TD)

 The Tribology & Design (TD) research theme is led by Professor Mark Hadfield. The area of
 concern generally is tribological studies (rolling element and hydrodynamic bearings) and design
 research (sustainable design education and design research methodologies). The principle aim
 is to undertake multi-disciplinary projects that extend knowledge in the areas of tribology and
 design to also include their interaction. The study here is cross-themed and is linked to NCEM in
 terms of a wear-corrosion study in nanocoating and modelling. Joint work between TD and
 NCEM will develop future impacts to inform relevant case studies. This area has been funded by
 industrial partners and key projects are: 1 x PDRA in “Finite Element Modelling and Analysis of
 Lubricated Silicon Nitride Rolling Elements with Surface Defects”, funded by SKF Engineering
 and Research Centre (The Netherlands), 1 x match funded PhD in “Tribology of Sliding Contacts
 within Plain Bearing Overlays Subject to Corrosion” in collaboration with Daido Metals Europe
 (£25K), 1 x KTP in “Design Simulation Software” (KTP and Wessex Institute of Technology
 (WIT), (£100K) and 1 x PDRA in “Polarisation and Corrosion - An Experimental Approach”
 funded by Wessex Institute of Technology (£12K).

 1.2.2   Future strategic aims and goals for research

 The strategic vision for the Unit is to perform world-leading theoretical and analytical research in:
 materials, low to zero-carbon energy, nanocoating, tribology, biomedical and electrochemical
 engineering for wide ranging industrial applications. This research is supported by computation
 and experiments that address the most challenging engineering and design problems facing the
 world and to translate them into sustainable solutions to address energy demands, sustainability
 and enhance assistive technology. We will do this across length and time scales - from the sub-
 atomic to the industrial scale, and from the instant to long term with a focus on developing
 industry ready solutions.

 The Unit has already been contributing to national and regional strategic initiatives including
 Grand Challenges. Research within the Unit will directly contribute to Dorset’s Local Industrial
 Strategy informed by Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy in terms of Clean

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Growth and Future of Mobility and Advanced Manufacturing and Engineering in terms of
 providing sustainable solutions for clean production and curtailing carbon footprints, increasing
 skilled workforce, employability and entrepreneurial opportunities.

 Each research group in the Unit has defined specific strategic goals to achieve this vision and to
 deliver industry ready and applicable solutions within the scope of each theme, and solve
 problems presented within BU’s Strategic Investment Areas (SIAs), such as: (i) Assistive
 Technology, (ii) Animation, Simulation & Visualisation and (iii) Sustainability, Low Carbon
 Technology & Materials Science. Across the Unit, the key strategic goal for the next five years is
 to expand our research activity in the above areas.

 The Unit will benefit also from the award of future competitive research funding and the resulting
 sustained growth in expertise especially in terms applied research. These research groups will
 provide high quality cohort-based PhD training to meet critical research and industrial needs.

 The strategic goals for Biomedical/Mechanical Engineering for the next five years and beyond
 are to:

 1.   Develop image processing technologies applied in large orthopaedic joint implants using
      smart phones, making it both cost effective and readily available to GP surgeries. It is
      aimed that the work in this area will be commercialised.
 2.   Increase collaboration with major orthopaedic joint implant manufacturers to provide
      readily available prosthetic solutions.
 3.   Enhance end users’ standard of life and increase reach of related impacts.
 4.   Integrate the developed of next generation rotary hydraulic and computer-controlled valves
      control systems.
 5.   Develop cost effective high precision machines for the future utilising Artificial intelligence,
      Image processing and Inertial Measurements.

 The strategic goals for Materials Science & Testing for the next five years and beyond are to:

 1.   Engage and collaborate with materials, energy and nanotechnology industries.
 2.   Transfer knowledge to industry and society.
 3.   Develop new sustainable technologies.
 4.   Enhance our international reputation as a research institute.
 5.   Increase externally funded research to more than £500K per year.
 6.   Produce high-quality research outputs with world leading international collaborators.
 7.   Engage with multidisciplinary research across Bournemouth University.

 The strategic goals for NanoCorr, Energy & Modelling/ Tribology & Design for the next five
 years and beyond are to:

 1.   Aspire for NCEM to become the National Centre of Excellence in interdisciplinary research
      focusing on sustainability, low carbon technology and nano materials by 2025.
 2.   Expand nanocoatings and nanotribology research to design for durability and reliability.
 3.   Develop nanocoatings for enhanced performance in non-conventional lubricants such as
      Thermofluids and marine environments.
 4.   Strengthen our research into the fabrication of corrosion and wear resistant coating
      materials and their performance in products and systems.
 5.   Excel in research in structural health monitoring by using micro sensors, systems control,
      design and optimisation platforms.
 6.   Further enhance our research portfolio in low carbon technology.
 7.   Double the number of PGRs and PDRAs from currently 5 and 2 respectively by 2025.
 8.   Sustain our current industrial and HEIs collaborations beyond 2021 with: DSTL MoD (PhD
      programmes/visiting fellow), Future Energy Source Ltd (PhD and Post Doc programmes),
      Schaeffler (PhD programmes), Analatom USA (joint bidding, licensing), The Tank Museum
      at Bovington (PhD programme), National University of Science & Technology, Islamabad

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Pakistan (PhD programmes), Tsinghua University Beijing, PR China (Visiting Professor,
         joint research), Alliance University, Bangalore India (joint research/bidding), National
         Institute of Technology, Srinagar India (joint research), University of Nevada, Reno USA
         (exchange visit/joint research).
 9.      Establish new collaborations with both UK and International industries and HEIs.

 1.2.3    Delivery of strategic aims and research goals

 Progress and delivery of the research strategy for each theme is overseen by their leads. Theme
 leaders have the responsibility to deliver research objectives. The theme leaders serve as a
 conduit for information and provide strategic advice, mentoring and coaching. Sustained
 progress in terms of external funding opportunities, organising research away-days and
 coordinating communication and PR activities will be overseen by research leaders. Focus will
 be given to increasing critical mass in specialist subject areas such as corrosion engineering,
 Fluid & Thermodynamics and Tribology & Wear and it is aimed that NCEM and TD jointly
 become national centres of excellence through delivery of cutting edge applied solutions to bring
 socio-economic, environmental and business impacts.

 2. People

 Bournemouth University has fully implemented the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and has successfully retained the HR Excellence in Research
 Award since it was awarded in 2013. The university applies the Concordat to all academic and
 research staff. Specific instances of application of each of the 7 Principles of the Concordat in
 the Unit are indicated; the REF exercise addresses Principle 7.

 2.1     Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment and retention of academic staff is planned strategically to maintain international
 excellence in current activities and ensure it is embedded in new activities (Concordat Principle
 1). In each unit, strategic investment in salaries and facilities allows recruitment and retention of
 internationally leading researchers. Substantial investments in research funding and
 infrastructure are made regularly to attract new staff. Under the BU Workload Planning
 Framework all academic staff are allocated a minimum of 400 hours a year for research
 activities.

 2.2     Evidence of Career Development Support for All Levels of Research Staff

 There are rigorous processes for developing and supporting research staff careers at all levels.
 Career development of academic staff and research fellows is managed through the same
 consistent and transparent process.

 2.2.1 Academic Staff

 Mentoring and Support (Concordat Principle 2):

 All academic staff have an academic advisor to mentor and guide them during their 12-month
 probation. ECRs for example, Dr Saeed and Dr Cha, have been supported in terms of
 progressing their research. For example, Dr Saeed has been participating in Schaeffler and
 ASM funded projects as a Co-I and co-supervisor, Dr Cha has obtained external funding (Kia
 Motors) enabled by preliminary QR funds. In addition to regular meetings, a formal performance
 review takes place mid-way and near the end of the probation period. All PDRAs are assigned
 an academic mentor to assist with career development.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Personal Review and Development Plan (Concordat Principles 4 and 5):

 All staff produce an annual Personal and Professional Development Plan (PPDP) for discussion
 with their Line Manager when their overall performance is reviewed, targets for the forthcoming
 year are established and agreed, and their career development is planned. This encourages
 performance benchmarking, recognition of achievement and guidance for addressing
 weaknesses that need to be addressed for promotion or development. The PPDP process is
 independent of, but informs, the annual salary review and promotions processes.

 Promotions:

 An independent promotions panel reviews each case and interviews each candidate. The Panel
 provides feedback that may include improvements to the case or delaying the application, with
 specific guidance for strengthening their case. Mock interviews are provided with feedback.
 Some promotions include Dr Sewell and Dr Hunt (to associate professor), Dr Dyer and Dr
 Montalvao (to principal academics). Dr Saeed completed a PhD at BU in 2012-13 and was
 retained as postdoc through external / internal funding until Aug 2016. Dr Saeed joined BU as
 lecturer in Jan 2018 and has been a key contributor within the unit in terms of research in
 corrosion engineering and modelling in tribology. The unit impact case study is founded on Dr
 Saeed’s PhD research.

 Training (Concordat Principle 3):

 The university, through RDS, offers a range of professional development courses that include
 writing research proposals, managing research budgets, staff and students. Mandatory courses
 for new staff include, for example, PhD student supervision. The research and teaching
 performance of new staff is formally reviewed, with feedback and a development plan. In cases
 of unsatisfactory progress, additional support or alternative roles are developed. All staff within
 the unit have been taking part in these programmes which have led to several research
 activities, for example: developing new funding proposals, participating in externally and match
 funded projects, contributing to internal REF review process as unit panel members and
 publications.

 2.2.2 All Staff: Competitively won Fellowships and Chairs

 There is a strategic effort to encourage and assist early career researchers to win competitive
 Fellowships to progress their careers (Concordat Principle 2). A rigorous process of identifying
 suitable candidates during their PPDP and linking them to opportunities (for example ERC,
 EPSRC, HLF, RAEng and Royal Society) is carried out, assistance is provided through
 development programmes for funding applications. The Unit has identified a candidate fellow for
 UKRI future leadership fellowship initiative, led and mentored by Prof Khan and an application,
 BU ID 12403 (£942.4K), has been developed in zero carbon energy.

 2.2.3 International Staff Appointments (incoming & outgoing), international recruitment
       and visiting scholars

 Bournemouth University also funds Research Fellowships through Global Visiting Fellowships to
 develop high profile research collaborations. Recent successes are BU (Unit), 2 x research
 fellowships awards with Tsinghua University Beijing, China (1st Asian, 14th World Reputation and
 23rd World University THE rankings).

 International recruitment:

 Three strategic incentives have made a significant impact on our ability to recruit successfully
 exceptional candidates in the international market:



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (1) Fusion and investment: Providing an environment that engages and attracts staff, students
     and external stakeholders by making BU a destination of choice for international students,
     staff and visiting scholars by significantly increasing the services and support we provide.
 (2) Reputation and networks: Significantly develop our network of partners and be the partner
     of choice for businesses and organisations by engaging long-term and pro-actively with
     external funders and partners world-wide to seek opportunities for collaboration and develop
     sources of income, including internationally.
 (3) People and culture: Continue with our strong commitment to ensuring equality and diversity
     by continuing to recruit and support international students and staff.

 Visiting Scholars and Professors:

 The Unit welcomes visiting scholars from around the world for sabbaticals and academic visits.
 The research environment has been supported by external advisors, industrial supervisors,
 renowned visiting professors and visiting fellows. Over 9 visiting professors and 10 visiting
 fellows from institutions around the world stayed and supported research within the Unit for
 periods ranging from a few weeks to several years. This has led to sharing experimental and
 analytical resources, joint PGR supervision, joint Q1 journal publications and joint bids, for
 example EPSRC, invited research seminars and joint conference presentations. Visiting
 Professorships form part of our Programme Research strategic activities, to support the creation
 and sustaining of Centre scale activity. Eminent persons from industry, Government and other
 academic institutions that can add excellence to our research may be nominated as Visiting
 Professors. They are vetted at University and Faculty levels and are then appointed by the
 university.

 2.3   Research students

 We provide high quality education and training for PhD students, underpinned by career and
 pastoral support. The Unit awarded 39 (33 split-supervision) PhD degrees over the REF period;
 BE 13, ME 11, NCEM 11 and TD 4. A vast increase since REF2014 represented in Figure 2:



                                 Increase in PGR Completions



            REF 2021




  REF 2014 (Eng. only)




                         0   5         10         15         20        25         30         35

 Figure 2. PGR Completions

 A further 4 PhDs (NCEM/TD) were awarded, shared with other Centres (2 x Tsinghua University,
 1 x School of Design, University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland and 1 x DesignCORE, Institute of
 Technology, Carlow, Ireland).


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.1   PGR recruitment: approaches and discipline-related issues

 A major strategic initiative has been taken to raise the number of PhD scholarships offered and
 support Exploratory Research. PhD candidates are vetted through a rigorous evaluation and
 interview, with the most excellent applicants being supported through their studies. The Unit has
 significantly benefitted from BU match-funded studentships, an initiative to develop and
 strengthen industrial partnerships. This has resulted in collaboration with the Defence Science &
 Technology Laboratory, Ministry of Defence and International collaborations such as, Schaeffler
 Technologies AG & Co. KG, Germany and SKF Engineering and Research Centre (ERC),
 Netherlands (Sec 4.1.2 and 4.1.3). Funding from industrial collaborations within the match-
 funded initiative have been a major part of our research portfolio (see Sec 3). This allows the
 recruitment of the very best national and international applications based solely on merit. This
 significant financial commitment is in line with our strategy; the Exploratory Research activity is
 supported so that it can grow into Developmental Research. These industrial collaborations have
 led to several UK and international patents and impact case studies. New research areas such
 as corrosion engineering, nanocoating and energy have emerged since REF14 and have been
 established since then, evidenced by new funding and publications.

 2.3.2   Information on training and support mechanisms

 Research students are given working space, separate from their laboratory, and a computer.
 They are encouraged to attend any relevant lectures in the Centre and the university. Vibrant
 seminar programs in each Centre expose all students to the very best researchers from around
 the world. To ensure significant progression of PhD students, they are encouraged to participate
 in these seminars. Seminars are held at least bi-monthly and monthly. Attendance at external
 conferences is actively encouraged and funded by the PhD external grant or internally by the
 Centre.
 PhD students have a structured first-year training programme in research skills, planning,
 presentation, technical writing and other transferrable skills, delivered through the Doctoral
 College. All research students are encouraged to attend generic training and transferable skills
 courses provided by the Doctoral College. The Centre also provides specialist skills training and
 knowledge modules, details of which are compiled for safety and training records. Students who
 would benefit from English tuition, identified through a rigorous test, receive the necessary help
 through the Language Support at Bournemouth University. Safety training is given and recorded
 supported by the university and Faculty Safety Officers for example, fire safety training.

 2.3.3   Research Student Progress Monitoring

 PGRs are required to submit their Probationary Review within 3 months of enrolment.
 Probationary Review is informed by the PGR’s early research activities. This is followed by a
 Major Review within 14 months of PGR’s enrolment to ensure they are on track to complete their
 research degree in a timely and successful manner. The Major Review assessment process is
 centred on the submission of a briefing paper (up to 3,000 words), a brief presentation and
 discussion with an independent panel. The panel will comprise 2 independent academics, one of
 whom will act as Chair. These are nominated by the supervisory team and approved by the
 Faculty Research Degree Committee (FRDC).

 PhD student performance and feedback on their research experience is monitored by the lead
 academic supervisor. All PhD students are expected to submit their PhD theses within 4 years,
 29 completions. For exceptional circumstances, a special case can be made to the university for
 an extension. Research degree examining teams are formally approved by the Examiner
 Approval Panel, which is chaired by Academic Quality. The examination of a research degree
 thesis has two key stages: a) the preliminary assessment and b) the defence by oral
 examination – the viva voce examination.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4   Evidence of Equality and Diversity

 The Unit works with the university Equality and Diversity Committee to promote and embed all
 aspects of equality. Within the Unit every attempt is made to ensure representative constitutions
 for all interview panels for appointments and awards.

 The Unit has 5 FTE female academics (20.8%), of which 1 FTE is an Associate Professor
 (20%). Within the Unit 48.8% of staff are from ethnic minorities. Initiatives to further reduce
 traditional barriers to progress for members of the Unit included targeted support, such as writing
 retreats and pump priming funding, as well as initiatives to challenge structural barriers, such as
 diverse recruitment, promotion and review panels.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit has state-of-the-art facilities and equipment to support its researchers and the REF
 period has seen significant strategic investment.

 3.1 Information on provision and operation of specialist infrastructure and facilities
 University Research Facilities:

 Most of the research portfolio within the Unit is experimental and experimental/analytical.
 Research in nanocoating, thermal storage, nanofluids, biomedical, tribology and materials is
 supported by various mechanical testing facilities which comprise electromechanical and
 hydraulic Instron test machines (50–250kN), a 250t compression machine for stiffened panel
 testing, and an Instron low velocity impact test (2000J) with bespoke facility for loading panels in
 compression (150t) during impact tests, and a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM).

 An additional £228K was invested to enhance capabilities since 2015. NCEM’s newly acquired
 resources include: pulse nanocoating facilities, nanotesting system, nanoindentation system,
 fluid property testing, frictional flow equipment, free & forced convection and thermal conductivity
 bench testing, solar simulator, thermofluids refrigeration test-bench, environmental simulation,
 salts spray chamber, prohesion testing and advanced analytical tools for thermal, stress and
 corrosion analyses. In addition to tribo-testing, interferometer, mechanical and chemical
 characterisation and optical microscopy are existing facilities. This has enabled new research in
 corrosion engineering, nanocoating and characterisation, heat transfer and thermofluids which
 have emerged during REF period and have been growing through industry funding, such as
 Schaeffler and ASM Systems.

 FES Ltd has provided off campus a heat transfer and thermodynamics laboratory and on
 campus heat transfer bench testing and a fluid characterisation laboratory which are significant
 resources to support research in the areas of energy capture, conversion and storage which are
 new areas of research within the unit.

 Research facilities within the Orthopaedic Research Institute (ORI) based at the university
 consist of a state of the art Gait Laboratory, a muscle force measuring system, clinic rooms, a
 surgical simulation laboratory, a electromechanical workshop and a wide range of physiological
 measuring equipment.

 3.2   Evidence of Investments (both current and planned) in infrastructure and facilities

 Capital Equipment

 BU has invested £184K to establish an Advanced Materials laboratory to further support low
 carbon technology development. This is aligned with BU2025 ‘Sustainability and Low Carbon
 Technology’ SIA.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Laboratory and Facility Refurbishment

 Poole House Innovation Centre is a major research support Centre in terms of labs and
 workshops for the unit. This has been developed through estates investment circa £3.36m,
 delivered in 2016 and includes the material workshops, 3D printing, heat transfer and
 nanotribology.

 Materials science laboratory – estates investment of £180k plus equipment, lab completed in
 2018. The Unit has been supported with material science research at BU, in line with BU2018
 and the developing BU2025 strategy. The delivery of a new materials laboratory will enable
 research that lays at the boundaries between corrosion engineering and nanomaterials, to
 include nanocoating, tribology & wear and energy with the aim of delivering low dimensional
 materials.

 The Innovation Centre (£3,558,000) houses research facilities and resources and provides
 additional facilities in 3D printing & prototyping, manufacturing and electronics, which support
 research activities within all themes. Part of this included the estates office accommodation
 refurbishment and staff centre but approximately 85% of the cost would be attributable to the
 Innovation Centre

 3.3   Research Funding Portfolio and Future Plans

 The research funding portfolio is described both in terms of recognised research income (see
 REF4), and value of grants awarded to demonstrate the vibrancy and sustainability of the
 research.

 The Unit has a large and vibrant research funding portfolio, which has grown consistently over
 the REF period. Recognised income has grown by 20% over the REF period to £963,402.
 Income source has also diversified over the period represented in Figure 3:


       Research income by source                 Research income by source              UKRI Research
                                                                                        Councils etc.
               REF2014                                   REF2021
                                                                                        UK-based
                                                                                        charities
                                                                                        UK central
                                                                                        government
                                                                                        UK industry


                                                                                        UK other
                                                                                        sources
                                                                                        EU


                                                                                        Non-EU other



 Figure 3. Research income by source


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations

 We pursue collaborations that enhance our research strategy; within the Unit, across university,
 with other universities and Industry. Collaborations, in line with the research strategy, are
 targeted in two categories:

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •     Exploratory Collaborations are maximum 1-year collaborative projects with other
       universities and researchers to establish research in new areas. These collaborations are
       encouraged through BU global visiting fellowships, staff/PGRs exchanges and industry
       contract research. Successful collaborations result in joint publications and winning
       Developmental Research funding. Virtually all staff have Exploratory Collaborations with
       other universities and industries.

 •     Developmental Collaborations are 3 to 5 years collaborative projects (mainly PhD
       studentships) between researchers, both within Bournemouth University and at other
       universities or industry. Establishing and maintaining Developmental Collaborations is a
       key strategic goal. Collaboration with industry is one of our great strengths and is
       evidenced by the significant proportion of our research income (38.47%, £0.68M in REF
       period). Most of our industrial collaboration is Programme Research; Future Energy
       Source Ltd, Schaeffler, Ministry of Defence UK, SKF, Hydreco Hydraulics Ltd and Lima
       corporate S.p.A etc. and together are worth £408.37K.

 During the REF period, we have had 4 Exploratory and Developmental Collaborations with UK
 universities, 13 collaborations with International universities, 1 Research Institute and 13
 industrial collaborations.

 4.1.1 Collaborations

 Unit collaborations range from Unit themes, within the university, to UK and International HEIs
 and industries. These collaborations are of strategic significance coupling Unit research to BU
 SIAs to enable applied research for realising socio-economic, environmental and business
 impacts in partnership with industry. Unit international collaborations account for 50.3%, national
 24.3% and institutional 19.5% evidenced by the Unit output profile.

 Several platforms such as the BU Festival of Learning, national and international workshops and
 conferences are used to initiate collaborative links. Several models such as BU match-funding
 initiatives, industry full funding programmes, external competitive funding are explored and
 utilised to kickstart research projects with strategic planning to sustain future projects. For
 example many of our industrial partners such as: Schaeffler Technologies AG & Co. KG,
 Germany; SKF Engineering and Research Centre (ERC), Netherlands; National University of
 Sciences & Technology, Pakistan; Hydreco Hydraulics Ltd, UK and Defence Science &
 Technology Laboratory, Ministry of Defence, UK have been collaborating in multiple projects.
 Projects with Odstock Medical Limited and Future Energy Source Limited have led to major
 commercial benefits, such as patents and 2 x impact case studies for REF2021. The Unit has
 also developed longstanding collaborations with UK charities such RNLI and The Tank Museum
 at Bovington. Collaborative research with The Tank Museum has led to an impact case study for
 REF2021.

 4.1.2 Collaborations within Bournemouth University

 Bournemouth University establishes and supports strategic cross-university and cross-faculty
 activities that act as a focus and facilitate Developmental Collaborations, which in many cases
 include industry.

 Examples of cross-university Programmes are University Strategic Investment Areas (SIA),
 BU2025 (Sec1.1) in Units 3,12,23,24 and 32. Institutional collaborations account for 19.5% of
 total output portfolios.

 4.1.3 Collaboration with Industry and other UK Universities

 In many cases, the industrial Exploratory and Developmental Collaborations extend beyond BU
 to include other institutions, for example: (1) Defence Science & Technology Laboratory, Ministry

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Defence, UK; (2) Future Energy Source Ltd, Poole, UK; (3) Daido Metal Co Ltd, The
 European Technical Centre (UK); (4) Technology Design, UK; (5) PANalytical Ltd, UK; (6) PMI
 Analytical, UK; (7) Wessex Institute of Technology, UK; (8) Longitude Engineering Ltd, UK; (9)
 Hydreco Hydraulics Ltd, UK; (10) Naim Audio Ltd, UK; (11) Odstock Medical Limited and (12)
 BAE Systems, UK. Top 10 UK universities collaborations in terms of output profile include
 University of Southampton (106 outputs), University of Hertfordshire (22 outputs) and AECC
 University College (19 outputs).

 4.1.4 International University and Industry Collaborations

 In addition to the Developmental Research activities noted already, further examples of
 international collaborations include: (1) Schaeffler Technologies AG & Co. KG, Germany; (2)
 SKF Engineering and Research Centre (ERC), Netherlands; (3) NASA Materials Testing and
 Corrosion Control Branch, US; (4) Analatom, Inc. US; (5) Lima Corporate, Italy; (6) Tsinghua
 University Beijing, PR China; (7) PES IT Bangalore, India; (8) National University of Sciences &
 Technology, Pakistan; (9) National Institute of Technology, Srinagar, India; (10) University of
 Wisconsin, Milwaukee, USA; (11) University of Nevada, Reno, USA; (12) University of Oviedo,
 Spain; (13) University Miguel Hernández, Elche, Spain; (14) University of Sciences &
 Technology Houari Boumediene (USTHB), Algeria; (15) University of Malaya, Malaysia; (16)
 Northeastern University, PR China; (17) Zhongyuan University of Technology, PR China; (18)
 Chiang Mai University, Thailand; (19) Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences &
 Technology, Pakistan and (20) Peoples Education Services University of Technology, India. Top
 10 international university collaborations include:0 University of Southern California (40 outputs),
 University of Malaya (19 outputs), National University of Sciences & Technology Pakistan (15
 outputs), Eotvos Lorand University (14 outputs), Warsaw University of Technology (13 outputs)
 and University of Lisbon (13 outputs).

 4.2 Support for and Exemplars of Interdisciplinary Research

 Developmental Research activities described above epitomise interdisciplinary research.
 Strategic support is given to these themes. Unit support includes: refurbished laboratories,
 specialised equipment and high-speed computation and PhD scholarships. In some cases, staff
 appointments have been made specifically to ensure sustainability and interdisciplinarity of the
 Unit research. Recent staff appointments were from a diverse range of engineering disciplines,
 for example, 2 x staff (electronics engineering), 2 x staff (design), 1 x staff (mechanical
 engineering) and 1 x staff (chemical engineering).

 4.3 Research collaboration with Research Users (including industry)

 Our Developmental Research activities generally have industrial involvement, and, in many
 cases, are fully industrially funded. Future Energy Source Ltd, UK and SKF Engineering and
 Research Centre (ERC), Netherlands are significant examples. The significant proportions of
 both research income and grants from industry attest to the close collaboration with research
 users.
 In the Unit, the salaries of PDRAs during the REF period have been fully funded by industrial
 research partners. These positions ensure close collaboration and communication with the
 companies.

 4.4 Leadership in the Academic Community

 Over 70% of the staff in the Unit make a significant contribution to the wider research base and
 influence the discipline by acting as journal editors, organising conferences, and presenting
 keynote and plenary addresses. The scale and breadth of our research contribution to the
 discipline has been recognised through commercial patents yielding major impacts as evidenced
 by corroborating evidence from our industrial partners and end users.



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During the REF period, Unit staff have served on funding panels and boards. Notable examples
 are: EPSRC (Professor Zulfiqar Khan, Dr Yi Huang), Romanian National Council for Scientific
 Research (Professor Zulfiqar Khan, Professor Mark Hadfield).

 Chair Institute of Engineering Designers (IED) [Dr Tania Humphries-Smith]. Chair of the
 Education and Training Committee (2017), Vice-Chair of the Education and Training Committee
 (2014-2017), Institution of Engineering Designers (IED) [Dr Philip Sewell].

 Medical Research Council MRC - (UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships
 (UKRI FLF) programme Peer Review College (PRC), IUA Academic Leaders Mentoring
 Programme 2018/19, Mentor (2018-) [Professor Mark Hadfield]. Vice Chancellors Awards -
 Achievement (Bournemouth University, 2015) [Dr Bryce Dyer].

 Several staff have achieved awards for example: Vice Chancellor Staff Award in Advancing
 Knowledge (Bournemouth University, 2018), Collaborative research award £15.5K (State Key
 Laboratory of Tribology, Tsinghua University, Beijing PR China, 2016), Highly Qualified
 Professional Award (President's Programme for Care of Highly Qualified Overseas Pakistanis
 (PPQP), 2015) [Professor Zulfiqar Khan], Westminster Insight, Chairman [Dr Diogo Montalvao]
 and Egyptian national pioneer award in advanced engineering science [Dr Amr Abdelkader].

 The Unit presented more than 50 keynote and plenary lectures and was involved in organising
 over 100 conferences during the REF period. Examples of significant conferences with eminent
 speakers organised by the Unit are: International Workshop on Materials and Design (Prof
 Zulfiqar Khan, Prof Mark Hadfield); International Conference on Design and Production
 Engineering (Prof Zulfiqar Khan); Society of Tribologists and Lubrication Engineers (Prof Zulfiqar
 Khan, Dr Adil Saeed); Wessex Institute of Technology (Prof Mark Hadfield, Dr Adil Saeed and
 Zulfiqar Khan); World Tribology Congress (Prof Zulfiqar Khan, Prof Yonggang Meng, BU Visiting
 Professor); World Congress of Advanced Materials, Asia Conference on Power and Electrical
 Engineering (Prof Zulfiqar Khan) and American Society of Mechanical Engineers (Dr Zakir Khan
 and Dr Utku Helvaci).

 4.5 Structures to support interdisciplinary research

 Research themes/ groups within the Unit are aligned with BU2025 SIA, investment and funding
 as described above.

 4.6 Open Research

 Bournemouth University Open Access Publication Fund is a centralised fund both in response to
 and in support of various developments in research communication and publication trends. The
 funding application is managed by the Research Development and Support Office (RDS) and is
 designed to support researchers in complying with: (1) The REF2021 Open Access policy (via
 the Gold route), and (2) the Open Access mandate introduced by major funding bodies as a
 condition of their grants. BU supports open access publishing via a dedicated, central fund (c.
 £100k per annum). The Unit has been successful in securing OA funds for supporting Q1 journal
 publications. 20 staff/papers have been awarded funds to support OA Gold route which is 81.3%
 of the Unit headcount. OA funding has enabled making cutting-edge research widely available to
 research communities.




                                                                                           Page 16
