Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 30 (Philosophy)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure

 Philosophy at Aberdeen comprises 8.8 submitted full time equivalents (FTEs) and is located
 within the School of Divinity, History and Philosophy. The Unit’s research is focused on three
 disciplinary fields (epistemology, history of philosophy and metaphysics and philosophy of
 science), each pursued by several researchers. The Unit has also established the
 interdisciplinary Centre for Knowledge and Society (CEKAS), with academic and non-academic
 members from across the University and beyond. For Philosophy, CEKAS acts as the primary
 vehicle for forging interdisciplinary connections and collaborations and for achieving societal
 impact.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 This assessment period has seen a strategic refocusing of the Unit to place greater emphasis on
 interdisciplinary and impactful research. This refocusing began early in the cycle, following the
 closure in 2015 of the Northern Institute of Philosophy and the departure of its director and other
 staff. Drawing on the existing strengths of its members, the Unit identified three broadly
 construed disciplinary clusters, subsequently strengthened through significant investment in
 senior staff: epistemology (Kallestrup, Luzzi, Moretti), history of philosophy (Beaney, Laffin,
 Lord, Thornton) and metaphysics and philosophy of science (Entwistle, Stegmann, Sweeney,
 Torre). Our research strategy is to sustain excellence in these core areas and enrich them
 through cross disciplinary engagement. Apart from advancing fundamental research at
 international level, all staff members pursue lines of inquiry that connect such research to “real
 world” problems. This is where our research strategy ties into our impact strategy.

 The Unit’s approach to impact is to capitalise on its disciplinary expertise and collaborate with
 specialists from other disciplines to address societal challenges. In addition to producing
 research that furthers our specialist knowledge, we are committed to applying that knowledge to
 projects that (a) are societally-focused; (b) are inter- or multi-disciplinary; and/or (c) have a
 strong public engagement or impact element. In order to facilitate our interactions with experts
 from other disciplines, and to build the Unit's profile and networks in ways that promote impact
 and interdisciplinary collaboration, the Unit established CEKAS in 2018. The membership of
 CEKAS includes experts from across the University (e.g., Politics, Visual Studies, Education),
 academics at other HE institutions (e.g., Sociology, Brunel) and non-academic participants (e.g.,
 secondary school teachers), in addition to the Unit itself. The Centre is organised around three
 themes, (1) Education and Learning, (2) Social Epistemology, and (3) Health and Wellbeing.
 These themes deliberately cross-cut our three disciplinary clusters and dovetail with the
 University’s broader Interdisciplinary Challenges “Social Inclusion and Cultural Diversity” and
 “Health, Nutrition and Wellbeing”, as articulated in the University’s Aberdeen 2040 strategy (see
 REF5a).

 CEKAS’s collaborative and interdisciplinary approach reflected and strengthened work
 undertaken in the Unit. Accordingly, the Unit’s two impact case studies by Lord and Entwistle,
 respectively, arose from research produced before its establishment (section 4). The
 institutionalisation of our approach to impact via CEKAS provides the Unit with a long-term
 structure and catalyst for further impactful research. Its success has already become evident
 during this assessment period. Staff have initiated several multi-disciplinary projects, often
 undertaken following visits from speakers in the Knowledge and Society seminar run by CEKAS.
 In Epistemic Aims of Education, Moretti collaborates with researchers in Education to develop a
 conception of education that rehabilitates the German idea of Bildung as the ultimate
 educational objective and rejects the thesis that competence is a foundational notion. The

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project was awarded a Large Grant from the The Philosophy of Education Society of Great
 Britain in 2020. Luzzi collaborates with sociologist Adrienne Milner (Brunel) on Sex
 Discrimination in Sports (section 4). Stegmann works with Visual Culture scholar Silvia Cassini
 (Aberdeen) on Imaging SARS-Cov-2 (section 3). When Thornton and Entwistle joined the
 department in 2020, CEKAS provided a ready structure for their collaborative project Practical
 Ethics of Care for the Dead and Bereaved (below).

 While interdisciplinarity figures prominently in our impact activities, the Unit also recognises the
 potential of interdisciplinary approaches to enhance core philosophical research. For example,
 Stegmann’s British Academy project Scientific Metaphors in Action combined original
 historical work with philosophical inquiry. His archival research generated new insights into
 the history of molecular biology, which in turn addressed longstanding questions in philosophy of
 biology. Since 2019, Stegmann has teamed up with cognitive psychologist Filipp Schmidt
 (Giessen) to investigate how visual perception affects research practices in the life sciences.

 CEKAS now determines the Unit’s approach to ancillary research activities. For example, when
 Aberdeen hosted the Annual General Meeting of the Scots Philosophical Association (SPA) in
 2018, we invited speakers for the CEKAS theme Philosophical Perspectives on Health. Similarly,
 when hosting the 2019-20 Centenary Fellows of the SPA, the Unit selected Fellows who could
 contribute to CEKAS-run projects (Anderman contributed to Lord’s project on Spinoza and
 Politics; Ulatowski was to contribute to Moretti’s project on Epistemology and Education (visit
 postponed due to Covid-19)).

 The University’s sustained investment into several research centres (section 3), in addition to
 CEKAS, have greatly facilitated the Unit’s interdisciplinary aims. Furthermore, the Unit
 benefited from support from the Grants Academy and the Public Engagement with Research
 Unit (see REF5a). For example, Entwistle convened one of the Grant Academy’s
 “Conversations on” series regarding “Dying and grieving in the time of Covid-19”. Featuring
 presentations from a funeral director, an anthropologist, an archaeologist and two clinicians
 that prompted a wide-ranging discussion. The event resulted in a new, interdisciplinary
 collaborative team including Thornton. Led by Entwistle, the team is pursuing a grant
 application in response to the UKRI-Covid-19 open call (Practical Ethics of Care for the Dead
 and Bereaved).

 Research Governance

 University and School policies also provide the framework for the Unit’s activities. The School’s
 research governance is presided over by the School Research Committee, on which Stegman
 represents Philosophy. Convened by the School Director of Research (SDR), it is accountable to
 the School Executive, the Head of School, Sweeney and the University Research Policy
 Committee (see REF5a). The School’s Research and Impact Policy (approved 2015) is
 periodically reviewed and aligns with the School’s annual and strategic plan.

 All our staff undertake training on policies and frameworks in support of research integrity,
 including online training on the themes of “Research Ethics and Governance” and “Research
 Integrity”. Other training is provided by the University’s Researcher Development Unit (see
 REF5a). The School’s Ethics Officer monitors adherence to guidelines and offers practical
 support with applying for ethical approval on relevant research. The School raises awareness of
 these policies via the School Forum, Discipline Meetings and annual research support
 interviews. The SDR and Research Committee monitor the Unit’s compliance. The central
 procedures at School level for creating and maintaining high standards of research integrity are
 the research interviews and the peer-review system for funding applications (section 2). At the
 Unit level, our Work-in-Progress seminars offer peer feedback on papers and grant applications
 in development and are an effective means of enhancing research quality and maintaining
 research integrity.

 Since our research and impact strategy emphasises collaboration and interdisciplinarity, the Unit

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 makes its research as widely available as possible to both academic and non-academic
 audiences. The Unit embraces the University’s and School’s efforts towards an open research
 environment (supported by Library colleagues from the Scholarly Communications Service, see
 REF5a). The Unit complies with the REF’s Open Access (OA) Policy, which is facilitated by
 University and School policies that allow OA funding where appropriate. The School’s support of
 web-based visibility and online dissemination through Social Media has encouraged Lord and
 Torre to maintain active project websites, as well as a blog and Twitter and Facebook accounts,
 for their Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and Leverhulme projects (section 4).
 These platforms helped to disseminate research in philosophy and other disciplines and
 attracted a following that extended beyond academic audiences.

 Outlook

 This is an exciting period of growth and investment for the Unit and, over the next 5 years, it is
 committed to further developing its research and impact strategy around CEKAS. The strategy is
 for every member of the Unit to lead a CEKAS project and to apply for grant funding to support
 that project within the next assessment period. All staff will be supported to produce high-quality
 publications within their area and to pursue associated collaborations and activities. The three
 CEKAS priority areas are led and given direction by three new professorial appointments.
 Beaney, in addition to being Director of CEKAS, will shape the CEKAS priority area Education
 and Learning with a cross-cultural dimension. Beaney has long spearheaded disciplinary efforts
 to expand the current (Western) canon of the history of philosophy to include, for instance,
 Eastern philosophy.

 Kallestrup has joined us from the University of Copenhagen to expand the Unit’s research
 strength in epistemology and metaphysics. Kallestrup is interested in the cognitive, ethical and
 epistemological dimensions of groups. His work bridges the gap between traditional
 epistemology and the “real world” of institutions and organizations. Kallestrup will lead the
 CEKAS priority area Social Epistemology.

 Entwistle has a 0.2 : 0.8 split appointment in Philosophy and Medicine (UoA2), respectively, and
 is a Visiting Professor at the National University of Singapore. By developing capacity to address
 challenges arising in medicine and healthcare, Entwistle will lead the CEKAS priority area Health
 and Wellbeing. In her Wellcome Trust Collaborative Grant But why is that better? she employs
 the tools of applied philosophy in order to improve healthcare quality through collaborations with
 non-academic stakeholders (section 4).

 3B   2. People

 Staff Development

 Philosophy is home to 8.8 FTE category A staff (9 by head count) as well as two research staff
 who have been submitted to other UoA. There are four professors, Beaney (the Regius Chair of
 Logic, 0.8), Lord, Kallestrup, and Entwistle (0.2, submitted with UoA2); two readers (Moretti,
 Stegmann (currently Head of Discipline)); three senior lecturers (Luzzi, Sweeney (currently
 Head of School), Torre); and two lecturers, Laffin (0.5, submitted with UoA32) and Thornton.
 The Unit also has 0.5 Teaching and Scholarship staff (Hough).

 Philosophy experienced some staff movement within this census period and has emerged a
 dynamic Unit with a clear vision. Changes in the staffing profile provided the opportunity for the
 Unit to revise its strategy for research and impact (section 1). Alongside investing in the
 professorial positions, the Unit has focused on developing the research profiles of its existing
 staff. This approach has resulted in all category A staff (except those hired during the reporting
 period) being promoted during the reporting period (Lord to Professor; Moretti and Stegmann
 to Reader; Luzzi, Sweeney and Torre to Senior Lecturer).



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development was achieved through a range of measures that are still in place. All staff
 are allocated the same number of hours for research in the workload model (640 hours for 1.0
 FTE, equivalent to 40% of staff time). Major grant applications are recognised in the workload
 model (20 hours) and additional “mini-research breaks” are available, on a case-by-case basis,
 for large-scale impact activities and managing major grants. These measures have supported,
 for instance, Lord’s impact activities and Luzzi’s AHRC application (section 4).

 The School also offers a generous research leave policy to support staff development. All
 research staff may apply for 1-in-6 semesters leave (more frequent than the University
 mandated minimum of 1-in-8), with the option to save and take 2-in-12. Thanks to these
 policies, all permanent staff, with the exception of Sweeney who is Head of School, have had
 at least one period of research leave over the assessment period. These leave arrangements
 have facilitated the completion of two book projects that form part of our submission (Luzzi,
 Moretti). New staff who have a period of probation may apply for research leave in the first full
 year after passing probation.

 The Unit invests significant time in supporting staff development on an individual basis. The
 Head of Discipline holds the Annual Review, in which research objectives and achievements
 are discussed as part of thinking about long-term career goals, alongside other academic
 duties. As an additional measure, the School Director of Research (SDR), together with the
 Head of Discipline (who is also the line manager) and the Unit’s Research Lead (RL), convene
 the annual Research Support Interviews. The interviews discuss how best to facilitate an
 individual’s research objectives, their plans for impact and engagement as well as medium-
 and long-term plans for collaborations, grant applications and research leave. They also
 provide guidance on participating widely, and at senior levels, in national and international
 societies and journal editorial boards. They also provide an opportunity to ensure research is
 conducted in line with University-wide governance frameworks (e.g., for ethics and integrity).

 Outside the Interview, the SDR and RL offer support for attracting external funding during the
 planning and application stages, for example by ensuring that grant applications are internally
 reviewed by at least two colleagues and by providing access to previously successful (and
 anonymised) applications by members of the School. This assistance has been particularly
 beneficial for Torre’s and Stegmann’s grant applications (section 4). Other supportive
 functions include help from an identified Business Development Officer within the Research
 and Innovation office with identifying possible sources of funding. The Centre for Academic
 Development provides a suite of training courses (see REF5a).

 Staff development is an important aspect of the activities of the School Research Committee.
 The SDR and RL sit on the Committee, which meets 2-3 times per term. It discusses wider
 research strategy and decides on individual applications for School Research Funds (up to
 GBP800 p.a.). In Philosophy, researchers additionally have access to an equal share of the
 annual Staff Grant of the Scots Philosophical Association (SPA), which may be used for
 research travel or to organise research events. Training in aspects of research is available
 through the University’s Staff Development Unit and is allocated time in the workload model.
 This strong foundation of developmental support for our researchers is reflected in the
 University’s HR Excellence in Research Award (see REF 5a).

 Together, these measures have strengthened the Unit’s capacities for grant capture (section
 3), public engagement and impact (sections 2 and 4) and postgraduate research student
 (PGR) supervisions (following section). They enable staff to assume significant roles in
 research leadership, for example Sweeney’s membership of the AHRC Peer Review College
 and Lord’s election to the Chair of the Society for European Philosophy and membership of the
 Management Committee of the British Society for the History of Philosophy. The measures
 have also helped to raise the international visibility of its staff, for example in the form of
 Visiting Professorships (section 4).



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to developing existing staff, the Unit’s strategic refocusing shaped the hiring of new
 staff. In light of our strategy to be more outward facing (to other disciplines and beyond the
 academy), in 2016 the Unit hired Laffin (submitted with UoA32), jointly with Divinity (50:50).
 The next stage of investment in Philosophy was the recruitment in 2020 of three permanent
 professorial staff, who complement existing research strengths and enhance CEKAS. The
 University’s Strategic Investment initiative allowed recruiting Beaney from King’s College
 London to the historic Regius Chair of Logic (0.8 appointment; Beaney also holds a part-time
 position as Professor of the History of Analytic Philosophy at the Humboldt University Berlin).
 Beaney enhances the Unit’s strength in the history of philosophy and brings new expertise and
 collaborations in Chinese philosophy. Kallestrup has joined the Unit in support of its expertise
 in epistemology (Luzzi, Moretti). As a 0.2 joint appointment with the Medical School, Entwistle
 brings expertise in applied philosophy and ethics of healthcare. In this, the Unit has balanced
 its demographic profile through its senior hires. It has also appointed Thornton as an Early
 Career Researcher on a Teaching and Research contract, thus maintaining a commitment to
 sustaining the discipline. Eight out of nine category A staff are on open-ended contracts.

 Early Career Researchers
 By nurturing early career researchers (ECRs), the Unit expands its horizons and connects to
 other disciplines. For instance, Laffin was hired with the expressed goal of supporting
 collaborative research and teaching within the School, contributing expertise in ethics and
 philosophy of religion. More recently, two fixed-term Lecturers have contributed their expertise
 in phenomenology (Bortolan in 2019) and recent French philosophy (Thornton in 2020).
 Thornton’s additional expertise in applied ethics makes an important contribution to CEKAS,
 particularly for its priority area Health and Wellbeing (section 3). Both were offered Teaching
 and Research as opposed to Teaching and Scholarship contracts, reflecting the Unit’s
 willingness to invest in ECR research.

 ECRs benefit from the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers (see REF5a). The School and Unit implement its
 recommendations by, for instance, reducing the teaching and administrative duties of ECRs by
 30% in the first year and 20% in the second year to ensure that they maintain their research
 profile. Probationers receive no reduction in their third year in order to ensure that they are able
 to cope with a full load prior to confirmation in post. During their probation period, ECRs have a
 probationary mentor who works with them and their line manager to ensure a balance between
 their research and teaching/administrative duties. The Unit’s past probationary staff (Laffin and
 Bortolan) both passed probation, in Laffin’s case one year early. Bortolan subsequently left
 Aberdeen to take up a permanent post at the University of Swansea in December 2019.

 The Unit’s research environment has been significantly enhanced by hosting 11 postdoctoral
 researchers during the assessment period, either on externally funded staff projects (Baker,
 Bennett-Hunter, Brouwer, Crull, Ferrari, Luzzi, Melis), as Marie Curie Fellows (Edwards,
 Meadows) or as Lord Gifford Fellow (Manning). Postdoctoral researchers on externally funded
 projects are mentored by the Principal Investigator. Researchers on their own projects work
 closely with a staff member and are offered mentorship. In addition, the School offers research
 funding through the School Research Committee to staff on temporary research contracts as
 well as the option to attend a Research Interview, thus providing the same bespoke support
 available to permanent staff. Postdoctoral researchers have a dedicated representative on the
 School Research Committee and University Postdoctoral Researchers’ Committee. Many of
 our postdoctoral researchers have gone on to permanent academic posts at other institutions,
 including UC Irvine (Meadows) and the City College of New York (Crull).


 Postgraduate Researchers

 Growing a community of Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) is an integral part of delivering our
 research and impact strategy. Many of our PhD students participate in international
 collaborations and interdisciplinary projects, thereby contributing to impactful research on “real

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 world” problems.

 We offer two PGR programmes, the PhD and the MLitt by Research. In order to widen
 access, our PGR programmes can be studied full-time or part-time, on campus or by distance-
 learning. This flexibility supports UK students with caring responsibilities, work, disabilities and
 economic disadvantages. It also allows us to recruit international students who would otherwise
 be unable to study in Aberdeen. Distance-learning students are supervised online, and they
 may visit Aberdeen at any time and for any duration.

 The flexibility of our PGR programmes is part of a wider strategy of fortifying and adjusting
 PGR recruitment in line with our new research and impact priorities. An important, additional
 component of this strategy was increasing our efforts to raise the level of financial support for
 PhD students through internal and external sources. Furthermore, offering joint PhD
 supervisions between Philosophy and other disciplines has attracted applicants interested in
 interdisciplinary projects and helps deliver our impact strategy.

 As a result of the Unit’s efforts, 11.5 PhD students (FTEs) completed their degrees during the
 census period. Many are now in academic positions (e.g., Hungarian Academy of Sciences,
 Manchester Metropolitan U, U Bergen, U Bonn, U Stirling, Van Leer Jerusalem Institute). We
 currently have a healthy population of four MLitt and 13 PhD students. Three PhD students
 study by distance and two study part-time. Currently, our staff co-supervise PhD projects with
 History, Politics (both Lord) and Divinity and Religious Studies (Laffin).

 Staff have succeeded repeatedly in internal competitions for the University’s Elphinstone PhD
 fee-waiver scholarships. Overall, four students have been funded through the scheme. One
 PhD student has been funded by the AHRC through Lord’s Equalities of Wellbeing project
 (degree completed in 2017). Three PhD students are funded by the European Commission’s
 Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie programme, through the interdisciplinary “POLITICO”
 project on Political Concepts, which funds 11 such students at Aberdeen. These students are
 employed as Early Stage Researchers (ESRs), with a dedicated training and seminar
 programme, travel and conference organizing funds and the opportunity to arrange placements
 outside the University. Three Philosophy ESRs are jointly supervised by Philosophy (Lord) and
 colleagues in Politics (2 students) and Hispanic Studies (1 student). Most recently, Luzzi and
 Moretti’s network on Epistemic Values, Virtues and Vices was successful in the School
 competition for James Beattie Scholarships for overseas candidates (partial fee waivers and
 stipends).

 All PhD students have both a first and second supervisor. The progress of PhD and MLitt
 students is monitored through the School’s framework, overseen by the School PGR Director,
 supported by a dedicated School administrator and Unit-level PGR Lead (Moretti). Every six
 months, FT students and supervisors review the student’s progress, which is recorded in writing.
 At the 12-month stage, a formal review with interview assesses the quality of written work, and a
 further review takes place at the 24-month stage.

 Throughout their course of study, PGRs receive training on topics such as getting published,
 grant writing and building a career. This training is provided by the University’s Postgraduate
 Research School, which also provides initial induction for all incoming students (see REF5a). In
 addition, doctoral researchers are encouraged to attend the Scotland-wide training sessions of
 the Scottish Graduate School in Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), to which Lord and Moretti have
 contributed. These sessions have the added benefit of helping students to network.

 The Postgraduate Research School also provides staff training related to PGRs (see REF5a).
 All new supervisors receive central training in order to ensure quality supervision. Furthermore,
 staff can undertake training for enhancing the chances of capturing SGSAH Doctoral Training
 Partnerships for prospective students. The SGSAH acts as distributor in Scotland of AHRC
 doctoral funds (full fees and maintenance). Luzzi took part in this training, which provided a
 platform for peer review and strengthening of application drafts.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Apart from providing our PGRs with office space and a PC (shared, in some cases), we
 emphasise integration into the Unit’s research activities. PGRs are expected to attend the
 Philosophy Colloquium and the Knowledge and Society seminar as a crucial part of their
 training. We also encourage them to suggest possible speakers so that topics reflect their
 research interests. PGRs have priority in question and answer sessions and meet speakers
 informally over drinks/dinner (subsidised). Furthermore, PGRs are encouraged to attend or co-
 organise reading groups, for example, on epistemology (run by Luzzi and Moretti) and
 Spinoza (run by Lord). In their second and third years, PhD students present their research in
 our Work-in-Progress seminars. We include distance-learning students by making the events
 available online or recording it where possible.

 PGRs may apply via the PGR coordinator for up to GBP250 per annum from the annual SPA
 grant, as well as for up to GBP100 from the School Postgraduate Research Committee, to
 support travel to conferences outside Aberdeen. We offer our on-campus PhD students
 opportunities for paid tutorial teaching, which most of them take up in the second year of their
 studies.

 The integration of PGRs into our research activities can result in collaborative student-staff
 research. For instance, Christos Georgakakis co-authored with Moretti an entry for the Internet
 Encyclopaedia of Philosophy, which became essential for one of Moretti’s book chapters. As
 paid research assistants for Lord’s (Equalities of Wellbeing) and Stegmann’s (Scientific
 Metaphors in Action) projects, Christos Georgakakis, Elaina Gauthier-Mamaril and Christopher
 Thomas assisted with organising conferences, analysing texts, and editing publications, giving
 them valuable experience of the research process.

 PGRs are encouraged to organise events, for which they may draw on SPA funds (GBP2000
 p.a.). Having applied successfully for a SPA conference grant, Alessio Persichetti and
 Georgakakis organised a workshop on Philosophy and Education in 2019, which attracted 20
 participants from the UK and Germany. Persichetti’s presented paper has since been published
 in Educational Philosophy and Theory. Several other PhD students secured external travel
 grants to work with international experts to support and enhance their research and
 international experience. An Australian Research Foundation grant enabled Balint Kekedi to
 complete his thesis working with Stephen Gaukroger at the University of Sydney. Two students
 were awarded funds from the ERASMUS programme to study in Europe, and two students
 obtained Santander Travel grants, including Christopher Thomas to study with Don Garrett at
 New York University.

 As a consequence of integrating PGRs into our research activities, as well as through their own
 collaborative activities, our PGRs have developed a strong sense of community. To further
 promote cohesiveness, the Unit organises social events such as the annual reading party in
 the Scottish Highlands. Looking ahead, we have launched a taught MLitt in Philosophy and
 Society (coordinated by Kallestrup), which is closely linked to CEKAS. The taught MLitt will
 provide a route to PGR study, particularly for students without an undergraduate Philosophy
 degree or who have spent several years outside of academia, and it will expand and diversify
 our postgraduate population further.


 Promoting Equality and Diversity

 The Unit integrates equality and diversity into its research and impact strategy. Several staff
 investigate equality and diversity issues as part of their research portfolios. It is, in addition, one
 of the areas where our strategy of focusing on “real world problems” becomes most concrete.
 Lord’s work on Equalities of Wellbeing prompted the charity Shelter to revise its
 recommendations on the UK housing crisis (section 4). Luzzi’s project Sex Segregation in
 Sports investigates sports activities across the UK (section 4). Lord’s and Luzzi’s projects both
 fall within the CEKAS priority area of Health and Wellbeing. With his advocacy for diversifying

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the canon of philosophy at large, Beaney adds a commitment to engaging in other cultural
 traditions, thus contributing to the CEKAS priority area of Education and Learning. In support of
 this commitment, Beaney has been appointed to the Board of the University’s Confucius
 Institute and is establishing an exchange programme with Wuhan University, a strategic
 partner of the University of Aberdeen.

 The Unit leads the School’s promotion of equality and diversity. Luzzi, Lord and Sweeney led
 the School’s Athena SWAN Bronze accreditation in 2017 and therefore shaped the School’s
 policies on equality and diversity. The School is now working towards an Athena SWAN Silver
 award.

 Under the oversight of the Head of School (Sweeney), the Academic Line Managers, SDR and
 School Director of Equality and Diversity are charged with ensuring adherence to all broader
 University frameworks on equity between staff. The School has established an Equality and
 Diversity Committee, whose remit extends beyond gender to encompass all protected
 characteristics. The SDR sits on this Committee, where all UoAs are represented. The School
 Director of Equality and Diversity sits on the School Executive Committee.

 Promotion within the Unit follows School and University guidelines, which include the
 anonymised assessment of promotion applications by trained role analysts. Both our female
 category A staff, Sweeney and Lord, were promoted during the census period (to Senior
 Lecturer and Professor, respectively). The development of our female staff is also evidenced by
 Sweeney joining the University’s senior management team as Head of School, and Lord taking
 on leadership roles within the census period as Head of Discipline and School Director of
 Postgraduate Research. All School leadership positions are subject to open and competitive
 appointment processes.

 Staff recruitment follows the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy, which promotes equality
 and diversity at all levels and for all protected characteristics. All staff are required to undertake
 Equality and Diversity and Unconscious Bias training. Staff on job selection committees must
 additionally complete the course, Equality and Diversity in Recruitment and Selection.

 Key decisions about research resource allocation (research leave, school research funding)
 are taken though open transparent processes. Research support is available equally to all
 research staff, whether on full- or part-time contracts (adjusted pro rata), open-ended or
 temporary contracts.

 The School management, through the line management system, recognises the impact of
 caring, ill health or other reasons for consideration and supports flexible working arrangements
 in line with broader University policies. In addition, where required, the Unit arranges work on a
 case-by-case basis via the School workload model, for instance in preparation for retirement
 and including remote working. The Unit was therefore able to respond quickly and effectively to
 Covid-19 restrictions and changes in staff circumstances. Flexible work arrangements also
 apply for PGRs, such as switching between part-time and full-time study or distance-learning
 and on campus study.

 Diversity and equality considerations informed the Unit’s approach to selecting research
 outputs and impact case studies for REF2021. The publications of our female category A staff
 (Sweeney and Lord) contribute to the selected research outputs in proportion to their FTEs
 (22%). In addition, both our impact case studies arose from the research of our female staff
 (Lord and Entwistle, respectively). This demonstrates the absence of structural barriers to
 achieving and showcasing research impact. There was bespoke Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) training for staff involved in REF decision-making, including selection of the
 output portfolio.

 Within the Athena SWAN Bronze award, the School and Unit committed to the creation of a
 family-friendly fund to assist conference attendance. In addition, the Unit implements the British

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Philosophical Association and Society for Women in Philosophy (UK) (BPA/SWiP) Good
 Practice Scheme and Guidelines for Accessible Conferences. Consequently, we strive for
 gender balance among speakers in our seminars and conferences, as well as inclusion of
 perspectives departing from “core” analytic philosophy (e.g., continental, non-Western
 philosophy). Luzzi’s workshop Sex Segregation in Sports, for example, featured a majority of
 female speakers (3/5) and included the director of an organisation promoting gender inclusivity
 in sports (“Leadership, Equality and Active Participation in Sports for LGBTI people in
 Scotland”). Similarly, Stegmann’s workshop on Kant’s Intuitive Understanding had an equal
 gender distribution (3/6). During these and other events, the Unit follows the seminar conduct
 policy, which ensures a fair distribution of questions, for example by giving priority to students
 over faculty and by enforcing the “one question per question” rule.


 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 The Unit pursues a strategy of combining research in core areas of philosophy with research
 leading to impact in the three priority areas of CEKAS (section 1). To sustain core research
 along with projects that expand interdisciplinarity and impact, category A staff apply regularly for
 major research grants. During the assessment period, the Unit achieved GBP795,051 of
 external research income or GBP12,907 per FTE.

 Externally funded projects that supported fundamental research in logic, metaphysics and
 philosophy of science included Meadows’s Set Theoretic Pluralism (Leverhulme, 2015-18),
 Torre’s Leverhulme Trust network grant What's so Special about First-Person Thought? (2016-
 19) and Stegmann’s British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship for Scientific Metaphors in Action
 (2019). Sweeney’s and Wright’s project Relativism and the Nature of Rational Tolerance
 (Leverhulme, 2011-15) was grounded in epistemology.

 In history of philosophy, Lord was awarded a major AHRC grant for Equalities of Wellbeing in
 Philosophy and Architecture (2013-16). Her project took an interdisciplinary approach and led to
 significant impact, which is reflected in an impact case study (section 1). Entwistle brought her
 Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award to the Unit (But why is that better?, 2018-2022). This
 ongoing project raises the Unit’s interdisciplinary engagement, particularly in the CEKAS priority
 area of Health and Wellbeing (section 4).

 All staff apply for smaller sums to organise conferences and support research visits, research
 assistance and conference presentations. Such applications are submitted to external funders
 (e.g., SPA and the Mind Association) and internally to the School’s Research Committee.

 Philosophy receives regular income from several sources to support research activities. The
 SPA awards an annual research grant for staff and PGRs, which sustains the Philosophy
 Colloquium and Knowledge and Society seminar as well as individual research. Over the
 assessment period, the Unit received an additional GBP10,000 from SPA for the research visits
 (of around 3 weeks each) of its Centenary Fellows (Jennan Ismael, Columbia U; Beaney - prior
 to his appointment; Joe Ulatowski, U Waikato; and Kerstin Andermann, Leuphana U). An annual
 grant from the Royal Institute of Philosophy funds the Annual Public Lecture (section 4). The
 Unit is represented on the Bednarowski Trust, which funds 3-4 week research visits by 2-3
 Polish philosophers each year. Lord sits on the University’s Gifford Committee, which organises
 the longstanding Lord Gifford lectures by a major figure in Natural Theology.

 Infrastructure

 Recognizing the need for a structure that would facilitate implementation of its strategy of
 impactful research, the Unit founded CEKAS with the support of the School (section 1). Since
 2018, CEKAS functions as an umbrella for collaborative projects with societal impact and a

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forum for exchanging ideas with colleagues outside Philosophy that can be developed into new
 projects and funding applications.

 In the CEKAS priority area Health and Wellbeing alone, such collaborations have led to three
 major initiatives: Luzzi and Milner’s work on Sex Discrimination in Sports (section 4); Stegmann
 and Casini’s Imaging SARS-Cov-2 (section 1); and Entwistle and Thornton’s Practical Ethics of
 Care for the Dead and Bereaved (section 4). All projects feature female academics as PI
 (Entwistle) or co-PI (Milner, Casini). These projects demonstrate that the Unit is not only
 pursuing research of societal relevance but has succeeded in creating the infrastructure needed
 to respond flexibly to urgent societal needs.

 In addition to CEKAS, the School invests in a number of cross-disciplinary Research Centres of
 which Unit staff are members: the Centre for Early Modern Studies (CEMS), the Centre for Civil
 Society and the Rule of Law (CISRUL) and the Centre for the History and Philosophy of
 Science, Technology and Medicine (CHPSTM). Lord’s engagement with CISRUL led to a joint
 conference (New Materialisms and Politics), and she supervises ESRs who are funded through
 the highly competitive European Commission Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 “POLITICO” programme (section 2).

 Research infrastructure was greatly enhanced in 2012 with the opening of a new University
 Library (see REF5a). The Sir Duncan Rice Library supports the Unit’s research and impact
 activities through its holdings as well as a dedicated annual budget for books and inter-library
 loans (ILLs). The Unit is committed to open access of our research outputs, and our Libraries
 run the Aberdeen University Research Archive (AURA), our open access repository. The Library
 also offers Subject Development Awards to rapidly respond to new areas of research.
 Stegmann and Casini received an Award to purchase books in preparation for a joint grant
 application (section 4).

 The University and School policies and structures support Philosophy’s research activities and
 funding successes. The Unit’s Research and Impact Lead (currently Stegmann) sits on the
 Research Committee and implements the School’s support framework at Unit level. This
 includes assigning internal peer reviews for grant applications and participating in the annual
 research support interviews (section 2). The projects of Lord, Torre and Stegmann all
 benefitted from this support. Additional support structures include the University Research and
 Innovation office, which updates researchers about funding opportunities and assists with
 preparing grant applications and managing large grants (see REF5a). Furthermore, the School
 provides administrative assistance with grant applications and management, workshop
 organization, hosting external speakers and visitors and employing research assistants.
 Institutional support comes from the Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU) for public
 engagement events and from Communications for media work (see REF5a).

 Building on the Sustainability theme of the University’s Aberdeen 2040 strategy, the Unit has
 committed to the BPA Environmentally Responsible Travel Scheme. While travel remains
 important for establishing and maintaining research connections, Unit staff are committed to
 considering using video conferencing and less damaging modes of travel.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

      Collaborations and the research base

 The Unit has actively sought out collaborations with colleagues in other institutions, both in the
 UK and internationally, as a means of drawing on a large and diverse set of expertise. Torre’s
 and Moretti’s work exemplify the success of this approach. Over the assessment period, they
 built and maintained extensive international networks of scholars to pursue research in
 metaphysics and epistemology, respectively.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Between 2014 and 2019, Torre was co-PI on three externally funded projects with colleagues in
 Vienna (Max Kölbel) and Barcelona (Dan Lopez de Sa). He expanded his collaborations to
 include the Institut Jean Nicod in Paris (Francois Recanati), the ConceptLab in Oslo (Herman
 Cappelen) and LOGOS in Barcelona (Manuel Garcia-Carpintero), as well as UK institutions
 (Ofra Magidor in Oxford and Simon Prosser in St. Andrews). These institutions constituted the
 Leverhulme International Network What’s So Special about First-Person Thought?, which Torre
 led as PI (2016-2019). Torre organised annual conferences as the main vehicle of interaction,
 with each focussing on different aspects of the topic (i.e., the problem of first-person thought
 (Barcelona, 2017), the roles of imagination and simulation (Boston, 2018) and a concluding
 conference in Edinburgh in 2019). An early collaborative output was the 2015 volume About
 Oneself: De Se Thought and Communication (OUP) co-edited with Garcia-Carpintero.

 International collaborations are also central for Moretti’s research in epistemology. During this
 assessment period, Moretti co-wrote two books, one with Nikolaj Pedersen (Yonsei, Seoul) and
 the other with Kevin McCain (Alabama). The books, Non-evidentialist Epistemology
 (forthcoming, Brill) and Appearance and Explanation (under contract with OUP), will be
 published in the next cycle. In addition, Moretti co-edited two special issues for Synthese, one
 with Tommaso Piazza (Pavia) on defeaters (2018) and the other with Peter Hartl and Akos
 Gyarmathy (both Hungarian Academy of Sciences) on truth (2020).

 Like Torre and Moretti, Lord and Stegmann organised international conferences, such as
 Spinoza and Proportion (2015) and Intuitive Understanding (2018), respectively. In 2014 and
 2018, Lord organised the annual Scottish Seminar in Early Modern Philosophy at Aberdeen. All
 staff have international research connections, as evidenced by invitations to give talks at leading
 conferences and institutions around the world. Staff review applications for international funding
 bodies (e.g., National Science Foundation, German Research Council, Belgian National Grant
 Foundation) and scholarly monographs for international publishers (e.g., CUP, Princeton UP,
 OUP, Routledge). They routinely act as reviewers for leading philosophy journals, both general
 and specialist.

 The significance and success of the Unit’s research is reflected in the leadership roles that staff
 hold within the profession. Beaney is Editor-in-Chief of the British Journal for the History of
 Philosophy (BJHP), Palgrave Macmillan’s monograph series on the History of Analytic
 Philosophy and President-Elect of the Society for the Study of the History of Analytic Philosophy.
 He is Chair of the UK Committee of the Philosophy Summer School in China Programme, which
 organises this prestigious annual summer school in collaboration with the Chinese Academy of
 Social Sciences. Beaney is Visiting Chair Professor at Tsinghua University and has taught at
 many of China’s other elite universities (e.g., Peking, Beijing Normal, Wuhan). Lord was Chair of
 the Society for European Philosophy, sits on the Management Committee of the British Society
 for the History of Philosophy, is on the editorial board of BJHP and is a member of council of the
 Royal Institute of Philosophy. Moretti holds a Visiting Professorship at the Munich Center for
 Mathematical Philosophy (since 2014) and has recently been appointed as Fellow of the
 Bochum research group From Perception to Belief and Back Again. Stegmann held a Visiting
 Professorship at the University of Utrecht (2016). Sweeney and Beaney are members of the
 AHRC Peer Review College.

 Contributions to Society

 As part of their overall research profile, everyone in the Unit undertakes interdisciplinary and
 collaborative work that is geared towards societal impact (section 1). Prior to the establishment
 of CEKAS in 2018, this approach generated the Unit’s impact case studies.

 Both case studies serve as prime examples of the Unit’s contributions to society. Case study 1
 emerged from Lord’s AHRC project Equalities of Wellbeing in Philosophy and Architecture. It
 investigated Spinoza’s concept of equality and, in collaboration with architectural theorist Peg
 Rawes (UCL), architects and charities (e.g., Shelter and The Equality Trust), articulated its
 implications for the UK housing crisis. The project had societal impact by, for instance, leading

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shelter’s Policy Manager to specific conclusions set out in an influential report on the housing
 crisis. Case study 2 emerged from Entwistle’s work at Aberdeen’s Medical School on healthcare
 provision. The project uncovered epistemic and ethical uncertainties in person-centred
 approaches and developed recommendations for redesigning healthcare provisions that respect
 the plurality of what makes for “living well”. These recommendations were co-developed with
 non-academic stakeholders and adopted by, for instance, the Scottish Government.

 A very different kind of societal contribution pre-CEKAS was Stegmann’s influence on the
 production of a new cultural artefact, a popular science book called Life’s Greatest Secret (2015,
 Polis). Its author, Matthew Cobb, drew on Stegmann’s expertise and incorporated central
 findings of his research. Four of the aspects praised by book reviewers and the public (e.g., on
 Goodreads) are directly attributable to Stegmann’s work (e.g., the excitement around a
 previously unpublished diagram and a critical appreciation of informational metaphors in the life
 sciences).

 Since the establishment of CEKAS, new initiatives are being pursued. Within the priority area
 Health and Wellbeing, Luzzi has established a network Sex Discrimination in Sports with
 sociologist Adrienne Milner (Brunel) and non-academic bodies such as SportEngland and LEAP
 Sports Scotland. This laid the groundwork for a joint funding application to the AHRC with Luzzi
 as PI, which is currently being revised. The project scrutinises sports policies that segregate on
 the basis of sex, which are widespread for many sports at almost all levels. A shift in policy
 motivated by the project’s findings would affect the eligibility of a large number of athletes.

 Entwistle and Thornton will further enhance the priority area Health and Wellbeing. Entwistle’s
 project But why is that better? uses the tools of applied philosophy and ethics to help deliver on
 the promise, and avoid the pitfalls, of healthcare quality improvement. Entwistle collaborates with
 academic partners from other disciplines (Alan Cribb from KCL’s Centre for Public Policy
 Research) as well as with non-academic stakeholders (e.g., NHS Education Scotland Digital
 Team, WHO Global Health Ethics Unit). Thornton’s research into the connections between
 French philosophy and psychoanalysis in the 20th century is influencing the training of
 psychoanalysts in the UK. As instructor for the major UK training organization “The SITE for
 Contemporary Psychoanalysis”, Thornton will train prospective psychoanalysts in 2021.

 For the CEKAS priority area Education and Learning, Moretti has brought together colleagues
 from philosophy and education to form the Epistemology of Education Network, which he now
 directs. In collaboration with teacher Alessia Marabini (Bologna) and educationalist Ben Kotzee
 (Birmingham), Moretti investigates questions of educational injustice and the epistemic aims of
 education. Moretti’s conference on Social Media and Public Pedagogy, postponed due to Covid,
 extends his work to the role of social media in contemporary society.

 Beaney’s appointment as Director of CEKAS will give the priority area Education and Learning a
 cross-cultural dimension (see previous section). The priority area Social Epistemology is
 currently developing under Kallestrup’s leadership and in close collaboration with Moretti and
 Luzzi. The Unit will support the establishment of a research network on the cognitive, ethical
 and epistemological dimensions of groups, including the challenges faced by “real world”
 organizations and institutions.

 Public Engagement

 In line with CEKAS’ mission to apply philosophical expertise to societal challenges, we are
 committed to engaging with the local community and wider public. A long-running outreach
 initiative is the annual public lecture by a major visiting speaker, funded by the Royal Institute
 of Philosophy and organised by Luzzi. The lecture, given in a local cinema and combined with
 a film screening that relates to the topic, attracts an audience of 80-100. In 2018 and 2019,
 Lord and Stegmann presented research to the public at the University’s May Festival (see
 REF5a), where Torre and Stegmann also organised external speaker events.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Relatedly, the Unit runs Café Philosophique events, hosted in a pub, in which short staff
 presentations are followed by guided group discussions. These events attract a wide audience
 from Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire. As part of the Equalities of Wellbeing project, Lord
 organised screenings of the project film at architectural offices, Shelter, Aberdeen City Council
 and the Edinburgh Young Planners’ Institute and published several public-oriented pieces on
 related topics.

 As part of its Education and Learning priority area, the Unit has established a strong profile in
 teacher training supporting the teaching of philosophy in primary and secondary schools. In
 2014, Luzzi developed Philosophy with Children, a one-day Continuing Professional
 Development course for teachers; he now teaches it twice annually. Teachers are introduced to
 methodologies of philosophy with children and provided with the practical tools to facilitate
 discussion in classrooms. To date, over 100 teachers have undertaken the training, and Luzzi
 was invited to present Philosophy in Schools to the Scottish Parliament in 2014.

 On this basis Luzzi has developed the Aberdeen Philosophy in Education Group, a non-credit-
 bearing programme which trains Philosophy students in these methodologies and places them in
 local schools. Over 50 students have participated in the programme since its inception in 2014,
 resulting in proven educational benefits for pupils, increased public awareness of philosophy and
 career benefits for participants.

 Staff reach non-academic audiences through invited lectures and contributions to public-oriented
 media. Lord gave the 2019 Royal Institute of Philosophy public lecture at Oxford and wrote for
 The Philosopher, The Philosopher’s Magazine, The Conversation, Aeon and The Forum blog. In
 2015, Luzzi was interviewed by Radio Merseyside on gender equality in sports and made
 contributions to The Conversation and the Being Human Festival.

 Our public engagement events are a natural consequence of CEKAS’ mission to apply
 philosophical expertise to societal challenges. In addition, we see them as being integral to our
 impact strategy because they are more than a one-way street. As new challenges and questions
 are raised, they feed back and shape our research.




                                                                                             Page 13
