Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newman University, Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context

 History at Newman University, Birmingham, sits within the Department of Arts, Humanities, and
 Human Sciences in the Faculty of Arts, Society, and Professional Studies (FASPS). The UOA
 has evolved from submitting just one scholar to RAE 2008, 2.4FTE in REF2014, to 6.0FTE in
 this REF cycle. The UOA moves from having around five years of postdoctoral experience at
 RAE2008 and twenty years combined postdoctoral experience in REF2014 to sixty-five years at
 the point of submission for REF2021. Members of the UOA evidence a wide range of career
 stages of the historical profession, with one associate dean, two readers, three senior lecturers
 and one lecturer submitted. The increasing maturity of the History UOA at Newman University
 has resulted in a greater research footprint within the institution, greater demand for institutional
 structures and procedures relating to research, as well as a more significant outward-facing
 profile.

 Research activity in the History UOA covers two millennia and crosses disciplinary boundaries
 between history, classics, political science, sociology, and theology. The Unit’s growth since
 REF2014 necessitated the need to consolidate the disparate interests of the UOA into discrete
 areas of activity. At the point of submission to REF2021, the UOA’s research addresses three
 distinct areas of expertise:

 1) Poverty and Welfare
 2) Religious Cultures
 3) Power and Representation

 Colleagues in the UOA contribute to one or two of these themes that deliberately cross
 traditional temporal and geographical boundaries. Visiting Scholars and colleagues elsewhere in
 the Department (from Drama, English, and Theology, in particular) also collaborate on these
 topics.

 To facilitate this interaction, all colleagues in the UOA are members of the University’s
 Humanities Research Centre that was established in 2015. The Centre grew out of the
 successful Humanities Research Group and acts as an umbrella for activities throughout the
 Department of Arts and Humanities, from Continuing Professional Development, grant-writing
 workshops, and public lectures. At the heart of the Centre’s activity is a programme of internal
 research seminars and invited public lectures that attract scholars from across the UK, as well
 as promoting research projects occurring within the University. Opportunities for internal
 collaboration are fostered by the Humanities Research Centre’s annual celebration of research
 and internal research bulletins.

 Research Strategy

 i) Research Strategy and Achievement, 2014-21

 The University’s Strategic Plan following REF2014 included a commitment to direct investment
 towards growing and securing a ‘critical mass of academic staff who are engaged in research,
 practice, or other forms of advanced scholarship and demonstrate achievements that are
 recognised by the wider academic community to be of national or international standing’. The
 History UOA is the clearest example of the fulfilment of the University’s goals in growing a
 mature and sustainable research culture.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UOA’s activities between 2014 and 2021 have been built on a number of principles
 developed at Faculty, Department and Subject level, and expressed in the UOA’s targets in
 REF2014:

 (i) To increase and sustain both the volume and quality of printed outputs
 (ii) To increase the number of applications made to external funding bodies
 (iii) To increase the number of academic and public-facing events and collaborations
 (iv) To develop a larger PGR cohort in Humanities

 Building on these targets and responding to feedback from REF2014, the UOA has succeeded
 in driving growth and achievement in almost all of these areas. All staff in the UOA are research
 active. This has resulted in a significant increase in the Unit’s research power from REF2014,
 growing the number of printed outputs across the census period. This has also led to a twenty-
 fold increase in the amount of research grant applications submitted by the UOA. The UOA has
 succeeded in its aim of attracting external research funding with notable successes in applying
 to the British Academy, the Fulbright Commission, the National Endowment for the Humanities
 (USA) and the Wellcome Trust.

 Our aim to organise more outward-facing events and collaborations has resulted in eleven
 conferences being held and/or organised by colleagues in the UOA since 2014. These events
 have attracted a large number of people to the Newman University campus or to collaborating
 institutions.

 ii) Research Strategy and Achievement, 2021-25

 The UOA appreciates that the landscape of UK HE post-2021 will be challenging. However, we
 view the next research assessment cycle as another opportunity for the UOA to mature its
 research culture from its embryonic submission to RAE2008. While it is not envisaged that the
 UOA will grow significantly in size in the next census period, our strategic goals revolve around
 the development of structures of research management and increasing the size of the UOA’s
 external research footprint (in terms of impact and partnerships, grant capture, and outputs). The
 UOA is particularly committed to improving links with external organisations in the next five
 years.

 The University’s institutional research strategy for the coming five-year period 2021-25 will build
 on the current research plan while focusing on specific areas of implementation: an attainment of
 Research degree awarding powers, research integrity, Open Research compliance, and the
 equal promotion of disciplinary, cross-disciplinary, and interdisciplinary research.

 Our goals for the period after 2021 are:

 1. To continue to develop public-facing projects that involve staff, students, and external partners

 2. To develop the Humanities Research Centre as a way to continue to develop an inclusive
 research culture in the UOA, while also acting as a point of contact for external relationships

 3. To explore the implementation of the Researcher Development Concordat

 4. To manage pathways to impact more effectively, particularly through the use of institutional
 methods of gathering data and sharing best practice

 We will evidence these changes by pursuing the following outcomes:

 1. An increase in the number of external-facing relationships between members of the UOA and
 relevant third parties



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. To increase the number of external-facing events hosted by the Humanities Research Centre
 and to attract more external scholars at Centre events

 3. To establish a working group of colleagues from across the Humanities to explore ways to
 develop researchers’ skills who are already a part of the UOA

 4. To work with the Faculty and Graduate School to develop ways to effectively share best
 practices on data collection around impact: this may include training sessions, as well as the
 creation of specific workflows and systems to capture impact activities

 This strategy will serve to consolidate the UOA’s rapid growth from its first submission to
 RAE2008 to its much broader profile in 2021, while also using the UOA’s expertise to develop a
 far more outward-facing and impact-driven agenda.

 Impact Strategy

 The UOA took very seriously the comments from the RE2014 Subpanel 30 report that History
 UOAs had not sufficiently explored ‘collaboration with schools and...the development of school
 curricula’ as part of impact activities. We have also sought to build on our clear commitment to
 impact evidenced in REF2014 to a more direct form of engagement with educational
 stakeholders and beneficiaries of our research.

 At the heart of much of our impact activity is using contacts nourished by the University’s history
 as a teacher-training college. Ensuring our research has an impact in education at all levels is a
 critical component in the way we disseminate research. We actively collaborate with History
 teachers at secondary schools and colleges to provide CPD, especially when teachers move to
 new institutions or when a new component is introduced into their curricula. In 2015, the UOA
 held a Visit Day with Heads of Sixth Form centres at the Black Country Living Museum. In 2019,
 we held a History Learning Day where colleagues explored concepts of rulership by provoking
 students and teachers with the question ‘Should Historians Rule the World?’.

 The UOA is home to a new and vibrant Applied Humanities undergraduate course that will set
 the tone in how the UOA will engage with external organisations in the future. Partnerships
 developed as part of the Applied Humanities agenda will offer greater opportunities for external
 collaboration, but also offer students the chance to be actively involved in research projects.
 Developing our Applied Humanities agenda will be a priority in the next five years.

 2. People

 Since 2014, the Unit’s staff recruitment policy has been aligned with contributing to the Unit’s
 three main clusters of research expertise. The rate of growth has been gradual but steady over
 the census period: Langley was appointed in 2014, Folwell in 2015, Lewandowski in 2016 and
 Reid in 2018. These appointments extended the temporal and geographical spread of the
 UOA’s research interests while building significant research strength in our ‘Poverty and Welfare’
 and ‘Religious Cultures’ research themes.

 During the census period, three lecturers were promoted to Senior Lecturer status (Folwell,
 Harrisson, Langley) while one was promoted to Reader in 2020 (Langley). The Unit actively
 seeks to make those who are initially employed on fractional contracts up to full-time members
 of the team (Harrisson, Langley).

 Staff participate in an annual appraisal process with the Head of Subject where research,
 writing, and grant applications are discussed. The UOA Research Coordinator meets separately
 with colleagues to discuss pathways towards achieving significant milestones in colleagues’
 research careers. Colleagues are given the opportunity to embed research ideas into team-
 taught teaching content.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research time is protected under the University’s Work Allocation Model (WAM). The WAM also
 provides colleagues with blocks of clear time in which to complete grant applications. New
 members of early career staff are appointed a research mentor with whom they meet once each
 semester to discuss their wider plans. All colleagues have input into the UOA’s spending
 priorities and direction through Subject meetings each semester.

 Colleagues are encouraged to apply for a semester of research leave (plus the vacation period
 that falls either side) every three years. This scheme is administered centrally by the University
 in accordance with its Strategic Plan. Colleagues in the UOA agree in advance with the UOA
 Research Coordinator when their period of leave would be most useful and are then encouraged
 to submit an application to the University’s Research Committee. During the period under
 review, several colleagues have been granted research leave (Langley, Plack). Due to the size
 of the UoA, colleagues’ teaching loads can be intelligently managed so certain modules can be
 shifted around with the agreement of the rest of the team to suit pressing research needs and
 open up space to complete projects.

  In tandem with the University’s Directorate of Learning, Teaching and Scholarship, members of
 the UOA can participate in on- and -off-site writing retreats during semester to give them another
 environment in which to write, away from the bustle of teaching commitments. Several
 colleagues in the UOA have benefitted from writing retreats on campus and at the nearby
 Woodbrooke Centre, Birmingham. An annual celebration of research run by the Humanities
 Research Centre gives colleagues a chance to discuss successes in research projects and grant
 capture, as well as exploring opportunities for collaboration across disciplines.

 Researchers in the UOA benefit from the culture of seminars and conferences in which all levels
 of staff and PGRs can participate. The Humanities Research Centre Seminar Series has hosted
 seventy-two presentations in the census period, including scholars from Durham, Hull, Leeds,
 Łodz, Nottingham, South Wales, UCL, Warwick, and York (Canada). These events were shifted
 online from March 2020, initially focusing on offering space to colleagues to discuss internal
 research projects and broadening to include several external scholars from the first months of
 2021. The HRC Seminar Series has also hosted presentations from research managers and
 grant bid writers to encourage colleagues to apply for external funding and to familiarise them
 with the processes to do so.

 Members of the UOA also enjoy access to conferences and symposia organised by members on
 campus, with the most significant being: ‘Rethinking Poverty in Medieval and Early Modern
 Europe’ (2015); ‘Imagining the Afterlife in the Ancient World’ (2016); the Ecclesiastical History
 Society Postgraduate Colloquium (2018); ‘Victorian Fears Colloquium’ (2018), ‘Building the
 Fortress: Catholics in English Towns, 1778-1840’ (2018); and the European Reformation
 Research Group Annual Meeting (2019). Each of these events has included a significant
 collaborative element, with external scholars and organisations.

 Research Students

 In 2014, the University entered into a new arrangement with Liverpool Hope University as the
 validating partner for all of its research degrees. This has resulted in a more mature support
 structure for PGR students. PGR supervision teams have increased in sophistication, now
 including a Director of Studies, a Primary Supervisor, and a Second Supervisor, allowing
 students access to subject specialists as well as senior colleagues in the Faculty. The Graduate
 School’s Postgraduate Research Student Coordinator (until 2020: Plack) is based in the History
 UOA and provides an additional layer of pastoral support for PGR candidates.

 Since the last census period, we have encouraged the growth of our PGR community. A new
 MRes programme was designed in 2015 to provide a more coherent pathway from
 undergraduate study to advanced postgraduate work. This programme has produced several
 doctoral candidates, some of whom have continued their studies in the UOA and others who
 have moved elsewhere to pursue doctoral research. The University offered a number of full

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarships for doctoral candidates of exceptional quality between 2014 and 2015, has
 provided fee wavers for MPhil and PhD candidates since 2016 and offers fee discounts to
 alumni. 11 candidates in Humanities subjects have been in receipt of full scholarships or fee
 waivers between 2014 and 2020, two of whom are based in the History UOA.

 The University Graduate School runs a regular programme of training and skills workshops,
 equipping PGRs with the skills needed for their doctoral work and after they graduate. Since
 their introduction in March 2015, the Graduate School has run 74 doctoral workshop sessions.
 Members of the History UOA often lead these workshops, including sessions on ‘Presenting a
 Conference Paper’ and writing for publication. The University’s annual Celebration of Doctoral
 Research has hosted a number of humanities PGRs, including several from History.
 Postgraduates are encouraged to publish thought pieces and research on the Newman History
 blog (https://newmanhistory.wordpress.com).

 Since 2019, £150 from the History UOA is allocated to each PGR as a way to contribute towards
 speaking at conferences or to support visits to archives or other repositories. The Humanities
 Research Centre introduced an annual call for postgraduate funding in 2020 that encourages
 PGRs to develop collaborative, external-facing events, with PGRs at other institutions. This
 scheme offers up to £200 per year to a collaborative venture of this kind.

 To support PGR development, the NewmArts postgraduate network was established in 2017
 and is led by PGRs from Humanities subjects. The network brings together PGT and PGR
 students in Humanities subjects to organise academic and social gatherings. Newmarts also edit
 and administer the postgraduate journal Critical Commentary, which accepts submissions from
 PGR students. A member of NewmArts is appointed as PGR representative on the Humanities
 Research Centre steering group, allowing social events at the start and end of each semester.

 Visiting Scholars

 Visiting scholars augment our three core areas of activity. Over the census period, the UOA has
 hosted four visiting scholars: Professor Martial Staub (Sheffield), Dr David Brown (Independent),
 Dr Marie Rowlands (Emerita) and Professor Dilwyn Porter (De Montfort). Visiting Scholars are
 given access to the University’s Library resources and contribute research papers and other
 expertise through the Humanities Research Centre.

 Equality and Diversity

 Efforts to enhance staff understanding of issues of equality and diversity have been interwoven
 through the University’s structure: from the top level, through Faculty and Department and into
 the individual UOA. All members of academic staff across the University are required to
 complete mandatory Equality and Diversity training every four years.
 The UOA has actively engaged with the Royal Historical Society’s 2018 report ‘Race, Ethnicity &
 Equality in UK History’. In 2020, the UOA was at the forefront of a University-wide ‘big
 conversation’ around race in the University and wide community. This resulted in several Zoom
 conferences on the subject and a radical reframing of the history undergraduate degree.
 Driven by members of the UOA, an equality and inclusion committee was established at
 Departmental level. The University Research Ethics Committee addresses issues of gender and
 racial bias within research projects at both design stage and in their execution. In 2018, the
 University established a LGBT discussion group.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External Grant Capture

 The Unit has widened its portfolio of external funding since REF2014 by encouraging colleagues
 to apply to a greater range of grant schemes and supporting them with a more developed

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach to submission. A research bid writer was appointed by the University in 2015 who
 liaised closely with the University Finance team to cost bids more effectively. A new workflow for
 grant bid submissions was developed across the census period and introduced in 2019. The
 Humanities Research Centre collates relevant funding calls and distributes them periodically to
 colleagues as well as holding events with bid writers and funders from across the country to
 encourage colleagues to develop grant-worthy projects. The Humanities Research Centre has
 also developed a repository of successful and unsuccessful grant bids to a range of UK-based
 funders.

 The UOA has submitted twenty bids to funders including the British Academy, Gerda Henkel
 Stiftung, the Leverhulme Trust and the Wellcome Trust since 2014. In line with this growth in
 applications for external funding, the Unit has succeeding in securing funding from the Fulbright
 Commission (Folwell), the National Endowment for the Humanities (Langley) and the Wellcome
 Trust (Langley, Reid). The Unit has also experienced success with a litany of other, small,
 funders in mainland UK.

 Internal Funding and Support

 All members of the UOA have access to internal research funding to facilitate the creation,
 progression, or completion of projects (individual or collaborative). Each year, this budget is set
 to around £5,000 which is distributed proportionally to each member of the Unit with a small pot
 of £1,000 side aside to allow colleagues to develop public-facing components of their research
 projects. Over the census period, around £40,000 has been made available to Newman’s
 historians in this manner, of which around £30,000 has been spent. The use of these funds must
 be explicitly tied to an activity or output that will contribute to the UOA’s REF2021 submission
 and has facilitated the purchase of print resources, attendance and organisation of conferences,
 the costs of reproducing copyrighted materials for publication, and the organisation of impact
 events.

 The wider institutional structure to support research has matured significantly since the last
 census, despite significant changes to the landscape of British HE. Seedcorn funding, distributed
 by competitive process, by the Faculty of Arts, Society and Professional Studies (FASPS) and its
 predecessor (the School of Arts and Humanities), has allowed for the purchase of equipment
 and research assistance (including the development of undergraduate and postgraduate student
 involvement in staff research projects). The Humanities Research Centre, established in 2013,
 also provides small funding particularly aimed at facilitating collaborations between graduate
 students.

 In addition to this, the University Research Committee offers a competitive scheme to support
 internal and external collaborations, particularly through the organisation of conferences. To help
 these funds go further, the University Facilities Team allows events taking place on Campus to
 waive any booking fees for rooms or equipment. This has allowed the UOA to host a wide range
 of local, national, and international conferences in the census period (outlined in Section 4). The
 CREST consortium of universities also provides funding for postgraduate conferences that cross
 university boundaries and foster collaboration between postgraduates across member
 institutions. Colleagues running events on campus receive support from the FASPS Faculty
 Office. This resulted in a conference booking workflow being created to reduce friction in the
 organisation of on-campus events.

 Impact

 The University implemented an Impact Working Group in 2019, where UOA coordinators and
 any colleagues working on an Impact Case Study were invited to share ideas and best practices.

 The Humanities Research Centre’s annual lecture was established in 2017 as a way to bring a
 prominent speaker to campus to speak to a wide audience on the benefits of humanities
 research. To date, Edward Bond, Caroline Lawrence, and Liz Berry have led the annual lecture

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and attracted new faces to the University. These speakers were chosen as a way to speak
 provocatively about often challenging topics.

 Facilities

 The History UOA, along with all other Humanities subjects, is based in Oxford Hall at the
 northern edge of the Newman University campus. Senior colleagues are allocated individual
 offices, while junior colleagues share one large office per two scholars. Individual work spaces
 and meeting rooms are located around Oxford Hall if colleagues desire a more private setting.
 Colleagues each have a networked PC and access to multifunction printing devices that are
 dotted around campus. Colleagues who prefer to use their own devices for research purposes
 benefit from improved WiFi installed in the building between 2015 and 2016.

 Postgraduate research students are given access to a 24/7 research room that is equidistant
 from their home UOAs and the University Library. The PGR Research Room contains hotdesks
 with networked PCs, dedicated printing facilities and a small kitchenette to facilitate interaction.

 The University Library holds printed and electronic resources. The UOA has invested in
 microfilm readers and specialist book stock in the University Library, augmenting the University’s
 small Local History Collection. Members of the UOA are given access to free inter library loans
 across the academic year and PGRs are also given a quota of free inter library loans to facilitate
 their research. Members of the Library team liaise closely with the University’s Graduate School
 to ensure compliance with open-access requirements.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Broadening Participation

 Originally a Catholic teacher training college, Newman University attained University status in
 2013 and maintains a strong reputation for student support and socially-oriented research. The
 University’s Catholic ethos underpins the strategic plan which seeks the advancement of
 research for the benefit of the public and is ‘dedicated to the construction of the common good,
 the transformation of its members’ lives and of the world they serve and engage with’. These
 ideas sit at the heart of much of the UOA’s research activity.

 In partnership with colleagues at the Library of Birmingham and Birmingham Archives and
 Collections, the UOA introduced the Chris Upton Memorial Lecture in 2016. Named in honour of
 Dr Chris Upton (1953-2015), a genuinely public historian, the Annual Lecture continues Dr
 Upton’s gift of communicating the past to audiences from a range of backgrounds and abilities.
 The lecture has been given by public historians and heritage leaders from across the region,
 including Sarah Hayes (Birmingham Conservation Trust), Professor Maggie Andrews
 (Worcester) and Professor Ewan Fernie (Shakespeare Institute, Birmingham).

 The University’s commitment to broadening the audience of its work has led the History UOA to
 contribute to the University Community Day in 2015, as well as the Humanities Research Centre
 annual lecture. The annual lecture brings a leading figure in arts, humanities, or politics to the
 area to discuss their work.

 This commitment to engaging a wide audience with our research permeates our areas of
 activity. Reid appeared on BBC television programme Who Do You Think You Are? in 2020,
 while PhD graduate, Dr Jonathan Atherton, appeared on an episode in the series in 2017. Reid
 is a regular contributor to BBC History Magazine. Langley has authored articles in History
 Scotland and All About History, appeared on the podcast Pax Britannica, as well as giving public
 masterclasses for the Scottish History Society in 2016 and 2017. The project Mapping the
 Scottish Reformation (Langley) contributes to discussions in the genealogical community,
 including the Scottish Indexes conference in 2020.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Networks

 Since the last REF census, the History UOA at Newman University has worked hard to ensure a
 larger and deeper footprint in research collaboration with partners outside the institution.

 Folwell’s Fulbright Fellowship allowed collaboration in research and teaching pedagogy with
 colleagues at Elon University, North Carolina. Harrisson is part of a network of scholars based
 in Germany assessing the reception of classical texts in modern literature, television, and film.
 This has led to the podcast ‘Creepy Classics’ which blends modern storytelling with a core of
 academic research into afterlife belief and memory. Langley is the Co-Director of ‘Mapping the
 Scottish Reformation’ a project funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities and the
 Strathmartine Trust, with colleagues in the United States, Canada, and the UK and regularly
 contributes to the project blog at www.mappingscottishreformation.org. The project website was
 developed in concert with the Interactive Content team at the University of Edinburgh.

 Contribution to Academy

 Members of the UOA frequently contribute to the larger knowledge economy. Colleagues’
 expertise is evidenced by the number of keynote lectures given by members of the UOA. Some
 particular highlights include Plack’s keynote lecture at the ‘Consumption’ conference at Edge Hill
 University in 2018, Reid’s opening lecture at the ERC-funded event ‘Care after the First World
 War’ conference in April 2018 and Langley’s plenary lecture at the Scottish Church History
 Conference in Edinburgh in 2017. The UOA has been further recognised by an array of invites to
 give research seminars across the UK and EU. Harrisson has given invited papers in Gottingen,
 Łodz and St Andrews. Langley in Aberdeen, Birmingham, Edinburgh, Leicester, and St Andrews.

 The Unit has hosted or funded a large number of conferences during the census period that
 reflect the Unit’s breadth of expertise and are particularly aimed at building capacity in the UOAs
 three core areas of expertise. All of these events have involved collaboration with colleagues
 from outside of the institution. Harrisson organised the ‘Imagining the Afterlife in the Classical
 World’ conference with colleagues at University of Birmingham in 2016 while Langley and
 emeritus fellow Rowlands organised the ‘Building the Fortress: Catholics in provincial towns,
 1778-1840’ conference in 2018 with colleagues at Oscott College, Birmingham.

 The Unit also partly funded collaborations that have bred external conferences such as the
 ‘Clergy in Early Modern Scotland’ conference at New College, University of Edinburgh in 2017
 and the ‘Old Corruption to New Corruption’ symposium at Oxford Brookes University in 2019.
 This is in addition to the Unit hosting the Ecclesiastical History Society Postgraduate Colloquium
 with colleagues from Theology in 2018 and the European Reformation Research Group
 colloquium in 2019.

 The increasing reach of the UOA’s work is underlined by colleagues’ increasing presence at
 academic conferences and symposia. Since 2014, staff in the UOA have presented research
 papers at over 50 conferences in the UK and further afield.

 Editorial and Professional Roles

 Since the last census in 2014, members of the UOA have considerably increased their profile
 and involvement with scholarly societies and publications. Harrisson is lead editor of the
 interdisciplinary Journal of Historical Fictions. Colleagues have important roles in national and
 international scholarly organisations. Langley sits on the Ecclesiastical History Society board
 and holds the role of Publicity Secretary for the Society. Plack was a Trustee for the Society for
 the Study of French History and the Secretary-Treasurer for the Alcohol and Drugs History
 Society. Since 2015, the University Research Committee agreed to supplement the cost of
 membership to scholarly and professional societies for across the institution. Colleagues in


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History have benefitted from this generosity and are active members of various learned
 societies.

 Members of the unit frequently contribute peer reviews to leading journals in the field including:
 French Historical Studies, Medicine, Conflict & Survival, Scottish Historical Review, Studies in
 Church History, and Women’s History Network. Colleagues have also contributed peer review
 expertise to a range of other journals, including Bulletin of the John Rylands Library, and Journal
 of the North Atlantic. And colleagues contribute to the wider academy by publishing book
 reviews for leading journals in the field including English Historical Review, Journal of American
 Studies, Scottish Historical Review, and The Classical Review,

 Colleagues in the unit have also reviewed monograph proposals for University of California
 Press, Edinburgh University Press, Manchester University Press, and Oxford University Press,
 as well as commercial publishers like Peter Lang and Routledge.

 Prizes, Honours and Recognition

 The Unit’s exposure has broadened considerably since the last census period. Newman’s
 History team is one of the only places in the country where all colleagues have earned election
 to Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.

 Members of the Unit have been invited to hold visiting fellowships at a range of institutions --
 reflecting the increasing profile of the Unit. Folwell was Fulbright Scholar at Elon University,
 North Carolina, in 2019 and Langley was visiting research fellow at the University of St Andrews
 in 2014 and the Institute of Advanced Study in the Humanities at the University of Edinburgh in
 2018. Langley’s work in digital humanities in the project Mapping the Scottish Reformation was
 shortlisted for one of the 2020 Digital Humanities Awards.




                                                                                              Page 9
