Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 17: Business and Management Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context

       Within the wider Business and Management Unit of Assessment, we are a distinctive
       school organised around focused intellectual themes and grounded in the social
       sciences. Founded in 2004, the School of Management has a long-established
       overarching theme of Responsible Enterprise, which reflects our research interests,
       values, practices and ambitions. Responsible Enterprise encompasses a critical and
       ethical analysis of entities at all levels (individuals, organisations, markets and
       societies) as well as the underlying financial and governance mechanisms that enable
       and constrain them, and the knowledge and practices through which they are
       constituted. This ethos is also reflected in the non-hierarchical, collaborative and
       inclusive research structure and organisation of the School. We nurture research
       talent within our thematic group and research centre structure (outlined below). This
       has fostered a vibrant and highly motivated community of scholars focused on
       producing high quality research and engagement with policy and practice, which has
       impact in local, national and international contexts. Operating on a small scale (with
       less than 35 Category A staff) with a flat structure organised across thematic groups
       allows us to adapt quickly to changing circumstances and emergent research
       challenges arising from large-scale exogenous events such as Brexit and Covid-19.
       Our research activities and achievements occur within the context of consistently
       strong performance across the main league table rankings. The School currently
       remains ranked 1 in the UK for business and management in the Times and Sunday
       Times Good University Guide and the Complete University Guide 2021; and 2 in the
       Guardian University Guide.


 Structure

       Staff have expertise in a wide range of subject disciplines, including accounting,
       business and management, economics, finance, philosophy, psychology and
       sociology, with many spanning multiple areas of study. In conjunction with our
       thematic group structure, this breadth of expertise fosters inter- and multi-disciplinary
       perspectives. By building research synergies within and across groups, members of
       the School tackle significant societal challenges such as: climate change and
       sustainability; privacy; and equality and inclusion among others (See Figure 1). These
       inter- and multi-disciplinary perspectives enable the School to engage with a wide
       range of external practitioner and policymaking communities.

       The core of our approach is to combine the benefits of an internally-oriented,
       collaborative and generative thematic group structure, with externally-oriented and
       engaged research centres and institutes. This research architecture drives and
       supports our strategic objectives of: excellent scholarship in our dedicated areas of
       expertise and reputation; leveraging wider collaborative external grant opportunities;
       research activities and outputs that centre around Responsible Enterprise; and
       knowledge engagement with external stakeholders. This is evidenced by research
       activity that is of benefit to wider society.




                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Our thematic groups are designed as inclusive fora for intellectual exchanges that
      bring together academics, PhD students and visiting scholars across a variety of
      subject disciplines and at all career stages. This empowers members of any given
      group to generate and exchange ideas in order to produce research that both
      advances the theoretical and empirical frontiers of academic research and impacts on
      societal issues. The four thematic groups comprise: Accounting, Governance &
      Organisations (AGOG); Financial Institutions & Markets (FIM); Knowledge & Practice
      (K&P); and Organisations & Society (O&S).


         AGOG focuses on the mechanisms of governance in organisations, including
         accounting practices, regulatory assemblages, markets and other
         organisational arrangements.

         The FIM Group produces research on: competition, risk and performance of
         financial institutions (with a particular focus on financial cooperatives); access
         to finance in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); and responsible
         finance and investment.

         The K & P Group investigates the relationship between knowledge and practice
         across the private, public and third sectors. It explores the development of
         different ways of ‘knowing’ and how this influences, and is influenced by actions
         and routines of individuals, groups and organisations.

         The O & S Group researches the role of organisations in shaping society. It
         examines this from a range of mainstream and critical perspectives from the
         micro-level of behaviour and inter-personal relations to the macro-level of
         institutions and societies.


      Each thematic group is led by joint co-ordinators, who convene meetings to discuss
      and develop research, share publishing strategies, encourage grant applications and
      support career development. An important feature of the group structure is that staff
      and PhD students can contribute to multiple thematic groups. Boundary-spanning
      engagement allows research collaborations to take place across thematic groups.
      Members of the thematic groups also engage with the School’s outward-facing
      research centres. The following centres and institutes are where much of the research
      carried out within thematic groups is showcased via engagement with academic,
      policy and practitioner networks:




      Centre for Responsible Banking & Finance (CRBF) directed by Wilson,
      investigates challenges facing (shareholder-owned and cooperative) financial
      institutions, corporates and SMEs. A particular feature of the centre is its orientation
      toward empirical research on corporate governance, social and trust issues for
      financial and non-financial firms. Recent centre outputs include the second and third
      editions of the Oxford Handbook of Banking (co-editor Wilson), and Mapping the
      Responsible Investing Landscape in Scotland, 2020.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




      Centre for Research into Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (CREDI) directed by
      Bratanova and Woodfield, focuses on equality, diversity and inclusion issues. The
      Centre provides a context in which research adopting an intersectional approach can
      take place, and within which cross-disciplinary collaborations can be developed.
      Notable outputs include Undergraduate Attainment and Retention across Disciplines,
      Higher Education Academy, 2014 (Woodfield).




      Centre for Research into Information, Surveillance & Privacy (CRISP) directed
      by Ball, is a collaborative initiative with the University of Stirling’s Management School,
      the University of Edinburgh’s School of Social and Political Sciences and School of
      Law and the University of Essex. The Centre explores dimensions of the surveillance
      society and its consequences. CRISP also incorporates the Scottish Privacy Forum,
      a group of Scottish privacy, data protection and information professionals. Recent
      Centre outputs include the Surveillance and Democracy in Europe, Routledge, 2018
      (co-authored Ball).




      Centre of Social and Environmental Accounting Research (CSEAR) directed by
      Ferguson and Russell, is an international membership-based network that aims to
      mobilise accounting scholarship to enable a more sustainable society. The Centre
      engages with students, activists, practitioners, policy makers and other stakeholders
      to generate and disseminate knowledge on social and environmental accounting and
      accountability.




      Centre for the Study of Philanthropy & Public Good (CSPPG) directed by Jung,
      focuses on strengthening, enhancing and challenging theory, practice and policy
      relating to philanthropy and its relationship to public good, with a special emphasis on
      the socio-political roles and historic-cultural expressions of philanthropic foundations
      and grant making trusts. Recent Centre outputs include the Routledge Companion to
      Philanthropy, 2016 (co-editor Jung).




      Institute for Capitalizing on Creativity (ICC), directed by Chillas, analyses the
      foundations that support a sustainable Creative Industries sector in the UK and
      beyond. The institute develops national and international links with social science
      researchers to access comparative and global perspectives on creative industries.
      Recent outputs include Creating economy: Enterprise, Intellectual Property and the
      Valuation of Goods, Oxford University Press, 2019 (Roscoe and Townley).



                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Research Unit for Research Utilisation (RURU), directed by Davies and Ward, is a
       cross-university research collaboration that investigates the use of social science
       research in public policy and service delivery settings. Recent publications include
       What Works Now? Evidence-Informed Policy & Practice Policy, Policy Press, 2019
       (Davies and Nutley).

 Figure 1 provides a detailed schematic of our: overarching research theme of responsible
 enterprise; thematic groups; and research centres and institutes.

                               Figure 1: Research Organisation




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Strategy

      The School’s research strategy is underpinned by a commitment to Responsible
      Enterprise and engages with the University’s social responsibility mission and
      strategic goals of global, diverse, world-leading and entrepreneurial St Andrews and
      our interdisciplinary research priority areas (equalities research; sustainability;
      wellbeing; and public policy issues pertaining to SMEs). Our strategy remains
      responsive to emergent research themes and staff changes, resulting in research
      organisation having evolved since the last REF. Since 2014, staff changes (arrivals,
      exits to other institutions, retirals) provided an opportunity to re-focus an Ethics,
      Sustainability and Accountability thematic group into Accounting, Governance &
      Organisations, and the consolidation of a Creative Industries thematic group into the
      Institute for Capitalising on Creativity. The School founded the Centre for the Study of
      Philanthropy & Public Good in 2016, and the Centre for Research into Equality,
      Diversity & Inclusion in 2018. With the arrival of Ball, the School incorporated the
      Centre for Research into Information, Surveillance & Privacy in 2015. Such changes
      were enacted following consultation and guidance from the School’s Research &
      Development Committee and Management Group (discussed below).

      The School’s Management Group (MG) is responsible for developing and reflecting
      on research strategy. Research is a standing agenda item for the fortnightly meetings
      of the MG, which includes the Director of Research (Wilson) and Deputy Head of
      School with strategic responsibility for research development (Baluch) as members.
      The MG facilitates the productive operation of the thematic groups, and ensures that
      individuals and groups of researchers are able to flourish. The School also has a
      Research & Development Committee (RDC), chaired by the Deputy Head of School,
      (Research). This meets at least ten times per academic year. The membership of this
      group comprises the: Director of Research, Deputy Head of School (Research),
      Director of Impact, Research Ethics Officer, Director of Equality, Diversity and
      Inclusion (EDI), Director of Postgraduate Research, along with representative leads
      from thematic groups, research centres and institutes. RDC supports and monitors
      research activities, including allocating budgets to thematic groups for seminars,
      workshops, writing retreats, mentoring and other group-level research activities. Its
      remit also comprises: arranging School-level mentoring and other training and
      developmental activities; overseeing the appointment, inclusion and integration of
      visiting academics; guiding doctoral recruitment; overseeing the management of
      research-related costs; and regularly auditing the School’s research-related
      achievements. Administrative support is provided by the School Manager (Balfour)
      and a dedicated full-time administrator (Letham).

      In implementing research strategy, the School takes advantage of the fact that it is
      relatively small and managed flexibly, enabling it to respond quickly and effectively to
      the need for research support. This includes: funds to pump prime nascent research
      projects and collaborations; peer-to-peer support for research activities such as grant
      applications, manuscript development and review; and teaching relief. This flexible
      approach allows for timely research related to significant domestic and international
      developments (e.g. Brexit and UK SMEs; Covid-19 and household spending; Covid-
      19 and behavioural compliance; changing political governance in Scotland during
      Covid-19; and research culture in the context of Covid-19).
      The School’s response to Covid-19 illustrates capacity for external engagement and
      impactful research. This includes: providing responses to Scottish, Welsh and UK
      government and parliamentary consultations (Scottish Government’s Enquiry on
      Economic Recovery; UK Parliament – Coronavirus and Scotland); refereed
      publications (financing uncertainty and the impact of Covid-19 on SMEs; consumer
      spending responses to the pandemic); instituting a Covid-19 related pump-priming

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      fund to support research on prejudice in Scotland following the lockdown; and external
      funding awards (including a UKRI funding on group processes relating to Covid-19)
      as well as an editorial essay on Covid-19 (in Academy of Management Learning &
      Education).
      The School actively promotes research activity. We hold regular development
      seminars on grant seeking and impact, and use the formal University Annual Review
      and Development (ARD) process and periodic research check-in meetings for staff to
      discuss research plans, achievements and support requirements. Staff can access a
      School (and a University fund) to help undertake impact-related activities. We also
      communicate our research findings via: electronic and social media; regular
      engagement with policymakers and practitioners; outreach and training events; and
      participatory research collaborations within and beyond the University. In 2015, we
      re-formed our Advisory Council, which comprises the Head of School, Deputy Heads
      of School, Director of Research, and Director of Teaching and a group of influential
      and well-connected organisational leaders across the private, public and third sectors.
      Members are appointed based on experience in key progressive organisations, but
      serve in an individual capacity. This council has: provided invaluable advice on the
      development of the School’s strategy and activities; facilitated engagement with
      internal and external stakeholders; contributed toward research collaborations, grant
      applications and research impact; and promoted the School’s vision of Responsible
      Enterprise both domestically and internationally.

      In addition to a substantive University support architecture (see Institution-Level
      Environment Statement, ILES, 2.3), the School has made funds available to thematic
      groups and research centres to support research initiatives. These range from
      seminars within relevant policy and practitioner communities to hosting international
      conferences and workshops. In recent years, this funding has supported the: St
      Andrews Conference on Corporate Agency and Shared Responsibility (2015);
      Contemporary Issues in Banking Conference (2015, 2017, 2019); International
      Congress on Social and Environmental Accounting Research (2014 -
      2019); Research in Management Learning and Education Conference (2018);
      Scottish Privacy Forum (2019); and Re-thinking Female Entrepreneurship
      Conference (2020).


 Impact Strategy

      We aim to produce research that is of benefit to society. The outcomes of our research
      have significant influence on multiple stakeholders including: policymakers (European
      Commission, Oireachtas Éireann, Scottish and UK Houses of Parliament);
      international organisations (OECD, World Bank); regulatory authorities (Bank of
      England, Financial Conduct Authority); public sector organisations (universities, NHS,
      Scottish Government, Local Authorities) as well as direct engagement with
      commercial enterprises and the third sector. Our impact agenda builds upon prior
      successes (e.g. in 2014, the REF panel noted that our impact strategy was conducive
      to creating impacts of outstanding quality, particularly in research policy and financial
      regulation).

      In order to support our impact agenda, we have a Director of Impact (Ward) and a
      Deputy Head of School with strategic responsibility for research development
      (Baluch). These individuals have an extensive record of accomplishment in
      knowledge exchange, policy advice and external research funding. Our impact
      strategy further benefits from input from the Research Unit for Research Utilisation
      (RURU), which specialises in understanding and improving research use in public
      policy and practice. We also draw upon the expertise of the authors of the REF 2014



                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      case studies (Davies, Wilson), honorary staff (Coupland, Vince) and prior REF panel
      members.

      Our activities are grounded in policy and practice and provide the basis for our impact
      strategy and resultant impact case studies included in our current submission.
      Ensuring sustained engagement with potential beneficiaries of research interventions,
      our approach entails developing research ideas in close collaboration with research
      end-users to help maximise opportunities for impact. The School has expertise in
      research mobilisation (Davies, Ward) and Action Research (Chillas, Hibbert).

      Impact is developed through externally funded research projects for multiple
      stakeholders including governmental, policy and practitioner organisations. The
      School incentivises staff to develop impactful projects by allowing them to retain funds
      from consultancy activities for future research activities. Furthermore, we encourage
      staff to explore the potential for impact opportunities through PhD funding and
      supervision opportunities. We have been pro-active in securing collaborative PhD
      studentships with partners across the private, public and non-profit sectors (Bates
      Wells Braithwaite London LLP; Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland; Rank
      Foundation).

      The three impact case studies included in the current submission demonstrate how
      robust quantitative and qualitative research conducted in a well-resourced, collegiate
      and supportive environment can inform organisational and policy thinking, leading
      ultimately to positive changes in the external environment. Our three case studies
      comprise: Enhancing Research Use, Influence and Impact in Policy & Practice;
      Growth Challenges Confronting SMEs; and Structural and Regulatory Change in the
      Irish Credit Union Sector. Two of the impact case studies illustrate influence on the
      design of public policies both domestically and internationally, while the other
      illustrates influence on various practitioner communities.

      Brown’s funded research on SMEs has a significant influence on various policy
      communities. In the UK, Brown’s work on access to finance in SMEs has influenced
      organisations such as the British Business Bank and recently launched Scottish
      National Investment Bank.

      The case study by Davies and Nutley demonstrates the influence that the Research
      Unit for Research Utilisation (RURU) has regarding more effective research policy,
      public policy-making and public service delivery. RURU’s scholarship on better
      research use in public policy and practice has directly influenced the thinking,
      strategies and practices of policymakers, research funders and research
      intermediaries across sectors (healthcare, social care, education) in various countries
      (UK, USA and Australia).

      Research on financial cooperatives by Wilson has influenced public policy in Ireland,
      stemming from his role as a full member of the Irish Credit Union Commission and its
      generation of primary legislation (Credit Union and Co-operation with Overseas
      Regulators Act). Subsequent changes to regulation and supervision and industry
      restructuring from 2013 to the present day were influenced by Wilson’s research on
      credit unions.


 Going Forward

      Since 2014, we have built upon existing research strengths and successes to produce
      an extensive array of publication, engagement and impact activities, while continuing
      to adapt and respond to changing contexts. Thematic groups and research centres
      remain significant drivers of our strategy and focus for future investment. Our future

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      strategic direction entails continuing to produce high quality research that
      encompasses our Responsible Enterprise ethos and critically addresses the evolving
      challenges facing organisations, institutions, and behaviours at individual,
      organisational, societal, and global levels (such as equalities and inclusion,
      sustainability, growth, and accountability across financial, health, environmental,
      creative, public, philanthropic and third sectors).

      The School’s MG and RDC drive activities toward emergent research themes,
      developing collaborative ventures and external research synergies that capitalise on
      the international reputation of our research centres, and orienting future research
      across disciplinary boundaries. We periodically review the alignment of research
      centres and thematic groupings to ensure their development reflects the School’s
      research expertise and allows for cross-fertilisation of ideas and collaborations. We
      will continue to provide all colleagues with the resources, training and mentoring in
      order to improve research output performance and widen our engagement, outreach
      and impact. Moreover, we aim to further expand our cohort of PGR students and
      enhance existing international exchanges with world leading elite universities
      including our University of California, Berkeley exchange programme.

      In advancing research activities focused on addressing many of the major societal
      challenges, the School will move to a larger site (Madras College) in the centre of St
      Andrews in the next five years. This significant investment will bring together the
      Schools of Economics and Finance, Management, and International Relations to form
      a hub for social sciences. Co-locating three Schools on one physical site will enable
      further integration of existing research and foster multi-disciplinary collaborations
      across distinctive research clusters (such as business and human rights; equality and
      wealth; political, organisational and economic theory; governance, communities and
      civil society).


 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy

      The School is home to a community of scholars from countries around the world.
      Approximately 70% of our faculty and 50% of Category A staff are from non-UK
      countries including: Australia [1], Bulgaria [2], Canada [1], China [3], Cyprus [1], Egypt
      [1] France [2], Germany [1], Greece [1], Netherlands [1], Tunisia [1], Turkey [1], United
      States [1], and Vietnam [1]. The School has 33.5 Category A staff comprising (14
      lecturers [5F, 9M], 7 senior lecturers [6F, 1M], 2 readers [1F, 1M] and 10.5 professors
      [3F, 7.5M]). During the REF census period we have made several senior
      appointments, including Ball, Ferguson and MacKay as Professors following the
      departure of Bebbington (to Birmingham) and the retirals of Gray, Nutley and Townley.

      The quality of our staff is crucial to producing excellent research and impact in a
      collegial environment. Appointments of outstanding researchers (with a track record
      of publishing in world leading academic journals, and high-level policy and practice
      engagement) are made in order to maintain a critical mass within our thematic groups
      and research centres, while ensuring that emergent areas of expertise are nurtured
      and supported. The School recruits from around the world via targeted advertising
      aligned to its strategic aims. New faculty are appointed based on the quality of
      scholarship and research impact as well as fit with both specific thematic priorities and
      the School’s overarching theme of Responsible Enterprise.

      In addition to achieving international diversity in faculty, the School appoints at various
      levels of seniority. Professors are appointed (based upon international reputations in
      cognate research areas) to augment and complement our research priorities, and to
                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      provide leadership and mentorship to junior staff. The REF 2014 sub-panel noted the
      inclusivity of our submission evidenced by the high proportion of ECRs. Since 2014,
      we have continued the strategy of recruiting many early career staff and supporting
      these academics through to maturity as confident and accomplished researchers.
      Consequently, some 42% of our Category A staff are ECRs.

      Recruitment of Category A staff is augmented and complemented by honorary faculty.
      Our honorary faculty contribute to the vibrant research culture and foster opportunities
      for external collaborations, knowledge engagement, research funding, PhD
      supervision, and research impact. These include Linares Zegarra (University of
      Essex); Coupland (Loughborough University); Vince (University of Bath) and Kalafsky
      (University of Tennessee) among others.


 Staff Development

      Our staffing strategy for the next five years aims to further strengthen the quality of
      our research in thematic groups and research centres by: investing in new staff with
      existing international reputations; recruiting early career researchers and nurturing
      them to develop international reputations; continuing to support staff development
      across all levels through funding, research leave and mentoring; and increasing the
      number and diversity of our visiting faculty. With the planned move to a new site that
      co-locates the School of Management with the Schools of Economics and
      International Relations, our goals remain focused on the pursuit of research impact
      and excellence.

      Staff development is critical to sustaining and enhancing our research environment.
      All staff participate in the annual review and development process (ARD), which is
      conducted by the Head of School and dedicated senior staff. The ARD is designed to
      help staff: develop a clear understanding of their role; reflect on their career
      progression; discuss any challenges and necessary support; identify future goals and
      priorities; and discuss promotion aspirations. During the census period internal
      promotions include: Baluch, Bratanova, Chillas, Chronopoulos, Myrseth (now a
      Professor at the University of York), Russell from lecturer to senior lecturer; Roscoe
      from lecturer to reader; Brown from lecturer to reader then Professor; Jung from senior
      lecturer to reader then Professor; Stevenson and Woodfield from reader to Professor.
      Moreover, three senior Professors have played significant roles at University Level
      during the census period as Dean of Arts and Vice-Principal Education (Hibbert),
      Senior Vice-Principal and Vice-Principal for International Strategy and External
      Relations (MacKay), and Assistant Vice-Principal Diversity (Woodfield).

      The School (and University) is committed to implementing key principles of the
      Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the promotion of
      diversity and equality practices. The success of the School in this regard is evidenced
      by Athena SWAN accreditation (see below) at the School level, and a European
      Commission HR Excellence in Research Award (at University level). We also actively
      promote our Stonewall membership and LGBT Charter Mark.

      Mentorship is the mechanism through which the School’s commitment to staff
      development is operationalised. Mentorship occurs informally within thematic groups,
      and formally through the School’s Mentoring Programme. New staff are matched with
      a dedicated mentor to offer development support and advice. Informal mentoring also
      occurs between senior (including honorary) and junior staff. Experienced staff provide
      colleagues with article and grant writing support. Senior staff also provide junior
      colleagues with opportunities for research collaboration, co-supervision of PhDs, and
      inclusion in professional networks and learned societies. Formalised mentoring for


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      promotion takes place, with appointed mentoring leads and senior staff meeting
      applicants to offer guidance on applications.

      The School participates in the University’s Elizabeth Garrett Mentoring Programme,
      which supports women in or aspiring to academic leadership roles. Participants
      include Chillas and Russell, and programme designers and mentors include Hibbert,
      Scholtens and Woodfield. Moreover, the School funds staff participation in the Aurora
      mentorship programme (Stevenson, Summers). The University also operates a cross-
      institutional mentoring scheme through collaboration between the Universities of St
      Andrews and Dundee. This scheme pairs experienced academics (Mentors) with
      colleagues at an earlier career stage (mentees) in order to provide guidance and
      structured support. With the University, the School also supports BAME staff and
      PhDs on the national AHE BAME Leadership programme (Dean, Hinds).

      In order to support participation at national and international conferences, staff are
      allocated an annual research budget of £2500. Additional sums for collaborative work
      and high-level workshop / conference attendance are available, with preference given
      to ECRs. Staff have accessed the University’s Caring Fund to pay for childcare to
      enablet research training and conference attendance. We further support research
      and impact research leave applications in line with University policy (one semester
      leave per four years of service). Staff are encouraged to use this leave to develop and
      / or augment existing research collaborations. In 2016, the School’s policy for
      research leave was revised to incorporate a commitment to gender equality and staff
      returning from a period of absence. This was designed to encourage applications for
      one semester of research leave for those returning from maternity leave, parental
      leave or long-term sickness (exceeding three months). Research and impact leave
      are monitored to ensure gender equality.

      Staff satisfaction is monitored via regular staff surveys and appropriate action is taken
      to address issues raised. The 2020 staff survey indicated that 93% of staff felt the
      School created a supportive environment in which to work. 82% of staff indicated the
      School was supportive of periods of leave. 78% felt encouraged to undertake training
      and 63% reported optimism regarding career progression. Following the onset and
      spread of Covid-19 in 2020, the School supported staff and facilitated engagement of
      ECRs and staff with caring responsibilities by: providing pedagogical support in the
      transition to online delivery of teaching to protect time for research; instituting the
      Covid pump-priming bid fund; convening a series of virtual research-related thematic
      group events (aimed at identifying collaborative grant opportunities and manuscript
      development); offering targeted PhD and ECR development sessions (on conducting
      field research during a pandemic, writing retreats, as well as training on virtual PhD
      supervision and examination). The AHRC funded InGame consortium of which ICC
      plays a prominent role (discussed below) conducted a risk review of all activities soon
      after lockdown with a focus on the impact on the partner institutions and the nine R&D
      fellows. This review was designed to inform the strategic management of the project
      toward timely completion. Figure 2 summarises how School and University support
      structures and staff development initiatives underpin activities and outputs




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                    Figure 2 Support Structures and Research Outcomes


 Equality and Diversity

      Aligned with the University’s strategic pillar ‘Diverse St Andrews’, the School is
      committed to Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) across all (staff and student)
      recruitment, teaching, training, research, outreach and engagement activities. The
      strong commitment to EDI is reflected in our Responsible Enterprise ethos, a gender-
      balanced leadership structure, a collegial culture where all staff have voice, and an
      inclusive and diverse working environment for staff, students and visitors. In 2017
      (under the leadership of Woodfield), the School received a Bronze Athena SWAN
      charter award (3rd Management School in the UK to achieve this award). The
      University renewed its Bronze award in 2018 under the leadership of a School of
      Management professor (Hibbert).

      Our enactment of equality includes practical measures such as: a transparent and
      equitable workload model, ensuring comparable time for research at all levels; and a
      core hours policy (10am to 4pm) for all research-related meetings in order to facilitate
      engagement by staff with caring responsibilities. Principles of fairness and
      transparency are central to our culture, as reflected by EDI as a standing item at
      Management Group and RDC meetings. Our engagement with EDI principles also
      covers output assessment. This involves independent reading by a mixed-gender pool
      of internal assessors, in conjunction with moderation by a pool of mixed-gender
      external assessors during an extensive calibration exercise, after which internal and
      external experts independently grade outputs. Equalities and unconscious bias
      awareness training is provided to all of those involved in the assessment process.

      In accordance with the University’s Code of Practice, individuals submitting to
      REF2021 are invited to declare individual circumstances that may lead to a reduction
      in research productivity. Decisions on individual circumstances were taken by the
      University’s Institutional REF Equality & Diversity group. All such applications are
      confidential with Heads of School and Director of Research only receiving notice of
      individual reductions, which were then communicated and discussed in relation to final
      optimal submissions for individuals concerned. These discussions were held in a

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      meeting with a mixed-gender pair of interviewees including Head of School, Director
      of Research, a member of the School’s professoriate and Director of EDI. The
      distribution of our research outputs profile is relatively proportionate to the gender
      composition of the School, and reflects the expected distribution of outputs in relation
      to career stage and periods of research and impact leave, as well as any periods of
      career interruption (arising from maternity leave or sickness).


 Research Students

      During the REF census period, 63 students embarked on doctoral research, 30
      completing to date. The research-intensive community in the School is enriched by a
      diverse cohort of 29 students (2/3 female, 1/3 male; both part and full-time students)
      emanating from 14 countries across the globe. To address issues of access,
      representation and equality for PGRs, PGR representatives are involved in the
      School’s EDI Committee, and PGRs help shape the Athena SWAN actions through
      focus group participation.

      Our Director of PGR (Russell 2020- present; Baluch 2017-2020; Roscoe 2014-2017)
      oversees the Doctoral programme (recruitment; annual reviews; organising and
      delivering training and development; supporting supervisors; and engaging with the
      ESRC/ Scottish Graduate School of Social Science’s (SGSSS) Doctoral Training
      Partnership). The Director of PGR represents the ‘Accounting, Finance, Business and
      Management’ pathway and two former conveners of SGSSS pathways are based in
      the School: Roscoe - Business and Management Pathway, and Ferguson -
      Accounting and Finance Pathway. The School contributes dedicated training courses
      to this initiative and has hosted the SGSSS ‘Business & Management’ Colloquium in
      March 2017. The programme benefits from the School’s own PGR administrator
      (Letham).

      PhD students have access to a wide range of training and development courses and
      submit a Training Needs Analysis each year. Moreover, in order to ensure high quality
      supervision, staff undergo / renew supervisory skills training every five years. The
      University (ILES, 3.3) provides PGR training opportunities through the Centre for
      Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED) and Organisational and Staff
      Development Services (OSDS), St Leonard’s Postgraduate College, and GRADskills
      (a comprehensive training programme supporting their academic, professional and
      personal development). The University also offers Masters-level research modules
      across the social sciences (accredited by the ESRC for one-plus-three awards). PhDs
      further benefit from participation and funding in the SGSSS’ ‘Economies, Mind and
      Technology’ Hub Festivals and Summer School. Several of our students have
      secured competitive SGSSS internships with the Scottish Government.

      In 2018 we introduced an annual PhD exchange scheme (led by Orr) with the
      University of California, Berkeley (at the Institute for European Studies, IES). The
      School offers funding up to £3000 per PhD student to support exchange visits to
      engage with Berkeley’s academic community. Since 2019, we have sent two PhD
      students from the School and hosted 2 IES students (a further two students are
      scheduled to go to Berkeley as travel restrictions are lifted). Moreover, one of our
      students participated in the highly competitive Europaeum Scholarship programme
      funded by a scholarship worth €20,000. The School has also hosted international PhD
      students from a variety of international institutions (including RWTH Aachen
      University; University of Bergamo; Universidad de Navarra).

      In addition to the University’s provision for PGRs, the School offers its own
      programme of methods, teaching and development workshops for PhD students.
      These sessions include: epistemology and data analysis; diverse pathways into

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      academia with current ECRs and recent PhD graduates working in academia; post-
      doctoral grant writing; informal sessions with senior academic staff, such as managing
      an academic career, publishing, preparing and participating in viva-voce, and
      international collaborations. To provide career development for our PhD students, we
      host Higher Education Academy Associate Fellowship Scheme workshops, and
      provide the opportunity to guest lecture and co-facilitate module sessions.

      We provide a stimulating, collegial and developmental research environment for PhD
      students. In addition to supervision meetings and a range of School-wide seminars
      and events, we provide informal access to supervisory expertise via colleagues in
      various thematic groups and research centres. As active participants in the research
      community, PhD students are members of thematic groups and engage with staff,
      other PhDs and visiting scholars in regular research meetings, seminars, reading
      groups, and writing workshops. In addition, PhD students organise specific sessions
      around developing research and transferrable skills. The School also offers financial
      support for fieldwork, research workshops and international conferences.

      Our strategy is to grow the PGR cohort in line with academic staff numbers by
      attracting high quality applicants. The School has been successful in securing
      competitive ESRC and University of St Andrews PGR studentships. Since 2014, we
      have gained five competitive ESRC funded studentships. Three of these were
      collaborative three year, or one-plus-three, studentships (awarded by the Scottish
      Government, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, ICAS and Bates Wells
      Braithwaite) and two open competition studentships. In addition, five of our students
      have held Chinese Scholarship Council Scheme studentships and three University St
      Leonard’s College interdisciplinary scholarships.

      Academic staff have been successful in gaining fully and co-funded studentships
      through various public and third sector bodies (e.g. Social Sciences and Humanities
      Research Council of Canada (SSHRC), Scottish Improvement Science Collaborating
      Centre (SISCC); Scottish Government Hydro Nation Scholars Programme; The Rank
      Foundation; The Malaysian Government; and the Central Bank of Botswana). Over
      the period of 2014-2020, the School has funded six of its own competitive full
      studentships (fees plus maintenance) and one partial studentship (fee waivers).
      Further initiatives in the School include annual informational sessions for final year
      UG students and Masters students about applying for a PhD and studentships,
      alongside feedback for developing students’ ESRC applications.

      The strength of our PhD strategy is also evidenced by appointments to permanent
      positions following PhD completion, some of are already promoted to senior posts, along
      with those who hold academic posts elsewhere (Bain, Manchester University; Johari,
      Universiti Utara Malaysia; Kampanelis, Cardiff University; Majeed, Hawaii Pacific
      University; Patrick, Napier University; Pauley, University of Prince Edward Island; Oniga
      and Pustelnikovaite, Abertay University; Tooman, University of Dundee). PhD graduates
      have also entered public and private sector professions in organisations such as NHS
      Scotland (Craig) and Google (Mueller; Grahle).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income

      Our strategy for generating research income entails targeted support toward grant-
      seeking workshops; building on mentorship arrangements in the School; investing in
      internal seed-money competitions with an emphasis on ECRs; and identifying and
      targeting major external schemes as part of larger research consortia. The School’s
      organisational infrastructure promotes engagement with relevant communities by
      providing pump-priming funds to connect scholars to research end-users. This pump
      priming research fund supports the development of research projects on new and
                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      innovative topics that have the potential to attract external funding and/or lead to
      published outputs in leading journals. The fund is administered by the School’s RDC.
      This initiative sows seeds for successful impact as early as possible by pursuing grant
      opportunities that allow for collaborations with practice, industry and policy partners.
      In the current REF census period 37 awards have been made to staff to help
      undertake these types of activities. The School has also supported the acquisition of
      Gender, Diversity and Inclusion research funding through providing matched funding
      for University grants (three since 2017). It further provides office facilities and in-kind
      contributions (e.g. supplemental conference funding; access to data and IT resources)
      for hosting post-doctoral researchers funded via cross-HEI research bids (Rocha) and
      through the sponsorship of research fellowships (Remnant).

      In order to maximise access to research funding, we capitalise on the visibility and
      reputation of our research centres and participate in wider research collaborations.
      Annual research grant income flowing to the School for the REF period averages at
      £7,537 per researcher entered in the submission.

      Funding acquisition is supported by the integrated services of the University’s:
      Finance Department; Research Business Development and Contracts (RBDC) unit;
      and Finance Advice and Support (FAS) office. RBDC assists staff in finding funding
      for research ideas and completing funding applications through a variety of
      mechanisms (including individual meetings with subject RBDC experts, monthly
      School-specific funding opportunity newsletters; cross-disciplinary research
      collaboration seminars). It also has a dedicated business development manager for
      European funding opportunities. FAS provides costings for all research applications
      and assistance with completing online submissions as well as grant and contract
      administration (ILES, 4.1).

      Staff have been successful in obtaining funding from a wide range of funders including
      research councils (ESRC, AHRC, HERA, Humanities in the European Research Area,
      UKRI), government (Department of Business Energy Innovation and Skills) and
      international bodies such as EU and the OECD, professional associations (Institute
      of Chartered Accountants, Scotland; Ethical Finance Hub), third sector organisations
      (Rank Foundation; Coalition of Care and Support Providers), charitable trusts
      (Carnegie Trust, British Academy / Leverhulme, Nuffield), and the private sector
      (Triodos Bank, Rabobank, ING, ABN Amro). Staff have also obtained prestigious
      scholarships from the Leverhulme Trust (Roscoe, Townley) and the Fulbright
      Commission (Orr). A selection of representative examples across a diverse range of
      funders and funding levels during the REF census period includes:
       § Hibbert, Chillas and Brown: AHRC, InGAME partnership between the Universities
           of St Andrews, Dundee and Abertay for research to support innovation and
           creative growth in the computer games industry. £5,250,000 (£720,000 for the
           University of St Andrews (2018-2022).
       § Neville: UKRI. Facilitating the public response to Covid-19 by harnessing group
           processes. £715,738 (2020-2021).
       § Ball: Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council. Big Data Surveillance
           (with Queens, Ottawa, Toronto, Alberta and Victoria Universities, Canada).
           Institutional PI. $2.5 million (£111,000) (2015-2020).
       § Ball: Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, NEMINDE. Monetize
           Me? Privacy and the Quantified Self in the Digital Economy. £717,000 (2014-
           2017).
       § Davies: Nuffield Trust. Doctor-Manager Relationships. £50,000 (2014-2016).
       § Davies & Ward: NIHR Health Services & Delivery Research Optimising the
           impact of health services research on the organisation and delivery of health
           services; a study of embedded models of knowledge co-production in the NHS
           (Embedded). £664,406 (2018-2020).


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       §   Russell: Scottish Government. Governing water one drop at a time: Responses
           to, and implications of, community water management in Scotland and beyond.
           £102,000 (2016-2020).
       §   Bebbington: Scottish Funding Council. Carbon Accounting and Reporting.
           £75,000 (2014-2018).


 Infrastructure and facilities

       The School is located in a modern, attractive building (The Gateway), offering
       spacious seminar and meeting rooms and communal areas to encourage informal
       dialogue and knowledge sharing. In 2017, these facilities were upgraded to provide a
       new open plan professional service area, staff offices and meeting rooms equipped
       with advanced AV and IT capabilities. Extensive new library facilities, break out
       spaces and additional database and computing resources have been introduced to
       augment existing study resources. PhD students have a dedicated and attractive
       shared office space, and can access further workspaces in the University such as the
       Martyrs’ Kirk Research Library. With a move to a purpose-built social sciences hub
       (Madras) with state-of-the-art research and teaching resources, the School will
       expand its infrastructure through additional computing and data gathering facilities
       and collaborative spaces for staff, PhDs and visiting scholars.

       The School’s operational infrastructure benefits from an experienced School Manager
       (Balfour) and nine dedicated support and technical staff, including a School
       Information and Communication Technology Officer (Kerr). Every staff member and
       PGR student has personal computing facilities, as well as access to the University
       Print and Design Unit. PURE (a web-based Personal Research Profile) is used to
       organise and share the activities and outcomes of our research. In 2015, the School
       undertook a detailed strategic review of its research resources (subscriptions,
       databases, software) leading to significant major new investments. This review
       achieved a greater alignment between staff research interests and student needs.

       The University has a number of professional service functions that support research
       and research impact: Funding and Finance; Research Integrity and Ethics; Research
       Impact; Pure; Digital Research (including Open Access and Research Data
       Management) Commercialisation and Knowledge Exchange; and Public
       Engagement. Support for staff is also made available via Organisational and Staff
       Development Services (OSDS), which delivers a range of professional and career
       development support to staff (at all career stages) across the University. The
       University also offers a structured (Passport to Research Futures) development
       programme to early career researchers.

       Open Access Research. Our scholarly infrastructure supports making our research
       as openly available as possible. The University’s Digital Research Unit contains an
       Open Access (OA) support team and a Research Data Management team. We have
       adopted the principles laid out in the Concordat on Open Research Data. The School
       has supported staff in fulfilling University requirements for all researchers to have an
       ORCID identifier. At School level, we have initiated regular drop-in sessions for each
       member of staff to have a face-to-face meeting with experts to ensure they were
       engaged with OA requirements. This is augmented with professional services support
       (Thomson).

       Various research committees (where School staff play prominent roles) and fora
       influence University research policy, practice and the maintenance of standards.
       These include the: Research Committee (comprising VP Research, Directors of
       Research and relevant support staff leads); Research Staff Forum (comprising staff
       [Chillas] and postdoctoral representatives); Research Excellence Board (supporting

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Schools to nurture and progress their research excellence); Postgraduate Research
      Committee (comprising Directors of PGR and PGR representatives); Teaching and
      Research Ethics Committee, UTREC (responsible for ethical review and approval of
      research activities); Research Integrity Committee (sets and supervises research
      conduct standards). We are supportive of, and fully compliant with the ‘Concordat to
      Support Research Integrity’ principles.

      The University operates a number of strategic research funding and exchange
      schemes. The School has been successful in acquiring Knowledge Exchange and
      Impact Awards (five since 2016). The University’s Global Fellowship scheme has
      enabled the School to host significant scholars and emerging leaders in the field who
      contribute to its research community through seminars, bespoke research projects
      and developmental workshops. Several cross-disciplinary projects in the School have
      received funding through the University run Scottish Funding Council’s Official
      Development Assistance ‘Global Challenges Research Funding’ scheme which
      supports research that promotes the economic development and well-being of
      countries on the OECD Development Assistance Committee list.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Types of Collaboration and Contribution

      The main beneficiaries and audiences for the School’s research activities and
      outputs include: academics, policymakers at international, national, regional and
      local levels, and public, private and third sector organisations. The overall impact of
      our research funding, activities, outputs and engagement are organised around:
      Public Policy; Organisational Change; and Practitioner and Professional
      Communities.

      Public Policy:
      Our research feeds a variety of political and policy debates. The types of issues
      making an impact include: human rights (Ferguson); living wage legislation (Baluch);
      financial regulation and supervision (Wilson); funding to SMEs in normal and
      stressed periods (Brown, Wilson); innovation policy (Brown); devolution (MacKay);
      cyber-security (Ball); climate change (Russell, Scholtens); sustainability issues
      (Scholtens), healthcare (Davies, Ward); and creative industries (Chillas). Members
      of staff assist the political process by providing written and oral evidence to various
      Parliamentary select committees and major governmental consultations. For
      example, in 2018, Wilson provided evidence at the House of Lords EU Internal
      Market Committee on the potential impact of Brexit on UK SMEs. Related research
      (co-authored with Brown) published in Regional Studies was listed (according to
      Altmetrics) as the 7th (out of 21,443 papers) most widely disseminated geography
      publication in 2019. This research was also highlighted (by Stephen Gethins, MP) in
      the House of Commons debate on the EU Withdrawal Act in January 2019 as well
      as receiving extensive coverage in the local and national print and television media
      in January 2018 and April 2019. Since the onset and spread of the Covid-19 crisis,
      staff have engaged actively with ongoing policy developments. Chronopoulos and
      Wilson provided written evidence regarding the impact of the stay-alert message on
      Scottish Consumer Spending to the Scottish Affairs Committee, UK Parliament.
      Brown discussed the planned Scottish Government response to the crisis with the
      Cabinet Secretary for Finance, Kate Forbes. Brown was also invited by the Cabinet
      Secretary for Finance to engage in a Scottish Government policy review of the high-
      tech funding ecosystem.

      Organisational Change:
      A significant proportion of the School’s research focuses on the effects of change
      processes undertaken in various organisational contexts. A number of researchers

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      work closely with major organisations such as the NHS (Davies, Ward), the Police
      Service, Fire Service, Armed Services (Akinci, Woodfield), Local Authorities (Orr,
      Scholtens), Scottish Parliament (Orr), large social care organisations (Baluch) and
      leading financial institutions such as Triodos Bank, Rabobank, ING, ABN Amro,
      Dutch association pension funds (Scholtens). Many of these projects aim to evaluate
      particular projects (Brown) and assess the effectiveness of organisational changes
      (Davies, Ward) and policies enacted by these organisations (Ball). Dean utilised a
      British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award to establish an interdisciplinary
      network on the intersectionality of female entrepreneurs.

      Practitioner and Professional Communities:
      Researchers within the School have strong links to a wide variety of practitioner and
      professional communities. These span: economic development (Brown); banking
      and financial trade association and regulatory bodies (Abedifar, Chronopoulos,
      MacKay, Scholtens, Wilson); accountancy (Brown, Ferguson, Regis-Puyou,
      Stevenson); stock markets (Roscoe); police, military and fire services (Akinci,
      Dowell, Woodfield), computer games (Brown, Chillas), female entrepreneurs
      (Dean); diversity (Bratanova, Woodfield); environmental groups (Russell,
      Scholtens); information protection and surveillance (Ball); medical, health and social
      care-related (Baluch, Davies, Ward); and philanthropic bodies (Jung).



         The School uses several channels to ensure
         sustained knowledge engagement and impact.


      Strong links to policy makers and public policy.
         Having well-established links with various policy-making organisations enables
         the results of research investigations undertaken by individuals across the School
         to feed directly into the practices and policy frameworks implemented by policy
         actors. The Research Unit for Research Utilisation (RURU), as one of the funded
         Scottish Improvement Science Collaborating Centres (SISCC) that is part of a
         Scotland-wide initiative to improve the quality of patient care, ensures that world-
         leading research generates impact across society (Davies, Ward). Policy Press
         (Davies & Nutley). Members of the Centre (Orr, Academic Fellow of the Scottish
         Parliament; Siebert, Honorary Professor) are also part of an ethnographic study
         exploring how the design of the Scottish Parliament building has shaped working
         and parliamentary practices over the last twenty years. Davies led and delivered
         a SUII-funded programme of three workshops on ’transformation in health and
         social care’ (2016), as well as a cross-programme workshop on innovation at the
         Scottish Parliament (2016). Ward acted as a member of the Applied Partnership
         Awards panel for the Health Research Board (Ireland).


         The Centre for Responsible Banking & Finance, CRBF (Brown) has worked with
         the Scottish Parliament’s Information Centre (SPICe) on their review of Scottish
         Enterprise Policy Support to scale-ups within the Scottish economy, and advised
         (Scholtens) the Dutch Ministries of Finance, Economic Affairs, Infrastructure, &
         Agriculture and the Dutch central bank on sustainability issues. Wilson presented
         on the impact of ongoing research on credit unions at the House of Commons as
         part of the Academy of Social Sciences Making the Case for Social Sciences
         Campaign (2018). CRISP (Ball) provide ongoing advice to the Government Chief
         Scientific Advisor on the trade-offs between security and privacy in data related
         policy. CREDI (Woodfield) provide advice to the Higher Education Academy and
         the Equality Challenge Unit on recruitment and retention patterns in higher
         education. Roscoe advised on a possible trading exchange for recyclable

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         materials to an audience of US policymakers and regulators, alongside
         Commissioner Benham of the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

      Activities of our inter-disciplinary research centres.

       The profile and visibility of the School’s research centres acts as a focal point for
       engagement with a range of external audiences. Owing to the international
       reputation of CRBF, a number of staff (Brown, Wilson, Chronopoulos) were invited
       to submit briefing papers on: Future Issues in Bank Taxation; Future Issues in
       Unsecured Lending; and Future Issues in SME Finance to the UK Financial
       Conduct Authority for a high profile Future Horizons Conference in 2017. This
       prestigious event brought together leading thinkers to examine major challenges
       facing financial services over the next 15 years. Members of CRBF are also
       regularly invited to contribute to major policy reviews such as the UK government’s
       recent Patient Capital Review undertaken by the HM Treasury. The Centre for the
       Study of Philanthropy and Public Good (Baluch, Jung, Russell) secured ESRC-
       funding for a two-year seminar series on philanthropy that brought together
       academic experts and senior philanthropy stakeholders and representatives,
       including the former director of the Nuffield Trust and the Chair to the European
       Commission’s Expert Group on Social Entrepreneurship Sub-group on Social
       Impact Measurement for Social Enterprise. This Centre also co-led (with partners
       at Carleton University, Canada) on the development of a Global Community
       Philanthropy Research Network.

      Activities via externally commissioned research.

         A number of impact activities are underway across the School. Academic sources
         of funding are being used to help foster impact. In 2018, the Institute for
         Capitalising on Creativity secured £5 million in funding from AHRC for a
         collaborative project on Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise (InGame).
         InGame is a 5-year creative research and development project, aiming to
         increase the scale and value of the video games sector in Dundee and
         surrounding areas, with the intent to create a model for UK-wide innovation in the
         sector. InGame has a network of partners, including the Universities of Abertay
         and Dundee, funding bodies, and local and international game developer and
         service delivery organisations. The St Andrews team (Brown, Chillas, Hibbert,
         and two funded research fellows, Grewar and Rocha) focus on sustainable
         creative industries, collaborative processes and entrepreneurial start-up and
         growth. In 2019, InGame was awarded a further £100,000 from AHRC to deliver
         Skills Development for Researchers Training Programme (Chillas). Chillas and
         Hibbert are Co-Directors of the grant, and sit on the Management Group and
         Steering Board.

         Another mechanism enabling impact is through research projects for external
         governmental and policy organisations. During the current REF census period,
         staff have received funding from a variety of organisations including the OECD,
         European Commission, NIHR, NHS, and the UK Government (including the Bank
         of England, Chief Scientist Office, Department for Business, Energy & Industrial
         Strategy, Department for Economy in Northern Ireland, Scottish Enterprise).
         Externally commissioned research by third sector organisations on the
         sustainability of the social care market and implementation of the Scottish Living
         Wage (Baluch) was cited in a Scottish Parliament debate and informed
         subsequent local authority policy implementation. While much of these impact
         activities take place at the national level, many are also having an impact
         internationally, such as the recent work by Brown on entrepreneurship policy in
         emerging markets and Wilson on credit unions.


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Engagement with the media.

       Staff appear regularly in print, radio and televised media (ILES, 2.8). These
       activities disseminate work produced within the School to a range of organisational
       and policy-related communities. Examples include: Ball’s work on surveillance
       reported in Britain’s Hardest Workers: Inside the Low Wage Economy BBC 2, July
       2016, and her work on surveillance on Thinking Allowed, BBC Radio 4, 2018. More
       recently her work on phone tracking surveillance in the context of Covid-19
       featured on BBC Radio Scotland. Brown and Wilson’s work on Brexit and SMEs
       appeared on the BBC television and radio news and in national papers (Telegraph,
       The Herald) and international media outlets including Al Jazeera and Asian World
       News; Brown’s work on the Scottish state investment bank was highlighted the FT;
       Roscoe’s work on markets was also featured in the FT and on BBC radio. His
       podcast on ‘How to Build a Stock Exchange’ received in excess of 10,000
       downloads. Chronopoulos and Wilson’s work on consumer spending responses
       during the Covid-19 pandemic was featured on numerous radio broadcasts and in
       national newspapers (Scotsman, Times). A number of staff (Brown, Chronopoulos,
       MacKay, Roscoe, Wilson) in the School target practitioner audiences through other
       forms of media such as: the Harvard Business Review blog; the Centre for
       Economic Policy Research; VoxEU; ESRC Economic Observatory.

 Seminars, workshops and conferences

      Staff serve on conference scientific committees throughout Asia, Europe and North
      America. In addition, the School has organised and hosted a number of important
      conferences including:
       § The International Conference on Organisational Learning, Knowledge and
           Capabilities (2016).
       § Research in Management, Learning and Education’ Conference (2018).
       § RURU-related knowledge exchange activities in Edinburgh (2019), London
           (2017, 2018, 2019), Copenhagen (2015, 2018, 2019), Oslo (2018) and San
           Francisco (2018).
       § RURU workshops: Researching policy engagement (2020); Researching
           knowledge co-production (2019); Organizing knowledge and decision-making
           at the frontline of public services (2019); Researching knowledge brokering in
           diverse sectors (2019); Exploring knowledge mobilisation (2017); Facilitating
           meaningful dialogue around diverse kinds of knowledge (2016); Negotiating
           understanding: supporting dialogue in knowledge interaction (2015); Evaluating
           knowledge mobilisation (2014).
       § SUII-funded programme workshops: “transformation in health and social care”
           (2016); innovation at the Scottish Parliament (2016).
       § Symposium on Political Leadership, University of California, Berkeley (2019).
       § Workshop on Collaborative Leadership for NHS Education Scotland (2018).
       § Contemporary Issues in Banking Conference (2015, 2017, 2019).
       § Funding for Start-Ups and SMEs since the Global Financial Crisis Conference
           (2015).
       § British Academy-funded conferences: How Intersectionality Shapes the
           Experience of Female Entrepreneurs; Re-thinking Female Entrepreneurship
           (2020).
       § ESRC Seminar Series ‘Philanthropy to the rescue? Exploring the opportunities,
           strengths and challenges of philanthropy’ (2015-2017).
       § Annual Scottish Philanthropy Innovation & Research Exchange (ASPIRE)
           (2016-2019).
       § Exhibition on ‘Enduring Gifts -600 Years of Philanthropy at the University of St
           Andrews’, ca. 14,500 visitors (2018).
       § CRISP Doctoral School, Edinburgh, Essex, Stirling (2018).

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       §   Scottish Privacy Forum on Data protection regulation and Children’s privacy
           (2018, 2019).
       §   Behavioural Spread: British Library co-organised event (2019).
       §   Spread of the 2011 riots in Tottenham: co-organised knowledge exchange
           event with members of the public (2018).
       §   UK CSEAR International Congress on Social and Environmental Accounting
           Research conferences and Emerging Scholars Colloquiums (2014-2019).
       §   St Andrews Conference on Corporate Agency and Shared Responsibility
           (2015).
       §   St Andrews Conference on Ethics, Sustainability and Accountability (2014).
       §   British Accounting and Finance Association Annual Scottish conference (2014).
       §   Workshop for leading business and human rights practitioners in Europe, co-
           organised with the Danish Institute of Human Rights and the Scottish
           Government (2018).
       §   SGSSS Business & Management Colloquium (2017).
       §   School seminar and lecture programme including high-profile public lectures
           including Lord Robert Skidelsky (2015), Philip Pettit (2015) and Carol Gilligan
           (2019).

 Contributions to Learned Societies

      Our staff are connected and involved in learned societies across a range of
      disciplines within business and management studies. Examples include:
       § Ball: Honorary fellow of the Surveillance Studies Centre, Queen’s University
           (since 2018).
       § Brown: Chair/Branch Secretary of the Regional Studies Association Scotland
           (2005-2016).
       § Brown: Research Associate with the ESRC-funded Enterprise Research
           Centre, University of Warwick (since 2015).
       § Ferguson: Chair, British Accounting and Finance Association Scottish Area
           Group (2010- 2016).
       § Ferguson: Chair, Accounting & Finance Pathway, Scottish Graduate School of
           Social Science (2011-2014).
       § Ferguson: Member of Executive Committee, British Accounting and Finance
           Association (2010-2016).
       § Hibbert: leadership committee (2016-2020) and Division Chair (2018-19),
           Academy of Management, Management Education and Development Division.
       § Hibbert: Member of Council, British Academy of Management (2018-2020).
       § Jung: Board member and communications secretary of the International
           Research Society for Public Management (2009-2015).
       § Jung: Honorary Member of The Chartered Institute of Public Finance and
           Accountancy (CIPFA) Japan Branch (since 2018).
       § Orr: Board member of Organisational Learning, Knowledge and Capabilities.
       § Stevenson: Academic representative to Institute of Chartered Accountants
           Scotland, Sustainability Committee (2014-2015).
       § Wilson: Chair of the British Accounting and Finance Association Financial
           Markets and Institutions Special Interest Group (2007-2018).
       § Wilson: Member of Executive Committee, British Accounting and Finance
           Association (2010-2018).
       § Wilson: Member of the Scientific Advisory Board of Chartered Association of
           Business Schools Academic Journal Guide (ABS Journal list) (since 2013).
       § Wilson: Member of the steering group for the Financial Intermediation Network
           of European Studies (since 2012).
       § Wilson: Member of Quality Assurance Agency Review Group for Finance and
           Accounting benchmark statements (2014).
       § Wilson: Research Associate with the ESRC-funded Enterprise Research
           Centre, University of Warwick (since 2017).

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Editorships

      Managing Editorships:
       Social and Environmental Accountability Journal 2012-2016 (Ferguson),
       Academy of Management Learning & Education (Hibbert)
      Guest Editorships:
       Administrative Sciences Journal (Akinci),
       Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal (Russell),
       Big Data and Society (Ball),
       British Accounting Review (Wilson),
       Employee Relations (Baluch),
       European Journal of Finance (Wilson),
       Futures (Mansell),
       Global Finance Journal (Abedifar),
       Journal of Business Ethics (Ferguson, Mansell),
       Journal of Corporate Finance (Wilson) and
       Journal of Management Education (Hibbert).
      Associate Editorships:
       Academy of Management Learning and Education (Hibbert),
       British Accounting Review (Wilson),
       European Journal of Finance (Chronopoulos, Wilson),
       European Management Journal (Summers),
       Finance Research Letters (Wilson),
       Journal of Cultural Economy (Roscoe),
       Journal of Financial Stability (Wilson),
       Journal of Management Education (Hibbert),
       Journal of Money Credit and Banking (Wilson),
       Health Care Management Science (Davies),
       Health Services Management Research (Davies),
       Journal of Health Services Research & Policy (Davies),
       Work, Employment and Society (Woodfield).
      Editorial Board Members:
       Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal (Ferguson, Russell),
       Accounting and Business Research (Ferguson),
       Accounting Education: An International Journal (Stevenson),
       Chinese Management Studies (Ferguson),
       European Management Journal (Summers),
       Frontiers in Sociology (Chillas),
       Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science (Nikolaeva),
       Issues in Accounting Education (Ferguson);
       Journal of Accounting Education (Stevenson),
       Journal of Business Ethics (Mansell),
       Journal of Business Finance and Accounting (Wilson),
       Journal of Financial Economic Policy (Wilson),
       Journal of Financial Regulation and Compliance (Wilson),
       Journal of Financial Management, Markets and Institutions (Wilson),
       Journal of Management Education (Hibbert),
       Management Learning (Hibbert),
       Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly (Jung),
       Organisational Research Methods (Hibbert),
       Small Business Economics (Brown),
       Social and Environmental Accountability Journal (Russell),
       Sustainability (Nikolaeva),
       Work, Employment and Organisations (Chillas).


                                                                               Page 21
