Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Teesside University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Unit context and structure
Our General Engineering unit (78.6 FTE) is situated in the School of Computing, Engineering and
Digital Technologies (61.6 FTE) and draws in expertise from the School of Health and Life
Sciences (13 FTE) and Teesside University Business School (4 FTE). We organise our research
through two research centres and three innovation centres.
The Centre for Sustainable Engineering (led by Short) includes 53 FTE staff, 10 researchers,
seven graduate tutors and 55 research students. Research activities focus on the decarbonisation
of industry and society, using engineering approaches spanning the disciplines of chemical and
materials engineering, civil engineering, electronics, instrumentation and contrail engineering and
applied digital technologies such as building innovation modelling (BIM), smart energy and bitcoin.
The centre encompasses interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research with a broader set of
researchers including in business, computing, and the social sciences. The centre’s research
is organised under four themes: Construction Innovation and Research (led by Dawood N and
Rahimian); Energy Conversion, Management and Control (led by Short and Al-Greer); Hydrogen
Engineering and Decarbonisation Technologies (led by Krishnan and Ahmed); and Sustainable
Materials and Circular Economy (led by Hamad and Hughes).
The Centre for Digital Innovation (led by Hossain) includes 25.6 FTE staff, four research
associates, four graduate tutors, and 28 research students. Research activities address the
growing demand for artificial intelligence (AI) and its applications; and digital technology research
to tackle economic, societal and contemporary technological challenges using computational
methods, computer and software engineering, computer vision, healthcare technologies,
information engineering, intelligent and adaptive systems, and machine learning. The centre takes
a multidisciplinary collaborative approach drawing on engineering applications in areas such as
biosciences, business, education, health and social sciences. The centre’s research is organised
under three themes: Digital Engineering for Health and Wellbeing (led by Angione); Gaming and
Immersive Technologies (led by Pandit); Information Systems and Security (led by Chang).
The industry-facing activities at our research centres are supported by three innovation centres,
where we work in formal partnership with independent research and technology organisation TWI
to undertake collaborative research with its industrial membership base. In 2017, we established
the Healthcare Innovation Centre (led by Ali) to develop health technologies. In 2020, two further
formal collaborations were agreed: the Industrial Decarbonisation and Hydrogen Innovation Centre
(IDHIC, led by Pinedo-Cuenca), and the Circular Economy and Recycling Innovation Centre
(CERIC, led by Hughes). Our innovation centres are part of TWI’s innovation network, which
includes 12 innovation centres, the National Digital Catapult and the National Structural Integrity
Research Centre.
The multidisciplinary nature of our research base allows staff to collaborate on areas of
interdisciplinary focus such as digital and analytical technologies for forensic science, archaeology
and anthropology. Interdisciplinarity is supported across research centres, between research
themes and through the university’s three interdisciplinary grand challenge themes (creating
vibrant, cohesive and resilient and societies; forging a smarter, greener industrial economy; and
shaping the future of health, care and wellbeing), which drive institutional research priorities
aligned to regional growth, the UK’s industrial strategy and the UN’s sustainable development
goals.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and impact strategy
Research strategy
Our 2014 research strategy set out to: facilitate internationally led, applied research through
strategic partnerships and research collaborations; enable a supportive research culture and a
team approach; and maximise research impact on business, the environment and society.
Since 2014, we have increased critical mass to strengthen the research environment, as
demonstrated by an increase in research active staff (from 13 FTE in 2014 to 78.6 FTE in 2020),
55 FTE staff appointments and £3.3m invested in studentships.
Engineering has created a supportive research culture and a team-working approach for both staff
and postgraduate students, as evidenced by: a 90 per cent increase in average annual
postgraduate completions since 2014 (from 5.5 in REF 2014 to 10.4 in this period); improved
governance of research activities through our research centres; the appointment and development
of research centre leads; and the delivery of a new Researcher Development Programme (RDP).
(See section 2.)
We have facilitated interdisciplinary working, by engaging with the university’s grand challenge
themes and creating interdisciplinary research themes within research centres. For example, the
grand challenges enabled a collaboration between Dawood N and Van Schaik (Centre for Applied
Psychological Science) resulting in the ESRC project, Putting People at The Heart of Future Social
Housing and Design And Manufacturing (UCL CID-302511). Collaborations across the
Construction Innovation and Research and the Energy Conversion, Management and Control
Research themes also led to two EU projects, the €10.7m Renewable Energy For Self-Sustainable
Island Communities – REACT (grant agreement 824395) and the €5.1m Demand Response In
Blocks Of Buildings – DR-BOB (696114) projects, which bring together insights from engineering
and the social sciences.
Our industry collaborations have been strengthened by investing in support mechanisms and
facilities, as evidenced by: £0.9m investment in three TWI innovation centres; the creation of a
University Enterprise Zone, along with renewed investment of £2m in DigitalCity, a longstanding
business innovation programme to facilitate SME R&D; £12m European Regional Development
Fund (ERDF) and Tees Valley Combined Authority (TVCA) investment in the Net Zero Industry
Innovation Centre, which is scheduled to open mid-2022; and £2m ERDF and TVCA investment in
an Industrial Digitalisation Technology Centre, planned to open early in 2021.
We have increased research grants and contract income (RGCI) to support industrial and
international collaborations, as evidenced by a 57 per cent increase in annual RGCI (from £0.8m in
REF 2014 to £1.3m in this period). Forty-three per cent of our RGCI is from international
collaborations. Forty per cent of our RGCI is from contract and collaborative industry research (see
section 3).
We have facilitated international collaborations, as demonstrated by 50 per cent growth in co-
authorship with researchers in other countries from 2014 to 2020. Our average international co-
authorship is above average, at 58.7 per cent of publications over the period, compared with the
UK average of 52 per cent (based on SciVal reports).
Impact strategy
Our 2014 impact strategy aimed to:
  •   focus on applied and collaborative research to deliver research of use to partners and
      stakeholders



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   embed impact as part of the research design process to ensure it is sufficiently resourced,
      managed, and evaluated
  •   maintain research partnerships beyond the lifetime of projects to support the embedding of
      impact and to address emerging challenges
  •   increase our focus on knowledge exchange to facilitate the application of research and to
      identify, protect and commercialise intellectual property.
Since 2014, we have delivered demand-led R&D projects to address industry challenges in the
areas of building information management (BIM) and digitalisation through seven Knowledge
Transfer Partnerships (KTP) with architectural, engineering and construction companies. Here our
research on advanced multi-constraint and multi-dimensional visual construction planning and
coordination (Dawood N, Dawood H, Kassem M, Patacas J, Rodriguez S) has led to new products
and international markets for the UK companies involved. Work with Ryder Architecture has led to
the firm acquiring 500 new clients in 19 countries for its BIM for FM services, increasing its
turnover by £1,000,000 per annum. Our work with Hodgson Sayers' has led to it becoming a Tier 1
Contractor and securing contracts worth £4.7m since 2016, transforming its business culture. Our
work with Sotech, a metal rainscreen cladding manufacturer, has led to it doubling its turnover from
£7m to £14.5m. [ICS1]
Sustained relationships with UK food manufacturers have led to the implementation of systems
engineering solutions to enhance monitoring and control for quality improvement. [Text removed
for publication.] [ICS2]
Research on digital processes and asset engineering information sharing has led to the
development of novel digital technologies and processes for the management of information flows
throughout the entire life cycle of complex and heavy engineering and construction assets for two
UK companies. Researchers in asset management, digital twins, and digitalisation (Dawood N,
Dawood H, Patacas, Vukovic) have transformed the market base of Datum360 and Unasys. For
Datum360, research has contributed to a growth in turnover from 2018 to 2019 of 23% to
GBP2,124,000, with international sales growing from close to zero to more than 35% of revenue.
For Unasys, the research has expanded their client base and business portfolio and led to them
securing funding from the Oil & Gas Technology Centre in Aberdeen for a project worth
GBP650,000. [Text removed for publication.]
We have undertaken a series of EU-funded, impact-focused collaborative research projects to
generate a step change in energy management, increasing awareness and uptake of demand-
response (DR) technologies. In three EU collaborative projects from 2008 to 2020 (Short, Crosbie,
Dawood N, Rodriguez, Vukovic) we undertook partnership working with a diverse range of
stakeholders across Europe to raise awareness of DR technologies at four demonstration sites.
The research has led to commercial product development [text removed for publication],
optimisation and energy savings (Porvoon Energia), and changes to working practices of those
working in the smart energy sector (Duneworks, Nobatek). [Text removed for publication] [ICS5] .
We have invested ERDF, Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) and Connecting Capability
Fund grants to develop the commercial awareness and innovation skills of staff and students. Spin-
out Anasyst Ltd (incorporated August 2013) was set up on the basis of an optical detection
technology patent (US8325342B2, Ali), using HEIF funding. The company has been involved in a
€1m European Commission research for SME programme (Cavity Enhanced Microarray As An
Ultra-Sensitive Tool To Aid Sepsis Diagnosis, 2014-16) and is currently working with a number of
other supply partners (Wideblue, BMG Labtech, Nehir Biyoteknoloji and Opaal Agency) to
commercialise the technology.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We are participants in a £3.9m Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme (IIIP), funded by ERDF
and the region’s five universities, to support up to 48 of the region’s SMEs to develop new services
and products for the market, supported by dedicated PhD research students. Using Research
England Connecting Capability Funding, we have joined the Northern Accelerator Programme to
provide enterprise training for academics, proof-of-concept support, a network of entrepreneurs
embedded in the earliest stages of spin-out companies and to establish a North East University
Investment Fund to support research-based spin-outs in the region.
We have also sought to expand our impact by informing policy and practice and undertaking
targeted public engagement work. Our research on 3D modelling, visualisation, and forensic
archaeology has led to the development of new and revised guidelines and standards for the
Archaeology Data Service and the British Association for Biological Anthropology and
Osteoarchaeology. This research has also enabled enhanced public understanding of archaeology
(York Archaeological Trust; Durham Museum of Archaeology, Vindolanda) and the engagement of
new audiences with archaeological objects (Channel 5). [ICS6]
Engineering and social science insights have been brought together to support evidence-informed
policy on climate change and decarbonisation. For example, research on energy efficiency
(Crosbie) was cited in two 2014 reports by the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change
(Further Analysis Of The Household Electricity Survey: Light Study Final Report and How Heating
Controls Affect Domestic Energy Demand: A Rapid Evidence Assessment) as well as the
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy’s 2016 Scoping Review of Heating
Controls. Research on waste management (Ali) has been cited in a UN report, Resource
Efficiency: Potential And Economic Implications (2017). Research on digitisation in the construction
industry (Dawood N, Kassem) led to Kassem being appointed by the Ministério do
Desenvolvimento, Indústria e Comércio Exterior and the Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e
Gestão (Brazil), to work with Prof. Sergio Leusin to conduct a structured examination and
illustration of BIM in the EU and in Brazil. The report was jointly discussed with Brazilian
policymakers to produce a set of conclusions and recommendations for BIM diffusion in Brazil.
Working closely with Middlesbrough Environment City, our research on energy adoption and
societal attitudes to energy consumption (Crosbie) was used to support the evaluation strategy and
subsequent work of the sustainability strand of One Planet Middlesbrough.
We have initiated a series of global challenge international projects to support clean water and
sanitisation, supported by the quality related (QR) Global Challenges Research Fund. For
example, research on groundwater remediation using nanotechnology (Pak) is bringing together
representatives from key industries, governmental agencies, and academia to develop a plan and a
technical design for implementing the first pilot-scale nanoremediation case study in Brazil and
to evaluate its effect on public health. Research on membrane technology (Ahmad) is being
undertaken with COMSATS University and The Urban Unit in Pakistan to develop a complete
system for the fabrication and testing of membranes for drinking and wastewater treatment.
Future research strategy
In 2020, the university published its corporate strategy to 2025, Ambition Delivered Today, which
focuses on making a difference to the lives of people and driving forward the success of
businesses and the economy. As a civic university and anchor institution, our research strategy for
2020-25 places engagement at the heart of the research process, so that our research activities
influence the wellbeing, productivity and prosperity of the region, nation and wider world.
Our research centre themes are aligned to grand challenges set out in the government’s industrial
strategy (Artificial Intelligence and Data, Ageing Society, Clean Growth, and Future of Mobility),
EPSRC themes (Energy, Engineering, Living with Environmental Change, Digital Economy,


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Information and Communication Technologies, and Healthcare Technologies) and the Tees Valley
Combined Authority’s regional investment priorities (Healthcare and Life Sciences, Digital and
Creative, Energy and Renewables).We have six strategic priorities for 2020-25.
  •   We will increase research capacity by: investing in staff posts, securing external funds for
      fellowships and developing existing staff; investing in PhD studentships using QR funding
      and leveraging external industry funding; and increasing the proportion of research leaders
      (professors and readers) from 13 FTE to 25 FTE by 2025 to provide leadership to the 34 per
      cent of current early career staff. We will prioritise growth in the areas of chemical
      engineering and materials (specifically catalysis technologies for energy conversion and
      reprocessing), electrochemistry (batteries, fuel cells), and energy informatics to strengthen
      our focus around decarbonisation, green energy and industrial resource efficiency. We will
      invest in digital engineering, AI, cybersecurity, and immersive technologies targeting
      research at the manufacturing and healthcare sectors.
  •   We will develop capability by investing in facilities and technical staff to support our
      expanding focus on decarbonisation and environmentally sustainable industries through a
      £12m Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre to open in 2022 which will include laboratories for
      fuel cells, electrolysis, batteries, intelligent energy systems, efficient manufacturing process
      development and end of life technologies including waste pyrolysis and depolymerisation.
      This will also house two of our TWI Innovation Centres IDHIC and CERIC (£600,000
      investment 2020-22), and our £2m Industrial Digitalisation project commencing in 2021. A
      £13m investment in our Digital Life Centre, to open in 2022, will support our research,
      teaching and commercial training in digital technologies. It will include smart labs, digital art
      studios and a collaborative environment for interdisciplinary research. Our approach to
      creating Digital Life systems and services for the future will focus on themes of ethics,
      sustainability, accessibility, inclusivity and diversity and foster the notion of the ‘digital
      citizen’ to engage and educate society on the responsible and effective use of digital
      technologies.
  •   We will facilitate interdisciplinary research to expand the expertise and approaches of the
      unit to address complex research questions through pump-priming early-career researchers
      (ECRs) to engage in small-scale projects and publish interdisciplinary outputs aligned to the
      grand challenge themes and supporting staff to participate in externally funded
      interdisciplinary projects.
  •   We will expand our researchers’ international and industrial networks by using QR and HEIF
      funding to support international sabbaticals, industrial staff secondments and collaborative
      studentships.
  •   We will promote a responsible culture that: delivers best practice in relation to equality,
      diversity and inclusion (EDI) in recruitment, mentoring and promotion practices; recognises
      and rewards team research; embeds policies on research evaluation (aligned to the San
      Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment, DORA) and research data management;
      promotes the benefits of open research on integrity and engagement; and improves support
      for developing researchers using improved personal development plan and review (PDPR)
      processes, ECR mentoring and our researcher development programme.
  •   We will maximise research impact and deepen engagement by: involving communities and
      industrial stakeholders in the design, delivery and communication of our research, especially
      in relation to AI and the regional decarbonisation and green energy agendas; establishing
      public engagement fellowships; developing the skills of staff and students by implementing
      the university’s Impact Framework, which outlines the behaviours, skills, and mechanisms
      for advancing research impact; and supporting innovation and commercialisation through

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      participation in the Northern Accelerator and the creation of a university subsidiary company
      Teesside University Enterprise and Innovation to effectively commercialise the research of
      staff and students.

Interdisciplinary research
We understand today’s societal challenges are complex and demand expertise from various
perspectives to solve them. Over the period we have supported researchers to develop their
interdisciplinary practice through our research centre themes and wider university grand
challenges, as well as through participation on external interdisciplinary projects.
Our ECRs are encouraged to apply for seed funding from the university’s grand challenge scheme,
which supports the initial development of their projects, including employment of research
assistants. Both Angione and Han received grand challenge funds that led to the development of
larger projects, including: a US$225,000 (£160,000) Future of Life Institute grant for Han
(Incentives for Safety Agreement Compliance in AI Race) to study incentives for ensuring safety
compliance in the context of the technological innovation, with researchers from economics, health
and psychology disciplines; and a £402,000 Innovate UK funded project (Quickfit, Quick Fitting Of
Prosthetic Sockets For Above-Knee Amputees, 133657-9933) working on the interaction between
biomechanics, sensors and smart design for prosthetic limbs involving Angione.
Our grand challenge themes have also provided a forum for collaborations involving various
disciplines across the university that have led to externally funded projects, such as Crosbie’s
British Academy project, What is in A Meter? Working Towards Efficient, Socially Inclusive and
Environmentally Sensitive Energy and Water Infrastructures In The Global South, (UWB190097),
run in collaboration with Newbury-Birch at the Centre for Social Innovation in the School of Social
Sciences, Humanities and Law.
Our TWI partnership creates opportunities to for staff to engage with up to twelve innovation
centres in the TWI innovation network. For example, the Innovate UK Intelliscan project (An
Enhanced Artificial Intelligence Breast MRI Scanning System, 104192-4901, Ali) is a collaboration
between the Healthcare Innovation Centre and the Brunel Innovation Centre that uses a
combination of advanced image processing and AI to develop a breast MRI scanning system for
use as a diagnostic decision-support tool for radiologists.

Open research
We are committed to responsible research and to ensuring the highest standards of integrity in
research. We support researchers to make their research outputs and data available to enable the
replication and verification of results. To do this we have adopted the FAIR principles to ensure our
data are findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable. For example, Pak published the data
accompanying her papers in PNAS and Nature – Scientific Reports (see REF2) comprising
images, raw and processed data. The data for the Nature paper was published in Nature –
Scientific Data in 2019 (https://doi.org/10.1038/sdata.2019.4) and that for the PNAS paper is
available at https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/X-
ray_computed_tomography_images/12053607/1. A key output from the IDEAS project
(https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.04.052, see REF2) made use of a novel dataset for CHP
heat and electricity demands and real-time fuel prices. This was made available for non-
commercial purposes, and multiple requests have been received to use the data by research
teams in Europe.
Throughout the period, our unit has contributed to the development of the university’s policies and
systems for open research. For example: Qin was part of the project board to implement Pure in
2018, and contributed to the refresh of the Research Data Management Policy in 2019; Dawood N


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contributed to the refresh of the open-access (OA) policy in 2020; and Rahimian sits on the
institutional Project Board for the Mendeley Data System.
Researchers have been encouraged to engage with open dissemination within their own research
networks. For example: the MemLock smart fuzzing system proposed by Qin and co-authors
(published at ICSE 2020) has helped detect security-critical software vulnerabilities (15 of which
have been recorded in the publicly disclosed database of common vulnerabilities and exposures,
CVE). The MemLock system has been made open source to allow its wide adoption and
application in software vulnerability detection by end-users from both academia and industry.
Through the university’s RDP and research centre seminar series, we have delivered training on
OA, research data management, and the responsible use of metrics. We have encouraged staff to
attend research briefings on open science from Dr Paul Ayris (Chair of Liber’s Citizen Science
Working Group) and on the responsible use and limitations of bibliometrics from Professor Mike
Thelwall (Professor of Information Science at the University of Wolverhampton, member of the
Forum for Responsible Metrics).
Until recently, staff managed their research data within their own project data management plans
ensuring data requiring retention were stored in appropriate off-site repositories (in line with the
partner/funder terms and conditions) and internal records maintained to enable access. Supported
by an updated Research Data Management (RDM) Policy, we are moving to sharing our data more
effectively through the implementation of the open, cloud-based platform Mendeley Data. A local
pilot of the new system is underway to upload data sets. The new system and training will be rolled
out in the first half of 2021, followed by the development of reports to monitor our open science
activity.

Research integrity, ethics, and governance
We manage research integrity and ethical approval through School Research Ethics Sub-
Committees, (SRESC) overseen by the University Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee
(UREISC).
At an institution level, staff and postgraduate students attend research integrity and ethics training
programmes. New staff are made aware of the university’s principles and procedures set out in the
Framework and Code of Practice for Ensuring Research Integrity during their induction. From
August 2021, it will be mandatory for staff to attend workshops to update their awareness of
legislative requirements and best practice in relation research integrity and ethics within a three-
year time frame. The HR team will inform associate deans and SRESC chairs which staff require
refresher training.
Staff in the unit deliver ethics training to students on the economic, social and environmental
ethical implications of engineering research and how these might be mitigated through the
research design process (Hughes, Crosby). The training draws on the Engineering Council and
Royal Academy of Engineers Joint Statement of Ethical Principles (2017) and the EPSRC’s
responsible research and innovation framework, AREA (Anticipate, Reflect, Engage and Act) to
guide engineering practice and behaviour.
Through our seminar series, external projects, and wider networks, we encourage colleagues to
explore the wider ethical issues related to new technologies and their impact on society and the
environment, including issues such as the transparency of machine learning and algorithms, and
the environmental impact of computational power needed for big data and reproducibility. For
example, Han’s FLI interdisciplinary project is exploring the normative and social impacts of AI to
assess which technologies and domains require regulation to ensure AI advancements do not
create ethical or social issues. His insights are proving useful for staff and students via his


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
seminars on the responsible development of AI informed technologies. In addition, Short delivered
an invited talk at the UK-Asia Seeding STEM summit 2020 on how technology is shaping and
changing society.

 2. People
Staffing strategy and staff development
We recognise our staff as our most important asset and our staffing strategy supports the
university’s commitment to attract, retain, develop and reward staff, and to enable all staff to
achieve their full potential in their role and career.
Our strategy for staff growth, together with our research policies around recruitment, retention and
reward, have enabled significant growth for future sustainability: 55 FTE staff (70 per cent) have
been appointed within the census period; 13.6 of our FTE staff (17 per cent) who were not
submitted previously have developed their research and are now identified as having significant
responsibility for research (SRfR); 10 of the 13 FTE returned in 2014 remain; just two staff left for
new posts and one retired.
We have targeted our recruitment in the areas of: artificial intelligence; building information
modelling and digital construction; civil engineering; control systems and automation data
analytics; cybersecurity; power systems and energy; energy informatics; and sustainable materials.
The creation of new posts combined with the university’s academic careers framework and
progression policy has supported the promotion of 19 staff across the period, as follows: five from
research associate or research fellow to lecturer; two from lecturer to senior lecturer; four from
senior lecturer to reader; two from senior lecturer to principal lecturer; one senior lecturer to
enterprise fellow; three from reader to professor, including one subsequent promotion to associate
dean; one principal lecturer to acting associate dean; and one professor to associate dean. Two
staff within the unit completed a PhD over the period (Hughes, subsequently promoted to
enterprise fellow, and Shadman-Pajouh, a senior lecturer).
Staff development strategy
Our staff development approach is aligned to the UK’s Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers, and to the university’s concordat implementation and enhancement
action plan (linked to the university’s HR Excellence Award). Our research centre leads assign
mentors (readers and professors) to researchers to provide advice and guidance on developing
their network, career planning, professional development, project design, bidding, publishing, and
public engagement and impact activities.
During the PDPR process, or the initial development plan (for new staff), staff discuss their
research and impact plans, development needs, and longer-term career aspirations with their head
of department and research centre lead.
We have engaged actively with the university’s RDP, which provides support for researchers at all
stages of their research career including those in leadership roles. It includes postgraduate, ECR,
mid-career and leadership programmes and short workshops covering research methods,
supervision, evaluation, open science, metrics, impact, and funding. These are supplemented
further by a weekly seminar series, where internal and external speakers are invited to present
their research.
Over the period postdoctoral researchers and postgraduate students have been provided with
opportunities to contribute to the research culture and to teach. For example: Vukovic played a key
role in supporting the DTA programme before moving to an academic contract in 2016 and
Dawood H supported the delivery of funded projects and postgraduate supervision and was

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
promoted into a lecturer role in 2020. Of our current postdoctoral researchers, Arma works with
Han on the Future of Life Institute project and supports the PhD student on the evolutionary game
theory research; and Williams has been delivering teaching on control systems.
Because we have a high proportion of new and early career staff, we have prioritised leadership
development of senior staff during the past three years to ensure we have the leadership capability
to support the careers of our developing researchers. Five members of staff (Angione, Chen,
Crosbie, Dawood H and Islam) were nominated to participate in the Research Leadership
Programme designed for those in, or aspiring to be in, leadership roles. Subsequently, Angione,
Crosby, Islam and Dawood H, were promoted. Two staff members (Hossain, Short) attended the
research centre leads programme, which allowed a cohort of senior researchers to support one
another in the development and delivery of research centre strategies, build a research leadership
network across the institution, and to reflect on and consolidate their own leadership style.
Staffing and recruitment strategy
Post 2014, our staffing strategy set out to improve our sustainability and vitality by increasing and
diversifying our staffing base and creating a vibrant and supportive research culture. In 2014, we
submitted a select return of 13 FTE. This was made up of three professors (23 per cent of our total
staff), one senior manager (8 per cent), two readers (15 per cent), seven senior lecturers (54 per
cent) and two early career staff. In line with our aspiration to improve sustainability and the
university’s 2020 vision (to increase the proportion of research active staff), our staff base has
grown more than sixfold (605 per cent) to 78.6 FTE with SRfR.
Our recruitment strategy set out to increase the proportion of staff at lecturer and senior lecturer
level and ensure ECRs were well represented among our lecturers. Among the 55 new members
of staff, 27 (49 per cent) are ECRs. The proportion of ECRs has increased from 15 per cent (two
FTE) in 2014 to 34 per cent in 2021, which provides a good basis for future sustainability and
succession planning. The seven FTE at senior lecturer level submitted in 2014 represented 54 per
cent of a small submission. In 2021, 71 per cent of the staff to be submitted are at senior lecturer
and lecturer level.
Alongside our investment in new posts, we appointed 13 graduate tutors over the period. The
posts include protected time to undertake a PhD alongside some teaching experience and are
designed to produce home grown, research-active academics to increase the research base. Six of
these staff are on track to complete PhDs within the next year. They will move to a lecturer contract
and be allocated on-going research time to support the next stage of their career development.
Four of our new appointments have been made at professorial/dean level (Chang, Hossain, Jayne,
Montague) and four at reader/principal lecturer level (Angione, Chen, Han, Rahimian). Angione
and Han, who joined the unit in the post-REF 2014 period as ECRs, were promoted to reader (in
2019) because of the relationships, outputs and grants they generated in the current REF period.
Our staff investment and development plans supported the progression of research staff through to
permanent academic posts. Five of our research assistants and fellows have secured academic
contracts and are part of this submission (Dawood H, Ennis, He, Rodriguez, and Vukovic). Support
for researchers on fixed-term contracts is outlined in the institutional statement (see REF5a, p.6).
We recognise and reward the research successes of staff and students by: celebrating their
research outputs, conference contributions, public engagement activities, grants and other
achievements via the school’s monthly Good News Stories circular and via the University Update
newsletters; promoting their research through social media and news channels (supported by our
corporate communications team); nominating staff for the university’s Research Performance Star
award (Al-Greer was awarded this in 2019 for founding a battery laboratory); and using the
academic career pathways and progressions policy. Nine promotions to reader/enterprise
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
fellow/professor have been achieved in the period and in 2020 we revised the criteria and policy to
support promotion to senior lecturer.
In addition, we incentivise staff to engage in research by competitively allocating £70,000 of seed-
corn research funding a year, for staff to develop ideas and to obtain preliminary data to support
large, external funding applications and/or publish journal papers. ECRs are prioritised. Vukovic
was awarded £40,000 to purchase a thermal camera and a drone to carry out research into
capturing energy leaks in buildings. The results were used in the proposal for the Horizon 2020
eDREAM project (see section 3), with Vukovic now leading a work package on integrating tools
developed within the project for demand response energy services.

Research students
Our doctoral training programme has more than doubled in the period. Since August 2014, we
have registered 125 postgraduate students and completed 10.4 awards per year, compared with
5.5 in REF 2014.
We have invested £3.3m, from both internal and external funds, in 44 studentships over the period.
This has supported: 14 institutional studentships (£914,000); seven university alliance studentships
(£588,000); 13 graduate tutor studentships (£1.3m); seven fees-only studentships (£256,000); and
three EU COFUND projects (£189,000).
Research centre postgraduate project opportunities are advertised annually via the university web
pages and findaphd.com, and are promoted via postgraduate open days and university/school and
researchers’ social media. We work closely with the student recruitment and marketing (SRM)
team to ensure our recruitment process is accessible to all protected groups and that our advert
outlines our commitment to equality, diversity inclusion. FAQs (including those related to access)
are posted on the postgraduate student web pages and student enquiries are fielded to potential
supervisors via the postgraduate tutors who oversee postgraduate supervision. Specialised
support for international applicants requiring student visas is overseen by staff within the
admissions and compliance functions of international admissions located within SRM.
We co-manage the University Alliance (UA) doctoral training alliance (DTA) Energy programme,
which involves 14 universities and is focused on producing doctoral graduates to address global
energy challenges. DTA Energy provided training for seven PhD students between 2016 and 2020,
including: seminars on topic-specific training; a mandatory two-day induction for networking; an
annual two to three day summer school and conference; elective training events that bring the DTA
programme cohort together from participating institutions.
We are part of a €13m Horizon 2020 COFUND funded DTA3 project (an extension to the UA DTA
programme, grant number 801604), which brings together a consortium of 12 universities in
England and Wales. The aim of DTA3 is to develop researchers to be internationally connected
with the interdisciplinary and industry skills required for employment in European and UK priority
challenge areas; it hosts an autumn induction and an annual summer school and in 2019 initiated
an international conference on Energy and Sustainable Futures (co-chaired by Vukovic). Selected
papers are published in special issues of the International Journal of Design Engineering and
Frontiers in Engineering Management, 2019. Three students have been recruited through DTA3,
and we expect to appoint four more by 2022.
Directors of PhD study (DoS) and postgraduate research tutors run a research diagnostic for each
PhD student in their first three months to identify needs and proposals are put forward for to
improve gaps in students’ knowledge and understanding. Our induction and progression processes
include an individual training needs analysis and local training is delivered via a research centre
programme to support research practice.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
English language support for postgraduate research students and researchers is provided, as
required, by the university’s English Language Centre.
In addition, the research centres provide students with access to a bench fees budget of £2,500
per annum for equipment, use of external research facilities and consumables.
Meetings between the student and the supervisory team are recorded via the university’s e-Vision
system to track supervisory meetings and monitor postgraduate progression. Monthly reports from
supervisors are monitored by the school to ensure progress-related issues are addressed as early
as possible. Annual progress is monitored through an annual review, which is a formal interim
assessment point.
The unit hosts a monthly forum for PhD students to rehearse presentations and communicate their
research. It provides an opportunity for students to exchange ideas, share experiences and find out
about development opportunities. A postgraduate lounge is located centrally on campus to
strengthen the postgraduate community and enable students to meet informally, across disciplines.
Our research students present their work at our annual research conference attended by industry
representatives and international visiting researchers. Feedback on technical content and
presentation style is given through a panel of experts.
Following the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020 all postgraduate students were issued with a
blanket three-month extension with the option of requesting a further three-month extension where
they have been unable to continue with their research. The university met the additional fee and
stipend costs where external funding was unavailable.

Equality and diversity
The university’s Equal Opportunities Policy guides all recruitment, promotion, and research
activities. Our staff complete the university’s mandatory training on equality and diversity within a
three-year period, and new staff (monitored by the research centre leads) are encouraged to
complete this within their first year. Our unit is committed to equality and diversity and staff are
active in supporting a number of university, school and unit initiatives. For example, Dawood N and
Thompson are both Athena Swan champions working to deliver the university’s Athena Swan
Bronze action plan to address the underrepresentation of female staff in the unit and supporting
preparations for an Athena Swan Silver application in 2021. Jayne (2020) is leading the
establishment of the Teesside Women in Engineering Group to promote female staff in engineering
and support their career development.
Our equality impact assessment (EIA) has shown that women are underrepresented in the unit for
both eligible and submitted staff. Of 151 eligible staff, 111 are male (73.5 per cent) and 40 are
female (26.5 per cent). Of the 79 staff with SRfR, 59 are male (75 per cent) and 20 are female (25
per cent).
Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff are also underrepresented in the unit’s eligible staff pool,
however this pattern is reversed for those staff with SRfR who are part of this submission. Of the
151 eligible FTE staff, 87 are white (58 per cent) and 61 are BAME (40 per cent). Of the 78.6 FTE
staff with SRfR, 31 are white (39 per cent) and 47 BAME (59 per cent).
The number of staff who disclosed a disability, and low disclosure rates against sexual orientation,
limit the extent to which conclusions could be drawn within the EIA. The relatively low level of
disclosure is of concern to the unit and we will continue to work with the university’s active
LGBTQ+ focus group. A number of events and campaigns to increase visibility and awareness are
held by the university. This has included a video, a coming-out story, which university staff and
students contributed to.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A number of improvements to equal opportunities at university and unit level have been achieved
during the period. As a result of the current Athena Swan action plans, the university has changed
its recruitment to include: using advertising language that is proven, preferred, modern language
for attracting a broader range of applicants; identifying its family friendly policies, including flexible
working, job share, sabbtaicals and secondments; and encouraging the promotion of vacancies
through social media, which has been supported locally for both staff vacancies and postgraduate
studentship opportunities.
To guard against unconscious bias, and in line with the DORA action plan, the university’s
recruitment and promotions guidance informs applicants that bibliometric measures such as the H-
index or journal impact factor (JIF) will not be considered. Instead, it asks candidates to identify up
to four outputs that they would be prepared to talk about at interview in terms of their significance
and wider impact. These practices have been implemented at both school and unit level. In line
with our university code of practice, both external and internal reviewers evaluating the quality of
research outputs for this submission were advised not to base their judgement on JIFs.
Since 2018, three years of Athena Swan data on gender (at university and school level) have been
analysed and presented to the Athena Swan champions as part of an annual Athena Swan review.
These data include information on gender in relation to recrutiment, shortlisting, promotions and
training opportunities. The champions consider local and university-wide changes that can be
implemented to make a positive difference to the diversity and equality of opportunity at unit,
school and university level. As a result, in 2020, Thompson supported a revision to the promotions
criteria and protocols and the unit and schools have implemented recommendations for staff
returning from materinity such as the maternity passport, carer policy and carer passport.
Since 2018, we have been part of an EPSRC-funded consortium of nine universities and six
industrial partners, Northern Power: Making Engineering And Physical Sciences Research A
Domain For All In The North Of England, EP/S012206/1, to shape an inclusive culture in the
engineering and physical sciences community that supports and sustains greater equality for all,
including traditionally under-represented groups (such as women, disabled people, LGBT+, and
BAME researchers). The aim is to transform cultures to enable a wider and more diverse pool of
talented individuals to progress within the community, which will ultimately produce better science
to address complex and important global challenges. Tools, webinars, training materials and an
inclusion matters newsletter have been developed and shared across the unit and staff have been
invited to join the network’s reciprocal mentoring scheme.
To further support equality, diversity and inclusion, and the region, the university (led by Jayne)
signed up to Tomorrow’s Engineer’s Code which pledges to support young people to participate in
impactful engineering-inspiration activities regardless of characteristics, socio-economic
background, prior attainment or location.
Two training sessions were delivered by Advance HE for staff involved in the preparation of the
REF2021 submissions (for example the associate dean for research and innovation, the UoA 12
committee, impact champions and impact case study authors) on EDI issues in relation to the
university’s code of practice protocols for identifying staff with SRfR, determining independence
and the selection of outputs.
Staff with long-term illness, or caring responsibilities, are supported by their school’s flexible
working arrangements and carer’s passport scheme which supports discussions between staff and
their managers about bespoke support for their circumstances.




                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
Income
Our annual RGCI increased by 57 per cent over the period, from £0.8m in 2014 to £1.3m in 2020.
Our aim to grow research grant and contract income has been focused on: developing a portfolio
of projects in key areas by engaging in large consortia funded by the European Commission;
providing early and mid-career researchers with the opportunity to participate in these projects; and
developing industry partnerships through collaborative research, including KTPs.
Forty per cent of our income (£3.6m) was generated through EU research funding programmes
Framework Programme 7 (FP7) and Horizon 2020 (H2020). We have used these projects to
develop tools and technologies in key areas within our research centres.
This includes a portfolio of projects with a total value to the unit of €3.8m based on ICT for energy
efficiency in the built environment. These projects have supported the development, refinement
and demonstration of prediction/forecasting tools, optimisation models, visualisation technologies,
and integration platforms. These have been incorporated into energy management and decision
support tools, with key contributions from the unit as follows:
   •   SEMANCO (Semantic Tools for Carbon Reduction in Urban Planning), Grant Agreement
       (GA) 287534, 2011-14. €2.7m for nine partners, including €0.5m for the unit.
       Key contributions: identifying user requirements to inform the selection, design, integration,
       and implementation of energy simulation and trade-off visualisation tools. The project
       developed methodologies for constructing 3D models from images taken by drones. These
       have been used and developed further in the eDREAM project (see below).
   •   IDEAS (Intelligent NeighbourhooD Energy Allocation and Supervision), GA 600071, 2012-
       15. €2.7m for 10 partners, including €0.5m for the unit as project coordinator.
       Key contributions: defining and operationalising the concept of energy positivity in
       neighbourhoods; developing specifications for an ICT-based neighbourhood energy
       management tool; prototype development of the energy management system. The tools
       have been refined and used for the DR-BOB project below as optimisation energy tools for
       energy demand response.
   •   DR-BOB (Demand Response in Blocks of Buildings), GA 696114, 2016-19. €4.3m for 10
       partners including €0.9m for the unit as project coordinator.
       Key contributions: development of the local optimisation and decision support system for
       demand response, and integration with a cloud-based platform; developing implementation
       strategies for the demonstration sites; running the UK demonstration site; analysis of results.
       The tools have been customised and are currently been adopted in eDREAM (see below).
   •   InteGRIDy (Integrated Smart GRID Cross-Functional Solutions for Optimized Synergetic
       Energy Distribution, Utilization Storage Technologies), GA 731268, 2017-21. €12.3m for 32
       partners, including €0.6m for the unit.
       Key contributions: leading the work packages and tasks relating to life cycle assessment
       and cost/benefit analysis of implementing energy efficient solutions and an integrated portal
       for ten pilot sites across the EU. This uses methods and processes developed in IDEAS
       above.
   •   eDREAM (enabling new Demand Response Advanced, Market oriented and Secure
       technologies, solutions and business models), GA 774478, 2018-21. €3.8m for 10 partners
       including €0.5m for the unit.
       Key contributions: energy consumption baseline modelling; work package lead for



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      integrating visualisation and optimisation tools for DR services, which includes further
      development of the visualisation tools from the SEMANCO project.
  •   REACT (Renewable Energy for self-sustAinable island CommuniTies), GA 824395, 2019-
      22. €9m for 23 partners, including €0.6m for the unit.
      Key contributions: leading work package on the user context and socio-economic analysis;
      infrastructure integration; supporting development of energy prediction and optimization
      tools, including further development of the optimisation tools from IDEAS and DR-BOB.
  •   SMEmPower Efficiency (A holistic framework for Empowering SME's capacity to increase
      their energy efficiency), GA 847132, 2019-22. €2m for 11 partners, including €0.2m for the
      unit. Key contributions: development of energy analytics tools; technical support and UK-
      wide promotion of project opportunities. This project tackles energy efficiency in SME
      manufacturing companies.
This work has been led by Dawood N, Crosbie and Short, and opportunities to gain experience
from the projects as co-investigators have been provided to Pillai, Shadman-Pajouh and Vukovic.
Dawood H, and Rodriguez were employed as research associates on these projects before moving
into lecturer roles during the REF period.
The project portfolio led by Ali and Islam is based on the use of research funding to support low
technology readiness level (TRL) projects, accessing translational funding for work at a higher
TRL, and moving from national to international funding to extend the impact and reach of the
research.
TRL 3/4 research on cavity enhanced absorption (CEA) detection was supported via FP7 project
CE-microArray (Cavity Enhanced Microarray as an Ultra-sensitive Tool to Aid Sepsis Diagnosis,
GA 606618, €1.1m including €0.4m to the unit as coordinator) and H2020 project GateOne
(Innovation Service for European Smartization by SMEs, GA 644856, €5.4m for 10 partners,
including €0.4m for the unit. The unit’s IP on CEA detection in liquids (US 8,325,342 B2) was
exclusively licensed to university spin-out company Anasyst, which subsequently led a translational
research project (TRL 5/7) from the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Invention for
Innovation (i4i) programme (Grant reference II-BP-0817-10012) to develop a point-of-care
diagnostic for sepsis using CEA detection. Anasyst is in the process of seeking investment funding
to commercialise the system.
Overall, 47 per cent (£4.3m) of our funding over the period came from UK industry and government
to support collaborative research including Innovate UK-funded collaborative R&D projects and
KTPs. Over the period we have delivered 27 KTPs and two (ERDF-funded) short KTPs with a
number of companies including: Ryder Architecture, Colour Urban Design, Niven Architects,
Hodgson Sayers, Sotech, Applied Integration, Datum 360, Unasys, Charles Clinkard Teleware,
Lexonic, Modus and VisualSoft.
Innovate UK projects have focused on three areas: Food manufacture and processing techniques
(Increasing Efficiency in Fried Food Production: Oil Take-Up, Energy Use and Shelf-Life, grant
23279-161174; MCAP2 - Measurement and Control of Acrylamide in Production Processes, grant
94447-562636); Advanced materials for high performance in extreme environments (Advanced
Electrical Machines Technologies for Aircraft, Aemta, grant 36590-262175 and High Temperature
Materials for Electrical Machines HiVEM, grant 101487/ETC00220) and healthcare technologies
combining expertise from the HIC and the Centre for Digital Innovation (Intelliscan and QuickFit
projects).
Senior appointments made during the cycle (three professors and four readers) will deliver
additional income growth beyond 2021 and support ECRs to develop their first awards. Our


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research strategy (2020-25) commits to invest in 14 senior appointments and to attract research
fellowships with a view to increasing the financial sustainability of the unit.
This along with our investment in facilities (£12m Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre, £2m ERDF-
funded Industrial Digitalisation Technology Centre and £13m Digital Life centre) and TWI
innovation centres will support the generation of future collaborative research income.

Infrastructure and facilities
Engineering researchers can access a range of facilities within the university, with much of this
equipment base having been developed through university investment in this REF census period.
This is due to be substantially further enhanced through the investment plans for the next five
years, including a £12m Net Zero Innovation Centre opening 2022 and providing specialist
research capability in: hydrogen and other low C fuels; energy conversion and storage, intelligent
energy and industrial systems; the circular economy, advanced recycling and resource recovery
technologies; digital modelling and simulation; thermal technologies. A further £13m investment is
planned in our Digital Life Centre which will include significant infrastructure to support our
research in digital and computing technologies.
In 2016, we invested £3.1m in our main engineering building, followed by an additional £2.6m
upgrade to further enhance our laboratory facilities with equipment to support chemical engineering
and materials engineering and manufacturing activities, process control, manufacturing and food-
processing.
Our equipment base for manufacturing research now includes: polymer processing; 3D printing;
robotic production and assembly; anodisation and electroplating; lean manufacturing cell, robotic
production and assembly; a specialist system for the production of electrical insulation on wire (at
the kilometre scale) and wound components; supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
control laboratory; and various biomanufacturing facilities including reactor column, sterilise-in-
place (SIP) bioreactor and retort pasteurisation, plus water treatment.
We have a range of electrical test facilities from picoamp up to the kilovolt range, a range of
mechanical testing facilities for static and dynamic loads from the micro scale up to a heavy
structural testing laboratory, as well geotechnical characterisation, testing and measurement. Other
Geotechnical research facilities support experimental work related to the characterisation of porous
media (such as rocks) with particular application in carbon capture and storage.
In addition, between 2018 and 2020, approximately £80,000 of seed-corn funding has been
invested in a testing facility for development of novel techniques for Li-Ion battery state-of-health
and state-of-charge estimation. To date this has yielded six journal articles, has supported the work
of three PhD research students and helped to support two funding bids.
These activities are supported by a full range of modelling software for design, mechanical and
finite element analysis (NX I-DEAS, SolidWorks) and for the analysis of buildings and architecture
(Autodesk REVIT, Uc/Win Road, Bently), and a general purpose workshop with dedicated
technical staff, which is extensively used to support research activities. These facilities have been
used for KTPs and research projects on the development of BIM funded by the Qatar National
Research Fund (Development and Application of a Novel and Integrated Performance Driven
Approach for Assessing, Benchmarking and Improving BIM Competency of Qatar’s Construction
Industry Practitioners, NPRP 9-124-2-062).
Other specialist digital research facilities include networked computing studios for programming,
cybersecurity, web and application development. Our games, animation and visual effects studios
provide research facilities to support virtual reality and augmented reality, animation and digital


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
compositing, games and application development alongside a networked render farm, which allows
for optimisation of digital assets.
We have access to a £5m suite of chemical analysis facilities including: liquid chromatography with
ion trap mass spectrometric detection; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry and atomic
absorption spectrometry for elemental analysis in a range of matrices; a 400 MHz nuclear
magnetic resonance facility, X-ray fluorescence and X-ray diffraction; EDX equipped scanning
electron microscopy; a range of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and high performance
liquid chromatographic capabilities; and thermal analysis.
Other analytical facilities include: microscopic infra-red and Raman spectroscopies for micro-scale
chemical analysis; physical and chemical surface measurement techniques including surface
energy and atomic force microscopy; and a dedicated CATLAB system for the real time
measurement of catalyst chemistry using Mass Spectroscopy, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET)
analysis.
In 2019, the university opened the National Horizons Centre, a £22m purpose-built research centre
with extensive materials-characterisation facilities further enhancing our research infrastructure
and facilities including: a wide range of ultra-performance liquid chromatography and gas
chromatography capability; confocal microscopy; confocal Raman imaging; mass spectral imaging
(both MALDI and DESI); and integrated/Fourier transform infrared/near infrared/Raman
spectroscopy. Islam leads the materials characterisation aspects of research conducted at this
facility.
Our formal research partnerships through our innovation centres (with TWI) and regional heath
trusts have also allowed us to access and develop a range of specialist facilities to support our
research on biomedical device development through the HIC. These include a joint facility for micro
structuring and metrology of miniaturised devices developed with TWI in Middlesbrough, which is
located close to the university. Our equipment at this site includes: a scanning electron microscope
(SEM) with focused ion beam (FIB) (FEI Quanta 200 3Di); inkjet 3D printing (Stratsys, Objet 350
Connex 3); and micro-milling (Datron M9 mill). TWI’s equipment includes: an atomic force
microscope (Bruker, Innova); white light interferometer (Bruker, Contour GT-K); and tribometer
(Bruker, UMT Tribolab).
This joint equipment set has been used for the fabrication and characterisation of microfluidic
devices, novel pressure and shear sensors and instrument prototypes for various projects. This
includes the GateOne, SepsisPoC and QuickFit projects listed above, and the Horizon 2020
SocketSense project (Advanced Sensor-based Design and Development of Wearable Prosthetic
Socket for Amputees, GA 825429). We also benefit from the additional expertise available within
TWI and the development of links with TWI’s industrial partners and clients, while our research
partnerships with two large NHS trusts in South Tees and North Tees provide us with access to
clinical facilities and anonymised data, for example to support the Intelliscan project.
In addition to these strategic research partnerships, a number of staff are involved and supported
in active collaborations with other institutions which provide access to specialist facilities not
available in-house, for example Islam (Oxford and Cambridge), Dawood N (Miyagi, Japan, and
Gyeongsang National University, South Korea), Ali (VTT, Finland), and Sargent (RMIT, Australia).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Support for collaboration
Our approach to collaborations and partnerships is reflected in our innovation centres with TWI,
industrial projects funded by Innovate UK, the EU and other international funders (detailed in
section 3 and below.) Staff are supported to develop collaborations including internationally

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through: targeted advice in their PDPR and ongoing support from their mentor; the development of
personalised bidding plans; the allocation of pump-priming funds; support for conference and
networking event attendance and collaborative visits.
Horizon scanning for collaborative funding opportunities is supported by Research and Innovation
Services and the Department for Academic Enterprise. These departments provide weekly
bulletins about research opportunities, support to identify and develop links with targeted industry
partners, bid development and post-award support.
The outcomes and impacts of collaborative projects are used to deepen links with existing partners
and build relationships with new stakeholders. They are also used in teaching, including the
development of final-year undergraduate and MSc projects, and in the university’s students as
researchers scheme, which provides paid positions for students to work on a live staff research
project. Project outcomes and initiatives such as the establishment of the innovation centres with
TWI are shared at research centre and theme meetings so that links to other research areas can
be identified and opportunities for collaboration explored. The innovation centres hold quarterly
meetings with TWI to review funding roadmaps and horizon scanning exercises.
Staff are supported to hold conferences on-site, with examples including: the European Steel
Environment and Energy Congress (ESEC) in 2014; Adapting buildings for future climate change
(ADAPTBUILD) in 2017, a joint event with the University Alliance DTA and the Australian
Technology Network of Universities (ATN); and the Analysis of and Analysis on Networks
workshop with the support of the London Mathematical Society in 2019.
Staff are also supported to make and host research visits, including: Pak, who visited Brazil,
including the Brazilian Synchrotron Light Laboratory and the universities of Parana and Sao Paolo,
leading to the development of her GCRF QR project detailed in section 1; Pang, who visited the
Polymer Materials Institute, Sichuan University and the Biomaterials Department, Southwest
Jiaotong University, China to present his work on high temperature insulation and electrode
materials; and Sargent who visited North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power
to discuss alkali activated cements in soil stabilisation and geopolymers.
The unit also encourages staff to host visits, with examples over the period including: researchers
from: the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, India (Ali); National University of Singapore (Qin);
RMIT University, Australia (Sargent); and Beihua University, Najing Institute of Technology,
Anyang Institute of Technology, and Wuhan Polytechnic University, China (Xu).
Senior staff (Ali, Dawood N) have provided opportunities throughout the period for others to benefit
from their networks by participating in funded projects (Crosbie, Islam, Short, Vukovic), and these
staff are now providing similar opportunities in turn within the projects they lead (to Dawood H,
Pillai, Rodriguez, Shadman-Pajouh).

Collaborative and interdisciplinary projects
Our research is aligned to regional (Tees Valley Combined Authority), national (Industrial Strategy,
EPSRC) and international (H2020/Horizon Europe, UN sustainable development goals) priorities,
allowing us to respond to emerging initiatives using interdisciplinary approaches.
We have an established track-record of providing a combination of technical and social expertise to
projects, both within the unit and in collaboration with other research centres across the university
and external partners. Key themes of this work include user engagement, user needs and
experience, technology acceptance and implementation and ethical issues as seen in the following
examples:




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   The REACT project combines Short and Pillai’s work on sustainable technologies and
      control engineering with Crosbie and Shadman-Pajouh’s expertise in user experience
      evaluation to demonstrate the potential of renewable energy systems to bring economic and
      social benefits.
  •   The What is in a Meter project aims to extend the technical aspects of energy metering into
      the broader aspects of impact on access to water and electricity. This combines expertise in
      the build environment and ICT (Crosbie), modelling and simulation of energy systems
      (Pillai), and public health, (Newbury-Birch, centre for social innovation).
  •   The SMEmPower Efficiency project combines technological expertise in energy informatics
      (Dawood N) with business models (Dawood H) and processes to create innovation
      (Rodriguez, Patacas)
  •   The PYROCHAR project (PYROlysis Based Process to Convert Small WWTP Sewage
      Sludge into Useful bioCHAR, FP7 research for SMEs, 603394) combined Ennis and Olea’s
      research on heterogeneous catalytic technology and pyrolysis with external expertise in
      European and national wastewater regulations.
  •   Exploring approaches to enhance the safety and ethical implications of the global race to
      develop artificial intelligence through a prestigious international collaborative Future of Life
      Institute project (Han)
  •   The development of 3D Structured Light imaging techniques, technical and associated
      ethical standards and for Forensic Medicine, Criminal Investigation, Forensic Anthropology
      and Archaeology (Thompson) – also submitted as an impact case study. [ICS N6]
Our track record of collaborative projects includes work within our research centres. At the Centre
for Sustainable Engineering we have delivered the FP7 and H2020 projects on ICT for energy
efficiency outlined in section 3, and the following Newton Fund projects developed collaboratively
with international partners:
  •   Micro-Bubble Aeration System for Aquaculture Under Energy, Water Quality and Biofloc
      Circulation Constraints In Malaysia (EPSRC/Newton Fund, EP/P018211/1) (Hamad with
      University of Malaya)
  •   Introducing New Techniques to Manage Challenging Oil Reservoirs (NRCP1516/4/46,
      Rezaei Gomari with Centro Universitário da FEI, Brazil)
  •   Development of X-ray Tomographic Techniques to Investigation of Fluid Transport in Porous
      Rocks (NRCP1516/1/159, Pak with Federal University of Santa Catarina, Brazil)
  •   Exploring Adsorption Efficacy of Sustainable Nanoporous Carbons Produced from
      Agricultural By-Products (NRCP1516/1/83, Yin with Hanoi National University of Education,
      Vietnam)
  •   Development of Sustainable Nanocellulose-Based Sorbents for Industrial Wastewater
      Treatment (264232317, Yin/Ali with Centro de Investigación en Materiales Avanzados, S.C.
      (CIMAV), Mexico).
Other collaborations with a range of international partners including: in Europe with the Technical
University of Denmark (Suleman), Universitat de les Illes Balears in Mallorca (Short), University of
Contabria in Spain (Baldini), University of Turin in Italy (Pak), Universities of Warsaw and Wrocław
in Poland (Baldini); In Asia-Pacific with the Chinese University of Hong Kong (Li E), the Indian
Institute of Technology Bombay (Pillai), Institute of Microelectronics of the Chinese Academy of
Sciences (Li J), Monash University Malaysia (Subramonian), Nanyang Technological University,
Singapore, Universitas Multimedia Nusantara, Indonesia (Al Kafri), Universiti Teknologi
PETRONAS, Malaysia (Suleman, Syed) VIT Chennai, India (Short), University of New South

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Wales (Baldini, Syed); University of Sydney and University of Wollongong, (Li E); and in North
America with East Carolina University (Sargent), Ontario Tech University (Patel), University of
Cincinnati (Li E), University of New Mexico and University of South Florida (Baldini), University of
Western Ontario (Taylor).
Some of our major research collaborations at the Centre for Digital Innovation in this period
include:
   •   The FP7, H2020, FLI, Innovate UK and NIHR projects detailed in section 3 on diagnostic
       devices and artificial intelligence
   •   An AI-enabled Digital Diagnosis, Empowerment and Participatory Platform for HFMD
       Surveillance (British Council Newton Fund, 527643161, Razzaque with King Mongkut's
       University of Technology Thonburi, Thailand)
   •   The Improvement of TV Show and Film Recommendation Through Artificial Intelligence and
       Machine Learning (Innovate UK project, 104578, Angione/Zeng with industry partners)
Other international collaborations have been carried out with European partners including:
Fraunhofer Institute for Photonic Microsystems, Germany; CEA-Leti & LAAS CNRS, France; VTT,
Finland; KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Sweden; CSEM, Switzerland; IKERLAN, Spain (all
Ali); EM Normandie Business School, France (Chang); Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Free
University of Brussels (Han); National Research Council of Italy (Occhipinti). In Asia we have
worked with the Chinese Academy of Science, Nanjing University, Shenzhen University, East
China Normal University, Nanyang Technological University and the National University of
Singapore (Qin); and in North America partners include PwC Labs, California and Quinnipiac
University USA (Chang).

Impact and engagement
Beyond our impact case studies, our research has enabled commercial, environmental and social
impact, and our staff are supported by their mentors to embed impact into their bidding plans and
project development.
Our focus on KTPs allows us to directly apply our research outcomes working with industry
partners. Over the period, we have delivered KTPs focusing on manufacturing, building and
fabrication, architecture, energy, advanced materials, automated systems, instrumentation for
process control, biotechnology and pharmaceuticals, digital forensics, software development, and
hazard detection and protection including for the oil and gas and petrochemical industries. These
areas reflect the range of strengths within our research centres.
We also engage with H2020 and ERDF projects to develop impact from our research. The
GateOne H2020 (Ali) project provided ‘innovation as a service’ to accelerate smart systems
adoption by European SMEs by facilitating access to advanced technologies. We supported the
application of additive manufacturing technologies by local SMEs via the ERDF Innovate Tees
Valley project (022NE1420) and are currently a partner with TWI in the ERDF SME Innovation
Accelerator (34R20P041338). This programme aims to support innovation in new products and
processes amongst SMEs in the Tees Valley including by providing product prototyping support.
We participate in a regional ERDF initiative, Intensive Industrial Innovation Project Tees Valley
(34R17P02148) and Intensive Industrial Innovation Project North East (25R17P01847), to deliver
collaborative PhD programmes with industry partners. This provides unit members with an
opportunity to work directly with industry, with relationships brokered by the university. Six students
have been recruited across a range of projects, including: the development of novel optical
measurement tools for the measurement of vital signs in clinical practice; strategic recycling and


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
valorisation of waste plastics to support the circular economy; and the metabolic modelling of
biofilms
As part of the IDHIC and our commitment to the Net Zero Industry Innovation Centre, we have
used ERDF funds to develop a hydrogen demonstrator lab (Tees Valley Hydrogen Innovation
Project, 34R17P02147). Led by Krishnan and Russell, the aim is to support SMEs in the Tees
Valley to access academic expertise and engage with the opportunities afforded by the hydrogen
economy, based on purifying the hydrogen produced by industry for domestic use. Although
affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, the project has supported three companies to date and is due
to run until 2023.
We work in partnership with the Universities of York and Hull on the Research England Connecting
Capability Fund THYME project (Teesside, Hull and York mobilising bioeconomy knowledge
exchange), which supports collaborative research with industry partners. Our activities include: the
development of a scaled-down automated micro-bioreactor system with integrated downstream
analytics for bioprocessing (Ali/ Montague with Unilever), which demonstrates the miniaturised
microbioreactor developed within GateOne; an investigation of the repurposing of process scale
assets to demonstrate anaerobic digestion innovations (Montague with Yorkshire Water); the
application of a novel triglyceride oil from Alexanders seed in food products (He with Naturiol
Bangor); and the fabrication of a microbubble bioreactor to facilitate rapid growth of the
extremophile Galdieria to convert the combination of waste bio-glycerol and waste jewellery acid to
high value phycocyanin (Angione with Perlemax).
We benefit from strong links to major companies based in the local area, such as Fujifilm Diosynth
Biotechnologies, the Centre for Process Innovation and the South Tees Development Corporation
(STDC), which manages Teesworks, the largest industrial zone in Europe comprising a brownfield
site on the banks of the river Tees. We have collaborated with the Centre for Process Innovation
and Fujifilm on the application of constraint-based modelling techniques for multi-omic
characterisation of cell metabolism (Angione), with Fujifilm on a collaborative PhD on a microfluidic
tool for cell line production (Ali) and with STDC on ground remediation (Sargent).

Contribution to the discipline
Unit members are active on grant committees, including full membership of the EPSRC peer
review college (Dawood N, Han, Qin), and membership of the UKRI future leaders fellowships peer
review college (Ali, Qin) and the college of experts for the global effort on Covid-19 health research
call (Ali). Additional grant committee membership includes: the UK Doctoral Researcher Awards,
Scientific Executive Committee (Angione); the Government of Ireland Postgraduate Scholarship
Program STEM Outer Board and Postdoctoral Fellowship Scholarship Scheme STEM Outer Board
(Baldini); and the Research Council of Oman (Suleman).
Unit members are also grant reviewers for funders including: BEIS (Vukovic); British Council (Al-
Greer); Dutch Research Council NWO (Islam); European Commission (Baldini, Hossein, Vukovic);
Innovate UK (Ali, Rahimian); Innovation Fund Denmark (Vukovic); Irish Research Council (Baldini)
Leverhulme Trust (Baldini, Rahimian); Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of
Canada (Li); Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology (Vukovic); Research Foundation
Flanders (Pak); Swiss National Science Foundation (Islam); and UKRI (Angione, Baldini, Hamad,
Hossain, Pak, Rahimian, Short, Vukovic).
Staff are also members of a range of professional bodies and societies including: Association for
Computing Machinery (ACM); Institute of Chemical Engineers; Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE); Institution of Civil Engineers; Institution of Engineering and
Technology (IET); Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE); and the Royal Society of
Chemistry.

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff hold fellowships at: Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences (Thompson); Geological Society
of London (Sargent); Institute of Biomedical Science (Taylor); Royal Anthropological Institute
(Collings, Thompson); Royal Society of Biology (Thompson); Royal Society of Chemistry (Ali); and
an honorary fellowship of the Faculty of Forensic & Legal Medicine (Thompson).
Jayne is president elect of the International Neural Network Society (INNS).
Prizes awarded to unit members during the period include: the best paper award (mechatronics
track) at IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation Sciences 2020 (Short); the
MCED award for innovative contributions to ecological modelling 2016 (Angione); the Asian Pacific
Association for Computational Mechanics award for young investigators in computational
mechanics at the Asian Pacific Congress on Computational Mechanics 2019 (Li E); the
international computational method young investigator award at the 10th International Conference
on Computational Methods 2019 (Li E); and the best paper award at Proceedings of the 4th World
Congress on Momentum, Heat and Mass Transfer 2019 (Patel).
Examples of editorial responsibilities during the period include:
   •   Editor-in-chief roles: Journal of Forensic and Legal Medicine (Thompson); Micro and
       Nanosystems (Ali); Science and Justice (Thompson); Smart and Sustainable Built
       Environment (Rahimian).
   •   Editor roles: Future Generation Computer Systems (Chag); Information Fusion (Chang);
       International Journal of 3D Printing Technologies and Digital Industry (Hughes);
       International Journal of Architectural Research: ArchNet-IJAR (Rahimian).
   •   Associate editor roles: BMC Bioinformatics (Angione); Energies (Short); IEEE Access (Qin);
       IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics (Chang); IEEE Transactions on Neural
       Networks and Learning Systems (Jayne); IET Power Electronics (Al-Greer); International
       Journal of Intelligent Automation and Soft Computing (Xu); International Journal of
       Computational Methods (Li E); Journal of Medical Imaging and Health Informatics (Li E);
       Open Access Journal of Science (Syed); PeerJ Computer Science (Qin); Smart and
       Sustainable Built Environment (Rodriguez).
   •   Editorial board membership: BioMed Research International (Angione); Construction
       Innovation, Information, Process, Management (Rahimian); Forensic Anthropology
       (Thompson); Frontiers in Robotics and AI (Han); Human Remains and Violence
       (Thompson); IoT Journal (MDPI) (Razzaque); International Journal of Distributed Sensor
       Networks (Razzaque); International Journal of Novel Ideas: Mathematics (Li E); International
       Journal of Speleology (Baldini); PLOS One (Han); Journal of Forensic Sciences
       (Thompson); Soil Forensics (Taylor); Visualization in Engineering (Rahimian).
Dawood N founded and continues to lead the annual International Conference on Construction
Applications of Virtual Reality (CONVR). This has been held in 15 countries since 2000, and brings
together a community of researchers from a range of architecture, civil engineering and
construction disciplines to focus on the application of virtual reality and augmented reality
In addition, numerous staff have been involved as members of conference organising committees
both within the UK and internationally including for: the Association for The Advancement of
Artificial Intelligence; the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers; the IEEE; the
International Council for Research and Innovation in Building and Construction; and the
International Federation of Automatic Control.
Unit staff have undertaken a range of conference chair and organising committee memberships
including: Jayne as general chair of the Engineering Applications Neural Networks Conference
(EANN) in 2016 and 2019 and as program chair of the International Joint Neural Network

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Conference (IJCNN) in 2017; Chang as chair of the Enterprise Security (ES 2014, 2015 & 2016),
Emerging Software as a Service and Analytics (ESaaSA 2014 & 2015) events and the International
Conferences on Internet of Things, Big Data and Security (IoTBDS) in 2016 and 2020, and
Complexity, Future Information Systems and Risk (COMPLEXITY).




                                                                                      Page 22
