Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment: 34 - Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Core to the research environment and mission in UoA34 is the Centre for Research in Media
 and Cultural Studies (CRMCS) founded in 2000 to provide collegial support and a sense of
 collective purpose for academic staff and postgraduate students within the interdisciplinary fields
 of media and cultural studies. Located in the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries, CRMCS is
 managed by Caroline Mitchell (Associate Professor in Radio and Participation).

 All (7.6 FTE) researchers whose outputs are included in this UoA34 submission are participating
 members of CRMCS.

 CRMCS overall strategy is to advance and disseminate knowledge and practice in areas of
 critical concern to society. Our research activities, postgraduate research students and visiting
 scholars are spread across several areas of interest and engagement. To some extent these
 areas correspond to long-established academic fields or objects of investigation including media
 and communication studies, cultural studies and film studies, journalism and radio studies or
 work on texts and representation, audiences and reception, and industries and regulation.

 Research at CRMCS does not always fit neatly into traditional disciplinary categories since it
 also has cross-cutting concerns with matters of theory, history, technology, identity, sexuality,
 power, place, practice, performance and globalisation – but this has been our long-term
 strength.


 The group is made up of: Richard Berry (Senior Lecturer in Radio Studies); Steve Cannon
 (Senior Lecturer in Film Studies); Andy Cartwright (0.6 Senior Lecturer in Radio); Caroline
 Mitchell (Associate Professor in Radio and Participation) and John Price (Senior Lecturer in
 Journalism). Other researchers included in this submission include recent retirees Julia Knight
 (Professor of Moving Image); Shaun Moores (Professor of Media and Communications); Martin
 Shingler (Senior Lecturer in Film and Radio Studies) John Storey (Professor of Cultural
 Studies), Susan Smith (Associate Professor in Film Studies) and Trish Winter (Professor in Film
 and Cultural Studies); and two leavers Clarissa Smith (Professor of Sexual Cultures) and Guy
 Starkey (Professor of Radio and Journalism) Moores, Knight, Storey and Winter retired at
 different points in the assessment period and have a continued active association with the
 Centre as Emeritus Professors. The Faculty has renewed its commitment to supporting and
 developing the research of staff at an early career stage. Evidence of that commitment is the
 inclusion for the first time of work by ECR colleague Barbara Sadler a Lecturer in Media and
 Cultural Studies. The research work of a wider group of staff is being nurtured by means of
 teaching remission, collaborative projects and research mentoring, with a view to further renewal
 and development of our research culture in the five-year period following REF2021.


 1.2 Strategy: Research in the Centre grew significantly from its formation in 2000 to a wide base
 of established researchers whose work contributed to two very successful results in RAE2008
 (in which our overall rating was 15% 4*, 50% 3*, 30% 2* and 5% 1*) and REF2014 (overall
 rating 25% 4*; 38% 3*; 33% 2* and 4% 1*).


 CRMCS's principal strategic aim has been the promotion and maintenance of a lively and
 inclusive research environment. To that end, direct financial support has been given to support
 research outputs as well as a programme of teaching relief and conference attendance;
 mentoring and support has been offered to early careers colleagues and PhD students; and
 development of publishing opportunities, conference hosting and seminars within the Centre

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been supported. Between 2014 and 2018, all Media staff members submitted Annual
 Research Plans (ARP) to CRMCS outlining their activities in the coming year and reflecting on
 the previous year's research activities, showing how earlier plans had been followed through or
 modified. Central University research funds distributed to CRMCS were allocated based on
 these plans at a meeting of the Centre’s senior staff. Following the institution of the University’s
 Individual Research Plan (partly inspired by the Centre’s ARP), CRMCS staff now apply to and
 receive support from university research monies held centrally and determined according to an
 agreed tariff (see institutional environment statement for detail). The elements of research
 planning and reflection in the original ARP are now retained through a programme of meetings
 with the CRMCS Director and other mentoring activities.


 CRMCS has always looked outward, developing links with researchers in other universities and
 with broader academic networks and non-academic organisations at national and international
 levels, and increasing our bids for external funding to expand CRMCS's research activities
 (evidence below).


 We have made strategic efforts to increase recruitment of postgraduate research students,
 particularly full-time research students, offering a range of funded scholarships from within
 CRMCS-allocated budget and additionally through participation in the ESRC funded NINE DTP
 and the AHRC funded Northern Bridge DTP.


 1.3 Activities: The research seminar series (term-time since 2000) has been crucial to fostering
 exchange between researchers pursuing a range of disciplinary interests. Each year, the
 seminar programme features a mix of internal (staff and postgraduate) and external speakers.
 The numerous external speakers, both national and international, senior and ECR since August
 2013 have included: Susannah Paasonen (Turku); Debra Ferreday (Lancaster); Giovanna Maina
 (Sardinia); Frederico Zecco (University of Bari); Amy Donovan Blondell (Oxford Department of
 International Development); Dagmar Brunnow (Linne); Paul Maginn (Western Australia); Dan
 Hassler-Forrest (Amsterdam); Johnny Walker (Northumbria); Lise Dilling-Hansen (Aarhus).
 Catherine O'Rawe (Bristol); Lance Dann (Brighton). Invitations to external speakers are issued
 based on staff recommendations, and there is an explicit policy of inviting a variety of
 researchers, at different career levels, whose work will connect with our own distinctive spread
 of interests. Attendance at these events is regularly high (typically between 20-25), and
 seminars are followed by dinner for speaker, staff and postgraduates, helping to cement a strong
 sense of research community.


 CRMCS has organised and hosted the following academic conferences or symposia.
 April 2014: 1984: Where Are We Now?
 April 2015 Sexual Cultures 2
 May 2015 1st Sport and Discrimination
 November 2015 Toy Story at 20
 January 2016 Englishness Rising: The folkish impulse in new English identities
 March 2017 The F Word- Feminism and ArtWorks
 November 2017 Being Human, Lost and Found: Putting Southwick on the Map
 January 2019 Guy Starkey Memorial Symposium


 Members of CRMCS continue to organise conferences initiated by the Centre and hosted at
 other institutions: Price instituted and has organised the Sport and Discrimination Conference


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 since 2015, (Leeds Beckett University, Sep 2016; Oxford Brookes University, Sep 2018;
 Southampton Solent University, Sep 2019; Autonomous University of Barcelona, May 2020)
 while Cartwright instituted and has organised the Charles Parker Day since 2014 (Birmingham,
 2014; Glasgow, 2015; UWE, Bristol 2016; Sheffield Hallam, 2017; British Library, 2018;
 Bournemouth, 2019; Birmingham City, 2020) and C Smith instituted and organised Sexual
 Cultures 2012 (Brunel) and at the University of Sunderland, London Campus 2015 and Turku,
 Finland, 2019.


 In 2015, a day conference was held to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the founding of CRMCS
 and in 2019 a Memorial Symposium to mark the contribution of Professor Guy Starkey to Radio
 Studies and to CRMCS – Head of Media at Sunderland from 2010 Starkey was a key member of
 CRMCS until his departure to Bournemouth University in 2015. CRMCS also hosted a series of
 public events under the AHRC banner Being Human in 2016 and 2017. The event connected to
 the Mitchell and Winter’s project Putting Southwick on the Map, was recognized as
 ‘exceptional’ by the Festival’s Assessor and, as a result, Winter was invited to present to its
 Festival Masterclass at University College London in June 2018 to share experience and
 effective practice.


 The diversity of these events indicates the multi-disciplinary richness of our research
 environment and provides the conditions for new connections to be made within and beyond
 CRMCS community through staff or students exchange programmes, Visiting Professorship
 appointments and collaborative research projects. Since 2014 we have enjoyed links with
 universities in Austria (Vienna), China (CUC, Henan and Wuhan), Germany (Bielefeld, Bochum,
 Bremen and Paderborn), Italy (Udine and Bari), Spain (Murcia and Malaga) and the USA
 (Texas). CRMCS has proved attractive to foreign visiting scholars, and to facilitate a broadening
 of our international links we offer workspace, library and internet access, and admission to all
 CRMCS events. Five visiting scholars (from Germany, Denmark, Spain, France and Italy) have
 spent periods of time with us since 2014.


 To foster the development of our postgraduate culture, we host a research day event, principally
 for our research students and MA Media/Film and Cultural Studies students. With a view to the
 professional development of our postgraduates, responsibility for the organisation of day events,
 including the choice of theme, has been taken on by a research student committee. For
 example, a series of seminars co-hosted with Northumbria University, Sexy Seminars were
 aimed at 1st and 2nd year PhD students carrying out research related to sex and sexuality and
 drew speakers and attendees from the Universities of Birmingham, Durham, Hull, Newcastle,
 Winchester and York; we had also planned seminars on New Research in Gaming, unfortunately
 postponed due to C-19.


 1.4 Impact: As a civic university our research efforts have focused on global societal issues with
 relevance to the North East of England and Sunderland. Institutionally, an Impact Coordinator
 supports the research impact agenda.
 Training: All research staff have had training in using an impact tracker tool to plan for, and
 report, social, economic and environmental impact and impact training workshops are regularly
 hosted to enable staff to maximise the impact of their work.
 Partnerships: Research staff are supported to identify and develop beneficial relationships with
 external partners in government, industry and the public and charitable sectors to inform and
 develop impact from their research, innovation and impact activities.


 Research: Mitchell and Winter have partnered with local community organisations to learn
 from, inform and develop impact that has real resonance for Sunderland as well as wider

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 societal value. Price has developed projects with local, national and international creative
 industry partners which examine racism in sport, journalism and online platforms. CSmith has
 had considerable impact with policymakers, educators, and health practitioners.


 As evidenced in UoA34 ICS Mitchell’s HERA-funded project 'Transnational Radio Encounters:
 Mediations of Nationality, Identity and Community through Radio' produced the Webby Award-
 winning Radio Garden website and app. Released in 2016, this app continues to have impact as
 millions of listeners worldwide discover it anew, including during pandemic lockdown. Mitchell
 continues to work with partners, including the BBC, to use Radio Garden to explore world radio
 with different user groups.


 1.5 Public Engagement we continue to develop public engagement supported by the University’s
 communications team and a dedicated member of staff within the Research Office who
 facilitates research and impact opportunities through events, email communications, digital
 social media and on-line promotion (details of examples of these activities are given below).
 Since 2018 the Participations Interdisciplinary Research Network (co-ordinated by Mitchell) has
 been a significant contributor to the University’s cultural interface with the City of Sunderland
 through its monthly networking and support meeting for artists, media workers, researchers and
 organisations working together on socially oriented projects.


 Public engagement has been enhanced by collaboration with two wider Faculty interdisciplinary,
 collaborative projects: Co-Lab Sunderland and Creative Fuse. In 2019-20 Mitchell and Berry
 worked with Co-Lab Sunderland to explore the use of Podcasting and Comedy for research
 dissemination and there is an ongoing relationship between Creative Fuse North-East to fund
 and support internships relating to digital creative media practice and research and to further the
 impact and use of Mitchell’s Cultural mapping methodology C-MAP.


 1.6 Forward Planning: Reflecting changing staff interests and responding to student demand, we
 are building on the traditions and legacy of CRMCS and embracing new areas of media practice
 research in line with strategic direction of the University and new opportunities afforded by
 reorganised teams within the Faculty.


 The Unit’s current Research Strategy emerged from an evaluation of our REF14 return and
 evolved out of discussion in the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee chaired by the
 Dean of FACI (Prof Arabella Plouviez). This committee includes FACI Dean and Heads of
 School; Research Student Managers and UoA32/34 leaders and student reps.


 Research Aims (2019-2025)
    •       To ensure that all academic staff can develop research relevant to their subject
            specialism and their teaching.
    •       To support the research environment that enables staff to engage with relevant
            research both on-campus and through conference attendance.
    •       To support research students across the faculty to develop opportunities to share
            their research.
    •       To support opportunities for the sharing and dissemination of research, including for
            the benefit of students at all levels.
 Strategy to support



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Research culture and impact. Developing research as a habit, so that research is a part
        of every academics’ everyday experience. This would include supporting opportunities
        for academics to test their research through their teaching, through research
        events/exhibition as appropriate.
    •   A shared research environment for all researchers (academics and research students).
        Bring together a programme of on-campus events that operate in different subject areas,
        that enhance the research environment.
    •   Research student opportunities to meet and share their research such as regular
        reading/writing groups, research student conference.
    •   To develop Co Lab Sunderland as a mechanism to encourage cross-faculty research
        collaborations and interdisciplinary research.
    •   Opportunities for research funding and support for bid writing are shared across faculty.

 Recommendations to implementation
    •   That planning for each academic year incorporates a timetable for faculty research
        events and opportunities so that academic staff and research students can include that
        into their planning.
    •   An annual faculty research conference (spring) to support academic staff and research
        students.
    •   Develop opportunities for clearer visibility of pathways to research for all students.


 1.7 From 2021 we have developed new research clusters centred on the following Research
 Themes:
 1.7.1 Radio and Podcast Studies and Practices.
 Sunderland is a leading institution in research in Radio Studies (Emeritus Prof Crisell, Mitchell,
 Leavers Shingler and Starkey) Community radio, (Mitchell and Berry) Women and radio and
 Transnational radio (Mitchell); uses of sound archives in documentary, broadcast and online
 spaces (Cartwright, Mitchell) and the emerging field of Podcast studies, the intersections
 between the radio industry and the internet; trends in podcasting and online visual content
 (Berry).
 1.7.2 Journalism and Online Harms.
 Includes social media abuse and online discrimination; Tools for journalists about online hate
 speech and abuse anti-racism and sports journalism; contemporary issues in media law and
 social media.
 Price is leading Industry relevant journalism research including the creation of a Centre for
 Research into Online Harms. The centre would build on existing research by Sunderland
 academics into social media abuse and online discrimination. This includes the Google DNI
 funded SMART project which has produced a prototype, user-friendly AI tool for journalists to
 research stories about hate speech and abuse on Twitter. SMART – Social Media Abuse
 Research Tool – is aimed at helping journalists investigate and report social media abuse, and is
 a collaboration with Lynne Hall, Professor of Computer Science, Dr Kate MacFarlane, Senior
 Lecturer in Computer Science and Prof. Chris Bowerman, Professor of Data Science (Artificial
 Intelligence).
 The Centre aims to:
    •   Provide an inter-disciplinary research network involving academics from journalism,
        media, computing, psychology, sociology and health.
    •   Identify and facilitate high-quality, socially impactful research projects into online harms –
        and external funding bids to support such projects.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Develop working partnerships with relevant external bodies such as media publishers,
        police, politicians and other academic networks.
    •   Create a forum for critical discussion about online harms via seminars, conferences, and
        other events.
    •   Provide evidence-based training, advice and policy input on issues relating to online
        harms.
 1.7.3 Cultural Participation and Partnerships
 Includes developments of participatory media mapping and participation methodologies (C-MAP)
 and ongoing impact of Radio Garden and Southwick REACH research, (Mitchell). It also
 includes the University Participations Interdisciplinary Research Network and its participatory
 arts and social prescribing research work in partnership with Sunderland Culture, Cultural
 Spring, ArtWorks NE, Trylife TV and Dr Yitka Graham, Associate Professor in Health Services
 Research and the leader of the University’s Health and Care interdisciplinary Research Network.
 Participatory approaches to Performing Arts also includes ECR researcher (not submitted)
 Hulsmeier’s successful collaboration with Northumbria Police and social partners in raising
 awareness about issues impacting on society. In 2020 Dr. Susanne Burns was appointed
 Visiting Professor of Cultural Leadership to support interdisciplinary work in participatory arts
 and wellbeing.
 1.7.4 Television, Film and Games Studies
 Including complex TV narratives; Stardom, Spanish Film; Masculinities and representations of
 the male body, Social constructions of identity Audience engagement in TV Dramas and True
 Crime, TV and Feminisms, TV Audience Studies; Games cultures; Community Building in online
 Gaming; Affect and Emotion in Media.
 These new research themes serve two purposes, identifying emerging research areas and
 challenging thematic boundaries, ensuring that our research structures remain vital and
 appropriate. Priority areas for development are investing in new interdisciplinary initiatives (Price
 and colleagues) and enhancing our research infrastructure. Strategic interdisciplinary priorities
 include the development of Practice Based Research Initiatives (led by Mitchell, Price and
 Berry). Berry is preparing an external AHRC network bid about underrepresented groups as
 podcast creators and listeners.
 In our REF return we have worked with Art and Design PhD Alumnus Dominic Smith to present
 two radio practice outputs, in the form of a digital Mural – an open-source, ethical digital platform
 developed by Smith during his PhD studies. It is intended that Mural will eventually supplement
 the popular digital platforms currently favoured by sound practitioners – such as Mixcloud and
 SoundCloud.
 Our planning following REF2021 will provide staff with experience and skills appropriate to their
 stages of career: early career staff (including Sadler) to support research cluster/theme activities
 through reading and writing groups and ad hoc training events. Mentoring and the Annual IRP
 process will ensure that staff are supported in their publishing ambitions. Mid-career staff
 (Including Price and new appointment Larke - Walsh, the latter appointed early 2021) will
 coordinate research clusters and organisation of online research conferences and to develop
 funded research project under the guidance of or collaboration with senior staff. The IRP and
 Workload Planning process will allocate tasks strategically, recognising the needs of career
 development and providing the flexibility to react to research opportunities as they arise. It will
 also support academic leadership development creating opportunities for researchers to embed
 their work in the curriculum.
 2. People
 2.1 Staff and Staff Development: We are committed to supporting and developing the research
 of staff at an earlier career stage. Evidence of that commitment is the inclusion for the first time
 of work by Sadler and ongoing mentoring activities with production-based staff.
 The main purpose of the yearly research plans noted above is to encourage staff to reflect on
 and to think ahead to their developing body of academic work and the resources that are
 required to achieve their goals. Staff development is, of course, important to enhancing

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual and collective research. For more than a decade, CRMCS has supported academic
 writing through mentorship and regular writing workshops. Similarly, grant application has been
 supported through planning, realistic targets, targeted workshops, mentorship and in-house
 review prior to submission.

 Collaborations are encouraged through the University’s Interdisciplinary Research Network
 funds which invested in Mitchell’s Participations Interdisciplinary Research Network which
 enabled the temporary employment of Dr Amina Razak to work across FACI and Faculty of
 Education and Society to develop a major bid about participatory mapping and media practices,
 young people and anti-racism (on pause due to COVID but on track for submission Summer
 2021) Impact is being supported as outlined above and the team have developed a close
 working relationship with the University research impact officer who is now able to integrate her
 experience into bids.

 Researchers meet regularly with CRMCS Director and their Subject Leader to ensure
 skills/development needs are met. Work has been nurtured by means of teaching remission,
 collaborative projects and particularly research mentoring, with a view to further expansion of our
 research culture in the five-year period following REF2020. Staff from across the university also
 can apply for internal promotion. There have been three such promotion rounds since our
 submission to RAE2014, through which Mitchell became Associate Professor, SSmith was
 made Reader (now Associate Professor) and Winter (now retired) gained Professorship. While
 these promotions clearly reflect individual merit, they also, given the crucial advice of external
 academic referees, indicate the more general strength of our research environment.

 Since the last REF, the Centre has faced various challenges outside of its control –
 undergraduate interest has moved towards more vocational media provision and University of
 Sunderland has been responsive to that demand, such that staff recruitment has sought to
 address professional and vocational skills. In addition, 6 of the 15 staff members whose
 research outputs were included in REF2014 have retired over the last four years (Professor Julia
 Knight (Film), Professor Shaun Moores (Media), Dr Martin Shingler (Film), Professor John
 Storey (Media and Cultural Studies) and Professor Trish Winter (Culture), while others (Ball,
 Maina, Starkey and, most recently, CSmith moved to jobs elsewhere).

 CRMCS strongly supported the activities of this experienced group of researchers, making
 productive use of central university funding that flowed from our RAE2008 and REF2014 results,
 these 5 staff continue to be closely associated with the University and CRMCS and their work
 forms a part of this submission. Our emeriti continue to play an active role in the Faculty, in
 research collaborations, publications and postgraduate research (PGR) mentoring. Even so, the
 submission to REF2021 has dropped from the level of REF2014. In line with student demand for
 vocational skills, between 2014 and 2018 the Faculty used replacement positions to strategically
 develop strengths and add new skills or perspectives to the renewal of our teaching offer.
 Despite the current economic climate and overall financial constraints on the university sector,
 the Faculty has prioritised renewal of our research environment and, with demographics and
 succession planning in mind, is supporting early career researcher Sadler and mid-career
 researchers Larke-Walsh (new appointment) Berry, Cartwright and Price.

 The University is committed to planning for undergraduate and postgraduate taught student
 number growth in media as well as supporting research students. This growth, along with
 investment in resources and facilities, will help to sustain the staffing footprint and contribute to a
 buoyant environment. Early- and mid-career researchers have been recruited to reflect the
 dynamic media landscape and rebalance the staffing mix. A commitment to the professional
 development of staff (for example Mitchell has a professorial mentor from an external institution)
 is captured in our people priorities, to support academic promotion and a continuation of the
 research culture.

 Looking forward to future REF submissions, CRMCS continues its support to maximise output
 quality. Continuous development of staff is key to the sustainability of CRMCS and non-REF-

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 able work. Textbooks, and other outputs such as journalism derived from research activity
 including the Google DNI SMART project – e.g., Huffington Post articles on online abuse have
 been encouraged as an element of development of scholarship within non-traditional staff
 groupings. Several colleagues within the Media department (which hosts CRMCS) have long
 been engaged in professional-facing activities or teaching-orientated writing projects; some of
 them are keen to move towards more research focused outputs, for example moving from
 authoring textbooks towards more critical engagements, theory building and analysis. Each
 member of Category B staff who wishes to launch and develop their research profile has an
 assigned research mentor, to meet on a 6-monthly basis to discuss outputs and publication
 strategy. CRMCS belongs to a teaching department prioritising practice-based activity – not all
 practice can be research, but we are working to both develop research into practice and ways in
 which practice can facilitate dissemination and impact of our research, as evidenced in
 submissions by Cartwright and Mitchell and by the number of staff being supported to
 undertake PhDs (2 completed; 2 underway; 3 planned 2021/22).

 2.2 Research Students Between 2014 and 2020, CRMCS successfully supervised 12 PhDs to
 completion (of those, 6 are now in full-time positions at other HEIs and 5 in related
 educational/research employment). In addition, one member of practice staff member registered
 for a Prof. Doc and 2 staff PhD’s by publication were awarded in 2016. One of our strategic
 commitments has been to maintain the visibility of our postgraduate research culture, with
 students able to make a greater collective contribution to the research environment. Staff in
 CRMCS are currently supervising 8 doctoral students. In the National Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (2019) Sunderland was ranked 11th out of 103 in 2019.

 CRMCS used its central university research funds to award PhD scholarships in areas that
 relate directly to staff research interests. CRMCS competitive bursaries of £55K were awarded
 to 8 FT PGR students; 1 further student was supported from University development funds.
 Knight secured an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award with Amber Film & Photography
 Collective for a further PhD student from 2015-18. CRMCS is involved in the Doctoral Training
 Partnerships Northern Bridge (AHRC) and NINE (ESRC) which bring together the expertise
 and resources of the Universities in the North East and Northern Ireland.

 The manager of the postgraduate research programme at CRMCS (from 2011- 2020 SSmith,
 now Yuill in Faculty Humanities team) is responsible for overseeing research student
 admissions, allocation of supervisors, annual monitoring and examination arrangements. The
 manager is supported by staff in the university’s graduate research office. This graduate
 research office organises a university-wide system of research training for students, as well as
 workshops to update supervisors on best practice. Winter chaired CRMCS’s postgraduate
 research student discussion group, which has met monthly since 2014. Since September 2019,
 students have taken over the organization of these meetings aided by Sadler, which focus on a
 student-chosen reading and/or presentation followed by questions and debate. Research
 students are also regular participants in the fortnightly CRMCS research seminar series, several
 having presented papers in that forum, and they are closely involved with CRMCS conferences
 and postgraduate research day events. For example, PhD students were centrally involved in
 organising the 2014 conference on freedom and censorship in the media – 1984 Where Are We
 Now? in the 2015 Sexual Cultures 2 and the 2015 Toy Story at 20 Conferences. As partners in
 the AHRC and ESRC Doctoral Training Partnerships, PGRs in CRMCS can attend a wide range
 of training activities hosted by partner-institutions, whether or not they receive funding from the
 DTPs.

 PGR Governance is strengthened by University-wide Graduate School organized training for
 supervisors and students, ensuring consistent approaches to recruitment, annual monitoring,
 progression exams and the viva, and a training programme with enhanced emphasis on careers
 development, impact and greater international awareness.

 A large, dedicated office and social space is available for doctoral students, each student is
 provided with a desk and a personal networked computer. Research students are also able to

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 make bids up to £500 per year to CRMCS, through their supervisors, for funding to attend
 relevant academic conferences in the UK and overseas (indeed, this amount has occasionally
 been increased to support travel to USA, Italy and Spain to present papers or to undertake
 archival research). Finally, PhD students have been given extensive support in publishing
 elements of their research.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 The gender balance of outputs, professoriate and staff submitted has remained proportionally
 similar to 2014. In 2021 both impact case studies for this Unit are led by women and the
 management of CRMCS has been female since the retirement of Profs Storey and Moores part
 way through this REF period. Gender balance of current PhD students is 50:50.

 Unit Leader Mitchell chairs the Faculty EDI group and is member of FACI Athena SWAN and
 University EDI groups. The Athena SWAN application for Bronze award includes monitoring and
 embedding Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity in research activities and practice. Since 2019
 there has been a rollout of mandatory EDI training across the Faculty, mandatory supervisor
 training and mentoring of senior staff to raise success of gaining professorial positions. As part
 of widening diversity of the research culture there has been attention paid to gender and ethnic
 balance in new appointments including appointment of visiting professor Susanne Burns.
 Another example is the movement of the evening seminar to the end of the day to enable
 parents to attend more easily.

 There is a conscious strategy to attract PGR students from minority backgrounds, particularly
 relating to research themes relating to EDI in media and creative industries as represented by
 Mitchell, Price and Hulsmeier. An example of this is Mitchell’s PhD student French who is
 researching the gendered nature of backstage crewing culture in the north-east music
 /performance industry. Winter collaborated with artists and local charities to disrupt taken-for-
 granted ideas about older people, their occupation of and visibility within public space. Her
 research contributed to AHRC report Understanding the Value of Arts and Culture, published in
 March 2016.

 EDI is embedded in Mitchell’s research with non-academic community partners in the
 Transnational Radio Encounters project and Winter and Mitchell’s 2015 - ongoing work with
 community researchers and partner organisations establishing them as community
 commissioners of arts and cultural projects in Southwick, Sunderland.

 Mitchell is a member of the SunGen Interdisciplinary Network and ‘The Decolonising Group’ -
 formed to challenge the worldview that constructs all knowledge as white, male and Eurocentric.
 The Group seeks to decolonise the structures, policies and practices of the university and
 importantly the educational curriculum, recognising that decolonisation is an ongoing process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 CRMCS committed to increasing the number of bids for external funding following RAE2008 and
 again in 2014 and continues to make advances facilitated by external funding workshops
 organised by Faculty and at University level. Their purpose is to invite research project ideas, to
 initiate new projects and to identify potential funding sources. Academic staff members receive
 on-going support from research administrators in preparing and costing bids. Since 2014, the
 University Research Office (RO) has expanded from three to seven staff and support has
 enabled the Unit to develop new research projects and impact of existing projects. For a
 relatively small Unit, staff continue to be successful in gaining research income and are
 supported in their applications by two dedicated staff in the RO.

 3.1 Examples of successful external funding bids



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mitchell won a prestigious Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA) grant for
 2013-16 to fund the multi-partner Transnational Radio Encounters project (Total €999,000
 Institution €81,960), Winter won numerous small awards from Youth Music to work with local
 arts and charities, including in 2015 and 2017 with Jack Drum Arts and in 2014 with North Music
 Trust (Sage Gateshead). In 2014 she won AHRC (Cultural Value Project) Research Grant,
 Development Grants: £39,744 FEC for A Somatic Ethnography of Grand Gestures Elders Dance
 Group (Funded, Ref AH/L005638/1). CSmith as principal investigator, secured £55,625
 Wellcome Trust Seed Award under their Sexual Health special focus. As Co-Investigator with
 John Mercer (BCU) Smith also successfully bid for £32,462 AHRC Network funding for
 ‘Masculinity, Sex, and Popular Culture’ and, with Giovanna Maina (Udine, Italy), secured EU
 Horizon 2020 funding for a Marie Curie Fellowship (£76,315 from 2014, Total £130,975). Price
 secured 41,867 Euros in 2019 from Google DNI fund for a project to create a prototype tool to
 help journalists research and report stories about hate speech on social media. Members of
 CRMCS (Price, CSmith, Winter) have also contributed to and benefitted from Creative Fuse
 North East, a research project incorporating academics from the 5 regional universities funded
 by the Arts and Humanities Research Council, European Regional Development Fund and
 Arts Council England.

 3.2 Ethics approval and training The University introduced a new process for research ethics
 approval with the epiGenesys online system in 2016. The new process has increased
 transparency, raised awareness of policies and procedures, improved the quality of applications
 and reduced delays. The University’s Research Ethics Group has overall responsibility for
 matters of research quality and integrity, but CRMCS has taken a pro-active approach to
 ensuring effective ethics clearance. The Research Ethics Group (First Winter was a member
 and then Mitchell from 2019) is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of ethics review;
 periodically reviewing and offering guidance on the Research Ethics Policy; actively promoting
 awareness of this policy; and providing advice or dispute resolution regarding any research
 ethics matters referred to it. Much of the work in this Unit is outward facing and engages with
 people (for example Mitchell and Winter’s Participatory Action Research; ECR Hulsmeier’s
 work with police documentaries; Price’s work on online abuse and various PhD students) and
 the introduction of robust and transparent ethics structure has been welcome. In line with their
 research interests, first Winter and now Mitchell, as Faculty representatives on the University
 Committee, have mentored staff and research students through the process, offering advice and
 feedback on all stages of application. Mitchell offers expertise in ethical consideration of
 participatory action research.

 3.3 CRMCS is housed in a modern, riverside, purpose-built and fully equipped building for the
 media department (Lord David Putnam Media Centre), on the university’s St Peter's Campus. All
 CRMCS staff members have office spaces in this building, the Centre has a research
 seminar/meeting room and a postgraduate student office, as well as a 200-seat cinema and
 lecture theatre used for conferences and other research events. The University -run National
 Glass Centre is housed next to the Media Centre and has been an attractive base for workshops
 and seminars, including regular meetings of Participations Interdisciplinary Research Network.
 An on-site library holds a large collection of academic books and journals relevant to the UoA. In
 addition, the university's new London Campus provides conference facilities used by CRMCS to
 host conferences.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CRMCS's outward-looking character is clearly evident in the links that staff members have with
 researchers in other universities, and with networks and organisations at national and
 international levels. Staff are actively encouraged to work collaboratively (supported via the IRP
 process) A measure of that reach and significance is the translation of staff outputs into a total of
 eight other languages in the period (Mitchell, Moores, Shingler, CSmith and Storey).



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through a range of activities that also serve as indicators of esteem, staff have made (and
 continue to make) numerous contributions to their academic fields:

 4.1 Advisory, Editorial and Research Governance Roles
 Editorial and reviewing roles for academic publications and conference submissions:

 Staff act as reviewers for numerous journals and publishers in an interdisciplinary field and have
 strong record of editorial roles. Knight co-edited Convergence: The International Journal of
 Research into New Media Technologies until her retirement in 2017. CSmith is founding co-
 editor of the Routledge journal Porn Studies (launched March 2014) and is on the editorial
 boards for Sexualities, Cine-Excess, Journal of Gender Studies and Participations. Mitchell is
 on the editorial board (and due to be associate editor from April 2021) of The Radio Journal:
 International Studies in Broadcast and Audio Media (Intellect). Berry is on editorial board of
 Journal of Radio Studies (Taylor and Francis Online) Shingler is the co-editor, with SSmith, of a
 major book series with BFI/Palgrave Macmillan (2010-17), now Bloomsbury (2018-), on ‘Film
 Stars’ - three titles published each year. Since retirement Storey remains research active,
 continuing his participation in the editorial/advisory boards of academic journals in Australia,
 Canada, China, Germany, Lithuania, Spain, the UK and USA, and as a member of the
 organising committees for conferences in Greece, Jordan, Spain and the UK. As Emeritus
 Professor Storey continues to collaborate on research projects with colleagues in China,
 Germany, Poland and the UK.

 4.2 Subject Associations, Research Councils and Research Advisory Roles:

 Berry has been on the Council of the Community Media Association (the representative body for
 community media in the UK) and the Radio Academy in the North East of England and with
 Mitchell is a member of board of the MeCCSA Radio Studies Network. Berry is co-convenor of
 the newly formed International Podcasting Studies Network collaborating with Prof Kim Fox,
 Professor of Practice at The American University in Cairo and US Broadcast Education
 Association. Mitchell is senior advisor to Community Media Association and external evaluator
 of the Irish Broadcasting Authority’s Sound and Vision Scheme for awarding grants to radio
 documentaries and dramas. Cartwright is a Trustee of the Charles Parker Archive Trust and
 has organised The Charles Parker Day, an annual celebration by academics and practitioners of
 the radio feature – past, present and future. He coordinates the associated annual Charles
 Parker Prize for Best Student Radio Feature. Mitchell is a founder member of the Women's
 Radio in Europe Network. Moores is on the Board of Advisors for the 'Media, Cities and Space'
 Section within ECREA. Price inaugurated the first Sport and Discrimination conference held in
 2015 and continues to contribute to the planning and organisation of the annual conference. As
 co-investigator of the AHRC-funded Masculinity, Sex and Popular Culture Network, CSmith co-
 organised four major events for academics and artists. She has co-organised three Sexual
 Cultures Conferences in the UK and Finland. CRMCS has institutional membership of the
 subject associations MeCCSA and ECREA and individual staff belong to various other
 associations, for example, Sadler belongs to the Northern Television Studies Research Group
 and to the International Association for Media and History. Knight, Moores, CSmith and Winter
 are, or have been, members of the AHRC Peer Review College and other members of CRMCS
 have regularly reviewed for the AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme and Wellcome Trust. CSmith has
 reviewed grants in Australia, Canada, Hong Kong and the USA.

 4.3 Selected Keynotes, Invited Lectures or performances/screenings of work:

 Berry gave the Keynote Lecture at ECREA Radio Relations in Lublin, Slovenia. Cartwright is
 an award-winning Radio Producer with over 30 years’ experience making programmes
 for BBC radio including Radio 2, Radio 3, Radio 4, Radio 4 Extra and Radio 5 Live. Mitchell has
 given keynotes at SOAS (2017) and at ECREA Radio Studies Conference University of Siena
 (2019). Moores gave invited guest lectures at universities in Denmark, Germany, and Sweden.
 Price was an invited speaker on diversity and sports journalism at the NCTJ Diversity
 Conference in Sep 2019. Between 2014 and 2018 Shingler presented keynote lectures at

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, USA; at the Celebrity Studies Conference, Sapienza,
 University of Rome, Italy; at the Centre for Film Studies Speaker Series, University of St.
 Andrews, Scotland and at the Fordham University, New York, USA. CSmith gave keynote
 papers at the universities of Exeter; Leicester; Newcastle and Vienna; Las Vegas and California
 Santa Barbara in the USA. She participated in numerous public engagement events including
 the Bradford Literature Festival, the Sick! Festival in Brighton and Manchester, Science Museum
 Lates, Being a Man Festival, ESRC Social Science Festival and at the Wellcome Trust’s in-
 gallery events as part of their Sexology exhibition. CSmith was also invited to present to
 professionals including sex and relationship therapists and youth workers, to the Sexpression
 Annual Conference and repeat invitations to speak at the NSPCC Annual Conference. She was
 a keynote speaker at the Open Innovations Forum “Technopark Skolkovo” Moscow and at
 Family Planning Association’s Sex Week launch event. Between 2014 and 2015 when he retired
 Storey gave keynotes at the German universities of Bremen, Marburg, Passau, Dresden,
 Regensburg and Paderborn; and at the Catholic University of Murcia, Spain – invitations to
 keynote conferences remain numerous. In 2015 Storey was Senior Fellow at the Technical
 University of Dresden.

 4.4 Examination of doctorates:
 Moores examined 6 PhDs at several universities in the UK, Europe and Australia. CSmith has
 examined 12 PhDs at universities including UWE, Bristol; Middlesex; Dublin City; Birmingham
 City; SOAS, London; Leeds; Aarhus, Denmark; Turku, Finland; UNSW, Sydney; and Southern
 Cross. Mitchell has examined 2 PhD’s at University of Kent, Canterbury and University of
 Bedfordshire, Luton.




                                                                                          Page 12
