Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 34

     1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Brief Historical Context and REF 2014

 Ulster University (UU) pioneered the development of Communication and Media Studies in
 higher education, introducing one of the first undergraduate degrees in the UK and Ireland in
 1978. For over forty years Ulster scholars of Media and Communication have been at the
 forefront of pioneering research-led learning in the field. In 2003, our researchers were awarded
 a £3.1m grant from Atlantic Philanthropies through SPUR (Support Programme for University
 Research) to set up the Centre For Media Research (CMR) and, since 2016, all research across
 media and communication at Ulster has been conducted through the CMR, located within the
 School of Communication and Media.

 Our strategic priorities for research and impact in REF 2014 were: facilitating submission of
 journal articles, book chapters and media practice; encouraging the production of monographs;
 developing impact; improving the vitality and sustainability of research by generating research
 income; improving upon the recruitment, retention and completion of PhD research projects.
 This strategy allowed us to achieve the following in REF2014: we more than doubled our
 percentage of 4* world-leading research outputs, and the wider impact of our research was
 100% ‘internationally excellent’, of which 40% was ‘world-leading’.

 Current Strategy and Achievements, Brief Highlights

 Our broad strategic priorities for research and impact in the current assessment period are as
 follows:

 -    increasing submission of outputs to international peer-reviewed journals
 -    supporting research for monographs
 -    engaging in transformative impact through collaborative and co-creative practices
 -    growing and diversifying our research income
 -    improving the vitality of the research culture through investment in the PhD
      research culture.

 As will be highlighted in the sections of the narrative below, we achieved each of these
 strategic priorities. However, in anticipation of this more detailed narrative of evidenced
 achievement, two things are worth highlighting upfront.

 Firstly, the output profile of the unit has changed dramatically from REF 2014. A key
 objective of the Research Director of the CMR (Porter) was that the output submission
 consisted only of monographs and/or articles in international peer-reviewed journals. This we
 achieved with 100% of submitted outputs as monographs and/or articles in international
 peer-reviewed journals. This is a significant step change from REF 2014.

 Secondly, the CMR team was particularly focused and successful in executing our
 strategy of growing and diversifying our research income. During the current assessment
 period, CMR researchers successfully secured in excess of £2 million. This is a clear step
 up from our performance in 2014, an overall increase of 69.4%. Our income per FTE has
 more than doubled, rising from £74,688 in REF2014 to £163,403 in REF2021, an
 impressive increase of 119%.

 Unit Structure: Key Areas of Achievement



                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The current structure of the CMR research unit, and its associated activity during this
 assessment period, is broadly defined by its achievements in the following broad and related
 areas:
    - The Representation of Politics and the Politics of Representation
    - Emerging Media Technologies
    - Critical Theory, Everyday Culture, Media Policy

 The Representation of Politics and the Politics of Representation

 Working in the classical tradition of those who helped pioneer the development of
 Communication and Media Studies at Ulster in the late 1970s, the research work of Baker,
 Baylis and Edge concerns itself with the politics of representation and the representation of
 politics. In the monograph, The British Media and Bloody Sunday, Baker and McLaughlin
 provide a cross media analysis of news, film and TV that spans a period of almost 40 years. In
 his foreword to the book, Derry activist and Civil Rights campaigner, Eamon McCann describes
 it as ‘the first major work’ to analyse the role of the media in shaping our perception and
 understanding of Bloody Sunday, which ‘speaks necessary truths’ not simply about the event
 itself, but about ‘the political role of a supposedly objective media’.

 In peer-reviewed journals such as Early Popular Visual Culture, Eire Ireland, Irish Studies
 Review and History of Photography Baylis illuminates the cultural politics of nineteenth
 century Irish photography and visual culture, the formation of what she calls ‘memory
 cultures’ that shape discourses of gender, class and national identity. Edge similarly
 works in the field of nineteenth century photography. Described by the scholar John
 Storey as a ‘wonderful monograph that makes a significant contribution to the cultural theory
 and history of photography’, that has importantly revitalised ‘social class as an
 important explanatory concept’, Edge’s The Extraordinary Archive of Arthur J. Munby:
 Photographing Class and Gender in the Nineteenth Century is a significant and career
 defining achievement.

 This focus on class is shared by both Baker and Mairs Dyer. In peer review journals such as
 The Journal of Media Practice and Education, The International Journal of Media and Cultural
 Politics and the Journal of British Cinema and Television, they’ve developed modes of class
 analysis and participatory/collaborative media practice and used their research as a starting
 point for engaging in civic and impactful projects with marginalized groups in Northern Ireland
 (NI).

 One of our key strategic priorities is to engage in transformative impact activity. Baker’s and
 Mairs Dyer’s projects are exemplary experiments in dialogically meaningful and impactful co-
 creation, of reciprocal learning that aims at a genuinely democratic exchange between the
 academy and civic culture(s) within which it is situated. The Co-director of the Left Bloc Irish
 Media Collective describes their work: “To be sure, there is often a degree of cynicism
 concerning the way academics engage with groups that are determined ‘marginalized’, a worry
 that the former (whether consciously or not) will exploit the latter for their own ends, rather than
 seeing their working together as a transformative end in itself. Baker and Mairs Dyer’s work is
 distinctive, original and significant in that it makes no claims to speak for marginalized
 communities from a predetermined position of power or authority, but, instead, is about attuning
 the ear to the low murmur of exclusion experienced by such groups and then empowering them
 to amplify their own voices...within their own communities and beyond”. (More detail, context
 and testimonial evidence can be found in their ICS ‘Empowering Marginalized
 Communities in Contemporary Northern Ireland’).

 Emerging Media Technologies

 As stated above, one of the key elements of our unit’s strategy is to support and develop
 collaborative research where there are particular alignments of interest and cogency of
 purpose, and where this leads to transformative impact activity. Nowhere is this better

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expressed than in the collaborative work of Hickey, Hook and Jackson in the area of
 emerging media technologies. Publishing in peer-reviewed journals such as The Journal of
 Media Practice and Education, Learning, Media and Technology and Convergence Hickey,
 Hook and Jackson focus on unlocking the potential of emerging media technologies in
 developing new forms of learning, knowledge and organisational practice, particularly in the
 areas of tourism and education in NI.

 Speaking about how Jackson’s research work has directly driven change and innovation within
 the cultural and tourism sector in NI, The Museums Services Development Manager at
 Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council (CCGBC) points out how the “academic research
 and expertise” of Jackson “has led to significant impacts on CCGBC’s development of a
 Heritage Lottery Funded project” which aimed “to develop initiatives that will encourage growth
 in specific sectors and enhance the area’s tourism provisions”.

 Working with external educational providers as collaborative partners to prototype and develop
 new learning landscapes, Hook, Hickey and Jackson’s AGENCY project has helped enhance
 the pedagogical experience of a number of learners in primary and post-primary educational
 contexts in NI. The Principal of North Coast Integrated College, Coleraine, emphasised the
 impact of AGENCY to the teaching practice of her staff and colleagues. She states: “The
 teachers found it really valuable”, showing “how we can make small changes that have large
 impacts on student wellbeing and their learning. Your discussions of the space being the ‘third
 teacher’ in a newly developed ‘learning landscape’ were really interesting and allowed the
 teachers to use emerging media and technology in exciting ways to increase engagement,
 classroom inclusion and the students understanding”.

 Since 2016 Hickey has been critically refining his participatory action research project
 Generation Animation. This project improves access to educational opportunities by bringing
 school children, parents and teachers to UU’s campus and engaging them in contemporary
 active learning pedagogies using emerging media technologies. Speaking of the impact of
 Hickey’s Generation Animation, Principals in two Primary Schools in North Antrim both
 emphasised that; a) the “project enhanced the teacher’s expertise in animation and gave them
 the confidence to integrate these new-found skills into their teaching” and b) inspired “the staff of
 both schools to explore and unlock the potential of iPad technology in the classroom. As a result
 of the project, teachers were now prepared to take a risk in relation to the delivery of ICT in the
 primary setting”. (More detail, context and testimonial evidence can be found in their ICS
 ‘Emerging Media, Learning and Organisational Practice – driving change in tourism and
 education in Northern Ireland’)

 Critical Theory, Everyday Culture, Media Policy

 Giffney, Ekins, Ramsey and Porter draw on various inter-connected tradition(s) of critical
 theory in order to illuminate and critically negotiate contemporary public culture and everyday
 life. Giffney’s research focuses on cultural objects (film, art, literature, music) and their impact
 on the psychical lives of clinicians and patients inside and outside the psychoanalytic consulting
 room. These themes are explored in Giffney’s book, Clinical Encounters in Sexuality. Working
 in a symbolic-interactionist tradition, and publishing in peer reviewed publications such as Jazz
 Research Journal and Popular Music History, Ekins critically unpacks the everyday social and
 cultural construction of popular music, in particular ‘New Orleans Jazz’. Porter’s work is driven
 by the problem of how culture and everyday life ideologically reproduces our understandings of
 ‘the political’. Described by the Australian cultural theorist Ian Buchanan as a ‘marvellous
 argument for the continuing relevance of situationism and a sustained attack on the new
 absurdities this century has thrown at us so far’, Meanderings Through the Politics of Everyday
 Life is Porter’s fourth monograph. Working within a normative critical theory and (broadly
 Habermasian) concept of ‘public value’, and publishing in a range of international peer
 reviewed journals such as Media, Culture & Society, Journal of Radio and Audio, European
 Journal of Communication, Television and New Media and International Journal of Cultural
 Policy, Ramsey critically engages with and focuses on media policy, in particular the regulation

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of public service media in the UK. McGrath shares Ramsey’s broad interest in policy and is
 particularly concerned with how the PR industry is culturally and politically situated in the
 broader public sphere. In his monograph, co-written with Kevin Moloney, Rethinking Public
 Relations: Persuasion, Democracy & Society, McGrath considers how the PR industry
 represents itself in public and everyday life, discusses its forms of idealised self-presentation
 and rhetorical power, and critically evaluates its influence on democratic debate, showing, for
 example, how contemporary journalism often capitulates to PR in in an era of ‘fake news’ and
 ‘churnalism’.

 Strategy Beyond REF2021 – New Structures, New Opportunities

 The formation of a new Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences faculty and the merging of the
 School of Media, Film and Journalism with the School of Communication at Ulster to form a new
 School of Communication and Media in 2016 has provided opportunities for new kinds of
 research collaboration and activity that will take the CMR beyond the current REF cycle. Our
 strategy over the next five years is to exploit these new institutional structures and associated
 opportunities in order to build the capacity of the unit in a maximally efficient and sustainable
 manner. As you will see below, we have already begun in earnest.

 Collaborative projects in the School of Communication and Media

 UU is a multi-campus university, geographically dispersed across four sites: Belfast,
 Jordanstown (a Belfast suburb), Coleraine and Derry on the northern and north-western tip of
 the island of Ireland. The formation of the School of Communication and Media brought together
 colleagues from previously site-specific schools (Communication scholars from Jordanstown and
 Belfast with those from the School of Media, Film and Journalism at Coleraine). By adopting a
 number of measures to mitigate this geographical dispersal and potential dislocation (for
 example, regular on-line interaction, the formation of PhD supervisory teams on a cross-campus
 basis), our aim will be to increasingly bring CMR researchers together to engage in various
 projects. Indeed, this is already beginning to happen. Examples include: Porter and Baker
 (Coleraine) working with Ramsey (Jordanstown) on critical media studies and policy have
 published an article on regional Screen Policy in Northern Ireland in Media, Culture & Society.
 This ongoing collaborative work with Baker and Porter will also feed into Ramsey’s new
 monograph. This book, The governance of Public Service Media in the UK: from policy to
 practice, will be published by Palgrave-Macmillan in late 2021. Porter (Coleraine) is working with
 Kerry-Ann Porter (Jordanstown) on a new book that brings together their respective expertise in
 critical theory and the social-psychology of institutions and organisations. This monograph, co-
 written with a political philosopher at Kent Iain Mackenzie, is entitled Discipline and Publish: The
 Problem of Disciplinary Thinking in the Contemporary Academy and will be published by
 Rowman and Littlefield in early 2022.

 Moving from outputs to how already secured funding could lead to potentially transformative
 impacts, Jackson, working with school colleagues Hickey and Hook, as well as academic
 colleagues from Ireland, Finland and Iceland, is currently PI on a major transnational EU funded
 project that is investigating the impact of immersive technology concepts and techniques on
 digital marketing strategies. Working with 50 SMEs across different sectors, the aim of the
 project is to enable international growth of participating SMEs by enhancing their marketing by
 using immersive technologies. Providing a number of capacity building projects to be
 implemented by businesses (15 SMEs in NI and 35 SMEs across Ireland, Finland and Iceland),
 the regional and transnational economic impacts will be significant. To capture these
 impacts, Jackson and the team will identify how the performance of the participating SMEs has
 been improved through the introduction of the immersive marketing solution(s) that they have
 implemented for the SME. In terms of civic engagement, we can single out an emerging
 research cluster concerned with the role the arts in public debates on mental health. This cluster
 is made up of Giffney, Long (Jordanstown) and Mairs-Dyer (Coleraine) and the Research
 Director of the CMR is providing ongoing infrastructural support to facilitate various public events
 that will lead to more significant research activity. We already see evidence of this as Long has

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 secured a book contract with the Open University Press. This monograph, A Psychosocial
 Understanding of Self-Injury and Trauma in Context: Wounds and Their Meanings, will be
 published in late 2021.

 Collaborative projects in Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences and Beyond

 Hook and Jackson - working with UU faculty colleagues in Applied Social and Policy Sciences
 (Friel UoA 20), Linguistics (McDermott UoA 26), Theatre, Performance and Museum Studies
 (Maguire and Crooke UoA 33) - secured a £200K grant to work on a new AHRC project
 ‘Museums, Crisis and Covid 19: Vitality and Vulnerabilities’. This project will produce three co-
 authored journal articles, with researchers from the CMR focusing on themes of remediation,
 location-based heritage, digital archives and the ‘transmedia museums’. Porter - working with a
 scholar from Queens University Belfast, Jim Donaghey, - secured a £250K from the AHRC for
 the project ‘Failed states and creative resistances: the everyday life of punks in Belfast, Banda
 Aceh, Mitrovica and Soweto’. In Spring 2021, Donaghey will join the Centre for Media Research
 at Ulster to work with Porter and both are committed to producing the following: a joint
 authored monograph, three peer reviewed journal articles, four complication records,
 four record launch events, four zines and a research symposium. This is an exciting new
 development in popular music studies at the CMR and it connects both to ongoing research
 within the unit (Ekins on ‘New Orleans Jazz’) as well as the work of AHSS faculty colleagues
 more broadly in UoAs 32, 33. Hook is working with various colleagues in UoAs 32 and 33 as
 part of Future Screens NI. Also, through the development of a cross-faculty collaboration with
 colleagues in UoA 32 and UoA 33. The CMR has contributed to the creative industries
 component of the successful Belfast Region City Deal (an £850 million investment package)
 which will include a £61 million investment in a Screen Media Innovation Lab).

 Research Integrity and Open Research

 We have an open approach to research, with sustained engagement with various
 stakeholders, beneficiaries and audiences (see section 4 below). The CMR aligns more broadly
 with the Open Access initiative of the University. CMR researchers are encouraged to publish in
 open access outlets. A dedicated executive administrative assistant in the CMR supports
 researchers to ensure that their outputs meet compliance regulations for accessibility of
 publications to the wider academic community and the general public. We also insist that the
 highest standards of research integrity be achieved. Ethical governance, regulation and
 training is overseen by a University level Committee. There is a School Ethics committee with
 responsibility for ensuring that all staff are aware of ethical standards and adhere to these. All
 CMR staff are strongly encouraged and incentivised to complete the University’s research
 integrity course. Completing this course is also a requirement for all post-graduate researchers.
 The course reflects the University’s Code of Practice for Professional Integrity which, in turn,
 reflects the UUK Concordat.

    2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our staffing strategy seeks to support research that is strongly aligned to our broad strategic
 priorities (see section one above). The unit is led by the Research Director (Porter), who
 combines the role of REF Unit Coordinator with PGR Tutor (with responsibility for all PhDs
 and their assessment), coordinating with the Head of School and the Associate Dean for
 Research and Impact. Support staff include an administrator for the research unit, with a further
 dedicated administrative support role for PGR matters, in addition to School, Faculty and
 discipline-level support staff. Each CMR researcher profits from the developmental infrastructure
 that UU has created in this current assessment period. The unit implements the University’s
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’ principles with annual
 opportunities for advancement, regular training and development. Our staff development
 strategy is to make these new infrastructural resources work for staff locally, and in a way which

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 directly led to positive outcomes for the individual researcher and the unit as a whole. This we
 achieved in a number of ways and across a number of support programmes.

 RIGOUR (Research Income & Grant Opportunities for Ulster Researchers) is a programme
 designed to help academic researchers improve on the success rate of grant applications to
 external funding bodies. Colleagues who secured research income as a consequence of
 engaging with this programme include: Jackson, Hook, Hickey, Porter. External funders here
 include: AHRC, British Academy, The Leverhulme Trust, EU Northern Periphery and Arctic
 Programme and BBC Research and Development.

 SOARING (Significance and Originality in Academic Research: Interpreting New Guidance) is a
 support programme focused on further strengthening Ulster’s research outputs by increasing
 their quality. Under the auspices of this programme, the Research Director of the CMR (Porter)
 organised a series of ‘REF mind-set’ events exclusively for researchers in the unit. For instance,
 the chair of the Communication, Media and Cultural Studies REF panel in 2008 and 2014,
 Professor Peter Golding (Northumbria) led an interactive discussion with colleagues at Ulster
 and this was followed by a workshop by Professor Julian McDougall (Bournemouth). As a direct
 result of attending these events, Baker, Ramsey, Porter, Mairs-Dyer, Hook, Jackson and
 Hickey were then motivated to write, redraft, target and finally publish work in international
 peer reviewed journals such as: Convergence, Media, Culture & Society, The Journal of Media
 Practice and Education, Contemporary Political Theory, The Journal of British Cinema and
 Television.

 Sabbatical leave and study leave provide staff the time and space to engage in ambitious
 projects that may otherwise fall foul of the busy rough and tumble of academic life. This leave
 has provided crucial research support for monographs such as: The Media and Bloody
 Sunday (Baker), The Extraordinary Archive of Arthur J. Munby: Photographing Class and
 Gender in the Nineteenth Century (Edge), Meanderings Through the Politics of Everyday Life
 (Porter), as well as support for peer review journal articles in Contemporary Political Theory,
 Media, Culture & Society, The Journal of Media Education and Practice and Convergence
 (Hook, Hickey, Jackson and Porter). In addition, the early stages of the development of the
 monograph A Psychosocial Understanding of Self-Injury and Trauma in Context (Long) was
 supported by sabbatical leave.

 The Research Mentoring Programme is a university initiative that supports researchers in
 building their research capacity. Locally, members of staff in the CMR are provided with a
 mentor and, in addition, are mentored and given targeted support by the Director of the CMR.
 The CMR director (Porter) meets formally with every member of the CMR at least once a
 semester to ensure infrastructural support is appropriately tailored to the specific researcher(s)
 needs. We pride ourselves in the CMR on understanding the local infrastructure that we wrap
 around REF activity in predominantly human terms. The infrastructure wraps around the
 researchers as people in various bespoke arrangements, and we exercise care in thinking about
 how we use the resources at our disposal to support them. Examples of such mentoring and
 support: teaching relief to meet research targets (e.g., Giffney supported to complete her
 monograph The Culture-Breast, to be published by Routledge in late 2021); directed,
 purposeful, one-to-one, research mentorship and career development of ECRs and mid-career
 colleagues from the CMR Director (recent examples are Senior Lectureship promotions on a
 research track for Hickey and Hook in October 2020).

 The Impact Development Series

 As stated in section one above, a key strategic priority for the CMR in the current assessment
 period relates to recognising, supporting, enabling and rewarding those CMR researchers
 engaging in transformative impact activity. The Impact Development Series is UU’s support
 programme designed to help academic researchers enhance the impact of their research. In
 addition to availing of this university wide initiative, our two impact case study teams (i.e..,
 Hickey, Hook, Jackson and Mairs-Dyer, Baker) benefited from bespoke and targeted support

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the CMR Research Director (Porter) to achieve transformative impacts beyond the
 academy (see testimonial evidence detailed in section one). This meant providing the ICS teams
 with the necessary financial, physical or technical resources for stakeholder engagement in their
 various civic projects. This civic impact activity is further incentivised and rewarded as part of the
 broader mentorship and career development of CMR researchers. As stated above, two
 colleagues have already benefited from the profile they developed through their research impact
 activity (i.e., academic promotions of Hook and Hickey) and the CMR Research Director is
 currently working with Mairs Dyer and Baker on their promotion portfolio, a key aspect of which
 will be their impact activity.

 Training and Supervision of PGR

 As stated above in section one, a key strategic priority for the CMR in this assessment period
 was to strengthen our PhD research culture, thereby revivifying the broader unit culture. This
 we achieved through increased investment in the recruitment, retention and completion in
 PhD projects. The CMR invested approximately £820K during this assessment period in
 funding a range of PhD projects connected to our core thematic research areas. This period
 has also seen our integration into the circa £30 million AHRC Northern Bridge Doctoral
 Training Partnership (alongside Newcastle, Durham and Queen University Belfast).

 The CMR PhD community is lively and engaged, running and participating in regular seminars,
 reading groups and symposia that are facilitated by the CMR Research Director (Porter) or
 organized by the PhDs themselves. Particular emphasis is placed on the importance of peer
 support, encouraging the PhD researchers to work together both within and outside the strict
 confines of their individual projects. Recently, for example, two of our final year PhD
 researchers, Amy McCroy and Stephen Goulding, published a paper, ‘Representing the
 (un)finished revolution in Belfast’s Political Murals’ in Critical Discourse Studies. Our PhD
 community includes emerging scholars from the UK, Ireland and North America, scholars with
 protected status and complex needs, and those from non-traditional backgrounds. But whatever
 their background, colleagues in the CMR work tirelessly to ensure that they are all welcomed
 and integrated into the CMR research community with exacting care and attention.

 Each research student has a team of two to three supervisors from the unit who meet them
 regularly to discuss their research project and provide professional development opportunities,
 relevant advice and pastoral care as needed. All PhD researchers in the CMR receive £900 per
 year for research support and have used these resources to present their work at conferences
 and in exhibition spaces across the UK, Ireland, Europe, North America and the Middle East.
 Our PhD researchers can also avail of CMR monies at the discretion of the CMR Director, where
 such discretionary monies add value for the unit and/or the individual researchers in question
 (e.g., funding the field-work that informed McCroy and Goulding’s Critical Discourse Studies
 article). The close, productive and meaningful relations between CMR supervisory teams and
 our postgraduate research community is reflected in the fact that a number of our research
 students (both past and present, both during and beyond their doctoral students and into their
 postdoctoral career) currently collaborate with CMR colleagues on research activity: successful
 funding bids, publish papers, edited books, run public events and, in some cases, even teach
 together. Particularly striking examples of this include Porter and McCollum, Baker, Porter and
 Ramsey, Jackson and McCollum, Porter and Brady, Porter and Monteverde.

 Beyond the unit level, and managed through the Doctoral College, The Researcher
 Development Programme (RDP) at Ulster provides extensive and significant opportunities for
 the training and development of our postgraduate research students
 (https://www.ulster.ac.uk/doctoralcollege/researcher-development-programme). The RDP is a
 suite of workshops, specialist skills sessions, online courses and personal development planning
 activities which provide opportunities to gain the experience and skills required to be a
 competent and professional researcher, whether employed in academia or beyond.
 Employability is also enhanced as all PhD researchers have the opportunity to teach. They enrol
 on the First Steps to Teaching and Learning Programme. The module is accredited by Advance-

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 HE at Descriptor 2 and following successful completion the PhD researchers are
 awarded Higher Education Academy Associate Fellowship (AFHEA). They then have the
 opportunity to develop their teaching skills on under-graduate courses under the supervision of a
 member of staff.

 Equality and Diversity

 As a civic university, UU is motivated to live what it preaches: namely, to maintain a strong
 connection to the region in which it is situated and to be a progressive force for societal change
 locally and, where possible, beyond. This is something we take seriously in the CMR,
 concerned, as we are, to publish research and engage in civic spaces in order to inspire and
 motivate the critique of inequality and precarious labour in the regional economy (Ramsey,
 Baker, Porter), to focus attention on those politically marginalized whether on the basis of class
 or ethno-religious background (Mairs-Dyer, Baker, Hickey, Hook, Edge, Baylis), gender and
 sexuality (Ekins, Mairs-Dyer, Edge, Baylis, Giffney), or race (Baker). For evidence of this kind
 of engagement with politically marginalized groups, see the testimonial detail relating to the
 Mairs-Dyer and Baker’s ICS foregrounded in section one above.

 The CMR unit is split evenly in gender terms. Men and women are equally represented across
 all levels in the school (from Lecturers through to Professorial staff) and in the school
 management group. A number of colleagues (e.g., Baker, Mairs-Dyer, Porter) come from
 working-class and/or non-traditional academic backgrounds and this is something they
 unapologetically bring to their work, informing, particularly, the public or civic activity they
 engage in. For example, in Spring 2016 the CMR Research Director (Porter) invited the then
 Guardian Journalist (and now Professor of Sociology at The University of Manchester) Gary
 Younge to Ulster to give a public lecture entitled ‘Black Lives Matter in the Age of Obama’ (see
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ubpy6xCg7Cg&feature=youtu.be). Chaired and moderated
 by Porter, Younge discussed the Black Lives Matter movement against the backcloth of what
 was then his forthcoming book, Another Day in the Death of America, a book then published by
 Faber and Faber later that year. Or, to give another example, Baker was commissioned by the
 NI Council for Ethnic Minorities (NICEM) in 2015 to conduct research on how the local/regional
 media in NI reported on race crime.

 Diversity and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted and embedded in all research processes
 and policies as outlined in our Code of Practice (CoP). This CoP places people at its centre, is
 mindful of the needs of all staff and ensures barrier free processes to maximise inclusivity and
 participation in REF. We used it as our roadmap for identifying SRR staff and selecting outputs
 for REF2021. All UU staff undergo mandatory equality and diversity training. Those involved in
 REF management (Porter) have had specific REF equality and diversity training. Staff have
 also undergone optional training (e.g. neurodiversity training), and the unit has provided
 reasonable adjustments, support and equal opportunities for research advancement (e.g., grant
 applications, promotion, collaborative publishing) for all colleagues, irrespective of, for instance,
 their complex needs or caring responsibilities. Equality and diversity are standing items on the
 Communication and Media school board agenda, as well as in school management meetings.
 The School of Communication and Media are making plans for Athena Swan accreditation in
 2022. A CMR researcher (Long) will coordinate this process as the AHSS faculty lead on
 Athena Swan.


    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As stated above in section one, a key strategic priority for the CMR in this assessment period
 was to improve the sustainability of our research activity by generating research income.
 Building on our performance in REF2014, we are particularly proud of the significant strides we
 are continuing to make in executing our strategy of growing and diversifying our research
 income. During the current assessment period, CMR researchers successfully secured
 in excess of £2 million. This is a clear step up from our performance in 2014, an overall

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increase of 69.4%. Our income per FTE has more than doubled, rising from £74,688 in
 REF2014 to £163,403 in REF2021, an impressive increase of 119%.

 This success in improving our income generation has importantly been made possible not only
 by the newly created university-wide developmental programmes at UU such as RIGOUR, but
 also by a locally targeted Research Mentoring Programme that wraps around CMR researchers
 as individuals or project teams (see section two above). Again, it is important to understand this
 infrastructure in primarily human terms: that is, seeing good research activity as fundamentally
 people-driven and a product of meaningful and sustained inter-personal relationships.

 Further, CMR colleagues have access to a range of high-end technological resources and
 infrastructure, production facilities and industry level equipment in order to carry out ongoing
 research activities. CMR researchers have access to both broadcast and black box television
 studios across three campuses (Belfast, Coleraine, Jordanstown), industry standard production
 equipment for film and televisual content (4K cameras, field recorders, lighting kits, outside
 broadcast equipment), immersive content (high spec edit suites, 360 cameras, VR Headsets),
 audio (sound studios, portable audio recording equipment) and access to high end edit and
 production computer equipment as well as the full Adobe CC suite. There is also an extensive
 scholarly or library infrastructure at Ulster, with four libraries holding almost a million
 monographs, print and electronic books. The unit has a book/journal budget of more than
 £58,999 per year and the faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences has an electronic
 database budget of £225K. In addition, CMR researchers have directly benefited from £616,432
 institutional funding via the Vice Chancellor’s Strategic investment in developing research and
 teaching facilities on our Belfast campus.

 Also, as stated in section one, through the development of a cross-faculty collaboration with UU
 colleagues in UoA 32 and UoA 33, the CMR has contributed to the creative industries
 component of the successful Belfast Region City Deal (an £850 million investment package)
 which will include a £61 million investment in a Screen Media Innovation Lab).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Networks, Collaborations and Partnerships

 CMR researchers engage in academic collaborations with colleagues in a range of universities
 across the UK, Ireland, Europe and Latin America. For example, Porter and Iain Mackenzie at
 University of Kent have a longstanding relationship publishing articles in international peer
 reviewed journals such as Contemporary Political Theory and Political Studies Review and are
 currently working on what will be their third co-authored monograph together. Porter also has
 an ongoing relationship with a number of Deleuze scholars in Latin America (Argentina, Chile,
 Brazil). Some of the fruits of this engagement can be found in the edited book Deleuze,
 Ontologica, Practica, which Porter contributed to. In addition, CMR scholars have developed
 many connections with various other bodies, institutions and organisations beyond academia.
 Some of these include: Giffney with the British Psychoanalytic Council (BPC), the Irish Forum
 for Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy (IFPP), the Psychoanalytic Section of the Irish Council for
 Psychotherapy (ICP), the Association for Psychosocial Studies (ASP), the College for
 Psychoanalysis and Jungian Analysis (CPJA), the United Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy
 (UKCP), the Belfast Film Festival, Verbal Reading Rooms Project, Science Gallery Dublin, and
 IMMA – The Irish Museum of Modern Art; Baker with Trademark, Irish Congress of Trade
 Unions; Jackson with BBC audience council; Ramsey with IMPRESS and as Chair of the
 Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA) Policy Network; Porter as
 part of MeCCSA executive and with BBC Research and Development; Baylis with TG4 and
 Belfast Exposed Gallery; Mairs Dyer and Baker with various community groups in the NI region;
 Edge with Northern Ireland Advisory board for Women in Film and TV.

 Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences: Civic, Professional, Economic/Societal


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CMR researchers engage users, beneficiaries or audiences in various ways and across three
 broadly related spheres or spaces: civic/cultural life, professional practice and economy/society.

 Civic and Cultural Life

 Mairs Dyer and Baker lead various civic and outreach projects in the NI region, projects which
 engage community groups and activists on questions of media, representation and citizenship. A
 good example of this was an event organized by Baker in April 2016. Representing Loyalism:
 Media, Culture & Politics focused on the media portrayal of loyalism, and working-class
 Protestantism. With contributions from representatives of the loyalist community, academics,
 artists and journalists, this event was open to the general public. Due to her expertise in
 collaborative documentary filmmaking in post-conflict contexts, Mairs Dyer was an invited
 member of the Ethics and Filmmaking panel and discussion at the Belfast Human Rights
 Festival on 6th March 2017. Similarly, because of her on-going research interest in women’s
 contribution to peace-building in post-conflict NI, Mairs Dyer has participated in a number of
 other public events in the UK and Ireland, including: ‘Herstory’, an event highlighting the
 contribution of women to Irish history; WANDA: Feminism and Moving Image Film Festival; ‘Art
 for the Senses. A Journey of Resilience and Recovery’ which focused on how art can be used in
 the facilitation of recovery from trauma and in the development of resilience. This event formed
 part of the series funded by the Royal Society for the Arts, London.

 Jackson was a member of the BBC Audience Council. The Council advised the BBC Trust, the
 governing body of the BBC. Jackson’s role involved the use of audience feedback and other
 information to provide strategic advice to the BBC Trust and she has presented various findings
 on behalf of the Audience Council NI to Rona Fairhead, Chairman of the BBC Trust; Trust
 members including Lord Williams; Jon Zeff, Director of the BBC Trust; Alison Gold, Head of
 Public Services Strategy; Philip Lillico, Chief Advisor Governance; Fran O’Brien, Head of
 Editorial Standards; and Nick North, Director of BBC Audiences. Porter has an ongoing
 relationship with BBC Research and Development in London and Manchester, as part of UU’s
 participation in the multi-institutional Data Science Research Science Partnership. In
 collaboration with a BBC funded Postdoctoral fellow and CMR research assistant, Dr G.
 Monteverde, Porter presented a significant research report to the Head of Partnerships at the
 BBC, Samantha Chadwick, entitled ‘Measuring the Societal Impact of the BBC’. The two-fold
 aim of the work was to: a) review the literature of societal impact measures and metrics used by
 public service providers, including broadcasters; and b) to identify best practice for using
 relevant measures and metrics to evidence societal impact relevant for the BBC. Edge has been
 working in an all-Ireland or cross border context to examine the impact social network sites have
 been having on young people’s mental health. Her research findings have been presented to the
 regional media industry, to members of the Northern Ireland Assembly and key policy makers at
 Stormont and to interested bodies such as Ofcom and the Princess Trust. Long has also
 presented her work to policymakers at the Northern Ireland assembly, as well as the Public
 Health Agency in Northern Ireland (PHA). The PHA is a statutory body, and a regional
 organisation for health protection and health and social wellbeing improvement.

 Running alongside the scholarly articles in peer review journals on ‘New Orleans Jazz’ in this
 assessment period (i.e., between 2014 and 2020), Ekins has also produced over fifty Jazz
 publications, including a book, and a further two CDs (with accompanying booklets) to complete
 his 9 CD series ‘The Lord Richard New Orleans Sessions’. Further, in addition to his significant
 activities in the field of popular music, the CMR also supports Ekins in his active involvement in
 the Marchmont Association (MA) History Project in Bloomsbury, London. In 2009, MA
 established its own independent commemorative plaque scheme honouring significant figures
 from the past: from the Pankhursts to Virginia Woolf, Kenneth Williams to Mary Shelley, Jerome
 K Jerome to Vladimir Lenin. Ekins has been principally involved in the Blue Plaque project since
 2011 and since 2014 he and his colleagues have erected 2 History Boards and 17 Blue Plaques
 in the area. With Debbie Radcliffe, Ekins has produced an overview of MA History Project to
 date (http://www.marchmont.org/historyproject/). For a sense of the depth of research engaged
 in by Ekins in this context, see, for example, his peered-reviewed article in Pilgrimages, ‘The

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Case of Dorothy Richardson in Bloomsbury (1896-1907): An Essay in Grounded Theory and the
 Social Construction of Knowledge’.

 Professional Practice

 Giffney is a fully-accredited psychoanalytic psychotherapist, a psychosocial theorist and an
 interdisciplinary researcher. She integrates these facets of her training and experience into her
 public engagement activities and clinical practice. Giffney is the Director of ‘Psychoanalysis +’,
 an international, interdisciplinary initiative that brings together clinical, academic and artistic
 approaches to, and applications of, psychoanalysis. Across the assessment period (i.e.,
 between 2014 and 2020) large public events have taken place in, for example, the Freud
 Museum in London, the National Museum of Decorative Arts and History, Science Gallery
 Dublin, Filmbase, and IMMA – The Irish Museum of Modern Art. She was commissioned by
 IMMA in 2018 to develop ‘Unconscious Objects: A Series of Conversations around Art and
 Psychoanalysis’, after giving a keynote lecture on ‘The Freud Affect’, as part of the Lucian Freud
 Lecture Series, convened by IMMA and Trinity College Dublin.

 Giffney is also developing (with Long and Mairs Dyer) ‘Mental Health & the Arts’, an
 interdisciplinary, cross-border initiative on the island of Ireland, which convenes public events on
 psychosocial issues in cultural institutions in partnership with community groups/organisations.
 There have been two such events to date. Firstly, ‘The Long-Term Impact of Violent Trauma on
 Adult Mental and Physical Health’ took place in the Strand Arts Centre Cinema, Belfast in
 October 2018. The event was co-sponsored by the Belfast Film Festival, and featured
 contributions from professionals working in the fields of counselling, psychotherapy,
 physiotherapy, general medicine, social work, and documentary filmmaking. Secondly, ‘What
 Can We Do with Our Vulnerability? Words to Make Meaning of Life’s Experiences’ took place in
 the Duncairn Centre for Culture and Arts, Belfast in October 2019. The event was co-sponsored
 by the Verbal Arts Centre in Derry~Londonderry, and featured award-winning writer Emilie Pine
 and her bestselling book of personal essays, Notes to Self.

 Giffney also undertook a comprehensive qualitative review of the Irish Forum for Psychoanalytic
 Psychotherapy’s clinical accreditation criteria in 2017-2018, which included forming and chairing
 a ten-person clinical working group. The Forum adopted the revised set of accreditation criteria
 she and the working group produced. The Forum is one of the official bodies that accredits
 psychoanalytic clinical practitioners on the island of Ireland. Long was the Honorary External
 Consultant for this review. Further, Long’s research directly shaped the policy and professional
 practices of Pieta House, Ireland’s leading charity providing therapy for those in suicidal distress,
 engaging in self-harm, or bereaved by suicide. Long also contributed to a Mental Health
 Foundation Report, ‘The Truth about self-harm'
 (https://www.mentalhealth.org.uk/publications/truth-about-self-harm).

 McGrath is very active in the professional fields of Public Relations and Political Lobbying within
 the NI region and beyond. At the Public Relations Institute of Ireland (PRII), he has served as an
 elected member of the National Council and of its smaller Executive Committee. Moreover, he
 has been Chair of the PRII’s Education Sub-Council, a member of the PRII’s Publications and
 PR Sub-Council, and Chair of its Editorial Board. He was the founder and first Chairman of the
 Northern Ireland Government Affairs Group, which acts as a forum in which local lobbyists can
 exchange professional experiences and serves as the representative body for that industry in NI.
 Based in Brussels, the European Centre for Public Affairs is an organisation which represents
 lobbyists there and promotes best practice. McGrath has been a member of its Management
 Board, and Chairman of the group’s Research & Publications Committee. He is currently an
 elected member of the Chartered Institute of Public Relations’ Northern Ireland
 Committee. Edge in partnership with Politics Plus and Bespoke Productions designed and
 delivered the professional media training programme, ‘Be Seen Be Heard’. This programme
 trained and facilitated fifty women from different areas of civic society with the aim of increasing
 the representation of women’s voices in current affairs and news broadcasting in NI.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Economy/Society

 In various roles across this assessment period (i.e., between 2014 and 2020), Jackson worked
 on the following regional economic projects in NI. First, The Digital Causeway Graduate
 Accelerator Programme. An incubator programme to support the development of graduate
 enterprise in the digital media/big data industries, this was aimed at graduates and
 undergraduates at UU across the region and was supported by Invest Northern Ireland and
 Coleraine Borough Council. Secondly, Digi2Market, Northern Periphery and Artic Programme.
 This is a design project which deploys digital marketing strategies in regional SMEs in order to
 enhance their marketing and sales beyond their regions. The project is developing marketing
 stories across different participating sectors, including Agri-food, Marine and Engineering, using
 immersive technology to produce benefits of scale not otherwise available. Thirdly, Sea Gods,
 Shipwrecks and Sidhe Folk, Heritage Lottery Funding. The aim of this project is to develop an
 innovative form of interpretation for the north coast of Ireland’s rich cultural heritage, using
 smartphone technologies. The wider project team include Causeway Coast and Glens Borough
 Councils Museums Services, artists and local community groups. This project has: a) used the
 landscape, cultural assets and activities to enable opportunities for both local people and visitors
 to participate in the culture, arts and heritage of the area; b) supported the creative development
 of young people and creative practitioners: and c) promoted a sense of pride, identity and
 deeper understanding of Causeway area by bringing together its many stories, histories,
 identities and languages.

 Contributions to Wider Research Base: Keynotes, Talks, Symposia, and Peer-Review Activity

 During this REF cycle, CMR researchers have given keynote addresses and invited talks in
 institutional fora such as: University of Kent, The Tavistock Institute, Ulster Museum, LSE,
 Birbeck, University of Manchester, University of Nottingham, Ningbo, China, The Irish Museum
 of Modern Art, Trinity College Dublin, University College Dublin, Science Gallery Dublin,
 Technological University, Dublin, University of Roehampton; Imperial College, Brunel University,
 FRIAS, University of Freiburg, Germany, La Academia Nacional de Ciencias de Buenos Aires,
 Argentina, and University of Manitoba, Canada, Stanford University, USA.

 CMR scholars engage in peer review activities for journals such as: for Photographies, Social
 History, Visual Communication, History of Photography, Contemporary Political Theory,
 European Journal of Political Theory, Deleuze and Guattari Studies, Studies in Gender and
 Sexuality, Postmedieval: A Journal of Medieval Cultural Studies, Alphaville Journal of Film and
 Screen Media, The International Journal of Psychoanalysis, Studies in the Maternal, Media,
 Culture & Society, Cultural Studies, Convergence, Journal of Media Practice and Education and
 Journal of British Cinema and Television. Giffney was the co-founder and co-series editor of the
 ‘Queer Interventions’ book series at Ashgate. Books in the series were re-published by
 Routledge and in paperback during this REF cycle, including two books co-edited by Giffney:
 Queering the Non/Human (2016[2008]) and The Ashgate Research Companion to Queer Theory
 (2018[2009]). Porter is part of the editorial executive for Rowman and Littlefield’s book series
 ‘Experiments on the Political’ and is the co-founder and series editor of Rowman and Littlefield’s
 forthcoming book series on ‘ill-disciplinary thinking’. Porter is also an active reviewer of grant
 applications as part of the AHRC Peer Review College.

 Finally, the CMR has a lively research culture with regular conference events, symposia, and
 research workshops. Detailed below are some indicative examples.

 Long and Giffney were part of a UU team that co-sponsored the British Association for
 Counselling and Psychotherapy’s (BACP) 25th Annual Research Conference in May 2020, the
 first time it was convened in the NI region.

 In January 2019, Porter hosted a one-day symposium on ‘Technology, Culture, Politics’. This
 public event brought together scholars from University of Kent, Technological University Dublin,


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Paris 7, Nanterre and Kings College London to think about the ways in which technology, culture
 and politics intersect in contemporary everyday life.

 In October 2018, Ramsey jointly organised (with Emerita Professor Máire Messenger Davies)
 the event ‘Can we believe the media? The role of journalism in the digital age’. The event was
 co-organised with IMPRESS, the UK’s approved independent press regulator. Speakers at the
 event included Jonathan Heawood, Chief Executive Officer of IMPRESS, Peter Feeney,
 Ireland's Press Ombudsman, and journalists from the Irish News and VIEWDigital
 (https://impress.press/news/event-can-we-believe-the-media-the-role-of-journalism-in-the-digital-
 age-04-10-2018-belfast.html).

 In April 2017, and with a £10k grant from British Academy/Leverhulme, Jackson organised
 ‘Performing the Drone Workshop’. This event aimed to bring new discourses to the interpretation
 of the drone image by inviting artists to respond through their literary practice to photographs
 captured by drones. This public event involved a wide range of participants connected to
 landscape issues, including planners, environmental groups, and creative practitioners.

 In April 2017, Ramsey, Baker and Porter hosted a one-day symposium, ‘Getting Real about
 Critical Regionalism: What contemporary NI tells us about the Britain beyond its Border’. This
 event brought together scholars from Queen’s University Belfast, University of Kent and Edge
 Hill University to think about how an inter-disciplinary and cross-connecting analysis of
 contemporary NI could be advanced. These conversations helped Porter to develop the ‘critical-
 regionalist’, cross-comparative, framework used in his AHRC bid ‘Failed states and creative
 resistances: the everyday life of punks in Belfast, Banda Aceh, Mitrovica and Soweto’ initially
 foregrounded above in section one.




                                                                                           Page 13
