Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: University of Central Lancashire

    Unit of Assessment: UoA4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Structure and Achievements
The UoA4 submission at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is comprised primarily from
the members of the School of Psychology. Psychology has been a subject area at UCLan since
the 1970s, initially with 6.0 FTE returnees in 1986, increasing linearly to the present 26.0 FTE,
representing 58% of the School’s staffing base of 44.7 FTE. Psychology has over 60 postgraduate
research (PGR) students. Six Professors (5.2 FTE) and two Readers (1.6 FTE) provide research
leadership. During the REF evaluation period we see the following as the primary achievements of
UoA4: increased numbers and quality of published outputs; increased research income;
demonstrable societal impact; increased PGR numbers; and success in our staff recruitment
strategy. We detail and evidence our achievements throughout the remainder of this document.

Three research groups encompass most UoA4 activity:
      •   Forensic Psychology (FP) Group
      •   Quality of Life (QoL) Group
      •   Perception, Cognition and Neuroscience (PCN) Group

These groups have been actively established to provide balance between research investigating
important societal issues driving forward theoretical development to evidence-based interventions
and fundamental theoretical and experimental research that is core to the disciplines of psychology
and neuroscience. The groups have fluidity, with cross-group membership and collaboration
encouraged. Expertise is combined to enrich research (e.g., J. Ireland, FP, Liversedge, PCN,
attention and psychopathy; Graham-Kevan, QoL, Khan, FP, crime-victim support), and each
group also includes subgroups centred around core specialisms. The groups are central to strong
national and international academic collaborations, and hold tight and unique relationships with
NHS Trusts, medical practitioners, police and prison services, LEAs, schools and charitable
institutions.

Forensic Psychology (FP) Group
This group was established in the 1970s with the appointment of Archer (now Emeritus Professor),
who remains an authority in aggression research. Professor J. Ireland, mentored by Archer, now
leads the group’s research, directing studies on aggression and violence. A significant transition
point for the group occurred when the Ashworth Research Centre (ARC; Ashworth Hospital,
MerseyCare NHS Trust) was established in 2010. The ARC is internationally recognised as a
world-leading research facility with a unique participant group, high secure psychiatric patients, to
facilitate development of evidence-based interventions. Ashworth is the only high-secure facility in
the UK to have an associated Research Centre. Research activity within the FP Group was
accelerated during this REF period through the strategic appointment of Lewis (expertise in clinical
psychopathy) to a Lectureship in 2017. The FP Group engages in wide-reaching collaborations
built around five thematic lines relating to victims and/or those in contact with the criminal or
community justice system:
•     Sexual Abuse and Exploitation – Bryce, C. Ireland, Khan
•     Forensic Mental Health and Disorder – J. Ireland, C. Ireland, Gardner, Chu, Lewis, Eslea
•     Interpersonal Violence – Khan, Eslea, C. Ireland, J. Ireland
•     Treatment Evaluation and Development – J. Ireland, C. Ireland, Lewis, Chu
•     Applications to Criminal and Community Justice – Frowd, Bryce, Richardson, Jones


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The FP Group activities continue to expand, forging lines of work into important new areas (e.g.,
Khan’s research on honour-based violence and C. Ireland’s research on child sexual-exploitation
behaviours).

Quality of Life (QoL) Group
Professor Abbott leads this internationally renowned group investigating patient-related coping
and treatment with respect to disease progression. The QoL Group’s research is a strategic
priority, as reflected in key promotions and appointments (e.g., Graham-Kevan, promoted to
Chair; Chronaki, promoted to Senior Lecturer; Harrison, appointed as Lecturer). The QoL Group
focuses on four themes:
•   Scale Development and Evaluation – Abbott, Graham-Kevan
•   Screening, Diagnosis and Management of Mental and Physical Health – Graham-Kevan,
    Bryce, Qualter, Abbott
•   Resilience and Psychosocial Wellbeing – Graham-Kevan, Robinson, Qualter, Chronaki,
    Abbott, Harrison
•   Psychobiological and Cognitive Processes in Disease Progression and Survival – Abbott,
    Harrison

The QoL Group leads multiple, cross-University interdisciplinary collaborations, with Chronaki and
Harrison holding membership of the UCLan Research Institute for Global Health and Wellbeing,
and Professor Graham-Kevan (another former mentee of Archer) co-directing the UCLan Criminal
Justice Partnership (CJP), undertaking interdisciplinary, policy-focused research relating to the
criminal justice system.

Perception, Cognition and Neuroscience (PCN) Group
The PCN Group is jointly led by Professors Liversedge and Ball and is the largest UoA4 group,
having been developed strategically since REF 2014 through targeted appointments. Principal of
these was Liversedge, providing leadership and expertise in the field of eye movements, reading
and visual cognition. Associated appointments (Zang, ESRC-funded Senior Researcher; Degno,
Postdoctoral Research Fellow; Benson, Senior Lecturer), consolidate this area, complementing
significant existing expertise in reasoning (Ball) and attention/distraction (Marsh). These strategic
appointments have added methodological expertise (eye-tracking, electroencephalography [EEG]
and concurrent co-registration of eye movements and EEG) in relation to data acquisition and
advanced analytical techniques (Linear Mixed Modelling, Bayesian analyses, Permutation
Analyses, Structural Equation Modelling, Generalised Estimating Equations, Matlab and R
programming). PCN Group developments have resulted in a significantly increased international
profile and network (China, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Canada) and major growth in the breadth
of theoretical understanding (e.g., cognition and reading, cross-cultural issues and atypical
cognitive development). Direct support for the PCN Group derives from 2.0 FTE permanent,
University-funded Research Fellows (Degno, co-registration and reading; Threadgold, reasoning
and attention). During the REF period the PCN Group has spearheaded internationally leading
research around five themes:
•   Vision, Perception, Visual Cognition and Reading – Liversedge, Benson, Zang, Degno,
    Marsh, Denhovska, Judge
•   Attention, Distraction and Awareness – Marsh, Ball, Judge, Massey, Richardson,
    Threadgold, Liversedge
•   Reasoning, Decision Making and Memory – Ball, Marsh, Richardson, Threadgold, Jones,
    Robinson, Judge
•   Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience – Chronaki, Benson, Furman, White, Denhovska,
    Liversedge
•   Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience – Richardson, Clark, Chronaki, Robinson,
    Threadgold, Ball, Jones


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All PCN Group staff are also members of the UCLan Research Centre for Brain and Behaviour,
CBB, which funds and facilitates extensive cross-University collaboration.

Additional UoA4 submission members conduct related and complementary research on molecular
neuroscience and neurobiology in the School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences (Bambini-
Junior, Beglopoulos and More) and research in educational psychology in the Centre for
Collaborative Learning (Dacre Pool).

Research Objectives During the Assessment Period and Over the Next Five Years
In 2014, the School of Psychology committed to the strategic development of its reputation for
evidence-based research of real-world issues informed by cutting-edge, theoretically founded
scientific knowledge. The three central research groups have strengthened and re-focused as new
staff have joined the UoA, but their broader thematic orientation toward forensic psychology, health
psychology and cognition has remained. Likewise, all three groups deliver increasingly on
productive and sustainable lines of research, benefitting from effective leadership and mentorship
by professorial colleagues. Five core objectives underpinned the REF period research-
development strategy: to build momentum to enable research; to form sustainable external
partnerships and collaborations; to increase public engagement with research; to strengthen the
research environment and support and nurture early-career researchers (ECRs) and PGR
students; and to develop research infrastructure and implement mechanisms for knowledge
transfer and intellectual property management. These objectives were acted upon and driven
forward by Ball providing leadership in his role as Dean of Psychology. Additionally, UoA4
research leaders have cultivated and supported an “enabling” research culture, setting standards
and expectations for effective mentorship by group leads and other senior colleagues.

UoA4’s structure and adherence to its stated objectives have borne fruit and facilitated the
attainment of increased research productivity (in both quantity and quality). Based on data
(normalised over the REF period), the number of submissible outputs has increased severalfold,
and based on external assessment, quality has improved substantially. There have also been
marked increases in Ph.D. completions (Section 2) and research income (Section 3). Similarly, the
number of postdoctoral researchers has increased, reflecting investment and support in our ECR
community, with two permanent Research Fellows (Degno and Threadgold) being funded since
2019. UoA4’s internationalisation activities have also increased significantly, strengthening
Psychology’s world profile and standing (Section 4).

Throughout the REF period we have continually monitored and refined our objectives to reflect
developments in our research culture and our maturing ambitions, which is an approach that will
continue into the future. Progressing toward current objectives will deliver research practice and
expertise of increased quality and rigour that will directly translate into quantifiably improved
outputs and impacts downstream. Current objectives are:
•   To improve published research outputs, with an emphasis on quality over quantity; to increase
    the number and quality of grant applications; to increase PGR and ECR numbers; and to
    sustain support for impact and public engagement activities.
•   To complement applied, translational research (a strength of the FP and QoL Groups), with an
    increase in advanced theoretical developments, through the research of the PCN Group to be
    achieved via strategic appointments and investment in experimental facilities.
•   To encourage and foster best open science practices, delivering high levels of accessibility to
    data, protocols and outputs through training and recruitment, particularly with respect to ECR
    colleagues.
•   To ensure a maximally developed and sustained resident skill set in respect of advanced
    statistical techniques, alongside cutting edge experimental methods for data acquisition and
    analysis, again, attained through training and recruitment.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   To strengthen and broaden our international, national and regional influence through increased
    visibility for our expertise in core areas via our research group leads to ensure we are regularly
    the collaborator of choice.
•   To invest strategically in and expand our internationalisation activities, building outwards from
    established connections to develop new and broader collaborations (cf. Marsh’s multi-
    institution collaborations across Sweden: Honorary Professor, Luleå University of Technology;
    Research Affiliate, Department of Psychology, Umeå University; Visiting Researcher, University
    of Gävle. See Section 4 for Liversedge’s China collaborations, spanning multiple institutions).

Enabling and Facilitating the Achievement of Impact
UoA4 is committed to principles of excellence in the development of a cutting-edge theoretical
understanding in psychology and neuroscience and in the delivery of real and meaningful impact to
society. UoA4 has always adopted a highly strategic approach to the attainment of impact, with
Professors leading on impact delivery, alongside key collaborators in relevant research groups.
Delivery of high-quality impact is facilitated through careful workload allocation to provide staff with
the time and flexibility to deliver on their impact agenda as an appraisal target. Professors mentor
junior colleagues in impact delivery to ensure pipeline continuity of societal benefits from UoA4
research.

As part of Psychology’s flexible workload-allocation model, UoA4 supports key individuals in
impact-related research, for example, through sabbaticals (Abbott, one year, 2013/14; Khan, one
semester, 2015, as an impact mentee to establish the Honour Abuse Research Matrix, HARM).
Financial support for impact activities derives internally from several sources, including negotiated
funds from the School and bids directed at internal initiatives, including ones supported by HEIF,
QR-SPF and QR-GCRF (Section 3). In addition, expansion and consolidation of the ARC impact
activities results from continuity of MerseyCare NHS Trust funding, in recognition of the Centre’s
exceptional achievements.

Our managed approach to impact, involving allocated time, earned autonomy and financial support
(driven by expectations of achievement) has been highly effective, with deliverables of a standard
exceeding expectations. UoA4’s overarching approach to translational research has been a
lynchpin of its research strategy for over 20 years, reflecting clear understanding that societal
benefits deriving from theoretically-based research have long trajectories that require careful
nurturing. Further, UoA4 is providing foundations for increased impact diversity into the future. For
example, Khan (HARM), C. Ireland (child exploitation) and Bryce (online sexual harassment
among young people) are pursuing research that will deliver societal impact and positive change
over coming decades.

The School’s principled approach to fostering and supporting research impact is evidenced by
significant achievements in four areas of activity (with three selected as impact case studies):
•   J. Ireland’s world-leading work with the ARC team developing evidence-based procedures for
    management and intervention in secure and high-risk settings.
•   Frowd’s engagement with national and international police forces to deliver EvoFIT technology
    for successful identification of offenders via facial composite images.
•   Abbot’s internationally recognised work to develop and evaluate patient-reported outcome
    measures for individuals with cystic fibrosis.
•   Graham-Kevan’s ground-breaking research delivering multiple programmes of behaviour
    change for the treatment needs of a wide range of diverse populations.

Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
UoA4 benefits from staff membership of 13 UCLan Research Centres and two UCLan Research
Institutes, all having a multidisciplinary focus (e.g., Centre for Brain and Behaviour; CBB) and
receiving internal funding (e.g., for seminars, networking and pump-priming). UCLan Centres and

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institutes, established in 2018, were created as a top-down response to address the bottom-up
drive for increased multidisciplinary collaboration and attendant resourcing. The Centres are
mechanisms to facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration, create visible research presence and
infrastructure, and critically, distribute central research investment. Most researchers in the FP and
PCN Groups are members of the CBB (with 49 full members and 12 associate members). The
CBB is directed by Professor Davidson (School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences), with Ball
as Deputy Director and Liversedge as Cognitive Neuroscience lead. UoA4 staff contribute to the
other CBB themes: Neurodegeneration; Neuroscience Drug Design; and Psychiatric Illnesses. The
CBB also enjoys membership from the Schools of Medicine, Dentistry and Sport and Health
Sciences. The Centre is living up to its promise as a catalyst for new and exciting interdisciplinary
collaborations, with one example being a joint research project involving Clark (School of
Psychology) and More (School of Pharmacy and Biomedical Sciences) investigating how inducing
alterations in animal behaviour that are consistent with depressive-like states may alter functional
connectivity of the ventral striatum, a brain region associated with reward behaviour.

Progress Towards an Open Research Environment
UoA4 is committed to open science and compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data.
UoA4 staff have Editor-in-Chief roles at six international journals, including Quarterly Journal of
Experimental Psychology (QJEP; Liversedge) and Journal of Cognitive Psychology (JCP; Ball),
which both embrace open science practices. In their editorial roles, both Ball and Liversedge have
instantiated a formal registered-report route to publication and strongly recommend data, stimuli
and protocol sharing, with a mandatory requirement at JCP from January 2020. UoA4 also
advances best scientific practice through staff representation on the University’s Open Research
Steering Group, which has a broad remit (e.g., renewal of University Open Access [OA] policies;
provision of support for OA compliance; promotion of OA awareness and funder requirements;
monitoring, advising and reporting on policy development for open research).

Implementing Standards Relating to Research Ethics and Research Integrity
Researchers in UoA4 conform to principles of strict ethical integrity, adhering to, and ensuring
compliance with, the highest national and international ethical standards. This is a minimum
requirement and aligns with UCLan’s commitment to the Global Code of Conduct for Research in
Resource-Poor Settings that guides international collaborations similarly (UCLan was the first
European university to sign up to the Code of Conduct). Within UoA4 all PGR and staff research
projects must gain ethical approval via the University’s Science Ethics Review Panel, which has
delegated responsibility from the University’s Ethics and Integrity Committee. UoA4 staff review for
this panel, which has rotating Chair and Vice-Chair positions (Judge is Chair; Threadgold is Vice-
Chair). All ethics submissions are evaluated by a reviewer and Chair/Vice-Chair to ensure ethical
and GDPR compliance (e.g., regarding data storage), and risk mitigation (risk assessments for
participants are mandatory). Additional external ethical approval is obtained wherever appropriate
(e.g., NHS, Prison Service, etc).

All behavioural research involving animals is conducted in line with the Animals (Scientific
Procedures) Act (1986) and EU Directive 2010/63/EU under the guidance of the University’s
Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board (AWERB). All researchers involved in animal research
are fully trained and have appropriate Home Office licenses for their studies. Animals are housed
in a purpose-built facility and there is a dedicated team with Home Office recognised qualifications
that provides day-to-day care. A veterinary surgeon is on call at all times and carries out both pre-
planned and unannounced inspections. The facility is also open to inspection by the Home Office
at any time. UCLan is a signatory to the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research, which
further underscores an institutional commitment to undertaking animal research in an ethical and
responsible manner. UCLan is also committed to the promotion of the 3Rs (reduction, refinement
and replacement), such that alternatives to animal research are used whenever possible and when
animal research is deemed essential then experimental techniques are refined so as to use the
minimum number of animals to still allow for valid results.

Training in research integrity is central to UoA4 staff and PGRs and is a core element of research

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
away-days, workshops, “Research Matters” meetings (Section 2) and Graduate School support for
PGRs and supervisors. Regular training for staff and PGRs is focused on the pitfalls of
questionable research practices (e.g., small-sample studies, p-hacking, p-value rounding). The
virtues of good scientific practices are extolled in these fora, with senior UoA4 staff leading by
example and collaborating with ECRs and PGRs in publishing replication studies, submitting
registered reports, engaging in pre-registration, pursuing data-sharing and implementing Bayesian
analysis/meta-analysis. Over half the staff in the UoA4 submission have published an open access
paper or have lodged stimuli, data sets or analysis scripts in a publicly accessible repository during
the current REF period.


 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
UoA4 recognises that effective recruitment, support, development and progression are critical for
staff retention. Our aim is to attract high-calibre researchers and provide the facilities and
environment to allow them to thrive and attain maximum potential. UoA4’s staff recruitment and
retention policy has been strategic throughout the REF period, and will remain so into the future,
involving active “search” for new appointees with cutting-edge skills and experience in areas of
existing strength to ensure sustenance of world-leading research teams. Posts are largely full-time,
permanent positions to ensure maximal appeal. Nineteen staff in the UoA4 submission were
appointed in the current REF period, all making significant contributions to the current submission.

J. Ireland and Abbott have been supported in advancing from Level 1 to Level 2 Professor
positions (UCLan implements three professorial-progression levels). J. Ireland continues as
Director of the FP Group and ARC Clinical Lead and Abbott continues as Director of the QoL
Group. During the assessment period Frowd and Graham-Kevan were mentored by Ball to gain
progression from Reader to Level 1 Professor, with Graham-Kevan becoming CJP Co-Director. C.
Ireland (formerly Senior Lecturer) and Marsh (formerly Senior Research Fellow) were mentored
by Ball to successful promotion to Readerships, with C. Ireland continuing as ARC Senior
Research Lead. To ensure succession planning for future leadership, Marsh and C. Ireland are
being mentored toward Professorship.

The promotion of Ball in 2018 to Faculty Director of Research (0.6 FTE) alongside his Dean of
School post (0.4 FTE) increased the representation, visibility and recognition of UoA4’s research at
Faculty and University levels. Liversedge’s recruitment in 2018 (Level 3 Professor) marks the next
phase of UoA4 development, whereby research group leaders deliver mentorship, vision and
direction to support efforts to attract significant external research funding. Since 2018, UoA4 has
seen major successes in this regard.

There has also been targeted investment in existing staff to facilitate promotion from Lecturer to
Senior Lecturer, in part to reward excellence in research and ensure succession for future
leadership. All staff who have significant responsibility for research (SRfR) have specific,
measurable, achievable, realistic and time-bound (“SMART”) research objectives that are
negotiated and reviewed in bi-annual appraisals. Such staff also receive financial support (e.g., for
consumables and participant payment) to achieve research outcomes and development
opportunities to establish research-focused career trajectories. Equipment requests are channeled
toward appropriate funding sources at School, Faculty or University levels. Conference attendance
requests up to £3,000 per individual per year are considered by the School Executive Team
(almost all requests are supported), and a substantial reserve budget is kept back for ad hoc
research requests that arise during the year.

All staff with SRfR have carefully managed workloads that provide time to attain research
objectives, with core research time equating to 20% of a standard workload (i.e., one day per week
for a full-time individual). Extra research time can be negotiated to enable attainment of agreed
objectives (e.g., developing a research proposal or pursuing research impact). Some long-serving
colleagues in Psychology have chosen to pursue teaching-focused trajectories, which is respected
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and supported. These staff retain the option of returning to SRfR status via the appraisal process.
This flexibility regarding roles, responsibilities and career trajectories engenders a well-functioning
UoA founded on principles of mutual respect (staff “play to their strengths”).

To attract, recruit, develop and retain excellent colleagues, it is essential to offer an environment
that is characteristically equal, diverse and inclusive. UoA4 ensures that it reflects gender and
ethnic diversity in its recruitment documentation and the School of Psychology is committed to
improving its culture of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). For the UoA4 staff return, 72% are
female, with 50% female at Professor/Reader level. Action plans are in place to ensure increased
female progression to Professor and Reader positions to align with UoA4’s overall gender profile.
50% of submitted staff are 25-44 years old and 50% are 45-60 years old – a balanced age
distribution ensuring effective research leadership, succession planning and ECR investment.

The success of UoA4’s recruitment approach is evidenced by high-profile appointments of world-
leading researchers (ECR to Professor) to strengthen research groups. These appointments have
brought immediate successes at all levels. For example, at professorial level, Liversedge’s ESRC
and Leverhulme Trust awards; at Senior Lecturer level, both Benson and More contribute five
high-quality outputs and Chronaki contributes four; at Lecturer level Bambini-Junior delivers
three excellent outputs and Field delivers two; and at ECR level Zang and Degno delivered
excellent first-author OA publications in Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception &
Performance and in Journal of Experimental Psychology: General. Strategic appointments have
been instrumental in consolidating and broadening research areas that include developmental
cognitive neuroscience (led by Chronaki), attention and distraction (led by Marsh), thinking and
reasoning (led by Ball), social cognition (led by Richardson) and visual cognition and reading (led
by Liversedge). UoA4 maintains a pluralistic and international staffing base and provides a
welcoming and supportive environment. We consider our international staff composition to be a
strength of our research community. UoA4 remains committed to continued strategic staff
recruitment around existing research areas.

As would be expected, all academic staff in the School of Psychology at Lecturer level or above
have Ph.D.s or professional doctorates (a shortlisting prerequisite). Most new staff are appointed at
Lecturer level as ECRs, aligning with UCLan’s recruitment policy to build and nurture expertise
bottom-up, supported by mentorship. The exception to this policy-led approach relates to like-for-
like replacements for departing individuals at Reader or Professor level, for continuity in research
leadership (e.g., Liversedge). Newly appointed staff have a one-year probation period, during
which “SMART” research objectives (e.g., publication, bid preparation, conference dissemination)
are set. Newly appointed Lecturers have a funded probationary objective to visit a national or
international laboratory to advance collaborative research (e.g., Furman to Max Planck Institute for
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen; Field to Psychology, Warwick University). Key research training and
development needs are also identified for appointees (e.g., methodological, programming and
statistical skill development). New appointees receive start-up funds (c. £5,000 p.a. for three years)
and are encouraged to submit cases for high-cost equipment to UCLan funding schemes. New
Lecturers are appointed a research mentor from the professoriate and join Ph.D. supervision
teams to allow for supervision support. All new Lecturers have research-time allocations that
exceed the 20% core allocation (i.e., an additional 10% in Year 1, reducing to an additional 5% in
Year 2). Extra development time (a further 20% p.a. for two years) is allocated to those taking the
University’s Academic Professional Apprenticeship Programme.

UoA4’s staff recruitment over the REF period has gone well with tangible success at all levels (see
examples above). The next phase will involve focused appointments that align with research
strengths and priorities. The strategic goal is to increase productivity within and between research
groups and attain an enhanced research culture. Steps in this direction are well advanced. In May
2019, weekly, two-hour “Research Matters” meetings were launched, offering a functional and
pragmatic forum for discussion of any research-related matters. This well-attended discussion
group (15-30 attendees) has no formal agenda but delivers “high-end” engagement with all matters
of research. Discussion topics include research income generation, open science and best current
practice, analytical methods, meta-analyses, ethics and research integrity, and career structure

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and planning. These meetings form a core part of UoA4’s research schedule and are highly
conducive to the maintenance and centrality of research within UoA4’s culture. In addition to these
events, there are multiple smaller meetings amongst clusters of researchers with common interests
to discuss articles, methodological issues and grant applications. The weekly Seminar Speaker
Series is another well-attended activity central to the integrity and cohesion of UoA4’s research
culture. A mixed schedule of UCLan “home grown” speakers alongside leading international
speakers is provided (online during the COVID-19 pandemic). A high-point in the Series is the
prestigious annual Darwin-Day Celebratory Lecture (commemorating Darwin’s birthday, after
whom the Psychology building is named). A formal presentation is delivered to 300+ University
staff and members of the general public by an esteemed psychologist (e.g., Prof. Dorothy Bishop,
Oxford, 2020; Prof. Susan Gathercole OBE, Cambridge, 2019; Prof. Sophie Scott, UCL, 2018; Dr
Hannah Critchlow, Cambridge, 2017; Prof. Sarah-Jayne Blakemore, UCL, 2016).

Research Students
Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs) are an engine of UoA4’s research. We are committed to
ensuring that they receive excellent support and training to be creative, competent and
scientifically rigorous researchers with capabilities that allow for success in world-leading academic
and non-academic careers. UoA4 maintains a buoyant community of PGRs, with c. 50 students
registered for Ph.D.s in each of the two most recent years. PGRs are predominantly self-funded
and part-time, but School and University support meets the costs for five full-time funded
studentships (a funding regime set to continue). PGRs are always appointed so that they align with
UoA4’s core research groups and the associated strategic research priorities that underpin the
research of staff in these groups. UoA4 also funds a rolling programme of Graduate Teaching
Assistant (GTA) appointments (5 years duration; currently six GTAs in post – three new
appointments imminent), with individuals undertaking part-time Ph.D.s and Senior Demonstrator
Responsibilities (funded at 0.7 FTE). During the REF period, a total of 29.75 FTE Ph.D. students
graduated from UoA4, with a significant increase in completions over the past three years (21.5)
compared to the previous four years (8.25; Table 1).

Table 1. Successful Ph.D. completions from 2013/14 to 2019/20.




All PGR appointments are advertised internationally and align with EDI requirements. Applicants
must be qualified to 2:1 or first-class UK degree standard (or equivalent) and non-native English
speakers must hold an IELTS score of 6.5 or above where necessary. All applicants with a
declared disability who meet the person specification are invited to interview.

UoA4 adheres to UCLan’s Research Degree Regulations for monitoring and support of Ph.D.
students to ensure timely and successful completion. Newly registered PGRs are housed in shared
PGR offices and provided with a personal computer and deskspace. Throughout their Ph.D., PGRs
request conference budget funds to present their work at international conferences and are
encouraged to undertake advanced research methods and statistical analysis courses that run
annually within Psychology. PGRs submit a formal “Research Programme Approval” (RPA)
document stipulating an original research programme and timeline alongside training and
development needs. The RPA document is peer reviewed by an internal (non-supervisory team)
expert and revisions are required as necessary. Science Ethics Committee approval is also
necessary prior to initiation of the research. Full-time Ph.D. students have a minimum of 12 annual
supervision meetings with their full team (at least six meetings for part-time Ph.D. students).
Meeting records are maintained that summarise discussion points and actions.

We consider that training in teaching is important for our PGRs and paid opportunities for them to
support staff in teaching sessions are available and encouraged (e.g., PGRs are able to assist with
laboratory sessions and research methods classes). The time commitment of PGRs to teaching is
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
closely monitored by Research Degree Tutors to ensure the effective continuity of their research
programmes. Through UCLan’s Graduate Research School, Psychology is engaged with the
UKCGE Research Supervision Recognition Programme to ensure national recognition and
maintenance of best PGR supervisory practice. The School of Psychology has two Research
Degree Tutors (Judge and Threadgold). These Research Degree Tutors implement a robust
annual monitoring process, meeting with PGRs to assess progress against targets, review team-
meeting records and assess development and support needs. The MPhil/Ph.D. transfer process is
similarly robust requiring completion of a transfer document and a meeting of the student, a
Research Degree Tutor and the original RPA reviewer. PGRs attend the Seminar Speaker Series,
also featuring strongly as speakers. PGRs participate in UCLan’s annual Three Minute thesis
(3MT) competition (UoA4 has an excellent record of representation and success), and the annual
Postgraduate Conference, delivering spoken and poster presentations. PGR attendance at
Research Matters is strongly encouraged. PGRs also typically submit peer-reviewed publications
prior to completion.

Equality and Diversity
A focus on EDI is central to UCLan’s strategic vision to strengthen its culture and ensure everyone
feels safe, valued and supported. UCLan obtained an Athena SWAN bronze award in 2019 and is
working towards a Race Equality Charter bronze award. The University is part of the Stonewall
Diversity Champions Programme and participates in Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index (WEI).
UCLan is a Level 1 Disability Confident employer and has a Mindful Employer Charter Mark. EDI
training (“Diversity in the Workplace”) is mandatory for UCLan staff. Appointing managers
undertake mandatory training on “Recruitment and Selection” and staff with REF responsibilities
undertake mandatory training on “Unconscious Bias”.

UoA4 implements transparent and effective EDI policies in relation to staff recruitment, support,
training, development and progression. Staff have flexible working options and can vary
employment contracts to reduce or increase work commitments (e.g., to manage caring or
parenting responsibilities). Staff returning from leave after sustained periods of absence have
return-to-work meetings to discuss workload, reasonable adjustments and phased-return options.
Staff wellbeing is vital for UoA4 to function effectively, and online information is provided on dealing
with work-related stress, mental health and issues of physical health and discomfort. UoA4
managers are effective in making Occupational Health referrals and are adept at implementing
Stress Risk Assessments, making workload adjustments where necessary and modifying working
environments (e.g., to ensure good working conditions for women experiencing the menopause
and for individuals with disabilities).

The School of Psychology has an EDI Champion (Bryce) and an Athena SWAN Team (led by
Robinson), with a Bronze award submission targeted for November 2021. Ball takes a leadership
role in promoting EDI across UoA4, chairing the Faculty’s EDI Group and supporting UCLan’s
Institutional Athena SWAN Steering Group, where he focuses on key career transition points and
career development. The School of Psychology was the first at UCLan to create a parenting room,
which provides a high-quality environment for breastfeeding mothers. Staff benefit from “Keeping in
Touch” days during parental leave (maternity, paternity, adoption) and staff with SRfR status
returning from parental leave or long-term sickness receive research-time allocations beyond the
standard 20% to regain momentum. Temporary replacement for parental/sickness leave ensures
that cover does not default to existing staff, which could differentially impact female colleagues
given the 65:35 ratio of females to males. Female staff in UoA4 have been supported to participate
in Advance HE's leadership development initiative for women (Aurora). Khan, Robinson and
Gardner have gained significant leadership inspiration from their Aurora experience, facilitating
career-progression (e.g., Robinson appointed Deputy Head of School, 2020; Khan now leads
HARM and, along with Gardner, is being mentored toward a Readership).




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income
UoA4 receives significant external research income from competitive awards (£2.5 million over the
REF period), with 93% coming from four funding sources: (i) MerseyCare NHS Trust (67%); (ii)
UKRI (10%); (iii) the Police Service (9%) and the EU (7%). Significant awards include: NHS
funding (£1.42 million) to J. Ireland to support ARC’s research; an ESRC award (£678,000) to
Liversedge to investigate Chinese reading; Police Service awards (£192,000) to Graham-Kevan
to support research associated with the CJP; and a major EU Award to Bryce that ended early in
the REF period for research into online victimisation. A further award of note is a Leverhulme Trust
Visiting Professor Award (£64,451) to Liversedge to bring Dr. Castelhano (Queen's University
Kingston, Ontario) to UCLan over two years. The general level of research income reflects stability
over the early REF period (average income £345,000 p.a.) However, in the final two years of the
period there has been an increase to an average of £410,000 p.a. (Table 2). This improved
performance demonstrates success in efforts by senior UoA4 colleagues and the University’s
Grants and Funding Unit to provide support and guidance for staff in income-generation
endeavours. Ideas for applications and sources of funding are regularly discussed in Research
Matters meetings. Guidance, support and feedback is provided by senior colleagues to junior
colleagues and the Psychology Research and Innovation Committee (Chair: Liversedge) is
developing a peer-review system to enhance the quality of grant applications. The recent upturn
also validates UoA4’s strategic approach to staffing, with high-quality appointments contributing to
increased income. Through the REF period there has been a shift away from a small number of
substantial awards to a more distributed pattern of funding success across individuals and teams,
reflecting an attitude of shared responsibility for income generation, ensuring stability for future
planning.

Within UoA4, we undertake world-leading, theoretically motivated research ranging from
fundamental topics through to translational issues that are relevant and impactful, publishing
findings in internationally-recognised, peer-reviewed journals. Through these activities we aim to
attain greater international standing, enhance our research profile in areas of expertise and
improve our research environment and infrastructure. A key component of UoA4’s ambitions is to
grow research income to support priority research. Significant emphasis is, therefore, placed upon
writing grant applications to bid for external and internal funds, with the latter deriving from five
primary sources:

•     QR budget is released from the University, forming a significant element of the School’s annual
      research budget (c. £200,000 p.a.) to support a component of the salary costs of Professors
      and Readers and to cover fees, stipends and consumables for Ph.D. students.
•     Devolved non-pay funding (c. £180,000 p.a.) and staff development funding (c. £30,000 p.a.) is
      used to purchase consumables, equipment and software and to fund conference attendance,
      research assistance, participant payments and the training and development needs of staff and
      PGRs. These devolved funds allow for direct control over expenditure, enabling strategic
      planning and investment in priority areas.
•     Competitive research grants are available via the Centre for Brain and Behaviour (e.g.,
      £42,000 in 2019/20) and other University Research Centres, enabling purchase of
      consumables and equipment, conference attendance, networking events and bursary support
      for PGRs.
•     The University funds the acquisition of significant capital items and UoA4 has been a recipient
      of several substantial awards in the current REF period, two to support the establishment of
      EEG laboratories (£180,000 for adult EEG research; £120,000 for developmental EEG
      studies). A third award enabled the purchase of eye-tracking and related data-analysis
      equipment (£110,000).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 2. External research income by funder category and year from 2013/14 to 2019/20, shown as within-year expenditure.

                                                                                     2013/14     2014/15     2015/16     2016/17     2017/18     2018/19     2019/20     TOTAL
BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The Royal Society of Edinburgh
                                                                                         3,375      34,802      43,180     138,367      13,126     127,565      84,662      445,077
UK-based charities (open competitive process)                                           10,537       2,280      12,535       1,254       1,527      21,667       4,837       54,637
UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital authorities        291,522     248,886     196,564     261,405     271,381     330,194     237,220    1,837,173
R&D Tax Credits                                                                            -           -           606         -           -           -           -            606
UK industry, commerce and public corporations                                              -         2,296         -         6,667       4,040         850         -         13,853
EU government bodies                                                                    64,860      70,627 -       639       5,697       7,980       8,823       2,630      159,979
Non-EU other                                                                      -        358      24,326       7,181 -         7         -           796         -         31,939
Grand Total                                                                            369,936     383,217     259,426     413,383     298,054     489,895     329,350    2,543,262




                                                                                                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Centralised funding is made available from HEIF, QR-SPF and QR-GCRF sources to support
    impact activity (£150,000+ over the last three years). Frowd received two HEIF awards for
    EvoFIT research on facial composites (£32,000), Richardson obtained HEIF support for
    research on deception detection (£47,000), Jones received a HEIF award for work on email
    phishing (£18,000), J. Ireland obtained two QR-GCRF awards and a QR-SPF award for
    research on trauma experiences and interventions in the Sri Lankan military (£40,000) and
    Khan obtained a QR-SPF award to develop best-practice policy guidance on harmful
    traditional practices in the workplace (£12,000).

UoA4 staff have institutional roles that inform the deployment of competitive research funds. Ball’s
appointment to Director of Research for the Faculty of Science and Technology in 2018 enables
representation of UoA4’s research ambitions, agenda and achievements in relevant fora (e.g., PVC
Research Strategy Group, University Research and Innovation Committee, University QR-GCRF
Monitoring Panel and Institutes and Centres Monitoring Panel). UoA4’s efforts to support staff in
external funding applications have been beneficial, being reflected in an increased number of grant
applications (104 in REF2014 vs. 281 in REF2021) and an upward trajectory in applications (36
p.a. 2014-2017, 57 p.a. 2018-2021 – a 58% increase).

Research Infrastructure and Facilities
UoA4’s research environment is high quality in relation to laboratory space, equipment and general
experimental facilities. Psychology staff and PGRs are housed in the purpose-built Darwin Building
(opened 2006), which offers a modern, open and pleasant environment with a large amount of
office, teaching and laboratory space. Frowd has additional, dedicated laboratory space in the
Engineering Innovation Centre. Ten colleagues work extensively in the ARC in specialist office and
research space. PGRs occupy two communal research areas and benefit from personal desk-
space, whether full-time or part-time (30 desks with PCs in one room; eight desks with PCs in the
other). UCLan also offers PGRs designated space in the Library.

UoA4’s laboratories are extremely well furbished with state-of-the-art experimental equipment to
permit high-quality research involving human and non-human testing. Laboratory activities are
supported by a dedicated Technician as well as centralised technical support providing extensive
hardware, software and networking expertise. There is a vibrant research atmosphere within the
Darwin Building. Visiting researchers are inter-mixed in open-plan offices with PGRs and other
researchers. The communal kitchen and other social spaces offer locations where colleagues
meet, engage and discuss research. National and international guest speakers who are hosted
weekly for the Speaker Seminar series are shown around the laboratories; most stay overnight and
are taken to dinner allowing discussion and networking time.

There are ten major laboratories for human experimental testing. Two laboratories are dedicated to
the acquisition of high-quality EEG data and house Faraday cages, high-calibre recording and
signal-amplification equipment. One EEG laboratory is for adult data acquisition and co-registration
research (concurrent acquisition of EEG and eye-movement data, a technically sophisticated
specialism of the PCN group; Degno, Liversedge, Zang). The second EEG laboratory is for the
acquisition of developmental data, with an emphasis on atypical populations (Chronaki, Field,
Furman). Three laboratories are dedicated to eye-tracking experimentation and are equipped with
state-of-the-art Eyelink 1000 eye trackers and a Dikablis eye tracker used to investigate reading
(Liversedge, Judge, Zang, Degno), spoken language processing (visual world paradigm,
Denhovska), scene perception and visuo-cognitive processing (Benson, Furman, Liversedge).

The remaining laboratories house BIOPAC systems with modules for electrocardiography (ECG),
electromyography (EMG) and electrodermal activity (EDA; Marsh, Ball, Massey, Richardson).
The BIOPAC systems are interfaced with a Tobii Pro TX300 screen-based eye tracker and a
Nexus biofeedback system. These laboratories are also equipped with facilities permitting
experimentation using functional near-infrared spectroscopy, transcranial magnetic simulation and
transcranial direct current stimulation. Other equipment includes an audiometer to assess hearing

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
acuity, ActiGraph monitors for objective monitoring of sleep and Oculus Rift virtual-reality facilities
for immersive stimulus presentation. Finally, there is a dedicated data-analysis suite with three
high-powered PCs installed with R, Neuroscan and other data-analysis software. Staff also have
access to UCLan’s Hydra Minerva Suite, an immersive, simulated environment for studying real-
time, team-based decision-making in dynamic scenarios (e.g., responses to terrorist incidents).

Much of the UoA4 research that delivers benefit to society necessarily involves settings beyond the
University in the ARC, regional prisons, police-training establishments and other community
contexts. UoA4’s impact strategy is, therefore, focused on ensuring: (i) funding to support the
travel, subsistence and accommodation costs of staff engaging in stakeholder engagement and the
pursuit of intervention studies to inform policy and real-world change; (ii) adequate and sustained
time to facilitate development of pathways to impact and its ultimate realisation; and (iii) support for
collaborative research groups such as HARM, CJP and ARC. UoA4’s strategic approach to impact
also involves succession planning through nurturing, mentoring and supporting researchers to
develop their potential to deliver future impact. This approach is exemplified by UoA4’s support for
Khan’s honour-based violence research and C. Ireland and Bryce’s victimisation research (both
anticipated to deliver very significant impact). Frowd’s EvoFIT developments are also supported
by laboratory-based, proof-of-concept studies undertaken by University-funded PGRs.

Beyond the three primary UoA4 research groups, colleagues in neuroscience undertake research
with invertebrates in the refurbished “Circuits Lab”, which provides high-quality facilities for studies
exploring models of anxiety with drosophila melanogaster (two high-specification incubators, ten
dissection microscopes and a Leica DM2500 microscope delivering excellent optical performance
for immunofluorescence research). Clark manages a laboratory equipped with a multi-electrode
array to investigate neural responses in living brain slices from mice to inform understanding of
atypical development in reward mechanisms. UoA4 staff benefit from access to excellent animal
husbandry facilities in the Darwin Building. These facilities are an example of how UoA4 benefits
directly from central investment from the Centre for Brain and Behaviour.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Journal Editorship and Reviewing
UoA4 staff make major contributions to editorial and publication processes. Editor-in-Chief roles
are held by Ball (Journal of Cognitive Psychology), Liversedge (Quarterly Journal of Experimental
Psychology, QJEP), J. Ireland (Journal of Criminological Policy & Practice; Journal of Aggression,
Conflict & Peace Research; Abuse: An International Impact Journal). From 2013-2018 Archer was
Editor-in-Chief for Aggressive Behaviour. Associate Editor roles are held by Marsh, J. Ireland, C.
Ireland, Liversedge and Ball, and many staff have taken on Guest Editorships to deliver more
than 15 Special Issues (SIs), including Liversedge, with Klein, Dalhousie University, SI of Vision
on “Eye Movements and Visual Cognition” (2020), and Ball, with Gilhooly, Hertfordshire University,
and Macchi, University of Milano-Bicocca, SI of Thinking & Reasoning on “Creativity and Insight
Problem Solving” (2015). All staff review for journals, research councils, charities and other
funders, contributing substantially to the research community.

Fellowships and Prizes
In 2015, J. Ireland was awarded an Emerald Literati Network Award for Excellence in recognition
of her paper published in Journal of Forensic Practice on admitting scientific expert evidence in the
UK. She is also an elected Academician of the Academy of Social Sciences. In 2016, Archer won
the Scott Award from the International Society for Research on Aggression (ISRA) for his lifetime
contribution to aggression research. In 2019, Abbott received the Rich and Carolyn Mattingly
Award from the US Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, which recognises research and leadership in
mental-health care and a commitment to the mental health and wellbeing of patients with cystic
fibrosis (the first award outside the US). In 2017, Marsh won the Preregistered Challenge for his
Experimental Psychology article on cognitive control and auditory distraction. In 2016, Zang
received an Outstanding Presentation Award from the Chinese Psychological Society for her paper

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on skipping structural particles in Chinese reading, subsequently published in QJEP. In 2017,
Liversedge was awarded an Honorary Credential by the Municipal People’s Government of
Tianjin, P.R. China, and the Tianjin Haihe Friendship Award, recognising his contribution to social
and economic developments, foreign exchange and cooperation with Tianjin City. In 2019,
Liversedge and Benson were selected to attend the 70th Anniversary Governmental Dinner for
Foreign Experts held at the People’s Hall, Tiananmen Square, Beijing, recognising collaborative
research with Tianjin Normal University.

Participation on Grants Committees and Other National and International Committees
Abbott is Co-Lead, European Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Society Mental Health Working Group and the
European representative on the US CF Foundation’s Mental Health Advisory Committee. She is
also a member of the Vertex Pharmaceuticals International Steering Committee, generating
evidence of the impact of new life-changing therapies in CF. Graham-Kevan is President of the
International Family Aggression Society, Patron of The Janus Project, Sheffield (working with
aggressive men and women) and Patron of the charity “STOP”. As QJEP Editor-in-Chief,
Liversedge was a member of the Experimental Psychology Society Committee (2016-2020). Until
September 2014, Ball was Chair of the Cognitive Psychology Section Committee of the British
Psychological Society (BPS). Robinson is a Committee Member of the BPS’s Crisis, Disaster and
Trauma Section and Psychobiology Section, and Jones is a Committee Member of the BPS’s
Cyberpsychology Section. Marsh is Co-Chair of the International Commission on Biological Effects
of Noise, Team 4 (Cognitive Section). J. Ireland and Liversedge are UoA4 sub-panel members of
the 2021 REF Assessment Committee.

Invited Keynote Lectures
Archer delivered his Scott Award keynote at the 22nd Biennial World Meeting of ISRA, Macquarie
University, Sydney (2016) and Abbott presented her Mattingly Award keynote to an audience of
5000+ delegates at the annual US CF Foundation Conference, Nashville (2019). Graham-Kevan
delivered keynote lectures at the What Works in Offender Rehabilitation Conference, University of
Birmingham (2014) and the Children First Conference on Family Violence, Edinburgh (2015).
Liversedge delivered invited keynote lectures at the 31st BPS Cognitive Psychology Section
Annual Conference, Nottingham Trent University (2014) and the 7th SWAET, Scandinavian
Workshop on Applied Eye Tracking, University of Turku, Finland (2016). Benson and Liversedge
each delivered plenary talks at the 1st Australian Eye Tracking Conference, Macquarie University,
Sydney (2018) and the 6th Beijing, 7th Changchun, and 8th Nanjing, China International Conference
on Eye Movements.

Conference Chairing and Organisation
J. Ireland organised three invited symposia for the International Academy of Law and Mental
Health and worked on the Scientific Committee for the World Meeting of ISRA (2015). Frowd co-
chaired the International Conference on Emerging Security Technologies, University of Kent
(2017), University of Edinburgh (2018). Ball was co-chair of the 11th Design Thinking Research
Conference, Copenhagen Business School (2016). Liversedge was lead organiser of the 6th
(Beijing, 2014), 7th (2016, Changchun) and 8th (2018, Nanjing) China International Conference on
Eye Movements. He also co-organised the UK/China Researcher Links Workshop (2016):
"Improving literacy: Understanding reading development and reading difficulties across the
lifespan", funded by the British Council/Newton Fund/NSFC (£39,000). Liversedge is a member of
the Advisory Committee of the biennial European Conference on Eye Movements (2019, Alicante;
2017, Wuppertal; 2015, Vienna).

Public Engagement with Research
UoA4 pursues extensive, research-related public engagement, delivering carefully pitched,
scientifically grounded, cutting-edge science to general-public audiences. This is exemplified by
Robinson’s activities as UoA4’s Public Engagement Lead, involving deployment of novel methods
(e.g., speculative fiction and adventure games) to communicate psychological research at
numerous science fiction conventions and Bushcraft festivals. Robinson additionally uses

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research to help the public understand psychological aspects of current news stories, acting as an
expert in survival psychology in over ten TV programmes, including “The Great Fire” (2017;
Channel 5, Lion TV). In 2018, Robinson was interviewed by international media regarding the Thai
schoolboys trapped in a cave, completing 42 interviews with broadcast outlets. During the COVID-
19 pandemic, Robinson has so far appeared in 300+ media items, including in The Guardian and
The Independent, also reaching over 500,000 readers with her piece in The Conversation (April
2020) titled “Here is why you might be feeling tired while on lockdown.” Other public-engagement
examples abound. Khan undertakes significant TV, radio and written-media activity relating to
HARM (e.g., “Domestic abuse during lockdown”, The Conversation, June 2020; “Coercive control
conviction and Asian justice”, Eastern Eye, September 2019). Chronaki provides excellent
Psychology representation at science festivals (e.g., Lancashire Science Festival, 2016-2020,
annual visitors c. 13,000; “Hard feelings: The science of emotion”, ESRC Festival of Social
Sciences, Museum of Science and Industry, 2015). Threadgold’s (2019) article “Background
music stints creativity” (Applied Cognitive Psychology) elicited significant international media
attention including TV appearances. Massey participated in a BBC Horizon documentary (2018)
titled, “The placebo experiment: Can my brain cure my body?”, presenting a small-scale
experiment featuring in the programme along with an interview. The documentary led to several
national radio interviews.

Regional, National and International Research Links and Contributions to the Research
Base, Economy and Society
UoA4 has excellent regional, national and international collaborative research links. The examples
we provide below from each of the UoA4 primary research groups highlight collaborations and
contributions to the research base, economy and society more widely. Collaborative links with
international researchers have been supported through UCLan’s Distinguished Visitor Programme,
which funds overseas colleagues to visit UCLan for workshops, symposia and project planning.
UoA4 has benefited from nine such visitors since 2014 (e.g., Prof. Bushman, Ohio State University;
Prof. Eckhardt, Purdue University; Prof. Felson, Pennsylvania State University; Dr Lenggenhager,
University of Zürich).

FP Group: Ashworth Research Centre (ARC)
ARC has grown to encompass both research and training units, the latter comprising 17 research
interns supervised by J. Ireland, C. Ireland, Chu and Lewis. The team works with Maastricht
University’s Postgraduate Scheme, training international research interns who work full-time in
ARC for up to 10 months. Training has recently incorporated Charles Sturt University, Australia, as
a partner, where J. Ireland is Visiting Professor. J. Ireland also leads the research component of
NHS Commission Quality Improvement (CQUIN) projects within ARC. Since 2014, ARC has
funded three full-time and eight part-time Ph.D. scholarships. Based on its success, MerseyCare
NHS Trust now provides funds to support ARC in its entirety; these funds are fully committed to
UCLan, which manages staff contributions to ARC. ARC delivers research-informed training to HM
Prison Service, Private Prison Services (e.g., SERCO), Secure Children’s Services, NHS Trusts
and private mental-health providers in the areas of risk assessment, protective risk factors, expert
witness, forensic mental health, personality disorder and psychopathy. J. Ireland is also lead
trainer for Ann Arbor for psychopathy assessment and personality disorder (IPDE) training and,
prior to this, for Pearson Publishing, training 400+ professionals a year. The expertise within ARC
has been internationally recognised through its work in the US with the NetSCID team (TeleSage
company) for training and dissemination of the digital SCID (Structured Clinical Interview for DSM
diagnosis), the most widely used mental-health and personality-disorder assessment for the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Disorders (DSM) and International Classification of
Diseases (ICD). This is fully licensed by the American Psychiatric Association. J. Ireland was
invited to be NetSCID’s UK consultant in 2017 and is a field reviewer for the new classification
codes in ICD-11. External leadership is evidenced by J. Ireland being Chair for MerseyCare NHS
Trust Research and Innovation for Secure Services, with responsibility for all closed sites. In 2016,
J. Ireland and C. Ireland established an EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitisation and Re-
Processing) Trauma Service with a local GP provider, which has completed over 200 assessments
and provided therapy to over 150 clients. This service is part of ARC’s public engagement and

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
community re-investment agenda, with the GP provider reporting a marked decrease in returning
“hard-to-treat” clients. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, J. Ireland established a
Psychological Support Hub to provide free, online assistance for frontline NHS workers, care home
staff, uniformed service workers and military personnel involved in the effort against the pandemic.
The Hub operates using live audio/video conferencing, where workers speak confidentially to a
clinical lead assigned to each end-user group, with EMDR therapy available for those having
experienced acutely distressing events. The Hub was developed with regional NHS Trusts and
other North West healthcare providers. Within ARC, C. Ireland also provides leadership at
MerseyCare NHS Trust in developing “Critical Incident” interventions for managing hostage taking
and barricades. She authored the Trust’s Crisis Negotiation (Critical Communication) Training
Manual and provides research-informed training to enable forensic services staff to become critical
incident negotiators.

FP Group: Critical Incident and Child Exploitation Research
C. Ireland delivers societal contributions through her Child Sexual Exploitation (CSE) research.
Her 2015 article in Journal of Aggression was instrumental in policy development as it evidenced
that up to 47% of the general population has been approached by an adult in a sexual manner
when under the age of 16. These findings have influenced the CSE policy of the Coastal Child and
Adult Therapeutic Services (CCATS, Lancashire), also contributing to Cumbrian Police policy.
Collaborative community-based work with CCATS has informed therapeutic approaches with
children at risk of exploitation, supporting 60+ professionals from four residential care providers.
The research has been utilised in 30+ psychological child assessments across five Local
Authorities in the last two years.

QoL Group: Criminal Justice Partnership (CJP) Research
Graham-Kevan is CJP Co-Director and has formed collaborations with the Police Service, HMP,
the Probation Service, Victim Support and all regional Offices of the Police and Crime
Commissioners. Since 2017, there have been 40+ CJP public-engagement events held at various
locations (e.g., HMP Kirkham, with which the CJP has a Prison Learning Partnership), attended by
representatives from 200+ partner organisations across the justice sector (e.g., police, prisons,
youth offending teams, local government, health and education services and third sector
organisations). Examples of CJP work include collaborative engagement with Clinks, which
supports the voluntary sector working with people in the criminal justice system and their families.
Graham-Kevan also works on projects around trauma-informed practice with Lancashire Violence
Reduction Network, Healthy Lancashire and South Cumbria, South West Burnley Together and
Public Health Lancashire. Graham-Kevan is additionally Honorary Professor of Clinical
Psychology, Department of Social Sciences, Mittuniversitetet, Sweden.

QoL Group: Honour Abuse Research Matrix (HARM)
In 2018, Khan launched HARM within the context of the CJP as an international, multiagency,
multi-disciplinary network to develop research, policy and practice to combat domestic abuse in
ethnic minorities in the UK as well as “honour’” abuse, forced/child marriage and female genital
mutilation worldwide. HARM now involves 150+ researchers, practitioners, human rights lawyers,
policymakers, support/emergency services, charity CEOs and influential lobbyists. In response to
national and international priorities during the COVID-19 pandemic, Khan co-chaired five online
domestic abuse conferences focusing on BAME victims, each with 100+ delegates and high-profile
presenters (David Lammy, Shadow Secretary of State for Justice and Shadow Lord Chancellor;
Jess Phillips, Shadow Minister for Domestic Violence and Safeguarding; Nicole Jacobs, Domestic
Abuse Commissioner for England/Wales; Professor Aisha Gill CBE; and Dame Sandip Verma, UN
Women UK). Khan delivers service to society as Chair of the independent Expert Advisory
Committee on Harmful Practices. Under Khan’s leadership, the Committee has informed policy
and practice by producing the first national workplace guidelines: “Harmful Traditional Practices in
the Workplace: Guidance for Best Practice” (2020).




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
QoL Group: Quality of Life Research
Research on childhood obesity by Abbott (with NHS North Lancashire and Lancashire County
Council) demonstrated that implementing the “Healthy Heroes” educational resource deterred
excess weight gain in pre-school children from poor socioeconomic areas. Lancashire County
Council has rolled out the Healthy Heroes programme across Lancashire, which has been
awarded a Personal, Social, Health and Economic Education (PSHE) Association Quality Mark.
Abbott’s leadership in the European Cystic Fibrosis Society Mental Health Working Group and US
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Mental Health Advisory Committee has supported the implementation
of international mental-health guidelines advocating annual screening for people with CF and their
caregivers. This work is progressing in CF Centres worldwide, with longitudinal tracking of mental-
health screening and treatment outcomes in place. These established screening programmes
facilitate a substantial longitudinal study to evaluate COVID-19 effects in an extremely vulnerable
population. In 2014, Abbott’s impact case study reported the development and impact of two
patient-reported, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) instruments for use in systemic lupus
erythematosus (LupusQoL) and CF (CFQoL), highlighting the importance of HRQoL measurement
and allowing service users a voice in their healthcare. A portfolio of sustained research activity
facilitated formation of relationships with regulatory bodies, professional societies, health
professions, patients, caregivers and industry. LupusQoL (used in 51 countries in 77 languages)
has attracted global interest from the pharmaceutical sector. The inclusion of a patient reported
HRQoL instrument in clinical trials is essential, enabling pharmaceutical companies to gain
approval to market drugs and make licensing claims regarding their effectiveness from a patient
perspective. Since REF2014, Abbott’s longitudinal, multidisciplinary research has provided
published evidence as to the sensitivity of LupusQoL to aid data interpretation in clinical trials. The
continued administration of LupusQoL in numerous international pharmaceutical trials has resulted
in new medicines being approved. Income generation has continued for UCLan, East Lancashire
NHS Trust and RWS Life Sciences, who host the LupusQoL website and liaise with the
pharmaceutical industry.

PCN Group: Reading and Visual Cognition Research
A major international collaboration exists between Liversedge and Benson (including Zang,
Degno and Marsh) and researchers at the Academy of Psychology and Behavior, Tianjin Normal
University (TNU), China, including two leading international figures in experimental psychology in
China (Prof. Xuejun Bai, former president of the Chinese Psychological Society and Prof. Guoli
Yan). This collaboration is longstanding (15+ years), reflecting shared interests in eye movements,
reading and visual cognition, especially focused on reading in Chinese (a language with a different
orthographic form to alphabetic languages). This research has contributed major insights to
understanding word segmentation, saccadic targeting and multi-constituent unit processing in
Chinese reading. The group comprises 40+ researchers between the two institutions. Since its
inception, this collaboration has involved multiple staff, postdoctoral researcher and PGR
exchanges (e.g., in 2020 there were two TNU Ph.D. students, one former TNU Ph.D. student and a
visiting Associate Professor from TNU spending a year at UCLan). During the REF period,
Liversedge and Benson have hosted 16 Chinese Visiting Researchers, each with competitive
external funding and working in the UK 12+ months. Additionally, there have been multiple visits by
the UCLan team to work at TNU. Exchange visits are funded primarily through China Scholarship
Council (CSC) grants (£174,000 since 2014). The collaboration has been extremely productive
(30+ peer-reviewed journal articles) and has led to several collaborative funding successes in the
UK (ESRC, Newton Fund/British Council) and China (CSC, Natural Science Foundation of China)
totalling £1.09 million since 2014.




                                                                                              Page 17
