Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 11

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Department of Computer and Information Sciences (CIS) at Strathclyde believe that technology
must be developed from a human perspective if it is to deliver on its potential. With representation
from computer science, information science and health science backgrounds, we are a truly
multidisciplinary CIS department. Our research profile spans a broad range of interests from the
technical to human side of computer and information sciences. From a developing research base
in REF2014, we have invested significant resource in strengthening and reshaping all of our research
groups over the REF period. Since REF 2014, UOA11 has had significant successes in key research
metrics including research spend, PGR numbers, research quality and staffing. We have won major
grant awards since 2014, PGR numbers have increased every year and now stand at 76 PGRs in
2020 (33 in 2014), and we have recruited 21 new full time academic staff since 2014 including 7
professors (a total of 31.8 FTE compared with 20.2 FTE in REF2014).

We are comprised of five research groups (shown in Table 1) that are committed to delivering
impactful, human-centred research with meaningful outcomes for society. This includes the strategic
decision to create two new research groups in Cyber Security and Artificial Intelligence as capacity
in these topics is vital given research trends in our subject and funding opportunities through UKRI.
The University of Strathclyde is a ‘place for useful learning’ and prides itself on being a leading
international technological University with a focus on impactful, translational, intra- inter- multi-
disciplinary and collaborative research. The University has identified several strategic research
themes to realise these ambitions and our research is aligned with these as outlined in Table 1.

Table 1: UOA11 Research groups, staff FTE and aligned University strategic themes.
Research Groups 2021 University Strategic        Research Focus
                          Research Themes
Artificial Intelligence   Measurement Science & Developing tools for analysis, decision-
(AI) 4FTE                 Enabling Technologies support, and autonomy for a variety of real-
                          AND                    world application areas in which AI is used to
                          Health & Wellbeing     supplement human creativity and expertise.
Cyber Security            Ocean, Air & Space     Intrusion detection techniques, malware
(CS) 4FTE                                        characteristics and social and nature inspired
                                                 approaches to security and situational
                                                 awareness in self-protecting systems.
Digital Health & Wellness Health & Wellbeing     Design, development, implementation and
Group (DHaWG) 6FTE                               evaluation of digital health and care solutions
                                                 for people, services and organisations.
Mathematically            Measurement Science & The use of mathematics to understand the
Structured Programming Enabling Technologies nature of computation, particularly focussing
(MSP) 7.8FTE                                     on programming language development.
Strathclyde iSchool       Health and Wellbeing   Information-centred research, particularly on
Research Group            AND                    information behaviour, information
(SISRG) 10FTE             Society & Policy AND   engagement, interactive information retrieval
                          Measurement Science & and information policy.
                          Enabling Technologies




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Departmental research strategy is supported by the Department Research Committee that is
chaired by a senior Professor and comprises the leaders of each research group and the
Postgraduate Research (PGR) Director. The committee meets quarterly to provide directions for,
and monitor progress in, all the thematic areas of research. The Research Committee also reviews
the support mechanisms for PGR students and Early Career Researchers (ECRs), grant application
writing and output, and various intra- and inter-university collaborations in research, knowledge
exchange and impact-related activities. The Research Committee Chair is also a member of the
Faculty Research Committee and Department Executive Committee and thereby acts as a conduit
between the University and Department in all research and supervision activities.

In addition, in 2017, in order to strengthen the role, capacity and capability of the Director of Research
to effect change, a Research Directorate was formed. This group of 5 academic staff, led by the
Director of Research, is charged with management of research in the Department. In 2018, it
developed a new Departmental research strategy to provide a clear framework for delivery against
research expectations. This strategy has been pivotal in redefining our strategic research objectives
and fostering a dynamic research environment, including development of staff and PGR students
(see Section 2).

Research Strategy
Our vision for this period was to complete the transformation of our Department, begun during the
REF2014 period, into one which is 100% research active and effectively harnesses the breadth and
depth of our research portfolio to solve problems in the world around us. Our research objectives
for the review period were to:
     • Support all academic staff to produce publications of international quality: We have
        used internal peer review to support the quality of publications produced in the department
        to ensure that all academic staff generate outputs of international quality, publishable in
        journals and at conferences of the highest standard.
     • Ensure each member of academic staff supervises PGR students: By implementing our
        staffing recruitment strategy (see Section 2) and providing developmental support
        opportunities for staff (see Section 2), we have increased the percentage of UOA11 staff
        supervising PGRs from 77% to 86%.
     • Increase and diversify our research portfolio: Our objective in 2014 was to translate our
        increased international research portfolio into an expanded grant portfolio with a greater
        number of external partners. We have made substantial progress with this objective at
        REF2021 as we have led and won a number of substantial grants including several over £1m
        FEC (detailed in Section 3) and obtained our first wins from funders such as Leverhulme
        Trust, the Marie-Curie ITN programme and the Medical Research Council. At REF2014 we
        expected all members of academic staff to hold substantial (>£50k) external research grant
        funding. We have made major progress with this ambition as 20 of 32 staff have successfully
        won grant funding awards of at least £50K during the REF period.
     • Improve the practical application of our research: Through Knowledge Transfer
        Partnerships, industry-funded research, involvement with innovation centres and
        involvement in Glasgow City Innovation District (GCID) clusters, we have made very
        substantial progress with our strategic ambition to improve the practical application of our
        research. As detailed in Section 4, we have secured 4 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
        (KTPs) and been awarded research grants with companies including BAE Systems, as well
        as the National Physical Laboratory and the DataLab and Digital Health and Care Innovation
        Centres. Our growing reputation for being able to apply our research resulted in us taking
        leadership roles within the University’s flagship Technology and Innovation Centre 2 (TIC2)
        project (see Institutional Statement) to transform knowledge exchange across the University.
        Of the six proposed industry facing cluster areas associated with TIC2, four members of our
        Professorial staff co-lead three of these areas of University excellence.

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Recruit new research leaders: We had clear aspirations at REF2014 to recruit new
        research leaders and thereby create capability in the areas where our external partners face
        challenges and require research support. We have been very successful in this goal. We
        recruited 21 new academics, including 7 new Professors (see section 2) and formed two new
        research groups in the key strategic areas of Cyber Security and Artificial Intelligence. The
        influx of new staff has reinvigorated the whole department and all staff have benefitted from
        the rejuvenated research environment (see sections 2 and 3). All staff – new and established
        – have a personalised strategy to support their development (see section 2). In this respect,
        new staff have provided established staff with new tangible opportunities for collaboration.

Strategic Research Objectives for the Unit:
Over the next 5 years, our strategic research aims focus on the following key objectives:

1. Increase Research Intensity: Since REF2014, we have meaningfully intensified the volume and
quality of our research. This is only part of the journey. Thus, our first strategic goal is to continue to
increase our research intensity. For example, while we have won grants up to about £1m, we
have also come close to winning much larger grants (£2-3m) by getting to the final interview stage
of schemes including EU ERC, UKRI CDTs and UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Call. In the
next REF period, we set ourselves the task of reaching this next level. We will complete the process
of ensuring all staff supervise PGR students and for all staff to win research grants of increasing
scale and value. Research intensity will also be increased by further investment in staff (see below).
Finally, we will capitalise on our growing reputation within the University and beyond to become part
of larger, collaborative research activities with national and international partners.

2. Strengthen and expand our research groups: We have invested significant resource in
strengthening and reshaping all of our research groups as detailed above. Due to the increasing
projected investment by UK government, industry and other stakeholders in Cyber Security, Artificial
Intelligence, and Digital Health, a strategic priority over the next five years is to strengthen these
research groups with further appointments. We also intend to increase the size of our UOA to 50
staff by the next REF to ensure we have the capacity to grasp new research opportunities. While
ambitious, this is also achievable as it replicates the achievements of this REF period.

3. Deepen distinctiveness: As previously stated, our belief, and the belief of our stakeholders, is
that technology must be developed from a human perspective if it is to deliver on its potential.
Therefore we will maintain a research profile that spans a broad range of perspectives from the
technical to human side of computer and information sciences. Over the next 5 years, our third
strategic goal is to extend this distinguishing feature of our research approach. This will be achieved
firstly by focussed recruitment and we began by hiring in the area of human factors of cybersecurity
(Moncur and Renaud) to complement existing expertise in the technical side. The second approach
will be to strategically seed-fund new collaborative engagements between the traditionally more
human-focussed research groups and the traditionally more technically-focussed research groups
within the Department.

4. Increase stakeholder relevance: We jointly lead the three of the industry facing clusters that
support the University’s contribution to the Glasgow City Innovation District (Industrial Informatics,
Health Technologies, FinTech) and contribute to three (Space Technologies, 5G and Quantum).
Continuing to align with areas of national and international need, and associated strategic University
activity, will enable CIS to deliver scientifically valuable activities that are relevant to industry and the
public. A key stakeholder with which we wish to further align is the National Physical Laboratory
(NPL). NPL is a strategic partner of the University which already funds iCase studentships and the
Trusted Systems research project in the department (Ghani, McBride, Forsberg: £600k). We will
deepen this relationship with NPL via further projects and joint appointments in data analytics - a key

                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
area of mutual interest. We will also continue to build on KE opportunities with the Digital Health and
Care Innovation Centre (DHI) following recent success in digital health evaluations by Lennon,
Maguire and McCann (£299k) in collaboration with DHI. DHI is one of 8 national innovation centres
in Scotland and its location on the University campus as part of our department provides tangible
opportunities for transformative and impactful research to co-design and evaluate digital health and
care solutions across service, business and technical innovation directly with researchers from
UOA11.

The above objectives will be supported through transformational improvements to both our physical
and research infrastructure over the next 5 years. Specialist research labs will be created within a
new building with space to support further development of our research groups e.g. an expanded
Cyber Security Lab. We will also have a physical footprint in the forthcoming TIC2 building (a
purpose-built state of the art facility to be located within the Glasgow City Innovation District - see
Institutional Statement) which will host an Institution-wide Living Lab for our Digital Health &
Wellness Research Group.

Impact Strategy
At REF2014, we saw a need to increase our level of research impact by capitalising on opportunities
and support from the University to develop strategic partnerships with industrial, commercial,
professional and governmental organisations. The opening of the University’s Technology and
Innovation Centre (TIC) in 2014 facilitated engagement opportunities with a variety of industrial
companies and partners looking for research-based solutions to their problems. We purposefully
sought further ways to develop external use of our research and so appointed a Knowledge
Exchange Fellow (Wallace) in 2016 to develop these activities. We were the first Computer Science
Department in the UK to create this role. The investment has been particularly fruitful: we have
generated over £1million in Knowledge Exchange funding in this review period because Wallace has
actively managed the introduction of our research to relevant interested external organisations
(including the previously mentioned 4 KTPs).

Wallace’s appointment has also supported the successful award of 10 innovation voucher research
projects (innovation vouchers are administered by Interface - a central hub to connect national and
international industries with academics and researchers across Scotland - to encourage the
development of new business and academic partnerships to accelerate innovation). Consequently,
we have developed 10 new industrial collaborations over this review period with organisations such
as My Customer Lens (our contribution: ontology development); Welbot Ltd (our contribution:
prototype development and data analytics); Fash Consulting Analysis (our contribution: machine
learning); and the Riverside Museum, Glasgow (our contribution: novel methods for prototyping and
creating digital and tangible interactions). We have recently appointed a second KE Fellow (Sutter)
to work specifically on the cross-institution initiative Health and Care Futures at Strathclyde.

Staff are supported to actively pursue impact-generating activities by releasing them from allocated
academic duties and responsibilities. This is achieved by acknowledging the importance of KE
activities in the department’s workload model. Staff with Knowledge Exchange Leadership roles
(Chowdhury, Ghani, Maguire, Revie) are allocated reduced workloads in other areas to support
effective engagement in these activities.

The success described in our impact case studies was enabled and facilitated by focussing on three
specific impact-generating areas: networks and relationships, public engagement, and informing and
influencing policy. We encourage staff to actively pursue impact generating activities by releasing
them from academic duties and responsibilities. For example, in relation to the research on
dependent types in Haskell (which forms one of our impact case studies) protected time and
associated funding was provided for McBride to be released from academic duties for 6 months to

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
develop relationships with key academic and industrial partners, including 2 extended periods with
Microsoft UK to further enable impact-related activities. We also allocated dedicated time and staff
expertise to publicly generate awareness of Lennon’s research in digital health (which forms another
of our case studies), when she chaired dissemination sessions at four national Digital Health
Roadshows held in Glasgow, Belfast, Cardiff, and London attended by over 1500 health and social
care professionals and technology providers across the UK.

Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
In this period, we determined to leverage the University’s Strategic Research Themes to develop
and deliver impactful interdisciplinary research that aligned with the objectives of our research
groups. In particular, we targeted Strathclyde Centres for Doctoral Training (SCDT) and now lead 5
centres as a direct consequence of aligning with the University Strategic Research Themes and
developing internal collaborations forged at University supported events. These initiatives support
the development of the Department’s next generation of research leaders in Digital Health & Data
Analytics; Human Centric AI in Healthcare; FinTech; Explainable AI; and Cyber Security, and
operate in collaboration with colleagues from Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy & Biomedical
Sciences, Strathclyde Business School, Mathematics & Statistics, Engineering and Marketing.

We also use the national Innovation Centres and national networks to increase our interdisciplinary
activity. We host the DHI as part of our department and we co-locate co-funded PGR students within
their office spaces, thereby providing ready access to support from innovation experts. Our strategic
links to the DataLab Innovation Centre also enable collaboratively delivered, impactful, human
centred research. Opportunities for interdisciplinary research are further optimised through
participation in pan-Scottish activities such as the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science
Alliance (SICSA) and the Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) (details in
Section 4).

Progress towards an Open Research Environment
Open access comes naturally to researchers in multiple areas of computer and information science
where putting drafts, preprints and software online and accessible to all have been part of our
research practice over many years This meant that the Department was well placed to embrace
institutional provision in this area particularly when Strathclyde established its institutional research
data repository and open access facility in 2015, alongside its existing processes to allow access to
publications. All active researchers – staff and students – are required to deposit their research
outputs, including research papers, reports and theses. We satisfy funder mandates with respect to
research dataset deposition and ensure we demonstrate best practice in this regard by requiring
PGRs to develop a Data Management Plan for their research.

Staff in CIS benefit regularly from RCUK/UKRI funding at Strathclyde for open access publication.
As of February 2020, 97% of the articles published from CIS are Open Access; this is the highest
proportion within the Science Faculty.

Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity
University policies on Research Code of Practice, Code of Practice on Investigations Involving
Human Beings, and the University Code of Practice for Postgraduate Research provide the
foundation for our approaches to research integrity. The Research Code of Practice, with which all
staff and PGR students must comply, aims to promote excellence in research practice and
dissemination across the whole University and so sets out expected standards associated with
research governance for project conduct, data protection, protecting research authenticity, data
storage, authorship and publications. To ensure the standards set out within the Code are
maintained, we have a Department Ethics Committee that scrutinises research planned by students
at Undergraduate, Masters and PhD level and all staff research. For any research projects which fall

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
beyond the remit of the Departmental Ethics Committee, ethical applications are instead submitted
to the University Ethics Committee (UEC) or to external ethics review committees managed by the
NHS. Our Departmental Ethics Committee reports annually to UEC on the number of applications
submitted, approved, returned for revision or rejected as appropriate. In the most recent full
academic year (2019 - 2020), 220 applications were approved by our ethics committee, indicating
the thriving research culture in CIS. For those research projects working within NHS settings,
researchers are responsible for obtaining relevant NHS Ethics Committee and associated Research
and Development approvals in place, alongside the necessary research passports and Honorary
Contracts or Letters of Access.

We augment University procedures and process on research integrity by providing regular
Departmentally-led training on ethics and integrity. These events, conducted by members of the
Department Research Ethics Committee and other colleagues, highlight specific issues relevant to
ethical research in the CIS discipline. This training is mandatory for all staff and PGR students within
the first 3 months of joining the department and is complemented by further training available from
the University and other partners (e.g. NHS). The application of ethical approaches to conducting
research is then reviewed with PGR students during annual progress review meetings. Two of our
academic staff (McMenemy and Moncur) are experts in data and research ethics and share their
expertise with the Department.


 2. People

Our department’s success is directly dependent on the quality of our staff and our ability to retain
and develop the team. In order to continue the transformation of our department, the recruitment
strategy has been hugely significant during the current REF period. However, we have also been
working hard to build an environment that fulfils the University’s values and enables new and existing
staff to thrive.

Recruitment
Since 2014, we have adopted a recruitment strategy in direct response to our ambitions to grow and
strengthen our areas of research expertise by expanding our research groups and the volume and
quality of the research they produce. This has resulted in a significant increase in staff numbers at
both senior and junior levels.

We previously identified a lack of depth in research expertise, experience and leadership as a
strategic weakness and so we have focussed on recruitment of world leading researchers and
outstanding early career researchers who have the potential to become world-leading. Through the
University’s Global Talent Programme (GTP) scheme for senior appointments, we have recruited
over this review period 7 Professors (Chowdhury, Dong, Maguire, Mardare, Moncur, Revie, Winskel)
and 1 Reader (Nagaraja), adding one new Professor to each of our research groups. We have also
benefited from the University Chancellor’s Fellowship scheme for future world-class research
leaders by appointment of Atkey, Azzopardi, Cashmore, Forsberg, Lennon, Moshfeghi and Thomas
to further consolidate the strength of our research groups. In addition, the department has made
strategic appointments of another 6 staff to Research, Lecturer and Senior Lecturer positions (Egan,
Halvey, Innocenti, McCann, Pennington, Wilson). The total of 21 new academics hired during the
review period represents 66% of our staff and demonstrates a clear commitment by the University
to reinvigorate research in Computer and Information Sciences at Strathclyde.


Development


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have embedded a number of staff development opportunities, strategies and structures to
support the career progression of all CIS staff over this review period – both new recruits and existing
staff.

We are committed to supporting staff development across all the job families and grades. We utilise
University structures to facilitate this, particularly the University’s annual Accountability and
Development Review (ADR) process. We jointly agree with staff which senior colleague will act as
their ADR reviewer, so they can discuss objectives and development needs with someone whose
research is appropriate and with whom they feel comfortable about being open and honest. Annual
ADRs are augmented by mentoring support to staff throughout the year and Reviewers and
Reviewees meet for an informal six-monthly meeting to consider performance, and discuss ways in
which outstanding objectives can be realised before the end of the ADR cycle. In addition, all staff
have mentors with whom they meet informally through the year.

We also support staff development by encouraging all staff to engage in whatever training will benefit
their roles and responsibilities within the department. We encourage staff to participate in University-
provided training courses delivered by the Organisational and Staff Development Unit (OSDU) and
the Researcher Development Programme Team in Research and Knowledge Exchange Services
(RKES). Staff are also encouraged to complete training courses relevant to research leadership via
the Institution-wide Strathclyde Programme in Research and Leadership (SPIRAL). During the
review period, 84% of staff have attended University training courses including sessions focussed
specifically on grant and paper writing skills and research career development and leadership, which
has contributed to an uplift in grant success, the quality of research outputs and general research
leadership across the department.

At a Departmental level, we closely monitor and evaluate all staff development needs, regardless of
seniority or FTE status, through the Departmental Executive Committee, Departmental Research
Committee and Research Directorate (See section 1 for details). Our research groups (see section
1) provide a supportive environment and mentoring opportunities for staff and aligned PGR students
and researchers. We have an internal Peer Grant Review process that staff are required to follow
prior to final submission of grants. This process arose directly from the aforementioned Research
Strategy developed in 2018 and was purposefully implemented to increase the quality of grant
application submissions. Individual research groups coordinate the development of grant
applications and arrange review workshops where lead researchers receive focussed assessment
of research proposals at different stages from inception to submission. A senior member of staff is
available to help staff develop grants throughout this process. Care is taken to ensure that
applications are targeted to the most appropriate funder and that the constructive comments on
proposals are provided by peers with appropriate expertise. We also facilitate opportunities for
internal research collaborations and networking via ‘research speed dating’ activities for staff. In
2018, we instituted the new idea of an annual research away day for all staff and PGRs to foster a
collegiate and inclusive research community, reflect on what has been achieved and consider what
might be developed in the year ahead.

Reward and recognition for research, knowledge exchange and impact
Achieving excellence in research, knowledge exchange (KE) and impact generating activities is
recognised at both Departmental and University levels. For staff to get the best out of their
endeavours, they must have dedicated time and financial resources.

We utilise our workload model to allocate time to staff for their research, KE and impact generating
activities as well as other responsibilities. Winning grants and other successes in research and KE
are rewarded by allocation of additional time for these activities. This offers protected time from
teaching and citizenship roles so staff can focus on achieving maximum success in their research

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and impact generating activities. Also, the employment of Teaching Demonstrators, to supervise
laboratory classes and assist with marking, releases academic staff time for research, etc. Over the
period, use of Teaching Demonstrators has increased from 1560 hours in 2014/5 to 2723 hours in
2019/20. Additionally, non-academic staff take more responsibility for administration duties
associated with assessment and the management of research/KE grants. In practical terms, these
initiatives typically provide academics with 30% more time for research, KE and impact activities
than would otherwise be possible, incentivising success.

Non-professorial staff who write papers considered to be of world leading quality (as gauged by
internal review) are provided with a £1000 payment per paper into their individual research fund to
reward and thus incentivise production of world leading research. Where staff supervise dissertations
on MSc programmes beyond CIS, the £1,000 payment from the host department is allocated directly
to the individual staff member’s research funds account.

We are committed to providing opportunities for staff to contribute their research at major
conferences. For any staff member presenting a paper that is considered to be of international quality
which is novel, significant and impactful, the Department uses its central research funds to support
attendance when no other funds exist. Central research funds are also used to reward research
excellence by prioritising financial contributions towards Departmental or University PhD
studentships.

We utilise the university-wide Starter Grant initiative to help newly appointed staff establish their
research careers at Strathclyde. Newly appointed Professors are awarded £25k via the New
Professor Fund, while Readers, Senior Lecturers, Lecturers and Research Staff on Open Ended
Contracts are awarded £10k.

The University also has an annual promotion scheme to reward exceptional performance of staff.
Following the ADR process, professorial staff may be rewarded financially for their research,
knowledge exchange and impact excellence through the University’s Senior Academic Review and
Development (SARD) panel. The University operates a Professorial-zoning system (zones 1 to 4),
so promotion between zones may also be recommended by this panel. During the review period, 9
staff in the UOA academic staff have been promoted to senior lecturer or reader (Atkey, Azzopardi,
Cashmore, Halvey (promoted twice over this review period), Kupke, Lennon, McBride, Moshfeghi,
Pennington). Duncan was promoted from research fellow to senior research fellow and Egan was
promoted from research associate to research fellow. Together these 12 promotion cases are over
half of our non-professorial staff. Exceptional performance of staff at all levels is also recognised
through the University’s annual Contribution Pay programme, which rewards staff through salary
increases or one-off payments.

Research Students
We supervise PGR-students studying full-time, part-time and by distance learning. Year-on-year
increases in the number of PGR students registered in CIS have grown the number of PhD students
from 33 in 2014-15 to 76 in 2020/21. Since REF2014, 49 PGR students have been awarded PhD.
Recruitment into PhD studentships is achieved by a number of mechanisms:

Having established in REF2014 that supervision of research students was an expectation of all
academic staff, we have ensured that staff advertise their research interests and expertise via their
staff profile webpages and are available to prospective students that make direct approaches to
discuss their own research ideas and aspirations. Prospective students submit their research
proposals via open competitive processes in CIS for Departmental/University funded studentship
awards. These are competitive processes so we encourage and aim for excellence in both our
student applicants and the research proposals.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Additionally, we have become increasingly strategic in our student recruitment through targeted use
of internal funds, and external networks and relationships. We have regular success in recruiting
excellent students through Strathclyde’s John Anderson Research Award Scholarship scheme,
which awards funding to students holding First Class Honours or Masters with Distinction, and
requires a substantial funding contribution from an industrial partner. We have also an established
record of obtaining PGR studentships from major external funding bodies, including from: AHRC (x
1), Capita (x 2), EPSRC (x 3), EPSRC-iCase (x 4), and NPL (x 1). We attract the best calibre students
by providing a supportive research environment in which students thrive and by securing funding for
innovative research projects that leverage our research networks to provide interdisciplinary
supervision support. An example is our Joint Supervision Programme with three Universities in
Saudi Arabia. This initiative is aimed specifically at supporting female students from Saudi Arabia
to establish a research career (the programme also aligns with our commitment to Equality &
Diversity - see further details on this in the Equality & Diversity section below). To date, 5 females
from Saudi Arabia have joined this programme in CIS; two have graduated with PhDs in this review
period and 3 are currently supervised by CIS academics. This unique programme provides PGR
students with a University of Strathclyde supervisor and a supervisor from the host institution in
Saudi Arabia. The students are expected to visit Strathclyde for a 2 – 6 week period at least once
during each year of study. In future, we will broaden opportunities for postgraduate research by
widening access to our Professional Doctorate programme (to support people working in industry
who wish to complete PhD research in CIS either full or part-time alongside their professional
commitments) from Information Science professionals to people working across other industrial
sectors.

PGR students are embedded within research groups and undertake annual formal reviews to monitor
their progress. In 2020, we implemented a CIS PGR and Supervisor Learning Agreement (developed
collaboratively with our PGR students). This document outlines the expectations on students and
supervisors in relation to PGR research and supervision, and is signed by both the student and their
supervisors. This Department level guidance complements the University’s Policy & Code of Practice
for PGR Study (see Institutional Statement). Research Group Leaders ensure PhD students aligned
to their research group are provided with opportunities to present their research to their wider
research group at least twice per year. Review panels are convened with the supervisory team and
another member of academic staff, and constructive feedback is provided to the student.

We also strive to support participation of students in conferences and other external events where
they can present their research and benefit from engaging with leaders in their field of study. The
positive impact of the training we provide to our PhD students is reflected in their successes when
presenting at conferences. Highlights include: the Marc Resnick Best Paper Award
to Azzopardi and Halvey’s PGR student Sylvain Daronnat at the 64th International Annual Meeting
of the Human Factor Society (2020); best paper award at the CHI Conference on Human Factors in
Computing Systems ACM (2020) for Dunlop’s PGR student Gibson; best paper award for Azzopardi
and Halvey’s PGR student Foulds at Association of Computer Machinery Special Interest Group on
Information Retrieval (ACM SIGIR) Conference on Human Information Interaction and Retrieval
(2020); and Best Paper Award for Simpson with Ghani and Forsberg at European Joint Conferences
on Theory And Practice of Software (ETAPS) (2016). Another notable PhD student success was the
Carnegie Trust Robertson Medal for the best research PhD proposal (2016) for Levine’s PhD student
Damien Anderson.

Equality and Diversity
We implement all relevant University policies at Departmental level and adapt these if required to
provide personal support to CIS staff and PGR students. Our Head of Department is from an ethnic
minority and this gives visibility to that traditionally under-represented group. In addition, over this

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
review period we have recruited staff from ethnic minorities at Professor, Reader and early career
researcher levels. We monitor gender equality issues in terms of the operational structure of the
Department in the following ways: the workload model and allocation of duties and responsibilities
are gender-neutral; staff with parenting or caring duties can negotiate flexible working relationships;
we monitor committee memberships and all major departmental committees contain at least one
female member. Women and men have held the Director of Research and Deputy Director of
Research roles during the current review period. Innocenti Chairs the Athena Swan working group
in CIS and will lead submission of our Bronze Award application in 2021. Pennington represents CIS
at the institution-wide Women in Science and Engineering group and the STEM equals Committee
which discuss issues and opportunities and recommend best practice for advancement of females
within the STEM sector. Despite there being fewer females in the CIS domain generally, during this
assessment period, we have successfully appointed two female Professors (Maguire, Moncur) and
3 Senior Lecturers (Innocenti, Lennon, McCann) and 1 Lecturer (Pennington). Lennon has since
been promoted to Reader and Pennington has since been promoted to Senior Lecturer.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

During the review period we have made considerable advances towards our aim of having an
internationally leading portfolio of research and KE activities. This success has been achieved
through a combination of substantial university investment in our research infrastructure and
facilities, alongside notable improvements in competitive external funding.

i) Research & KE Income Portfolio
At REF2014, we expected our research strategy would lead to an expanded grant portfolio. This has
occurred in three ways. Firstly, whilst RCUK/EU grants are still our main source of research income,
we have diversified significantly (28% of research income in REF2021 was non-RCUK/EU income
compared to 5% in REF2014). Research income been further strengthened through increased
industrial funding (£402k in REF2021 compared to £78k in REF2014), UK central government
funding (£353k REF2021, £39k REF2014), and charity funding (£190k REF2021 compared to £34k
REF2014). As illustrated in Figure 1, the trajectory of income from these sources is strong and
consistent.

Figure 1




Secondly, we have seen a significant increase in large grant wins, with 8 grants over £500k FEC
achieved including three over £1m FEC. Thirdly, at REF2014 we expected all members of academic

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff to hold substantial (>£50K) external research grant funding. In REF2021, 20 staff have
successfully won grant funding awards of at least this value.

We began this REF period with annual total research income of over £300k (2013-2014) and end it
with over £670k (2019-2020). Within the cycle (in 2017-2018 and 2018-2019) this annual total was
exceeded as a result of our leadership of the FP7 eSMART project (one of our grants over £500k).
Of the 33 colleagues eligible for REF2021, 24 have achieved grant success whilst at Strathclyde
during the current REF period, 5 of those who have not yet won grants are in post for less than 2
years and we fully expect that they will also be successful early in the next period. We have had
research grants awarded from industrial partners such as BAE Systems (Moshfeghi, £34k), DataLab
(McBride, Forsberg, Roper, £60k), the National Physical Laboratory (McBride, Forsberg, Ghani,
£595k) and the Digital Health and Care Innovation Centre (Lennon, Maguire, McCann, £299k).

During the REF2021 period we gained our first Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) and built on
that success. The KTP scheme facilitates transfer of knowledge and expertise from academics and
researchers into UK-based business-critical projects. Over this review period, we have been
awarded four KTPs, worth a combined income of over £700k, with the following organisations: BIP
Solutions (Azzopardi & Moshfeghi, £244k), Cambridge Quantum Computing (Atkey, Forsberg,
McBride, £199k), Symphonic Software (Atkey & Kupke, £151k) and Syngro Limited (Roper with
Revie & Barlow from Management Science, £186k). As previously mentioned, this growing
reputation for being able to apply our research resulted in us taking a number of leadership roles
within the TIC2 project to transform knowledge exchange across the University in key areas. As
outlined in the Institutional Statement, there are six proposed cluster areas representing University
excellence and four members of our Professorial staff co-lead on three of those six proposed clusters
(Ghani: Industrial Informatics; Chowdhury & Revie: FinTech; and Maguire: Health and Care Futures).
This creates a platform for future significant and sustainable expansion of our Knowledge Exchange
activities.

ii) Infrastructure

Scholarly Infrastructure and Facilities: Our Department is housed over four floors within the
Livingstone Tower at the University of Strathclyde. One floor is dedicated to our Departmental
professional support services staff and houses dedicated study spaces for students. The other three
floors co-locate our research group academics, researchers and PGR students in individual and
group office spaces. All four floors were refurbished during the period through investment (£113,000)
provided jointly by the University and the Department. A number of improvements and configuration
changes were made to the environment to improve interaction, support and collaboration between
peers and colleagues, thereby enhancing the sense of community within the department.

We have three dedicated, bookable, data collection spaces in the Department for experiments that
are frequently used by researchers recruiting participants for face-face activities. The Usability and
User Experience Lab is a bespoke accessible and reconfigurable lab space for conducting a wide
range of research including usability studies, fabrication of technologies, prototyping, and co-design
sessions with stakeholders. The laboratory is essential to the human-centred research activities of
the Digital Health & Wellness Group and Strathclyde iSchool Research Group. Specialist equipment
in this lab includes recording equipment, Virtual Reality headsets, wearable devices (including
Google glasses) and a desktop computer for running user studies.

As indicated in Section 1, we are committed to continued improvement in the infrastructure available
to our staff. Over the next 5 years, we will create specialist research labs within a new building
with space to support further development of our research groups, e.g. an expanded Cyber Security
Lab. We will also have a physical footprint in the forthcoming TIC2 building (a purpose-built state of

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the art facility to be located within the Glasgow City Innovation District) (see Institutional Statement)
which will host an Institution-wide Living Lab for our Digital Health Research Group and support
cross-faculty and inter-disciplinary research collaborations and activities.

Our Cyber Security Research Group are members of a cross-institutional Strathclyde Security
Research Group and have led the development and testing of a number of security testbeds
including: The Experimental Network of ArChitectures Testbed (ENACT), which consists of 1056
switch ports and 96 server ports using Pica8 3290N switches and Juniper 4500EX switches; and
The Ransom Architectures for Network and Systems Opportunistic Malware (RANSOM),
which is an exclusive datacentre that hosts up to 100k virtual machines on a 40Gbps Mellanox
network. Two donations from the National Cyber Security Centre (UK Government) were used to
procure testbeds and associated equipment valued at just under £200k. This £200k funding was
additional to the University of Strathclyde’s funding allocation (£119k) as the lead institution in the
larger EPSRC grant (£750k) on Software-Defined Networks led by Nagaraja with collaborators from
the University of Birmingham and the University of Edinburgh. The testbeds were built to investigate
the development of next-generation router-security technologies that incorporate machine learning
at their core. The testbeds allow us to develop and test cyber-attacks at a significant scale thus
enabling the development of defence mechanisms to overcome such attacks in the Software-Defined
Networking paradigm. Smart and secure routers are a key part of the Strathclyde vision for a secure
network, where the core of the network (rather than just the network periphery) is involved in ensuring
cyber security.

We also have a dedicated Systems Support Service within our Department consisting of three IT
Systems Support Staff and one Technician. This team provides front line IT support to all staff and
students and is responsible for managing dedicated IT budgets and updating/maintaining IT
equipment and services for the Department. Additional IT support for staff and students is also
available via central University IT services.

Across the University, our collaborations enable access to a range of additional facilities and
resources to expand our research portfolios and to deliver impactful research. For example,
researchers from the Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security research groups (see Section 1) utilise
the ARCHIE-WeSt High Performance Computing facility, which is a regional supercomputer centre
hosted by the University and dedicated to research excellence and industry applications in the West
of Scotland. This resource was implemented at Strathclyde in 2012 and facilitates multidisciplinary
and collaborative research between Strathclyde and the Universities of Glasgow, Glasgow
Caledonian, West of Scotland and Stirling.

Collaboration between researchers from the Digital Health & Wellness Group (see Section 1) and
the Digital Health and Care Innovation Centre (DHI) benefit from access to DHI’s Demonstrator and
Simulation Environment which is used to demonstrate the capabilities of data integration and data
exchange across organisations in new and market ready technologies for digital health and care
applications.

Our staff regularly access and benefit from the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance
(SICSA) infrastructure. SICSA is a collaboration of 14 Scottish Universities which promotes
international excellence research, education, and knowledge exchange for Scottish Informatics and
Computer Science. One of our ECRs, Forsberg, successfully received SICSA research exchange
funding to establish a new research collaboration with Dan Licata from Wesleyan University,
Connecticut, USA. Kupke and Weir have both received SICSA funding to enable attendance at
workshops, summer schools, to host cross-institutional research meetings and publicise events to
increase their research networks and portfolios respectively, and Moshfeghi has co-ordinated and
led a workshop on Data Science and Digital Health through this network.

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Operational Infrastructure: The University’s Research & Knowledge Exchange Services
Directorate (RKES) supports research and KE activity across the institution. There are dedicated
Research Funding Managers in RKES and Finance Officers in Finance who support the submission
of grant funding applications from CIS, and support, respectively, pre- and post-award finance
management. Contracts Managers within RKES provide essential support to negotiate contract
agreements with funders, collaborators, external partners and third parties to initiate research
projects and implement impact generating activities arising from research in CIS.

There are a number of centrally managed university-wide initiatives that provide CIS researchers
with opportunities to engage in impact generating activities with partners beyond academia.
Researchers from the Digital Health & Wellness Group (DHaWG) have led events at Engage with
Strathclyde (Strathclyde’s annual flagship programme of events aimed at stimulating engagement
with external organisations from industry, business, education and the third sector) on topical areas
such as Citizen Science (McCann: 2018) and Virtual Reality in Healthcare (Wilson: 2019), with
attendees from NHS, Third Sector and industrial companies. DHaWG researcher (McCann: 2017,
2018) has also utilized the University-led annual Explorathon initiative to engage with over 200
members of the public to generate awareness and understanding of digital health research.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

As outlined in Section 1, our focus is on impactful, human-centred research with meaningful
outcomes for society. We achieve this by developing relationships with external key stakeholders in
academic, industry, NHS and third sector organisations. We lead interdisciplinary and collaborative
research at local, national and international levels and have exemplars of wider influence within the
discipline across all our research activities.

Research Base & Sustainability of the Discipline
We have successful academic collaborations with high-calibre UK universities such as
Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Nottingham, Oxford, Southampton, and
Warwick. Our collaborators include biomedical engineers, computer and information scientists,
mathematicians, nursing and medical specialities, psychologists, physical activity for health
specialists, sociologists and statisticians. Notable highlights are: Atkey’s AISEC project (AI Secure
and Explainable by Construction; EPSRC; £348k) with University of Edinburgh and Heriot-Watt
University; and Azzopardi & Moncur’s work on Cumulative Revelations in Personal Data (EPSRC;
£249k & £338k) with the Universities of Dundee, Edinburgh & Northumbria.

Our research has international significance and reach and we regularly collaborate with global
academic partners. Azzopardi, Halvey & Ruthven are acknowledged experts in Information Retrieval
and regularly collaborate with multi-disciplinary academic and industrial partners on world-leading
research, such as the EU Horizon 2020 funded Innovative Training Network (ITN) on ‘Domain
Specific Systems for Information Extraction and Retrieval (DoSSIER)’ with partners from Australia,
Japan, the USA and 6 European Countries (£772k). Maguire and McCann have led and collaborated
with a wide range of European and USA partners on both FP7 (£830k) and H2020 (£506k) funded
research on the development and evaluation of digital health technologies in real-life contexts.
Nagaraja is a specialist in network security and privacy, and collaborates with the top cyber security
department in India (Indian-Institute of Science) and leading industrial partners (AST Telecom Solar
Pvt Ltd, India) on projects such as ‘Secure and Resilient Cyberphysical Systems’ (£146k).

In terms of broader networks, we align ourselves closely to SICSA taking advantage of various
opportunities for networking and establishing new collaborations with this community of peers across

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scotland. Ghani and Kupke have both previously been leaders of the SICSA Complex Systems
Engineering theme, Halvey has previously been co-leader of the Human Computer Interaction
SICSA theme (2016 – 2020) and Moshfeghi is currently one of the leaders of the Data Science
theme. We are regular participants in SICSA sponsored events and activities designed specifically
to introduce potential collaborators to opportunities and benefits of collaborating with our
researchers. We also support and encourage attendance of PGRs to engagement and networking
events hosted by SICSA such as the annual SICSA PhD Students Conference.

Members of the Strathclyde iSchool Research Group (SISRG) regularly collaborate with partners
through the global iSchool network. Chowdhury is Global Chair of the iSchools Organisation and has
chaired numerous panels for iSchool global collaborations throughout 2020. SISRG members
participated in the recent iSchool European Doctoral Seminar Series and a SISRG PGR student
presented at this event.

Our staff are actively engaged in activities that contribute to the wider vitality and sustainability of our
discipline as a whole. All academic staff are active peer reviewers for at least one key journal in both
Computer Science and Information Science. Colleagues have been members of more than 20
different journal editorial boards across the CIS discipline over this review period
including four notable senior positions: Associate Editor of Journal of Personal and Ubiquitous
Computing (Dunlop); Associate Editor of International Journal of Mobile Human Computer
Interaction (Dunlop); Editor-in-Chief of Library and Information Research (Pennington); Associate
Editor of Information Processing and Management (Ruthven). Many of our staff have held or
currently hold Editorial Board Member positions in leading CIS discipline specific journals. Some
examples include Journal of Information Science (Chowdhury); Journal of Compositionality (Ghani);
The International Journal of Information, Diversity & Inclusion (Innocenti); Software: Testing,
Verification and Reliability (Roper); Software Quality Journal (Roper); Journal of Reliable Intelligent
Environments (Terzis) and International Journal on Advances in Intelligent Systems (Terzis). Five
staff have also held edited/co-editing roles for special edition publications over this review period
including: Editor for the 2017 TYPES post-proceedings (Forsberg); Guest Editor, Special Issue of
Sensors on Internet of Things in Healthcare Applications (Maguire); Guest Editor, Special Issue of
JASIST on Neuro-Information Science (Moshfeghi); Guest Editor, Evidence-Based Library and
Information Practice (EBLIP) (Pennington); Guest Editor Information Processing Management
(Ruthven); Guest Editor Journal of Computing and Cultural Heritage (Ruthven).

Our staff contribute regularly to the sustainability of the CIS discipline through membership of
various national and international research grant funding bodies, as well as holding leadership roles
and positions of influence at national and international levels. The breadth of our expertise is
reflected in the variety of funding organisations that seek our opinion on grant proposals as panel
members. Some examples are: Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council; Arts and
Humanities Research Council; Medical Research Council; Israel Science Foundation; European
Commission led funding calls such as Horizon 2020, Marie-Curie Fellowships and FP7 programmes;
and Norwegian Research Council. A notable contribution was Ruthven’s role as a senior strategic
advisory reviewer for Arts and Humanities Research Council from 2014 to 2016.

With respect to positions of influence, Lennon was an Academic Advisor to the National Telecare
Advisory Board for the Scottish Government and is an Academic Advisor on the Ethics Board for the
DHI; McMenemy was Trustee of the Chartered Institute of Information and Library Professionals
(CILIP) and a member of the Board from 2014 – 2016; Pennington was awarded Fellowship of the
Higher Education Academy (2016) and Fellowship of the Royal Society of Arts (2017); Revie is
a member of Technical Advisory Group (TAG) of the Aquaculture Stewardship Council (2018-2025)
and member of the World Organisation for Animal Health Expert Group on Animal Health Data
Codification Systems (2019-2021); Ruthven has been Chair of the Scottish & Library Information

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Council since 2017 and Chair of Information Seeking Conference Series since 2020. In recognition
of their contributions, McMenemy was awarded CILIP Honorary Membership (2020) for outstanding
services to CILIP, libraries, information services and the wider profession; and Ruthven was awarded
the prestigious Tony Kent Strix Award in December 2020 for his outstanding contributions to the field
of information retrieval.

More than half of our academic staff hold roles with other Universities and external agencies and
these roles further facilitate our influence across society in local and international contexts. Some
notable examples are: Azzopardi – Honorary Associate Professor, Queensland University of
Technology, Australia (2016 - ongoing); Chowdhury – Global Chair of iSchools Organisation (2020–
2022); Maguire – Visiting Professor, Queensland University of Technology, Australia (2018-2021);
Mardare – Honorary Professor, Aalborg University, Denmark (2020-2021); Nagaraja - Adjunct
Faculty Position with the Co-ordinated Science Laboratory in Illinois, USA (2009 – ongoing);
Pennington - Chair of the Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals (CILIP)
Metadata and Discovery Group (2020 – ongoing); Revie – Visiting Professor of Epidemiology,
Atlantic Veterinary College, University of Prince Edward Island, Canada (2018 – 2022); Ruthven –
Chair - Scottish Library & Information Council (2017 – ongoing); Chair – Institute of Information and
Library Science (2020 – ongoing); Weir – Adjunct Professor at the School of Criminology, Simon-
Fraser University, Canada (2018-2021).

Our staff also contribute to the vitality of the CIS discipline through membership of the organising
committees of major conferences. Examples are: Dunlop: Various Associate Chair, Co-Programme
Chair, Sub-Committee Chair roles for Association of Computer Machinery (ACM) Conferences on
Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI) and ACM International Conferences on Mobile Human
Computer Interaction (MobileHCI) (2014 – 2019); Halvey: Various Senior Program Committee,
General Chair, Local Chair, Short Papers Chair, Demos Chair Roles for ACM CHI / ACM Conference
on Human Information Interaction and Retrieval (CHIIR) / MobileHCI / ACM International Conference
on Multimodal Interaction (ICMI) (2017 – 2019); Mardare: Organising Chair for the Workshop on
Higher-order Probalistic Programming (2019, Barbados); Pennington: Local Organising Committee
Co-Chair, International Evidence Based Library and Information Practice Conference (EBLIP10)
(Glasgow, 2019); Publicity Chair, CHIIR (2109); Ruthven: Conference Co-Chair, CHIIR (2019);
Programme Committee Co-Chair, The Information Behaviour Conference (ISIC) (2020); Roper:
Programme Committee Co-Chair, IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence Testing
(AITest) (2019 & 2020); General Chair IEEE AITest (2021); Weir: Technical Programme Committee
Chair - 4th International Cybercrime and Digital Forensics Conference (2016, Vancouver, Canada);
Programme Chair - Cybersecurity and Cyberforensics Conference (2016, Jordan); Wilson: Associate
Chair, ACM CHI 2019 and ACM SIGACCESS Conference on Computers and Accessibility
(ASSETS) 2019.

Researchers from UOA11 have been active in delivering keynote presentations at discipline-leading
national and international conferences over this review period including: Lennon: International
eMental Health Forum, Belfast; Revie: Annual Meeting of the Society for Veterinary Epidemiology
and Preventive Medicine (SVEPM), Ghent, Belgium, 2015; Revie: XV11 International Symposium of
the World Association of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnosticians (WAVLD), Saskatchewan, Canada,
2015: Ruthven: Information Seeking in Context (ISIC), Zadar, Croatia, 2016; Weir: The Ninth
International Conference on Cloud Computing, GRIDS and Virtualization (IARIA), Barcelona, Spain,
2018.

In addition to our research visits and exchanges to partnering organisations and institutions, we also
have an active Visiting Researcher programme whereby we host national and international
academics, expert scholars and key industry partners in our Department to develop collaborative
research projects, and deliver guest lectures and seminars to students and staff. Over this review

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
period, Visiting Researchers include: Mohammed Al-Fairuz (Sultan Qaboos University, Oman);
Gerard Canal (Kings College London); Yoshio Hosaka (University of Japan); Annemaree Lloyd
(University College London); Michael Olsson (University of Technology, Sydney); Anabel Quan-
Haase (University of Western Ontario, Canada); Amy Vab Scoy (University of Buffalo, USA); Anna
Maria Tammaro, University of Parma (Italy) and Brendan Wilson (University of Tokyo).


Economy & Society
Our staff have significant strategic relationships with high-profile industrial partners and we have
leveraged these relationships to develop successful KTPs during the period with BIP Solutions,
Cambridge Quantum Computing, Symphonic Software and Syngro Limited. KE and research
activities have also occurred with partners including Google, Indian Institute of Science, Keysight,
Microsoft, Police Scotland and the Scottish Institute for Policing Research, and Spartan Solutions
Ltd. We have cultivated our strategic relationship with the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) to
facilitate impactful research on discipline leading areas such as Trusted Systems (Forsberg, Ghani
& McBride, £600k). Azzopardi has twice been seconded to Microsoft in the USA to specifically
develop collaborative projects focusing on modelling and measuring search engine result pages.
McBride has had two fruitful secondments to Microsoft to develop Haskell related impactful research
(see Section 1 and associated impact case). Nagaraja has twice been seconded (2019 & 2020) to
industrial partner QinetiQ and the visits were used to leverage specific QinetiQ input to future
research proposals from the Cyber Security Research Group, including a recent submission (2020)
to the PETRAS national centre of IoT Cyber Security in collaboration with NPL. Development of a
strategic partnership with BAE Systems has funded an industrial case PhD studentship supervised
by Moshfeghi. Over the period we developed industrial collaborations with 10 new organisations
(referred to in Section 1) including with My Customer Lens (Pennington, Roussinov: ontology
development) and Welbot Ltd (Terzis, Lennon, Roper: prototype development and data analytics).

Researchers within the Digital Health & Wellness Group and Strathclyde iSchool Research Group
regularly collaborate with NHS clinical partners and clinical services across the UK and Europe in
the development, deployment and evaluation of person-centred technological solutions to support
health and care provision. Ruthven, an Information Scientist, collaborated with sociologists and third
sector organisations such as Barnardo’s and Glasgow Life on the project ‘Understanding the
Information Needs of Young First Time Mothers from Areas of Multiple Deprivation’ funded by ESRC.
Maguire and McCann collaborated with international academic, industry and health sector partners
in the largest randomised controlled trial to date of a mobile phone based remote monitoring system
for people with cancer in 5 countries across Europe. Lennon, with Maguire & McCann, led an
evaluation at scale of digital health products in NHS settings in two different areas of Scotland to
inform changes to service pathways and collaborated closely with industrial partners MedTronic and
CorporateHealth and academic colleagues during this work. Dunlop’s PGR students Gibson, Khan
and Meiklem have worked closely with the Scottish Commission for Learning Disability, Down
Syndrome Scotland, NHS Queen Elizabeth University Hospital, Glasgow and Return to Life Charity
respectively. Furthermore, five academics in CIS hold Honorary Academic/Research posts with NHS
Lanarkshire.

We capitalise on University and Departmental events designed to promote and foster research
networks across Strathclyde. At a University level, in 2019 Revie led a Herald AI Business Breakfast
event with Incremental Group, one of our industrial partners, to promote the expertise of AI research
at Department and University levels. At a Departmental level, we hosted our inaugural
CIS Alumni and Friends Event in 2019. This event provided an opportunity for members of the
Strathclyde CIS Community past and present to come together to celebrate the achievements of the
Department and highlight our research strengths, diversity and expertise to student and


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff Alumni and invited guests. Our keynote speaker at this event was Dr Pauline Burke, Global
Head of Experimentation and Personalization at eBay.

The expertise of CIS staff has also been utilised in patent cases as Dunlop has provided Expert
Witness input into two international patent cases over this review period (2018 & 2020) for high-
profile industry clients. Awareness of Lennon’s MyCityGlasgow app, developed specifically for the
2014 Commonwealth Games and gold medal winner for the most innovative app for the
Commonwealth Games was made available to the public through various press releases in 2014. In
terms of media coverage, McMenemy’s expertise in information law and ethics was visible and
accessible to the public via widespread media coverage for his interdisciplinary research ‘Corporate
Surveillance on Writers’ published in 2018 (The Times, Herald, Scotsman and Daily Mail). Thomas’s
‘Booting the Booters’ research evaluated law enforcement interventions in relation to cybercrime and
his proficiencies in this area resulted in widespread media coverage for this work in 2019. Weir’s
research on readability measurements received public attention in 2018 via an article published in
The Sunday Times.




                                                                                           Page 17
