Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of assessment: 18 (LAW)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Leeds School of Law is a vibrant and collegial intellectual community, attracting
 and developing staff of the highest calibre to produce world-leading research with significant
 social and economic outcomes. It aims to harness the intellectual energy of all members of staff
 in developing and taking shared ownership of research endeavours and major initiatives.

 The School of Law is distinctive in its multi-disciplinary breadth and the range of its
 methodological approaches, which inform engagement with the wider institution. Its strategic aim
 is to advance research, closely aligned to its overarching commitment to social justice, at the
 frontiers of law, criminal justice and socio-legal studies, in order to extend and reframe legal and
 criminological knowledge. It does so: (i) by focusing on emergent socio-legal and legal
 developments and prominent societal challenges; (ii) through its interdisciplinary exploration and
 curiosity-driven research that pushes disciplinary boundaries; (iii) via engagement with global,
 national and regional user communities and professions, as well as academic partners, in
 diverse forms of practitioner collaborations, policy-focused research and knowledge co-
 production; and (iv) through empirical studies, methodological experimentation and innovations
 in learning.

 The School’s Research Centres are strategically placed as drivers of its research. They build a
 critical mass of expertise in core research strengths and provide a supportive research
 environment. Work across the Centres has been key in the development and delivery of the
 School’s vision, which is led by the Director of Research and Innovation, working closely with
 the Head of School, Centre Directors and Research Committee. The School has built on the
 strengths of its established Centres, the Centre for Criminal Justice Studies (CCJS) (founded in
 1987) and the Centre for Business Law and Practice (CBLP) (founded in 1996), through a series
 of strategic appointments that have broadened their disciplinary and methodological diversity
 and research intensity. CCJS pursues research into criminal justice and criminological issues in
 its recognised areas of expertise of policing, urban security, crime prevention, victims, youth
 justice, cybercrime and the supervision of offenders. Through new appointments in the REF
 period, CCJS has expanded and enhanced its reputation in historical criminology (Churchill,
 Yeomans), crime science, statistical and data analysis (Birks, Farrell, Pina-Sánchez) and
 transnational crime and international criminal justice (O’Reilly, van Sliedregt). CBLP’s research
 addresses matters of contemporary concern in business law and regulation using pluralistic
 perspectives that mix disciplinary and inter-disciplinary approaches. It has augmented strengths
 in corporate and financial law (Brown, Keay, Loughrey, McCormack) through new appointments
 (Bradshaw, Gomstyan, Mackie, Sheehan, Zhang) whilst adding new expertise in a variety of
 areas and perspectives, including economic and empirical.

 In 2014 the School made a strategic investment in the establishment of the Centre for Law and
 Social Justice (CLSJ), designed to enhance the School’s capacity to engage with global
 challenges and institutional research priorities in the social sciences. Research within CLSJ
 explores health and vulnerabilities, a key School research theme, the global challenge of
 inequality and the role of law in achieving a more just society. The Centre houses a significant
 group of researchers in the UK on disability law in its Disability Law Hub led by Lawson who is
 also Co-Director with Beckett (Sociology and Social Policy, SSP) of the University-wide
 interdisciplinary Centre for Disability Studies (CDS), which brings together scholars across the
 Social Sciences, Humanities and STEM subjects. The Centre for Innovation and Research in
 Legal Education (CIRLE), established in 2016, is a new initiative designed to transform our
 understanding of the legal profession and legal and criminal justice education. It is identifying
 and addressing key questions in university education in Law and Criminal Justice. In doing so,
 it informs our teaching across the School, but also engages in research into the governance
 and regulation (another key research theme) of the legal profession.

                                                                                              Page 1
At University level the School makes extensive use of support provided by the Leeds Social
Sciences Institute (LSSI) in which it plays a key leadership role. It is directed by Crawford and
Law colleagues (Hucklesby, Lister, Smith, Wall) sit on its Steering Group. LSSI operates across
the University, promoting and encouraging interdisciplinary research collaborations across and
beyond the social sciences. The School and University also have a clear structure by which
research is governed to ensure open access and research integrity. It ensures this through the
promotion of the University’s research repository, ORCiD (80% of staff have recorded an
ORCiD), and, where appropriate, directing researchers to University funding for Gold Open
Access. Additionally, and showcasing our support for Open Access (OA), doctoral researchers
(PGRs) have the opportunity to edit an OA and fully PGR-run journal – the Leeds Student Law
and Criminal Justice Review. Its first issue will be in 2021. The School is subject to the Faculties
of Business, Environment and Social Sciences (AREA) Research Ethics Committee, a sub-
committee of the University Research Ethics Committee. Thomson was AREA Deputy Chair
(2015-2018).

Main Strategic Objectives and Aims post-2013:

The three main aims of the School in the REF period were to increase and intensify cross-School
engagement and interdisciplinarity, internationalisation and the maximisation of user
engagement and impact. To channel and focus the School’s efforts in these areas, Research
Centres have identified new challenge-led thematic areas with an international focus. They are:
governance and regulation; technology; sustainability; security; and health and
vulnerabilities, expertise in the last of which was a key driver in the creation of CLSJ. As themes
extending beyond law, socio-legal and criminological studies they demand interdisciplinary
engagement. The School has invested heavily in these themes with new appointments and by
pursuing synergies and cross-centre linkages through e.g. targeted financial support and
School-organised workshops to bring interested staff together.

Promoting Cross-Centre Engagement and Interdisciplinarity

Interdisciplinary activity and collaboration have intensified across these areas, as has cross-
Centre engagement in the REF period.

In CBLP, work relating to the theme of governance and regulation includes research on
corporate and insolvency governance (Keay, Loughrey, McCormack), financial regulation
(Brown, Stylianou), digital governance (Akman, Stylianou), environmental law and regulatory
decision-making (Bradshaw, Hawkins, Mackie), regulation of international trade (Corvaglia,
Smith) and competition law (Akman, Brook, Stylianou, Whelan). Keay and Loughrey partnered
with Liverpool Management School in a project, funded by the AHRC (2016-2018), on the
justiciability of directors’ business judgment. CBLP pursues work on tax design (de la Feria,
Parada), based on research drawing insights from law and economic analysis. Within the theme
CCJS works on both policing governance and the behavioural impacts of alcohol taxation
(Bainbridge, Barker, Crawford, Lister, Yeomans). It hosted the conference Regulation and
Criminology: Looking Back, Thinking Forward in 2017 with speakers from ANU, Liège and CBLP.
Wall (CCJS) has collaborated with Basu (CBLP) and is pursuing new agendas of research in
cybercrime, bitcoin and the regulation of the ‘internet of things’; Stylianou works on regulating
crypto-currencies. As Fellows of the Alan Turing Institute (ATI), Birks and Wall are forging new
interdisciplinary research agendas in Artificial Intelligence (AI), machine learning and the use of
embedded algorithms in forms of regulation and justice. CIRLE contributes to this theme via
work on the regulation of the legal profession (Loughrey, Sommerlad), and CLSJ via work on
regulating the healthcare professions (Clements, Clough, Jacob).

The technology theme is strongly supported by CBLP and CCJS, whose work here is
concentrated at the intersection of technology and security. The CRiTiCaL project funded by
the EPSRC (2015-2021) brings together computer scientists and ethicists at Newcastle and
Durham with experts from CBLP and CCJS to explore the use of AI and data mining in a practical
                                                                                        Page 2
framework for successful cybercrime prosecutions. CBLP, in conjunction with its partners in
Erasmus University Rotterdam and Bar-Ilan University, successfully bid for a Jean Monnet
Centre of Excellence in Digital Governance (DIGOV) to run 2019-2022, which Akman co-directs.
Hucklesby’s Tracking People Network (AHRC 2016-2017) involved academics and
policymakers tackling the legal, social, ethical and technical aspects of wearable tracking
devices, combining expertise from Engineering, the Social Sciences and Law. Birks is pioneering
the combined use of computer science and social science methods to undertake research,
funded by the ATI, with Heppenstall (Geography) and the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics
(LIDA) to model how different societal changes affect crime, working with the Metropolitan
Police, the National Police Coordination Centre and Safer Leeds. CLSJ also contributes to the
technology theme. Both the Disability Law Hub and CDS work on accessibility issues and the
use of technology to assist disabled people.

With respect to the sustainability theme, new appointments in CBLP have provided strength in
corporate social responsibility (Bradshaw, Mackie) and, working with experts in CLSJ, in
environmental law, waste and food (Bradshaw, Cardwell, Hawkins, Hendry, Mackie, Smith).
Smith was appointed to provide further leadership to the theme: as N8 Chair in AgriFood
Regulation she leads cross-Centre activity in the area, co-organising an event on Food Security
with Hendry in 2019. As Associate Director of the University’s Global Food and Environment
Institute (GFEI) Smith facilitated an £18m bid to the UKRI Industrial Strategic Challenge Fund.
She and Cardwell sit on the University’s Steering Group on AgriFood. Cardwell is part of the EU
H2020 CONSOLE project (2019-2022), involving 24 partners in 13 EU countries and co-
operation across Law, Biology and Geography to develop legal contracts as a means of ensuring
the delivery of new agri-environmental public goods.

The theme of security is a core focus of CCJS where it interacts with the technology theme.
CCJS’s position as the leading centre for policing and security research in the UK has been
enhanced through new appointments, programmes of research, publications, disciplinary
perspectives and international networks (Bainbridge, Barker, Birks, Churchill, Crawford, Farrell,
Lister, O’Reilly, Wall). O’Reilly was PI on an ESRC/Newton Fund project (2016-2019) on
kidnapping in Mexico, exploring how technology can facilitate mobility and protect human rights
and those who defend them. The N8 Policing Research Partnership (N8 PRP), which links police
forces and universities across the north of England and provides small project grants, is directed
by Crawford. CCJS is also involved in the new international and interdisciplinary network
Everyday Political Economy of Plural Policing, as part of a strategy to expand and develop its
expertise through international connections and collaborations. Substantial funding in urban
security (to begin in September 2020) has been obtained from the EU (IcARUS Project) for a
pan-EU study in partnership with law enforcement and municipal authorities across Europe.
Churchill’s book (UOA18-3016) won the Socio-Legal Studies Association (SLSA) Theory and
History Prize in 2019 and examines security from a historical perspective; Birks, Farrell and Pina-
Sánchez examine it from quantitative and data science perspectives. Work in CLSJ also
connects to the theme. Hendry’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2019-2021) for instance
examines the role of civil/criminal hybrid processes in law enforcement.

CLSJ contributes strongly to the health and vulnerabilities theme, through the work of the
Disability Law Hub and its connection with CDS. Lawson was awarded an ERC Advanced Grant
Inclusive Public Space (2019-2023), which examines the lived experience of pedestrians in five
countries through qualitative empirical surveys and investigates the role of law in making public
spaces more inclusive. Expertise in vulnerability theory has become a major part of the School’s
reputation and, in partnership with Emory, CLSJ houses the Leeds Vulnerability and the Human
Condition Initiative, which involves researchers from across the School. Brown (CBLP) works on
vulnerability theory and consumer credit; other strengths include intersex (Travis), and social
policy (Clough, Keeling, Lewis (CCJS), Thomson). Health (Clough, Dietz, Jacob, Miola,
Purshouse, Thomson, Travis) is a central part of CLSJ’s work, evidenced by the appointment in
2020 of Miola to a Chair to provide additional leadership, and is examined from a variety of
standpoints – both doctrinal and theoretical. CIRLE contributes to the discrimination strand of
this theme via its work on the legal profession and judicial diversity (Loughrey, Sommerlad).
                                                                                           Page 3
Enhancing Internationalisation

The School has enhanced its internationalisation strategy to further grow the School’s global
reputation and reach of its research, and to promote the development of international
collaborations to address its themes. It does so by: (i) attracting to the School leading scholars
from around the world; (ii) enhancing opportunities for Research Centres to collaborate globally
with similar entities and other international organisations and support the internationalisation of
research agendas and individual staff networks; and (iii) encouraging and supporting the
development of international collaborations in research grant capture.

Structures to support the internationalisation strategy have been strengthened. The School
Strategic Development Fund offers up to £40,000 pa to support events and other activities, such
as visits by international scholars. The fund assists those who find it difficult to travel (e.g. those
with caring responsibilities) to bring collaborators to the School. The fund has supported 36
conferences and eight visits by external academics over the REF period, leading to important
publications and collaborations, e.g. Kirkland’s (Michigan) work with Jacob on the Research
Handbook on Socio-Legal Studies of Medicine and Health published in 2020. Other
internationally recognised visitors with interdisciplinary backgrounds include Benhabib, Davies,
Engel Merry, Fausto-Sterling and Rose. The Liberty Fellowship scheme, launched in 2015,
provides funding of up to £5,000 pa to enable top-ranking international scholars, working in areas
related to the School’s research themes, to visit the School for between two weeks and three
months. Bruner (Georgia), Comino (Queensland), de Maillard (Versailles-Saint-Quentin),
Goldsmith (Flinders), McNamara (UNSW), O’Kelley (Seattle) and Thornton (ANU) have visited
the School under this scheme, leading to significant research collaborations, e.g. Goldsmith’s
work with Wall on youth cybercrime. In total, the School has hosted 62 visitors from around the
world, including from Australia, Brazil, China, Denmark, Hong Kong, Hungary, Netherlands,
Norway, Poland, Republic of Ireland, Singapore, Spain, South Africa, Sweden and the USA.

During the assessment period a significant number of international strategic partnerships have
been formed with overseas partners, based on shared expertise and research interests. CCJS
is expanding its international profile with new international partners based on key research
themes such as security, e.g. University of Buenos Aires. CBLP has partnerships with Erasmus
University Rotterdam, a partner in the Jean Monnet Centre DIGOV in the technology theme,
and with Singapore Management University, which has expertise in corporate law, and
innovation and technology. CBLP’s links with China are deepening with the foundation of the
Sino-British Joint Centre in Commercial Law in 2015 with the East China University of Politics
and Law, which holds an annual conference alternating between Shanghai and Leeds.
International perspectives on disability and health and vulnerabilities are enhanced by the U-
Lead East Asia Disability Rights Forum, funded by Open Society Foundations, with which CDS
and CLSJ collaborate. It provides (2018-2021) an arena for researchers on disability in China,
Taiwan and Hong Kong to discuss their research. Conferences are held annually and research
reports are published on the website of Hong Kong University. The School has also held
international conferences/symposia across all its Centres to address its themes. The 10th and
11th anniversary conferences of the Emory Vulnerability and the Human Condition Initiative in
2018 in Leeds and 2019 in Lund, related to the health and vulnerabilities theme, were hosted
by CLSJ. Under the governance and regulation theme, CBLP has co-hosted an annual
competition law conference with the International Center for Law and Economics, with 2018’s
conference held in Washington DC. A conference on Urban Security Partnerships, co-hosted by
CCJS and UBA and funded by the British Council was held in February 2020. The School also
successfully hosted the 2019 SLSA Annual Conference with significant international
participation.

Maximising User Engagement and Impact

The School has broadened and intensified its range of engagement and impact activities by: (i)
encouraging research co-production and sharing best practice across the School; (ii) supporting
targeted dissemination of research outputs and engagement with stakeholders; (iii) fostering
                                                                                         Page 4
relations with policy and practitioner communities through engagement with Advisory Boards;
and (iv) furthering the internationalisation of engagement and impact activities through strategic
partnerships and co-production.

The School benefits from the opportunities for external engagement promoted by LSSI, notably
via its ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), (£1.3 million from 2019-23) the largest in the
UK. Nine members of staff have successfully secured such funding (Barker, Bradshaw, Brook,
Churchill, Crawford, Hucklesby, Lawson, Lightowlers, O’Reilly). In 2016 the School appointed
an Impact Champion who, with financial and administrative support, redeveloped School
engagement and impact strategies. Whilst in the previous REF period much of the impact was
focused in CCJS, it now takes place across the whole School, as evidenced by the submission
of impact case studies spanning three Research Centres. These have been chosen to showcase
the best examples of impact across the School – locally in Leeds and nationally (UOA18-1,
UOA18-2) and internationally (UOA18-3, UOA18-4, UOA18-5), and the benefits of co-production
of research (UOA18-2), a key part of the School’s strategy. All five impact case studies connect
to work taking place within the School’s main themes (UOA18-1 within sustainability; UOA18-
2 within security; UOA18-4 within health and vulnerabilities; UOA18-3 and UOA18-5 within
governance and regulation).

Co-production has been the subject of academic research by Crawford (e.g. UOA18-251),
leading to case study UOA18-2, based on the N8 PRP, funded by HEFCE until 2020. The
partnership has since secured significant police and partner funding to ensure its continued
viability. A number of staff (Birks, Farrell, Lewis, Lister, Pina-Sánchez, Wall) have benefited
directly; Lewis and Pina-Sánchez, for example, worked with West Yorkshire and Cumbria Police
on child-to-parent violence. Co-production, however, occurs across the School. Clements
(CLSJ), for example, whose Chair is part-funded by Cerebra, engages in extensive co-
production of research into disability law through the Legal Entitlements and Problem Solving
Project (LEaP). Researchers engage in co-production, collaboration and impact opportunities at
each stage of the research process, from formulation of research questions to modes of
dissemination and engagement. The School’s dissemination strategy is based on identifying
targeted research users, developing individual pathways to reach them and on sustained
relationship building. UOA18-1, for example, engaged with stakeholders at every step of the
research process and worked with them to translate research into tangible change. UOA18-2,
UOA18-3 and UOA18-4 build on extensive prior connections with users and UOA18-5 emerged
from a successful competitive bid to the European Commission (2015-2016). Other means to
engage stakeholders include social media; the School’s Briefing Paper series launched in 2018,
which will be rolled into Policy Leeds’s Briefing Paper series from 2021; writing in practitioner
journals and magazines; podcasts; speaking at practitioner conferences (staff members have
spoken at over 300 such events); responding to government/other consultations and carrying
out training nationally and internationally. Staff write for external blogs (e.g. Oxford Business
Law, British Society of Criminology (BSC), UEA Centre for Competition Policy, SLSA and Inforrm
blogs) as well as personal and University of Leeds blogs (e.g. CDS blog). The School monitors
the effectiveness of its support and encourages staff to exploit opportunities and to engage with
training and resources provided by the University.

The School and Research Centres’ Advisory Boards comprise representatives from the legal
profession, criminal justice and other third sector organisations and serve to foster strong
relations with the School’s policy communities. Internationally, Research Centres have identified
key user groups, e.g. UNCITRAL, OECD (CBLP), with which they are building links. In 2018
CBLP successfully joined the UNCTAD Research Partnership Platform on Competition and
Consumer Protection to enable better access to stakeholders, facilitate joint and co-produced
research and enable further opportunities for research dissemination.

Research and Impact Objectives over the Next Five Years

The School will concentrate on interdisciplinary research of the highest quality at the frontiers of
law, criminal justice and socio-legal studies, collaborating nationally and internationally to
                                                                                              Page 5
address major global challenges with pathways to effect societal change. To do so it will
concentrate efforts on its key themes, with a series of workshops, (e.g. on AI) to bring interested
staff together, use of targeted cross-Faculty seed-corn funding and the Strategic Development
Fund, new appointments and the promotion of new interdisciplinary groups. It will continue to
scale up its ambition in terms of grant capture and external uptake of research. For example, at
the end of the REF period a bid was planned for an ESRC Centre on Vulnerability and Policing
Futures connecting CCJS (Bainbridge, Birks, Crawford) and CLSJ (Solanke) with colleagues in
Psychology and Healthcare, as well as York, Manchester, Liverpool, Lancaster, Sheffield,
Durham, UCL and, internationally, Monash and Temple Universities. If funded, the Centre will
study the management of shifting and emergent vulnerabilities, and shape how public sector
agencies and partners respond to future threats and vulnerability through integrated multi-
sectoral partnerships. At the time of writing the bid is at full application stage. The School will
respond to redeveloped University research themes in AI, Health and Humanities, and
Interdisciplinary Methods. It is in the early stages of developing a Methodologies Hub to bolster
the wide and increasing diversity of methodological approaches in the School. The School will
further develop multi-level relationships with key overseas institutions and scholars and deepen
its commitment to the co-production of research with non-academic stakeholders. It will continue
to support high quality curiosity-driven disciplinary research and be flexible in seeking new
opportunities.

In governance and regulation, for example, a new interdisciplinary research group on
professional regulation is planned under the auspices of CIRLE and CLSJ, building on common
interests and new appointments (Batesmith, Clark).

CBLP has identified the technology theme as an important strand of activity. A central aspect
of business-related technology research is data protection and the School will appoint to a post
in data protection law to add to existing expertise (Basu) and contribute to the Jean Monnet
Centre DIGOV. The School will build further capacity to connect the technology and
governance and regulation themes. CCJS will increase engagement in the field of data science
and AI, further developing cooperation with stakeholders in the police and national and
international security agencies. Plans for a University network on AI, including STEM subjects
and the Business School, are evolving, led by Miola (CLSJ).

Food security, environmental regulation, waste and fair access to food will remain important
elements of the sustainability theme across CLSJ and CBLP; CCJS will work internationally
through the ICaRUS project. Work is also ongoing, led by Smith with the Leeds City Region
Enterprise Partnership, on the impact of COVID-19 on the sustainability of local food supply
chains. A bid to UKRI is planned, working with key user stakeholders: Asda, DEFRA, Mondelez
and Karro.

In the security theme, in addition to work at the intersection with the technology theme where
relations with CBLP will be broadened and deepened, CCJS will use the WUN Research
Network Legal Cultures and New Regional Policies towards Forced Migrants to build
international links with CUHK and the University of Massachusetts Amherst College following its
delayed start in December 2020. An online international workshop is planned for early 2021.
CCJS will continue to engage in work on changing crime patterns following Farrell’s successful
grant application to collate data and trends on levels and types of crime post-COVID-19 and to
anticipate different scenarios as the UK leaves “lockdown”, partnering with UCL, the Metropolitan
Police and Durham and Lancashire Constabularies (UKRI COVID-19 Fund 2020-21).

CLSJ will enhance links with the humanities and CCJS as part of the health and vulnerabilities
theme. It will build on the work done in conjunction with CCJS and external partners on the ESRC
Centre bid, continue its productive collaboration with Emory, and make use of continued links
with University of Technology, Sydney (UTS) provided by Thomson’s retention of a fractional
(0.2fte) appointment at Leeds following his move to UTS in 2019. It will enhance user and
international links to influence policy agendas around, for example, disability and trans rights,
building on the institutional links enabled by CDS.
                                                                                            Page 6
Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

Staffing policy is purposively aligned to the School’s research objectives. The School seeks
therefore to appoint, develop and retain scholars of outstanding talent and promise at all levels,
who want to collaborate across the School, University and internationally as well as with non-
academic partners. The School has made a series of appointments of international colleagues
to increase the reach and scope its research and 16 different nationalities are represented on
the School’s staff. Other staff have been hired across all Research Centres to increase the
methodological diversity within the School, allowing for different perspectives on research
problems, which in turn facilitates a greater focus on thematic interdisciplinary and challenge-led
research and on stakeholder cooperation, co-production of research and impact. Within CCJS
Pina-Sánchez, Birks and Farrell have statistical expertise and are core members of the
Quantitative Criminology Group. Within CBLP Brook, Gomtsyan and Zhang have empirical
training and Brook, Gomtsyan and Stylianou also have expertise in economics. In CLSJ Jacob
has ethnographical expertise and provides leadership in the University’s co-production network.
Saksena and Churchill are historians. Sommerlad (CIRLE) has expertise in political science.

Since August 2013 the School has appointed 58 teaching and research staff, including three
University Academic Fellows, one of whom (Keeling) has been appointed to a lectureship and
another (Birks) to an associate professorship. The School has grown in size to 65 staff with
responsibility for research; 13 teaching and research staff appointed in the REF period have left.
There has been a deliberate choice to refresh the School’s staff through the appointment,
development and long-term retention of promising early career researchers (ECRs) and over
10% of submitted staff are ECRs. This commitment to the development of staff extends to the
recruitment of high quality PGRs, some of whom (Dietz, Zavoli) have been appointed to
research-active lectureships. These appointments have been combined with appointments of
experienced academics at Chair level (e.g. Farrell, Jacob, Miola, Sheehan, van Sliedregt) as
staff retire and the demographic changes in the School’s composition require increased
mentoring and other research support. The School only appoints to Chair level where the
applicant has a track record and enthusiasm for research and team leadership. Jacob and Miola
were appointed specifically to provide further leadership in CLSJ and Jacob is Centre Co-
Director. The School does not appoint to fixed-term lectureship positions. Alongside this the
School has had two joint appointments with Emory (Marvel (2017-2019) and Fineman (2017-
2020)) to develop the health and vulnerabilities theme. It retains one appointment jointly with
UTS (Thomson) and with Lund (Quinn). The School has made use of the University Academic
Fellowship scheme, appointing three over the REF period in AI/computing, quantitative
criminology and disability law (Birks, Lightowlers, Keeling, respectively), contributing to the
security, technology and health and vulnerabilities themes. In 2019 the School successfully
secured two (out of seven awarded by the White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership) ESRC
Postdoctoral Fellowships (Shannon, an ex-Deputy Chief Constable, and Bland, a historian) both
within the broad field of policing.

Staff are supported to deliver on their research in a number of ways. Teaching and administrative
roles are allocated through a transparent workload model with 40%FTE reserved for research.
The School also offers a generous study leave policy. The School enables staff to apply for study
leave for one semester (six months) after every six semesters and 48 periods of study leave
were taken over the assessment period, including four in Spring 2020. Staff are encouraged to
speak to the Director of Research and Innovation about their study leave proposals. Research
Committee assesses the deliverability and quality of the plans proposed in terms of impact,
publications and development of grant proposals, against the School’s strategic aims. Feedback
is given to improve and develop proposals and to ensure plans are of sufficient quality. Research
Committee monitors outputs and deliverables to ensure accountability. Where this is required
for strategic reasons, leave can be accelerated. In the assessment period to the end of 2019,
School-funded study leave facilitated 144 outputs, including 17 sole or co-authored books and
16 research reports, as well as 37 external bids for research grants and PhD studentships and
                                                                                            Page 7
three internal bids to the ESRC IAA. Impact and collaboration activities are seen as key and
valuable uses of study leave and have for instance led to successful bids for an AHRC
Collaborative Doctoral Award and an AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Churchill).

The personal research allowance was increased from £1,500 to £3,000 pa in 2017 to allow
greater attendance at international conferences and international travel to host institutions.
Additional resources are also available via the School’s Internationalisation Fund, as well as the
University and Faculty of Social Sciences. These funds have supported staff in taking up 50
visiting fellowships at overseas institutions, including in Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Canada,
China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain and the USA. Members
of staff have also held 13 funded visiting posts at other institutions, e.g. Stylianou at Brown
University, Hendry at the University of Arizona, and Cram at the EUI, and have been invited to
speak at 494 international conferences or other events in the UK or abroad. These include
prestigious conferences such as the Obligations Conference (Harvard 2020 (cancelled):
Purshouse, Sheehan); Law and Society Association Annual Conference (e.g. Brown, Hendry,
Keeling, Thomson); and I-CON conference (e.g. Hong Kong 2018: Hendry, Solanke, Trispiotis,
van Sliedregt).

The School has rigorous staff development protocols operated via the Annual Academic and
Workload Meeting (AAWM) and Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS). Every year
staff meet the Head of School and are offered any support needed. In the SDRS process, staff
are appraised by their peers (who have been trained) and any issues or concerns are acted
upon. These meetings also allow for colleagues to develop as future intellectual leaders and fulfil
their career aspirations, including via promotion; seven members of staff have been promoted
to Chairs over the assessment period and 13 to Associate Professor. ECRs receive support over
and above that available to all staff. Their teaching workloads are reduced and they have a
dedicated mentor who helps them develop their research plans. After the completion of
probation, ECRs continue to benefit from a research mentor and senior professors engage in
informal mentoring and provide feedback on grant applications and drafts as required.

More generally, staff are expected to engage with a wide range of training opportunities. 56
members of staff (as of July 2020) have benefited from University training on research, OA,
impact, PGR and research grant writing over the REF period. The School’s Reading Group,
which includes senior members of staff from across the School’s Research Centres, reads
published (and OA-compliant) articles with future-facing feedback to authors. Each Research
Centre offers additional research support, including away days, initial pitch-to-peers of research
ideas, research seminars where colleagues present more advanced work, and workshops where
a small number of invited colleagues meet with the author to go through an article draft in detail.
PGRs are always included in these and have the opportunity to present in all Research Centres.
School-wide events are regularly organised to support staff in understanding how they can reach
their potential by examining top quality publications by colleagues across the full spectrum of the
School’s research (four held since 2016).

With regard to impact, the School aims to support staff by way of mentoring and the provision of
time, money and administrative support to engage with stakeholders and maximise the take up
of research. The Impact Champion advises staff on impact and other senior staff who provided
impact case studies in 2014 (Crawford, Hucklesby, Lawson and Walker – now emeritus) act as
mentors. Staff also draw on significant resources and professional support from LSSI via the
Engagement Officer, as well as the policy-facing work of the recently established Policy Leeds.
Staff also contribute to annual University-wide public engagement events, including the ESRC
Festival of Social Sciences and the University’s ‘Be Curious’ Festival.

Where significant impact is envisaged or in progress, the School provides resources in the shape
of time – with 80 workload hours available to case study and potential case study authors – and
money from a dedicated £10,000 pa Impact Fund to aid in the maximisation of such impact,
including with international travel. For instance, Travis’s work with Garland (Manchester) and
Samuelson (Norwegian Ministry of Health) on the rights of intersex people, situated in health
                                                                                           Page 8
and vulnerabilities, was presented in Oslo in 2019. This complements the more significant
resources available via the ESRC IAA. Funds can also be used from dedicated budgets allocated
to each Research Centre. The School supports and enables secondments to user groups.
Bradshaw is a Parliamentary Academic Fellow and obtained an ESRC IAA Knowledge
Exchange Fellowship to support her work on developing legislation on food waste within the
sustainability theme. Her POSTBrief report, which will form the basis of a future Parliamentary
Inquiry into food waste, will be published in 2021. Hucklesby also obtained a Knowledge
Exchange Fellowship to support her work in the security theme on electronic monitoring of
prisoners.

Contract research staff are fully supported in a number of ways. They are line-managed by the
PI and a Research Staff Development Director will be appointed who can provide career and
wider professional development advice. The appointment demonstrates the importance the
School places on such staff, a number of whom have gone on to permanent academic jobs (e.g.
Okanigbuan, Liverpool John Moores). The starting point for interactions with postdoctoral
researchers is one of parity of esteem. The School supports the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers and the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.

Postgraduate Researchers

A dynamic community of high quality PGRs engaging constructively with School and University
research agendas is an integral part of the research culture. The School trains the next
generation of research leaders, using School, University and externally-funded scholarships to
recruit the highest quality candidates and to further its core research agenda. The School has
122 PGRs (as of January 2020) and a key priority is to provide an outstanding experience and
facilities. For example, workspace available to PGRs has been significantly expanded through
two new dedicated spaces, one for hot-desking and one with allocated desks.

The selective recruitment process is transparent and involves all prospective candidates having
their applications and research proposals reviewed by one of two Directors of PGR Studies and
a supervisor. Candidates are interviewed before offers are made. Reasonable adjustments are
made where a disability is declared and limited demographic information is requested for
monitoring purposes. The School promotes the availability of scholarships widely and expressly
encourages underrepresented groups to apply. The Faculty of Social Sciences will provide (up
to) three scholarships each year specifically for BAME students in the next REF period.

The School has benefited from competitive studentships (18 over the REF period) provided by
the ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) and the AHRC White Rose
College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH), including six ESRC Collaborative Awards, one
Network Award and one Advanced Quantitative Methods (AQM) Award, alongside one provided
by the Data Analytics and Society ESRC Centre for Doctoral Training, led from Leeds in
collaboration with Liverpool, Manchester and Sheffield. The School provides 50% match-funding
for up to three WRDTP Pathway Awards per year. Two PGRs supervised jointly with Leeds
University Business School (LUBS) were funded via the N8 PRP. Churchill secured a WRoCAH
Collaborative Award with King (History) and the Corps of Commissionaires, and Birks has
secured agreement from Durham Constabulary to support two PGR projects. Collaborative PhD
Awards assist with deepening and broadening the School’s connections with research users.
The School has representation on the relevant selection panels – Lister (WRDTP) and Whelan
(AHRC) and O’Reilly is Director of the Conflict, Security and Justice Pathway for the WRDTP,
responsible for overseeing the delivery of innovative transdisciplinary training for PGRs and
ECRs across the network. The School also benefits from the University’s Leeds Doctoral and
Leeds International Doctoral Scholarships Schemes (formerly the University Research
Scholarship Scheme) and provides its own (up to three per year) Research and Teaching
Scholarships. Over the REF period 34 students have been financially supported by the School
or University in this way and 130 students received scholarships from domestic and international
funders.

                                                                                          Page 9
Both the WRDTP and WRoCAH provide structured research methods training available to all
PGRs in the School, and a credit-bearing framework of modules has been established to support
ESRC doctoral training. Lister was instrumental, as Director of the Faculty of Social Sciences
Graduate School, in the development of the University’s MA in Social Research
(Interdisciplinary), which meets ESRC training and development guidelines for 1+3 scholarships.
Further training is in advanced social research methods is provided by the University’s
Organisational Development and Professional Learning (ODPL) unit and LSSI.

Two Directors of PGR Studies have overall responsibility for research student matters and
engage with a team of PGR representatives to ensure quality of supervision and students’
progress. School policy related to PGRs is overseen by the Research Degrees Management
Committee. The Directors attend a bi-monthly PGR Forum. Each PGR is co-supervised by two
academic staff who undertake compulsory training and the School aims as far as it can to give
early career staff the opportunity to supervise. Where appropriate – and supporting
interdisciplinary capacity – a PGR is co-supervised from another School or from other WRDTP
universities, e.g. Malleson (Geography) co-supervises two PhD students; Beckett and Priestley
(SSP), Newman (Politics and International Studies), Allen (LUBS), Wilson (York) and Ellis
(Sheffield) also co-supervise doctoral researchers. PGRs attend a School induction programme,
including a welcome event and social events, training on refining a research question,
conference presentations, employability events and an introduction to the Research Centres.
PGRs produce training plans, via an online recording system (GRAD), which are reviewed
regularly. PGRs receive a minimum of 10 formal supervisory meetings per year; a First Formal
Progress Review completed after six months. Students transfer to PhD status within 12 months.
Thereafter students have an Annual Progress Review, signed off by one of the Director of PGR
Studies.

PGRs are affiliated to at least one of the School’s Research Centres and are invited to all Centre
events. They are encouraged to present their work beyond the School and regularly give papers
at international and national conferences. PGRs presented 190 papers or external presentations
over the assessment period. These, and other research activities, are funded by the Research
and Training Support Grant, a sum of £1,000 per PGR provided by the School (increased from
£750 in the previous REF period). PGRs are able to apply for funds from the PGR Strategic
Development Fund, set up in the assessment period, which provides up to £800 per bid (from a
total fund of £5,000 pa) to support a collective research endeavour or impact-related activities.
Events that have been supported include a workshop between PhD students in Law and LUBS
to find synergies and common interests (2017 Casasola); and a conference on promoting impact
from research (2018 Mat Rus and Malakouti Khah). A School PGR conference, launched in
2016, organised by PGR students, was restructured in 2020 to avoid duplication with Centre-
level events, albeit cancelled because of COVID-19.

PGRs’ training and development also benefits from external placements. LSSI runs a
programme of PGR placements with external partners from the public, voluntary and private
sectors, some of which are arranged through Nexus, the University’s gateway into the business
community. Marder, for example, undertook an LSSI-funded placement looking at inclusive
growth in the Leeds City region and became an advisor to the Council of Europe on Restorative
Justice. Others, like Rahman, Board Member of UNITAID, have prestigious external positions.
PGRs have bid for funds for White Rose student networks – e.g. Schönhöfer acquired funding
for an AQM network in 2014. PGR researchers engage in the annual University PGR showcase
and Faculty of Social Sciences PGR Conference (co-organised by Sacco in 2017). Greenwood-
Reeves won a prize for best poster at the University’s showcase and others (e.g. Sharief) have
won prizes in the 3-minute thesis competition. PGR researchers have also helped organise
major conferences (e.g. Iqbal – 2018 International Corporate Governance and Law Forum,
organised by Loughrey and Keay). An annual international law PGR conference is held across
Leeds, York and Sheffield, with the first being held in Sheffield in 2018, and PGR students in
CDS ran an international conference in 2019. The School encourages PGRs to take up
international opportunities and 15 PGRs had visiting scholarships or internships; Eben was, for
example, ABA Antitrust Law International Scholar at Georgetown University in 2018. Richards
                                                                                        Page 10
had an ESRC Policy Internship at the Home Office, leading to a policy briefing on radicalisation,
extremism and terrorism.

At least 21 PGRs have published in refereed journals (e.g. Almutawa, Alshahrani, Cardinaels,
Coe, Dietz, Eben, Epstein, Greenwood-Reeves, Malakouti Khah, Platts-Fowler, Randall, Taylor-
Harding, Tidmarsh, Ryland, Zavoli, Zu) and in edited collections (Coe, Platts-Fowler) during their
candidature; some have co-authored with staff members (e.g. Iqbal with Keay; Chung, Grech
and Marder (separately) with Pina-Sánchez; Mant with Wallbank). The School has an excellent
record of fostering future academics: at least 14 PGRs have been appointed to research-active
lectureships at UK universities in the assessment period, including: Eben (Glasgow); Mant
(Cardiff); Randall (Strathclyde); Dietz, Zavoli, (Leeds); Zu (Durham); Lerong Lu (Bristol); Coe
(Reading); Iqbal (City); and Tara-Chand (Coventry). Others have obtained academic posts
abroad, e.g. Marder (Maynooth, RoI), Platts-Fowler (Victoria University of Wellington, New
Zealand), Balajanov (Baku State University, Azerbaijan), Masood (Mara University of
Technology, Malaysia), policy-related positions in government and the third sector in the UK and
internationally – e.g. Grech (Canadian Ministry of the Attorney-General), Wilson (UK Parliament),
Falconer (National Crime Agency) – or gone into legal practice e.g. Amrayaf (DLA Piper).

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

The School is committed to and embraces values of inclusivity, equality and diversity, reinforced
by staff who work on issues of disability and discrimination (Clements, Goosey, Keeling, Lawson,
McColgan, Quinn, Solanke, Sommerlad) and clear University policies to ensure fairness in
human resources processes and workload. The School pro-actively seeks to ensure
proportionality of representation on its committees, encourages applications for senior
management roles by women, supporting them to excel in such roles, and champions the
Leadership Foundation for Higher Education’s Aurora programme. Of 29 professors (March
2020), 12 are female. One of the School’s female professors is blind (Lawson) and the School
has one of the few black female law professors (Solanke) in the country, promoted in 2016. All
its main Research Centres were (March 2020) directed or co-directed by women; the Director of
Research is a woman (since 2019) as well as the Head of School (since January 2020).

The Faculty of Social Sciences, which includes the School, was awarded an Athena Swan
Bronze Award in 2020. The School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee monitors
equality issues and celebrates the diversity of staff and students by hosting a range of events,
such as a monthly ‘Equality Cinema’ night, Black History Month and LGBTQI events. The School
supports the creation of research networks across the White Rose University Consortium that
contribute to equality and diversity. For example, it co-funded an intersectional feminist
conference organised by Adegbulu in 2018 following a series of seminars in 2017 and 2018
(funded by WRoCAH) as part of the Women’s Paths Research Group across Leeds, York and
Sheffield, involving PGRs from Law, English and Art.

The School’s Research Committee analyses data on grant success and application rates,
applications for study leave and applications for funding to support conference attendance, and
assesses if action needs to be taken to provide support or encouragement to apply to
underrepresented groups, complementing the work of the Athena Swan committee. When
submitting expressions of interest for research funding, PIs are asked to consider the diversity
of their Co-I team. Staff are also asked to consider the gender balance of conference speakers.
All staff undertake equality and inclusion training and completion is monitored by the School.
The School examined the spread of outputs attributed to staff in relation to protected
characteristics to inform its final selection for submission.

Support for staff and PGRs with disabilities is provided by the University Equality Policy Unit and
the Disabled Students’ Assessment and Support Service with reasonable adjustments made
where disability needs are disclosed, including specialist equipment, personnel and transcription
services. The School’s policy is to accommodate requests for flexible working whenever
possible, and/or moves to fractional appointments. The School will maintain an increased use of
                                                                                            Page 11
the online presentation of research after the end of the COVID-19 pandemic at School events to
support participation by those unable to travel, due to caring responsibilities, for example. Part-
time staff are fully integrated and actively engaged in the School. After extended leave, staff are
re-familiarised with developments within the University, School and Research Centres. Well-
being within the School is promoted, for instance, through a workshop for PGRs led by the
Director of Student Support on how to manage the transition to a research degree.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

The School has been exceptionally successful over the REF period in capturing grant income
from a diverse portfolio of prestigious sources, including UKRI (AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, NERC),
Leverhulme Trust, European Commission, European Research Council, HEFCE Catalyst Fund,
Swedish Competition Authority, Facebook, Alan Turing Institute, Big Lottery Fund, Independent
Social Research Foundation, Die Vereinigung für Recht & Gesellschaft, British Council, Socio-
Legal Studies Association and Society of Legal Scholars (SLS). The School has been successful
in attracting external funding for prizes (e.g. Akman, Leverhulme Prize (2017-2021)), fellowships
(e.g. Hendry, AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2019-21), Churchill, AHRC Leadership Fellowship
(2020-22)); larger multi-disciplinary, multi-researcher projects (e.g. Wall EU H2020 TAKEDOWN
(2017-2019), Wragg et al AHRC Research Grant (2018-2021)), multi-institution funds (Crawford
HEFCE Catalyst Grant (2015-2020)) and small grants (Jones, British Academy/Leverhulme
Small Grants (2019-2021)), as well as funding for research seminar series (e.g. Crawford, ESRC
‘Markets in Policing’ series (2014-2018)) and one-off events (e.g. Moosavian, SLSA Our Arts in
the North (2018); Sheehan, SLS Secured Transactions Law Reform Conference (2017)). It has
also, as above, had success securing ESRC IAA funding. Total research income has been
£6.19m over the assessment period to 2019, rising from £407k in 2014/15 to £1.34m in 2018/19.
There has been a particular step change in Research Council grant capture, rising from £51k in
2014/15 to £619k in 2018/19. Over roughly the same period, the average size of grant applied
for increased from £72k in 2013/14 to £126k in 2018/19.

Improving research grant capture is a key priority for the School, which is increasing the pool of
staff making applications, maximising their quality and increasing the scale and value of the
projects. Accordingly, the development of strong grant applications remains a central
expectation of staff across the School. Plans for research and impact funding are canvassed
annually for inclusion in the University’s Integrated Planning Exercise and discussed at AAWMs.
Grant activity is supported by an internal peer-review process whereby all applications are
reviewed by a group with a track record of attracting external funding, including, where
appropriate, colleagues from outside the School. This is complemented at University level by
Research Council-facing Review Panels, including the ESRC Review Panel, which oversees
and supports all Responsive Mode grant applications and draws expertise from across the
relevant disciplines. The University regularly runs training on grant writing and advertises
research funding opportunities widely. Members of staff who have submitted Expressions of
Interest in applying for funding are assisted in developing their proposals within appropriate
timelines, identifying collaborators and devising bespoke impact activities by the Director of
Research and the Faculty Research Office. Tailored support is offered to ECRs to develop bids
and the process around UKRI and large bids is designed to be supportive, with University-run
workshops to improve and develop all Research Council bids before submission. LSSI supports
the development of interdisciplinary research networks (e.g. the Inequalities Research Network)
and large, complex grant applications, and offers seed-corn funding to encourage initial
interdisciplinary research ideas. To promote ambition in the targeting of external funding, the
School makes workload allocation available to support the development of bids. Bids worth
between £100k and £200k are eligible for 40 hours workload credit, and those over 200k for 80
hours. Large bids for £1m+ receive 330 hours across the relevant team.

The result has been a significant broadening of the base for applications with activity spread
across all main Research Centres, themes and key areas of research, as well as across all staff
                                                                                        Page 12
grades. In 2018/19 there were 41 grants ongoing, with PIs at professorial level (e.g. McCormack,
ESRC/Newton 2017-2021 (CBLP) looking at reforms of the Chinese financial system with
partners at Wuhan in the governance and regulation theme); associate professor (e.g.
O’Reilly, ESRC/Newton Fund 2016-2019 (CCJS) in the security and technology themes) and
lecturer level (e.g. Clough, Independent Social Research Foundation Early Career Fellowship
(2018-2020) (CLSJ) on mental capacity law within the health and vulnerabilities theme; Barker,
Big Lottery Fund/Heritage Lottery Fund/Nesta Rethinking Parks Fund 2018-2020 (CCJS) on
developing a model of charitable giving to parks, relating to UOA18-1 and the sustainability
theme). The School puts into practice the University’s guidance on ECRs and research bids and
supports ECR involvement in large grants. Trispiotis was involved as Co-I in an EU DG Justice
Grant (2017-2018) on countering Islamophobia across eight EU member states. Hawkins, who
joined in 2016 while finishing her PhD, is part of the research team on the NERC/ESRC project
Assessing and Monitoring the UK Shale Gas Landscape (UKSGL), within the sustainability
theme (2018-2022).

Infrastructure and Facilities

To support the School’s vision of interdisciplinarity and international research with societal
impact, it encourages colleagues actively to engage with wider institutional research themes and
resources. During the assessment period, members of the School have had leading roles in
several University-wide Themes in the REF period and it will engage further with the new
Themes. Crawford was in the ‘Cities’ Executive Group and Churchill was part of the Steering
Group for History and Policy, a sub-theme of the ‘Culture’ Theme, linking the School’s historical
research to wider institutional priorities. Thomson had a leading role in linking School activity in
health and vulnerabilities with the ‘Health’ Theme. Outside of such roles, Lawson in
conjunction with other CDS members, has set up a new journal – the International Journal of
Disability and Social Justice – with a companion written in plain English to increase public
engagement, the first issue of which is due in 2021. Farrell, Birks and Pina-Sánchez have
provided new perspectives on the security theme by establishing strong links with LIDA, which
combines large investments from the ESRC and MRC to bring together data scientists to develop
innovative techniques to tackle a wide range of social challenges, and houses an ESRC Centre
for Doctoral Training. Birks has been on its Research and Innovation Board since 2019.

Inter-institutional arrangements include the N8 PRP, which brings together the universities of
Leeds, Durham, Sheffield, Liverpool, Newcastle, Lancaster, York and Manchester. It supports
large-scale targeted research programmes including policing and agri-food. The School is
heavily involved in both across the security and sustainability themes via the N8 PRP and
links with the University’s Global Food and Environment Institute. The White Rose University
Consortium of Leeds, Sheffield and York, apart from its work with the ESRC WRDTP and the
AHRC WRoCAH, provides small grants for networks and capacity building, as well as
collaborative and impactful projects. Examples of engagement include the launch event of CLSJ
in 2014. The Consortium has a Brussels Office, allowing access to key stakeholders; e.g. Smith
spoke at a Sustainable Food event in 2019.

Impact and engagement are supported through a variety of institutional means. LSSI, with which
the School has extensive engagement, has run a policy engagement seminar series with the
Department for Work and Pensions since 2018, including contributions from Law staff (e.g. Lewis
and Thomson). LSSI has also supported business, policy and public engagement through the
appointment of an Engagement Officer in 2019 and works with the University’s Public
Engagement team in doing so. Its business engagement activities have been supported by two
ESRC grants (£100k Business Boost (2018-19) and £100k National Productivity Investment
Fund (2020-21)), which have enhanced engagement with the government’s Industrial Strategy
and benefited PGRs in particular via the involvement of the WRDTP. Policy Leeds, which
Crawford co-established and on whose Steering Group he sits, was created in early 2020 to
promote national and international policy engagement. It is a member of the Universities Policy
Engagement Network (UPEN). The School supports and encourages the use of these resources
to foster research impact, and where appropriate knowledge co-production. 55 members of the
                                                                                        Page 13
School (as of July 2020) including PGRs and research staff have benefited from LSSI events
and training on public engagement, impact and co-production. Jacob and Crawford are leading
members of the University-wide co-production network coordinated by LSSI. Together with the
Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute (LAHRI), they hosted a series of high-profile
online seminars in 2020, bringing together multi-disciplinary scholars from the Arts, Humanities,
Environmental Sciences and Social Sciences, as well as Public Health, Medicine and
Engineering. The 2019 Sadler Seminar Series, bringing together speakers from Law, Medicine
and the Humanities, was also funded by LAHRI.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

Research into the major challenges of today requires collaboration across and beyond the
discipline. This requires the creation of major networks, cultivation of research contacts and
partnerships and user collaboration, which in turn allows a holistic examination of all aspects of
the given problem. The School therefore supports staff in their involvement with a wide variety
of national and international networks and collaborations, including with research users, and
PGR training initiatives. Individual staff members have established research partnerships
overseas, which have led to 87 internationally co-authored pieces of a total of 621 outputs over
the period – and a total of 242 externally co-authored outputs – listed in the University repository
as of July 2020, approximately 14% of the total outputs and 36% of co-authored outputs.

Professional associations and networks in which staff are involved include the: SLSA (Hendry,
Vice-Chair (2017-2019); Moosavian (presently) and Thomson (2014-2017), Executive
Committee); SLS (Sheehan is a trustee and Honorary Membership Secretary and Whelan sits
on the Research Grants Committee); and BSC, where Hucklesby founded the Women, Crime
and Criminal Justice Network and Churchill and Yeomans co-run the Historical Criminology
Network. Churchill is also a trustee of BSC and an Executive Committee member. An editorial
team from CCJS ran the BSC’s official journal, Criminology and Criminal Justice, from 2010 until
2015. Basu is Chair of the British and Irish Law, Education and Technology Association.

Funded networks related to the School’s themes include the EPSRC cybercrime network
(security), and the Academic Network of European Disability experts (ANED), run by CDS in
partnership with the Human European Consultancy and funded by the European Commission.
Other networks include the Global Research Network on Disability and Human Rights, founded
in 2016, which brings together researchers and policymakers working on different aspects of
disability (including the UN Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities) to
identify research priorities, and the Nordic Transgender Studies Network, with which Dietz is
involved, funded by the Swedish Government (health and vulnerabilities). Brook co-directs
(and established in 2019) the UK branch of the Academic Society of Competition Lawyers
(ASCOLA), which works to increase links between different centres of competition law research
in the UK and abroad (governance and regulation). Other networks focus on bringing
academics and policymakers together, such as the History and Policy network which connects
historians and policymakers; in the security theme, Churchill and Yeomans co-founded the
Leeds Historical Criminology Seminar Series (2018-19) with Shore (Leeds Beckett University).
They and Saksena work alongside colleagues in History.

The School supports major new network initiatives to be based at Leeds, such as the WUN
Research Group on forced migration run by van Sliedregt in collaboration with CUHK and the
University of Massachusetts Amherst College, and the Everyday Political Economy of Plural
Policing network launched at the European Society of Criminology conference in Sarajevo in
2018 (security). Led by Crawford, O'Reilly and Stenning (Griffith and CCJS Visiting Fellow),
alongside White (Sheffield) and Diphoorn (Utrecht), the latter asks how public, private and
voluntary policing actors negotiate their way through the diversity of regulatory structures. Pina-
Sánchez has been heavily involved in building networks around sentencing and quantitative
criminology and is Co-Coordinator of the Empirical Research on Sentencing (ERoS) network,
                                                                                            Page 14
which holds an annual meeting drawing in sentencing researchers from different disciplines and
jurisdictions (security). Sommerlad is Co-Director of Lawyers in Society (governance and
regulation), an interdisciplinary and international project involving over 100 international
scholars across the world. Panels have taken place at meetings of key international research
associations; e.g. US Law and Society Association (2016, 2017); the Research Committee on
the Sociology of Law Working Group on the Legal Profession (Andorra 2016, 2018); the ISA
Forum of Sociology, Vienna (2016, 2018); and the Onati Institute in Spain (2017), including other
colleagues from Leeds e.g. Francis. A post-publication, international symposium was planned
(pre-COVID-19) for 2020 at the School of Law as a landmark event in international socio-legal
scholarship.

Cross-disciplinary and international PGR training help to prepare PGRs to navigate a challenge-
led research landscape and ensure the future sustainability of collaborative work. Lawson has
been involved as Co-I in PGR training via the EU Marie-Curie Initial Training Networks DREAM
(€3.7m, 2011-2015) and DARE (€3.8m, 2019-22), funded by the European Union for ECRs in
disability law, both coordinated by NUI Galway. The current scheme, DARE, includes six other
institutions – the Institute of Social and Political Sciences (Portugal), Universities of Maastricht,
Leeds, and Iceland, the Swiss Paraplegic Group, the European Disability Forum and the
Association of Service Providers to People with Disabilities. De la Feria set up the European
Academic Network of VAT (EANOVAT), a research network in tax law, based at the universities
of Leeds, Münster, Louvain, and Lund. It has held doctoral training seminars in Münster (2016),
Lund (2017), Louvain (2018) and Leeds (2019).

Influence on the Research Base

The School’s wider influence, contribution to and recognition by the UK and international
research base is evident in colleagues’ assessing grant applications, editing leading journals,
examining PhDs and receiving prizes for research quality.

Firstly, staff assess grant applications for a variety of other funding bodies, including ESRC,
AHRC, EPSRC, British Council, UKRI, Belgian and Dutch Research Councils, Australian
Research Council, European Science Foundation, Irish Research Council, Medical Research
Council, Leverhulme Trust, British Academy, SLS, SLSA, Nuffield Foundation, Wellcome Trust.
Crawford was/is a REF2014 and REF2021 Law Sub-panel member. Hucklesby sits on the
Research Committee of the Criminal Cases Review Commission and Lewis on the Youth Justice
Board Academic Advisory Panel.

Secondly, staff engage in peer-review for journals and have had 127 editorial or editorial
committee positions on different journals, e.g. Asian Journal of International Law (Subedi, Editor-
in-Chief); British Journal of Criminology, Criminology and Criminal Justice (Crawford); German
Law Journal (Hendry); International Review of Law, Computers and Technology (Basu);
International Journal of Evidence and Proof (Ellison); International and Comparative Law
Quarterly (Cram); International Journal of Economic Law (Smith); Leiden Journal of International
Law (van Sliedregt, Senior Editor); Medical Law Review (Clough, Miola, Purshouse); Oxford
Competition Law (Whelan), an online national case reporting service; Sociological Review
(Jacob); and World Competition (Akman, Stylianou, Whelan). Staff edit special issues of journals
– Loughrey guest-edited a special issue of Law and Financial Markets Review in 2015 – and
have produced edited collections with international authors (e.g. Halson and Campbell
(Lancaster) edited the Research Handbook on Remedies in Private Law (2019) with contributors
from across the Commonwealth). Cardwell co-edited the Research Handbook on EU Agriculture
Law (2015). Keay is editor of the Corporate and Insolvency Law Series published by Edward
Elgar and Subedi editor of the Human Rights and International Law Series published by
Routledge.

Thirdly, staff members have examined (externally) at least 184 PhDs over the period, including
internationally at Amsterdam, Central European University, European University Institute,
Griffith, Helsinki, Hyderabad, Leiden, Lund, Melbourne, Oslo, Porto, Pretoria, Queensland,
                                                                                       Page 15
Roskilde, Stockholm, Tilburg, Trinity College Dublin, University of the Witwatersrand, UNSW,
Utrecht.

Fourthly, members of staff have won 21 external prizes for the quality of their work (e.g. Churchill
Thomson, Yeomans). Basu was awarded the Hind Rattan Prize 2020 by the Indian Government.
De la Feria was selected by the International Fiscal Association as one of the 45 world-leading
women in international tax over the last 100 years. Subedi’s term as UN Special Rapporteur for
Cambodia (2009-2015) finished in the period, but his pre-eminent reputation is highlighted by
his nomination as UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in 2014, his appointment as QC
(Hon) in 2017 and DCL degree awarded in 2019. Other honours include Lawson’s appointments
as an Honorary Master of the Middle Temple Bench in 2017 and to a Fellowship of the Academy
of Social Sciences in 2018.

Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

The School has a strong record of conducting research on real world issues with relevance
beyond academia and a commitment to utilising the knowledge derived from that research to
transform policies, improve practices and advance social and legal reforms. It has a strong civic
commitment epitomised by one of its case studies (UOA18-1) and work – done at the beginning
of 2020 and published in November 2020 – led by Crawford on behalf of the University on
enhancing research relations with Leeds City Council. Members of staff across the School are
actively supported to engage in wider activities that enhance the impact of their research on
society and the economy. Co-production is a vital part of the School’s strategy (see e.g. UOA18-
2) and publishing jointly with non-academic co-authors is becoming an important strand of
activity with 23 outputs as of July 2020 (approximately 4% of total outputs and 10% of all co-
authored outputs).

The School has worked to benefit the economy and society in different ways. Firstly, it assists in
the practical application and development of legal doctrine in the UK and abroad. Staff are aware
of pending appeals to the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court in their area and engage with
barristers about relevant research. Barristers and solicitors are invited to academic conferences,
offering Continuing Professional Development points, and their input aids research design. This
familiarises practitioners with the School’s research, which in turn contributes to citations by
courts in the UK and internationally, e.g. Keay Akers v Samba Financial Group [2017] UKSC 6
[2017] AC 424, [67]; JSC BTA Bank v Ablyazov [2018] EWCA Civ 1176, [14]); Clough Re MN
[2017] UKSC 22; Halson 127 Hobson Street Ltd v Honey Bees Preschool [2019] NZCA 122,
[30].

Secondly, the School informs government and non-governmental organisations’ policy in the UK
and internationally across its themes. It does this first through responses to consultations and
presenting oral evidence. Examples include Cardwell (Oral Evidence to the APPG on
Agroecology 2017); Clough (Response, in conjunction with CHANGE, a Leeds-based disability
organisation, to the Law Commission Consultation on Reform of the Deprivation of Liberty
Safeguards 2015); Dietz, Garland (Manchester) and Travis (Response to 2019 Consultation on
Gender Recognition Act 2004); Ellison (CPS Consultation on speaking to witnesses in court
2015); Hawkins et al (Evidence to Select Committee Enquiry into Fracking 2018); Purshouse
(Evidence to GMC Consultation on Consent 2018); Whelan (BEIS Consultation Response
2018); Wallace (Written Evidence to Parliamentary Joint Select Committee Enquiry on Provision
of PPE to NHS and Care Workers 2020). The School also promotes ongoing engagement with
research users, including practitioners. Wragg and Solanke are associate academic fellows of
the Inner Temple; McCormack was appointed INSOL Scholar in January 2020. Wragg is a
member of the Code Committee of the press regulator IMPRESS, was instrumental in its being
recognised as the only official press regulator and co-drafted the Code on Press Standards
based on his research on press regulation. Cram is an advisor to the European Parliament’s
Research Service on constitutional law (2017-2021). Solanke’s Harvard Catalyst Project (2019-
2021) on weight stigma and discrimination led to her giving a Legislative Briefing at the
Massachusetts State House. Quinn has been a member of numerous international and EU
                                                                                          Page 16
research advisory boards, including the EU Fundamental Rights Agency and the Ruderman
Family Foundation (USA/Israel). Dutfield has worked since 2014 with a Peruvian NGO on
biocultural heritage indicators.

Members of staff are often commissioned by external bodies to write reports. For example,
Ramirez-Montes wrote a report on the Marrakesh Treaty to Facilitate Access to Published Works
for Persons Who Are Blind, Visually Impaired, or Otherwise Print Disabled in 2016 for the
European Parliament; Baker and McCormack wrote a report in 2016 on Commercial Agents and
their Conflicts of Interest for RICS, which led to a number of rule changes. Mackie wrote a report
on the Polluter Pays Principle for the OECD on behalf of the Kazakhstan Government and
presented his findings in Astana in 2019; he has since been invited to comment on the draft
Environmental Code for Kazakhstan. De la Feria works extensively with foreign governments
(e.g. Angola, Brazil, Jordan, Sao Tome and Principe, Uzbekistan) and the World Bank on
developing and reforming their VAT regimes (UOA18-3). Such engagement with users is now
institutionalised. Keeling and Clough, for example, organise CDS’s ‘Conversations’ series of
seminars, which involves a respondent from a research user group.

The School thirdly uses such engagement to effect changes in justice practices. Hendry is
working with Liberty on the role of civil/criminal hybrid processes as part of her AHRC Leadership
Fellowship. Pina-Sánchez has worked with the Sentencing Council to translate research into the
consistency of sentencing into analytical tools used by the Council to evaluate their guidance.
Such engagement generates the type of deep two-way relationship the School seeks to
encourage. For example, Lister is an academic member of the College of Policing’s
Neighbourhood Policing Guidelines Committee, an appointment arising from research studies
conducted by Lister with both West Yorkshire and South Yorkshire Police; research collaboration
with SYP then led to an ESRC WRTDP Collaborative Award.

Public and media engagement has been a key mechanism for achieving impact and the School
seeks, fourthly, to shape public debate and raise public awareness. The School has a Research
Strategy Officer whose responsibilities include developing the School’s research communication
strategy – in conjunction with the University’s Communications Team. The University has signed
the NCCPE Manifesto on Public Engagement and training is provided by ODPL on public
engagement to maximise the public visibility of research. Members of staff have written, or been
quoted in, at least 121 newspaper, magazine, industry or academic focused media articles. De
la Feria had extensive involvement in the Paradise Paper leaks, working with BBC Panorama
and the Guardian. She gave a number of TV interviews in the UK and overseas (BBC (UK); ARD
(Germany)), and radio interviews, including to BBC Radio 4 and the BBC World Service. She
also worked extensively with BBC Panorama regarding online tax fraud, published an op-ed in
the Guardian on international corporate tax reform and spoke at the Austrian Workers Chamber
on international corporate tax reform, which resulted in TV, radio, and printed media coverage.
Akman spoke in the Intelligence Squared debate ‘Break up the Tech Giants’, which was
broadcast to 70 million people by BBC World News (2018). Staff have presented work at the
ESRC Festival of Social Science (Barker, 2019), the national Battle of Ideas Festival and the
University’s ‘Be Curious’ Festival (Barker 2019). The School supports innovative means to
connect with the public. O’Reilly for example co-produced a graphic novel in 2019 related to his
project on kidnapping in Mexico and a ‘telenovela’ in 2020. Barker and Churchill (UOA18-1)
developed a photographic archive relating to Leeds parks across time.




                                                                                          Page 17
