Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University

 Unit of Assessment: 24. Sport & Exercise Sciences, Leisure & Tourism Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1) Context and Structure

 Ranked in the UK top 20, and top 10 ‘small submissions’ (FTE<15), in REF2014 (Times Higher
 GPA), our REF2021 submission builds on our continuity, consistency and focus over a 20-year
 period across three REF/RAE cycles. Our research is defined by a longitudinal values-led
 commitment to improve health, wellbeing and welfare among groups not well served by existing
 provision and policies, including those with or at risk of long-term conditions, in socially, physically
 or emotionally vulnerable groups, with disabilities or special educational needs (SEN), or
 experiencing economic, social or cultural exclusion.

 The Unit has grown to 19FTE, and is centred in the School of Psychology and Life Sciences,
 incorporating SportsLab, our applied translational research and enterprise service, and including
 the University Research Centre, spear (Centre for Sport, Physical Education & Activity Research).

 Our strategy has been to sustain and intensify the vitality of our research environment by
 enhancing and increasing investment and support to further grow and deepen the quality
 and reach of our distinctive research and impact shown to be world-leading in REF2014.
 We have:
     −   Increased by a third staff with Significant Responsibility for Independent Research
     −   Doubled research income
     −   Tripled PhD completions
     −   Invested £9m as part of a new £65m specialist STEM facility which houses the Unit.

 1.2) Development and Delivery of Strategy

 Our strategy spans REF/RAE cycles, and is based on dynamic and responsive longitudinal
 development and investment in distinctive specialist programmes of research across our three
 long-standing themes:

 •   Clinical Exercise Science (Coleman, O’Driscoll, Taylor, Wiles, supported by Brown, Mills)
     explores the impact on blood pressure and cardiac health of:
     − Isometric exercise in clinical, pre-clinical and ‘at-risk’ populations
     − High intensity interval training (HIIT) in clinical, pre-clinical and ‘at-risk’ populations

 •   Human Performance (Brighton, Brown, Edwards, Hurst, Roelands, Uphill, Williams,
     supported by Coleman, Foad):
     − Placebo effects, performance, anti-doping and athlete welfare
     − Functional mobility in disabled and aging populations

 •   Policy, Politics and Education (Butcher, Chatziefstathiou, DeVivo, Dowse, Foad,
     Jackson, Lovell, Mills, Skourtis, Weed, supported by Brighton, Uphill):
     − Olympic/Paralympic legacies

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    −   Physical activity and sport policy and promotion for the least active
    −   Perinatal physical activity
    −   Authenticity and value in tourism

 Our specialist research programmes are strategically identified and developed from initial
 exploratory research, which is based on responsiveness to user-led questions or diversification of
 existing research. Current exploratory research not yet reflected in our research programmes (but
 variously visible in REF2,REF3,REF4) includes mental and physical fatigue and endurance,
 embodied and social experiences of performance in ageing and disabled populations, and
 processes by which physical activity and sport interventions can develop wellbeing and social and
 life skills in disabled, SEN and general populations.

 To develop our specialist research programmes, we establish long-term strategic goals, user-
 needs and expected outcomes, and set milestones towards achieving them, often over decades
 rather than years across multiple REF/RAE periods. For example, our three longest-standing
 research programmes, in isometric exercise, placebo effects and Olympic/Paralympic legacies,
 all originated in RAE2008. However, we also continue to innovate, and have developed emergent
 early-stage programmes by diversifying isometric exercise research to explore the impact of HIIT
 on blood pressure and cardiac health, and by coalescing staff around user-led research into
 authenticity and value in tourism.

 Each research programme has a long-term, multi-stage timescale, for which our strategy is to
 identify drivers of success (collaborations; resources; staff development/recruitment; doctoral
 studies), and markers and milestones of success (outputs; impacts) appropriate to each stage of
 development, recognising that drivers and milestones are likely to vary at each stage, and for each
 programme.       For example: collaborative research and funding is currently driving the
 establishment of proof-of-concept in the early-stages of our functional mobility programme
 (3.1;4.1); early-stage drivers for our programmes in Olympic/Paralympic legacies, and physical
 activity promotion for the least active, were initial small-scale user-funded projects to establish
 ‘what works’ (reported in REF2014); a series of internally funded doctoral studies developed
 strategically to establish proof-of-concept were early-stage drivers for our placebo effects and
 isometric exercise research programmes (reported in REF2014); and our strategic ECR
 appointments of O’Driscoll (REF2014) and of completed doctoral student Taylor (REF2021),
 were drivers of the diversification of isometric exercise research to develop our early-stage HIIT
 programme (2.1).

 Markers and milestones of success also vary: in Policy, Politics and Education the first markers
 of success can often be impacts, such as the Change4Life case study (REF3), or the
 Olympic/Paralympic case study (REF2014:REF3), with outputs often following later (REF2
 includes outputs from the REF2014 case study). For Clinical Exercise Science and Human
 Performance, early milestones tend to be outputs setting out proof-of-concept and feasibility
 (each visible in REF2), with incremental and substantive impacts planned to follow in later REF
 periods as efficacy and effectiveness are demonstrated.

 1.3) Achievement of Strategic Aim and Objectives




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Set under an overarching aim to enhance the sustainability and vitality of our three research
 themes, our objectives set out in REF2014 were to develop and deliver drivers, markers and
 milestones of success as follows:

 •   Drivers of Success
     Obj1 Capitalise on and further expand external collaborations, particularly for large-scale
            funded research. (3.1;4.1)
     Obj2 Increase research funding overall and the proportion from research grants by: (a)
            building on our successful targeted tendering strategy to further grow income from
            research contracts; (b) developing pro-active grant-capture strategy. (3.1)
     Obj3 Continue to develop ECRs, both: (a) from current ECRs to senior researchers; (b)
            recruiting and mentoring future ECRs. (2.1)
     Obj4 Further grow PGR numbers and completions, particularly through Instructor,
            Technician and Research Assistant posts with embedded “half-time” doctoral
            bursaries. (2.2)

 •   Markers and Milestones of Success
     Obj5 Further enhance research quality by continuing to increase staff time for research, and
           growing support infrastructure. (2.1;3.2)
     Obj6 Deliver impact by: (a) targeting research towards impactful questions; (b) maximising
           ownership of the delivery of impact; (c) developing virtuous impact circles through
           strong relationships with users. (4.1)

 1.3.1) Development and Delivery of Drivers of Success (Obj1-4)

 Collaborations (Obj1) internal and external, pro-actively developed with strategically targeted
 academics and policy-makers, and reaching across and beyond disciplines have been essential
 drivers of success in this cycle. Examples have delivered: successive NIHR RfPB grants
 (Obj2;3.1) for multi-site feasibility studies of isometric exercise in primary care settings; proof-of-
 concept partnership projects on functional mobility in ageing (STABLE) and disabled populations
 (MOTION) (Obj2;3.1); increased reach of placebo research into the anti-doping community,
 preparing the ground for grant-capture (3.1;4.1); reach of perinatal physical activity research into
 policy and practice (Obj6;REF3), including a £670,000 national intervention with ukactive
 (Obj2;3.1).

 External Funding (Obj2) in REF4b has more than doubled to over £1m (3.1). spear’s targeted
 tendering strategy has secured and delivered 34 research contracts for 20 funders totalling over
 £800,000 (>double REF2014), which has driven our programmes on Olympic/Paralympic
 legacies, physical activity for the least active, and a number of areas of exploratory research
 (Obj2a;3.1). Our strategic focus on collaborative trans-disciplinary grant-capture (Obj1) has
 delivered funding of £1m to drive our isometric exercise and functional mobility research
 (Obj2b;3.1;4.1). We have used consultancy and evaluation contracts totalling £235,000 (3.1) to
 drive an early-stage coalescence of staff (Obj4) around our authenticity and value in tourism
 programme. Finally, we have strategically harnessed SportsLab’s KE and consultancy contracts,
 totalling £330,000 (3.1), to drive a performance sport environment and infrastructure for placebo
 research, exploratory research on fatigue/endurance and performance in ageing and disabled
 populations, and to provide enabling infrastructure for STABLE and MOTION.



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff Development and Recruitment (Obj3) continues to be facilitated by the consistency of our
 three research themes, and is a vital strategic driver underpinning our long-term dynamic
 approach to the establishment and development of each of our research programmes. We have
 a longitudinal career progression pipeline from doctoral student to ECR, on to mid-career
 researcher, and finally to established research leader (2.1). All staff have experienced at least
 part of this progression within the Unit, and this drives an ownership not just of research, but of
 the longitudinal strategies for its development.

 Doctoral Study (Obj4) completions have almost tripled to 24, following strategic investments during
 REF2014 in both full-time doctoral bursaries, and Instructor, Technician and Research Assistant
 roles including ‘half-time’ doctoral bursaries. Together with increased recruitment of externally
 funded (Obj2) and both domestic and international fee-paying students, our annual average
 number of registered doctoral students has grown by 26% to 17.5 (REF4a;2.2). Our doctoral
 students are embedded within, and are an important driver of, specialist research programmes
 that are consistent, dynamic, longitudinal, collaborative, trans-disciplinary, and engaged with and
 funded by sector stakeholders and user communities (3.2). This both enhances the Unit’s ability
 to recruit high quality doctoral students (Obj4), and locates them within a career-enhancing
 environment.

 1.3.2) Development and Delivery of Markers and Milestones of Success (Obj5-6)

 Research Quality (Obj5) has been enhanced by increased collaboration (Obj1) and resourced by
 external funding growth (Obj2). This has increased time and resources to enhance quality, and
 to progress our research programmes from, for example, field-based, cross-sectional or case
 studies, to robust behavioural or randomised controlled interventional trials in key target
 populations. Outputs, including systematic reviews and meta-analyses, have been strategically
 developed and placed to address medical, scientific and policy audiences (Obj1) and to invite
 trans-disciplinary debate and support for both our research, and its actual and potential impacts
 (Obj6). For example, our isometric exercise programme has built collaborations with NHS medical
 colleagues to enable access to clinical populations (Obj1), and to co-author outputs with and for
 NHS colleagues in medical journals (Obj5;REF2). This has broadened the audience for the
 research, validated its quality among the medical community, and stimulated debate about the
 potential of isometric exercise as an alternative to drug therapy (Obj6;4.1). Similarly, our placebo
 research programme has strategically placed outputs in the highest profile outlets at the interface
 of medicine and sport science (Obj5;REF2) to stimulate discussion and build support for placebo-
 led funding and interventions to support anti-doping and athlete welfare (Obj6). Finally, while
 outputs from our perinatal physical activity programme have been substantively published (REF2),
 peer-reviewed Editorials in outlets at the interface of exercise and health have also been
 strategically developed to target practitioners and policymakers, and support impact (REF3).

 Research Impacts (Obj6) have been very successfully delivered by the Unit, with all impacts
 submitted to REF2014 rated as outstanding or very-considerable. However, many were
 transactional impacts, arising from the immediate application of our research to address issues,
 programmes or activities that specific policy-makers, practitioners and end-user groups were
 facing, delivering or undertaking at a particular time. As we have deepened our relationships with
 our portfolio of research funders and users during this cycle (Obj6c), we have sought to further
 maximise our ownership of the delivery of impacts (Obj6b) by strategically working across user
 groups to broker structural impacts, in which we deliver long-term evidence-based changes to

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy and practice orthodoxies, delivery systems and ways of thinking for the sustained benefit of
 successive cohorts of end-users. Our first example of this was our outstanding REF2014
 Olympic/Paralympic legacy case study, which changed understanding about how physical activity
 and sport legacies are achieved, resulting in structural policy changes that benefitted end-users.
 For this cycle, our impact case studies (REF3) have been chosen to explicitly illustrate our
 successful strategy to deliver structural impacts: the Change4Life case delivered evidence-based
 systems changes which shaped national policy, investments and guidance from government
 departments and agencies, and defined expectations for future school sport provision for the least
 active; the perinatal case led to new national perinatal physical activity guidelines, and stimulated
 new professional body training and standards, thus supporting benefits for future generations of
 health professionals and pregnant and post-partum women. Examples of future milestones of
 success for our strategy to deliver structural impacts include: the establishment of isometric
 exercise (and possibly HIIT) as an alternative to drug therapy for hypertension and its inclusion in
 national physical activity and clinical guidance; a shift from regulation to education in anti-doping
 policy, using placebo research to educate athletes and coaches about the processes by which
 doping benefits performance.

 1.4) Interdisciplinarity, Integrity and Open Research

 The REF2014 Panel C report noted a growth in high-quality issues-led research that was trans-
 disciplinary (not located in any specific discipline or disciplines). Given our commitment to improve
 the health, wellbeing and welfare of groups not well served by existing provision and policies,
 issues-led research is as important to our cross-disciplinary approach as interdisciplinarity. All
 activity described in 1.3 includes examples of trans- or interdisciplinarity, either across UoA24 sub-
 disciplines, or through strategically building collaborations that reach into other areas of health,
 medicine, politics, social policy, management and education (4.2). Our explicit strategy is to seek
 collaborations (Obj1) that improve the quality of our work (Obj5) to improve health, welfare and
 wellbeing (Obj6) – this transcends disciplines and embeds interdisciplinary approaches (broadly
 defined) as standard.

 Importantly, and without exception, all research in the Unit is undertaken under the auspices of
 the University’s Research and Enterprise Integrity Framework (REF5a), underpinned by a
 commitment to EDI (2.3). However, our commitment to research integrity goes beyond process,
 and is driven by our purpose and values, hence our EDI commitment extends beyond staff and
 students to research beneficiaries. Our values-led commitment to improve the health, wellbeing
 and welfare of groups not well served by existing provision and policies, demands that we deliver
 research that is robust, ethical, trusted and relevant to the lives of these groups.

 Our values and approach to integrity underpin our commitment to making outputs and outcomes
 from our research available and open to scrutiny and use as soon as possible. We use pre-print
 servers (e.g, medRxiv, SocArXiv, SportRxiv), deliver training to staff to use social media and
 dissemination platforms (e.g, ResearchGate and our own ExpertComment blog) to provide access
 and promote discussion and uptake of research, and we always seek to remove any contract
 clauses that restrict access or provide sustained privileged funder access to findings. We also
 make use of our Transformative Open Access Agreements (REF5a) to publish open access
 outputs. Consequently, the Unit is 100% compliant with REF2021 open access requirements via
 ResearchSpace, and with CCCU’s Open Access Policy (REF5a), with many more Unit outputs in
 REF2 and underpinning REF3, plus those not included in the submission, openly accessible.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.5) Future Aims and Objectives

 Although our strategy spans REF cycles, it is nimble and dynamic and necessarily continues to
 evolve to now support a mature Unit that has grown to house an increasing number of distinctive
 successful specialist research programmes at an increasingly advanced stage of development.
 Consequently, our objectives for the next REF cycle are to:

 A. Develop trans- and inter-disciplinary collaborations to support the onward-stage
    progression of our research programmes and enhance research quality.
    We will nourish, grow and add to our current collaborations, continuing to reach outside our
    subjects and disciplines to support the delivery of:
     - Clinical Exercise Science: large-scale trials of the efficacy and (cost-)effectiveness of
       isometric exercise in clinical populations; HIIT feasibility studies in ‘at risk’ populations.
     - Human Performance: controlled trials of placebo interventions to support anti-doping;
       training studies to establish feasibility of functional mobility interventions.
     - Policy, Politics and Education: evaluations of: delivery of social and life skills across
       multiple sport and/or Olympic/Paralympic interventions; perinatal physical activity advice
       and experiences; authenticity and social/economic value creation in tourism.

 B. Leverage collaborations, increased research quality, advocacy and transactional
    impacts to deliver sustained structural impacts.
    We will continue to develop and deliver our strategy of building a critical mass of high-quality
    evidence, engagement, support and transactional impacts to deliver outstanding structural
    impacts with sustained reach and significance for successive cohorts of end-users, as well as
    delivering transactional impacts as an end in their own right.

 C. Grow a diversified and significant portfolio of research funding sources and types.
    As different funding sources and types support different outcomes (e.g. proof-of-concept,
    feasibility, effectiveness, transactional or structural impacts) we will increase both the volume
    and specificity of our income, targeting funding sources and types most appropriate to the
    research outcomes and impacts sought; this will include seeking funding sources to diversify
    SportsLab’s role from facilitating the research environment, to developing and delivering
    specialist research programmes in its own right.

 D. Enhance our longitudinal career progression pipeline for staff at all stages, but
    particularly to support the internal development of strategic research leaders.
    We will continue to recruit and develop staff, particularly ECRs, in support of our specialist
    research programmes, but as our programmes reach mature-stage development we will
    provide specific strategic research leadership mentoring to senior mid-career staff to develop
    as strategic leaders of collaborative project portfolios, grant capture and future development
    strategy.

 E. Embed PGR students within funded and user-led research to grow recruitment,
    registrations and completions.
    We will leverage external funding, stakeholder engagement and impact to increase recruitment
    to doctoral studies embedded within, contributing to, and benefitting from increasingly mature
    specialist research programmes.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our longitudinal staff recruitment and development strategy is a key driver of success for the Unit.
 We recruit ECRs with research interests aligned to our specialist research programmes or
 exploratory research areas, and invest in their progression and development to promote staffing
 stability and retention. As a result, 85% of staff (16.2FTE) have been with the Unit since they were
 ECRs, a quarter for three REF/RAE cycles.

 Supporting a dynamic and vital environment, five ECRs have been recruited in this cycle: three
 former doctoral students (DeVivo, Hurst, Taylor) explicitly retained in our isometric/HIIT, placebo,
 and perinatal research programmes respectively, plus Skourtis (authenticity and value in tourism)
 and Williams (exploratory research in embodied experience of performance in aging populations).
 Brighton, Brown and Lovell have developed internally as independent researchers since
 REF2014. Four of the five ECRs submitted to REF2014 (Dowse, Foad, Mills, O’Driscoll) have
 been retained in the Unit and developed as senior mid-career researchers, leading our early-stage
 HIIT research programme (O’Driscoll) and our impact case studies (Foad, Mills), and all
 attracting industry funding.

 Our recruitment and development also emphasises commitment to issues-led research that
 improves health, wellbeing and welfare for end-user communities. This promotes a dynamic
 cross-fertilisation of ideas between our three themes and across our specialist research
 programmes, developing both research and researchers with a trans-disciplinary orientation.
 Coleman, for example, together with Brown, have developed our functional mobility research, but
 both also contribute to Clinical Exercise Science. Foad leads spear in Policy, Politics and
 Education, but also supports placebo research, and O’Driscoll works beyond Clinical Exercise
 Science to contribute to perinatal physical activity research. Planned future trans-disciplinary
 collaborations include between Hurst, O’Driscoll and Wiles to explore placebo applications in
 Clinical Exercise Science, between Brighton, Brown, Foad, Coleman and Weed to explore
 synergies across research with disabled and SEN populations, between O’Driscoll, Wiles and
 Weed to explore the potential role of isometric exercise in physical activity guidelines and policy,
 and between Brighton, Chatziefstathiou, Hurst and Uphill on athlete safeguarding.

 The Unit’s staffing strategy extends the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (REF5a) to all staff with SRIR. Our longitudinal commitment to our three research
 themes, our specialist research programmes, and support for exploratory research, creates a
 positive and stable environment and culture for staff to develop research and achieve their full
 potential. Promotions of former ECRs Dowse (Principal Lecturer), O’Driscoll and Mills (Reader)
 and Foad (spear Research Director), and their progression as senior mid-career researchers, are
 examples of this. Our consistent and sustained provision of regular research time for all staff (we
 maximise regular research time rather than provide study leaves), our support for ECRs with
 mentoring support and lighter teaching loads in their first 18 months, and additional release of time
 for externally funded research or specific objectives, creates a positive and enabling employment
 context. For example, both Wiles and Lovell have been released from former teaching
 programme director responsibilities: Wiles to develop funding collaborations for isometric
 exercise, leading to NIHR RfPB funding (3.1); Lovell to complete a monograph on authenticity


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (REF2:U24.027). Finally, we actively support continuing professional and career development:
 e.g, the SPARC (Supporting Progression in Academic Research Careers) programme (REF5a)
 has been made available to all ECRs, and all staff in the Unit participate in annual research and
 career development planning discussions with their line manager. We therefore recognise and
 reward staff through a mix of formal and informal approaches across promotion and progression,
 time and resources, and career development support.

 A Head of School vacancy enabled recruitment of an experienced senior research leader
 (Edwards) to provide support and mentoring across laboratory-based research, while Roelands
 was specifically recruited from the Unit’s existing international network to mentor placebo research
 (4.2). Despite promotion to Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research & Enterprise), Weed continues to
 provide mentorship across Policy, Politics and Education, with spear, and for impact and impact
 case studies. We have also appointed Visiting Professors to mentor colleagues in Clinical
 Exercise Science (Raj Sharma, St George’s, London), Human Performance (David Pyne,
 Canberra; Remco Polman, Queensland) and Policy, Politics and Education (Ian Henry,
 Loughborough). However, as our specialist research programmes reach increasingly mature-
 stage development, our future priority is to provide specific strategic research leadership
 mentoring to support our senior mid-career staff to move beyond individual project leadership to
 develop as strategic leaders of collaborative project portfolios, grant capture and future
 development strategy.

 We have harnessed commissioned user-led research, consultancy and knowledge exchange,
 particularly that delivered by spear, SportsLab and in tourism, to provide the context and
 mechanisms for staff to make strategic links with a wide range of sector and industry stakeholders,
 and to support outputs, our impact case studies (REF3), and our wider impact and relationships
 with the sector (4.1). All staff have worked on projects funded by industry partners in at least one
 of these contexts, with examples including Ultromics Cardiovascular Imaging, Kent Cricket, UK
 Anti-Doping, Premiership Rugby, UKinbound and Turner Contemporary.

 2.2) Research Students

 We recruit students to internally-funded bursaried doctoral studies, to Instructor, Technician and
 Research Assistant posts with embedded ‘half-time’ bursaries, to externally-funded studies, and
 as fee-paying students. Strategic internal investments and externally-funded collaborations that
 delivered a three-fold increase in registrations for REF2014 have delivered a matching increase
 in completions (from 9 to 24) during REF2021 (REF4a), during which we have also increased
 recruitment to further grow FTE registrations by 26% to an average of 17.5 per annum.

 Doctoral students are embedded within one of our specialist research programmes, or exploratory
 research areas, and are supported by both their formal supervisors (REF5a) and the wider
 research team. As all three of our research themes are underpinned by collaborations across
 disciplines and with industry and sector partners and funders, doctoral students work in a vibrant
 performance sport, industry or policy-led environment, which drives recruitment.               This
 environment, supported and enhanced by spear, SportsLab, tourism consultancy work, and our
 capital investments (3.2), provides doctoral students with career-enhancing interactions with both
 research-user organisations and end-user communities, as well as developing important skillsets
 in laboratory, field, practitioner or policy-led research that extend and enhance the methodologies



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and skills developed through the Graduate College’s formal researcher training programme
 (REF5a).

 Much of our external funding for doctoral study comes from our research-user partners, through
 either directly funding studies (e.g, Chartered Institute of Physiotherapy, Department of Health,
 Musculoskeletal Association of Chartered Physiotherapists, Ultromics Cardiovascular Imaging),
 or indirectly through our strategic use of our portfolio of commissioned research funding to
 establish Research Assistant posts in spear, and consultancy funding to establish Technician-
 Researcher posts in SportsLab, each with embedded half-time bursaries. A future priority is to
 embed more doctoral funding within our grant capture strategies.

 Internal investment in innovative Instructor and Technician posts with embedded half-time doctoral
 bursaries, enhances the Unit’s research environment by releasing research time for staff and
 providing technical resources, and by providing students with important supplementary training
 and experience in HE teaching or technical services. In addition, we have developed and grown
 a successful Masters by Research programme, which provides opportunities to try a research
 degree without committing to 3-5 years of study, and acts as talent pipeline to doctoral study. Like
 doctoral students, Masters by Research students are fully integrated into our research
 environment and embedded within our specialist research programmes.

 Funding for research consumables, research expenses and for external academic engagement
 and dissemination (e.g. at conferences) is provided for all internally and externally funded research
 students (~£800pa), whilst their embedment within our research themes means they are an
 integral part of internal research seminar programmes, which include both external speakers and
 opportunities to present developing work. Our whole University integrated approach to wellbeing
 (REF5a) provides the same wellbeing services and support available to staff to research students.
 All doctoral students have access to dedicated desk and IT facilities, and progression and training
 needs are monitored through to completion via ResearchSpace (REF5a). That our increase in
 doctoral completions in REF2021 matches our increase in registrations in REF2014. is clear
 evidence of our ability to support students to successful completion.

 2.3) Equality and Diversity

 The Unit is committed to upholding and promoting equality objectives and external commitments,
 such as to the Race Equality Charter and as a Disability Confident Employer (REF5a), as well as
 supporting the University’s integrated approach to staff and student wellbeing. The Unit was part
 of the first School Athena SWAN Bronze Award made to CCCU, and senior staff in the Unit (e.g.
 Chatziefstathiou, Coleman) are members of the combined implementation and self-assessment
 group, chaired by Edwards (as Head of School), responsible for both delivering Bronze Award
 commitments and developing CCCU’s first Silver Award application in 2022.

 The Unit sits within the Faculty of Science, Engineering & Social Sciences, for which data from
 the provisional institutional equality impact assessment (REF5a) shows that the gender balance,
 age, ethnicity and contract status of staff with SRIR are more closely aligned with the overall staff
 profile than for REF2014. At Unit level, 90% of staff in REF1 are on permanent contracts, 90%
 are full-time, 63% are male, 50% of part-time staff are male, and 40% of staff promoted during the
 period are male. Half of the UoA Steering Group are female, including the Director of Research
 Environment (Chatziefstathiou), the spear Research Director (Foad) and both Impact Case

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Study Leads (Foad, Mills), two of whom (Chatziefstathiou, Mills), along with ECR Taylor, have
 been supported to return from maternity leave to take up leadership roles.

 The explicit implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (2.1), the gender balance of staff in leadership roles, the longitudinal support for ECRs (2.1), and
 the embedment of research students in specialist research programmes and wellbeing activities
 (2.2) is part of the Unit’s commitment to nurture an inclusive research environment. This supports
 the longitudinal career progression of research students and staff, providing equal access to
 funding support, training and development, promotional opportunities, leadership roles and
 inclusion in REF, regardless of gender, disability, working pattern or life events.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1) Income

 Research income has more than doubled from under £500k in REF2014 to over £1m in REF4b,
 with more than £600k already contracted for the future. In addition, the Unit secured £1.4m not
 shown in REF4b, including funds held by internal (e.g. UoA3) and external (e.g. ukactive) partners,
 transferred to other HEIs when staff members left, or for KE and consultancy. Total income
 secured by, or supporting the work of, the Unit therefore exceeds £3m.

 Our income strategy is to establish how, when and what funding sources will be drivers of success
 for strategic long-term goals, user-needs and expected outcomes for our specialist research
 programmes. Different programmes will both need and have potential to secure different funding
 sources to support different goals and markers of success (1.3.2) at different stages in their
 development. This is reflected in approaches and successes below, as well as in income
 distribution across ALL our specialist research programmes and our three themes, which
 represents significant progress from more concentrated funding in REF2014.

 spear has delivered 34 projects for 20 funders totalling £811,460, all awarded by competitive
 tender, which doubles income returned for Policy, Politics and Education. Eight funders have
 commissioned multiple projects, including Department of Health, Youth Sport Trust, Sport England
 and MenCap, reflecting significant strategic relationship building, and supporting our impact model
 (4.1). spear’s strategy is to selectively target its tendering at contracts that contribute to our
 research programmes and exploratory research set out in 1.2. This delivers immediate
 transactional impacts for practitioners and end-users who benefit from findings from individual
 contracts, but more importantly spear strategically links and builds insights across projects and
 funders over time to deliver sustained structural impacts through systems change (REF3;1.3;4.1).
 The evidence base generated by this pan-project approach also contributes to important policy
 critiques (REF2:U24.007;U24.090). In addition to future income already contracted (supporting
 exploratory work on life skills and mental health outcomes, particularly in the post-COVID-19
 context, and for disabled populations), spear will capitalise on experience developing sector-
 leading evaluation methodologies (particularly behavioural controlled trials: REF3), alongside
 insights from policy critiques and its wider evidence-base, to enable grant-capture relating to policy
 and behavioural change mechanisms across sport and physical activity contexts and populations.
 Work will also continue, delivering and evaluating perinatal physical activity interventions, through
 our £670,000 collaboration spanning REF cycles with ukactive (currently £71k in REF4b).



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic collaborations have been the cornerstone of our grant capture strategy across Clinical
 Exercise Science and Human Performance, which totals £1m. We have leveraged the
 distinctiveness and quality of outputs from linked doctoral studies (reported in REF2014), which
 established proof-of-concept that isometric exercise prevents and moderates chronic conditions
 and improves functional capacity, to build collaborations to secure successive NIHR RfPB funding
 in 2014 (£340,000) and 2019 (£272,000) for multi-site feasibility studies. While the former
 subsequently transferred to another HEI when the staff member left, output collaborations
 (REF2:U24.004) continue. Both projects expand and progress research into primary care settings
 in partnership with NHS Trusts, clinical commissioning groups, and colleagues in UoA3 and
 partner HEIs, and support outputs co-authored with (and for) clinicians in medical journals (e.g.
 REF2:U24.015). The 2019 project has been delayed by COVID-19, and so shows only £22k in
 REF4b, but NIHR awarded an additional £100k in 2021 to secure outcomes, following the
 achievement of which funding will be sought for large-scale randomised interventional trials.
 Funded projects drawing on gait analysis within our functional mobility research programme that
 explore falls in older haemophiliacs (STABLE, awarded 2014), and evaluate exoskeletons for
 children with cerebral palsy (MOTION, awarded 2018), have also been secured through strategic
 collaboration with NHS partners, with the latter being an ongoing EU funded £3.8m collaboration
 with 15 industry and academic partners across 4 countries (£405k supports CCCU element). Led
 by UoA3 colleagues (which is where income is returned), this proof-of-concept study is intended,
 if successful, to be the precursor to training studies to establish the feasibility of achieving
 sustained mobility improvements.

 Recognising the diversity of funding that drives the markers of success (impact and output quality)
 identified in 1.3.2, commissioned contracts and consultancy totalling £235k (£142k in REF4b)
 have supported work in tourism building relationships with industry (e.g. Visit Kent, Turner
 Contemporary) and sector (e.g. UKinbound, Arts Council, Heritage Lottery Fund) partners,
 delivering impact on regional tourism strategy and economic development (4.1), and underpinning
 outputs (e.g. REF2:U24.077). We have used collaborations on and across this funded work, to
 strategically drive a coalescence of interest among previously unconnected staff to establish
 authenticity and value in tourism as an early-stage research programme, with further strategic
 growth of staff with SRIR planned.

 Finally, through delivering KE and consultancy contracts totalling £335k for professional, elite,
 recreational and industry-led performance sport clients (e.g. Saracens Rugby, UK Anti-Doping,
 Sport England, Marathon Sports), we have strategically harnessed SportsLab to deliver a core
 part of our infrastructure: a vibrant and thriving performance sport environment. Despite only £24k
 being returnable in REF4b, the human and physical resource this funding provides supports
 growth in technical expertise (3.2), aids doctoral recruitment and progression by providing career
 enhancing experience and bursary funding (2.2), and supports access to research participants
 and delivery of laboratory-based research. Recent interventional studies and RCTs on placebo
 effects, mental and physical endurance and fatigue, and exploratory research on performance
 experiences in disabled populations (e.g. REF2:U24.089;U24.006;U24.053), as well as talented
 athlete scholarships evaluations and STABLE and MOTION, have all been enabled by
 SportsLab’s networks and infrastructure. Our new Verena Holmes STEM Building will physically
 host SportsLab from 2021, and co-locate the Unit with Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS)
 and our Engineering, Design Growth and Enterprise (EDGE) Hub (REF5a). This, together with
 current grant applications to the ESRC and World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) for placebo work,
 and evolving critical mass around exploratory work on endurance/fatigue and disabled/ageing

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 populations, supports future strategy to seek funding to diversify SportsLab’s role from facilitating
 the research environment to developing and delivering specialist research programmes in its own
 right.

 3.2) Infrastructure and Facilities

 The University has strategically invested £12.9m in the Unit through capital infrastructure (£9m),
 capital equipment (£1.5m) and revenue (£2.4m, including governance) funding to support the work
 of the Unit over the REF2021 cycle. The Unit’s impact and sustained high-quality, longitudinal
 performance across multiple REF/RAE cycles has been a key part of the vision that has attracted
 [£26m] of external public, private and charitable investment in the University’s STEM provision
 during the cycle (REF5a).

 Capital Infrastructure: the University’s £65m investment in the Verena Homes STEM building
 (REF5a), includes £9m infrastructure investment in the Unit, including a dedicated bespoke suite
 of laboratories hosting SportsLab and specialist research programmes within Clinical Exercise
 Science and Human Performance, increasing laboratory provision by 50% to almost 800sqm.
 However, the strategic co-location with STEM (KMMS, EDGE Hub, UoA3, UoA5) and STEM-
 related (UoA4, UoA18) disciplines, including clinical and manufacturing spaces and equipment,
 biological and molecular laboratories, and observation and simulation facilities, will drive further
 trans-disciplinary collaborations across units. Planned new collaborations include with: KMMS
 and UoA3 for isometric exercise and HIIT in clinical populations, and health applications of placebo
 effects; EDGE Hub for translational technology development for clinical exercise applications and
 functional mobility, as well as sports technology; UoA4 and UoA5 for behavioural, neurological
 and molecular aspects of placebo effects and exercise engagement.

 Capital Equipment: £1.5m has been invested to support onward-stage progression of specialist
 research programmes and some aspects of exploratory research. For example: Human
 Performance work on placebo and endurance/fatigue has been supported with a state-of-the-art
 environmental chamber to simulate extreme environments; new eye-tracker technology supports
 functional mobility research; investment in doppler ultrasound allows clinical measurements of
 vascular responses to HIIT and isometric exercise; portable gas analysis and SRM cycle
 technology has enhanced ecological validity of both SportsLab services and exploratory
 endurance/fatigue field research. This, together with SportsLab’s KE and consultancy activity,
 contributes considerably to a dynamic and buoyant environment in which performance and health
 applications and practice of exercise and sport interface with cutting-edge technologies, research
 outcomes and impact.

 Revenue Investment: average annual revenue funding to the Unit, supporting research, research
 leadership and research governance time, consumables and expenses, dissemination and
 engagement activity, Technician and administrative support, research assistance, and doctoral
 bursaries, exceeds £300k. The Director of Research Environment (Chatziefstathiou) consults
 staff and the Unit’s Steering Group to identify strategic resource requirements at the Unit, theme
 and research programme level, and liaises with the Head of School (Edwards), and Faculty
 Research Director to ensure these are surfaced during annual Research and Enterprise Quality
 Improvement and Enhancement (REQIE) (REF5a) which informs annual business and financial
 planning. Revenue investments over the period include: Technician, Technician researcher,
 Instructor and Research assistant posts (2.2); annual support (time and expenses) for all staff to

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disseminate and engage external colleagues, collaborators and stakeholders with their work and
 its impact at conferences and industry/sector meetings (4.1;4.2); time for impact development
 activity with stakeholders over the full research lifecycle (4.1); direct research consumables and
 expenses; time and expenses in support of internal and external collaboration (4.2), training and
 insight sharing to support income generation and grant capture (3.1), including time to pro-actively
 engage with our Research and Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU) (REF5a).

 Governance: the Unit Steering Group is co-chaired by the Director of Research Environment
 (Chatziefstathiou) and the Head of School (Edwards); has designated ‘Champions’ for impact,
 public engagement, funding and researcher development; was responsible for output and impact
 case study selection in accordance with the Institutional REF Code of Practice; advises on
 distribution of RESF funding (REF5a); and reports to the School Strategic Leadership Team, the
 Main Panel C Co-ordinating Group and the Institutional REF Steering Group.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1) Relationships with Research Users and the Delivery of Impact

 REF4b includes formal funding relationships with 35 research user organisations across 48
 projects. A significantly larger number benefit as ‘secondary users’, with more still strategically
 engaged to support and develop our research programmes. We build relationships before, during
 and after our research to maximise ownership of the delivery of impact, recognising that this will
 drive future structural impacts to deliver sustained improvements to the health, wellbeing and
 welfare of our wide ranging and diverse end-user communities, including those vulnerable and
 with health conditions, pregnant and post-partum women, older age groups, disabled and SEN
 groups with diverse and intersectional class, race and gender identities, and those experiencing
 place-based economic, social or cultural exclusion. We engage with these communities directly,
 through consultation, and their participation and involvement in our research, and indirectly
 through research user organisations. To enable this, our specialist research programmes specify
 long-term markers and interim milestones of success for end-user impact, which determines
 strategy for engaging and interacting with research user organisations and end-user communities
 as our programmes develop.

 A long-term success marker for Clinical Exercise Science is to benefit those with or at risk of
 hypertension or poor cardiac health by evidencing isometric exercise and HIIT as effective and
 cost-efficient alternatives to drug therapy. To this end, we have pro-actively engaged with NHS
 Trusts (e.g. Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells & East Kent Foundation Trusts), clinical
 commissioning groups (e.g. Canterbury and Coastal CCG), clinicians (e.g. at Kent and Canterbury
 & London St George’s Hospitals) and public and patient user groups (e.g. ‘Research Friends’;
 ‘Open Doors’) through funded research, co-authorship and PPI panels, to achieve an interim
 milestone of success: to build an engaged community of research users collaborating in our
 research and advocating for its impact. Human Performance has followed a similar strategy for
 placebo research, building a supportive international coalition of research users across
 government (e.g. US Department of Veterans Affairs), sport governing bodies (e.g. UK Athletics),
 and anti-doping (e.g. UK Anti-Doping) as an interim milestone towards the longer-term success
 marker to inform development and delivery of anti-doping interventions focused on athlete welfare
 and education, rather than regulation and punitive sanctions. Our functional mobility programme
 strategically embeds relationships with health sector users: Kent Haemophilia Centre and East

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kent University Hospitals NHS Trust are collaborating partners for STABLE; EU health users for
 MOTION include Sint Maartenskliniek (Netherlands) and Pulderbos Children’s Rehabilitation
 Centre (Belgium). However, a milestone of success for MOTION is to demonstrate proof-of-
 concept to harness industry manufacturers as future collaborative partners, hence the strategy to
 include industry-research translation specialists CENTEXBEL (Belgium) and CEA-Tech (France)
 in the collaboration.

 Clinical Exercise Science and Human Performance show process impacts and outcomes for
 participating end-users, including lowered and more stable blood pressure among pre-clinical
 hypertensives, reduced falls risk among elderly patients attending Kent Haemophilia Centre, and
 improved mobility for children with cerebral palsy in MOTION. There are also transactional
 impacts from Human Performance, including: providing evidence to the Australian Institute of
 Sport on the contexts and appropriate circumstances in which fatigue can be moderated by
 cryotherapy (cold baths) to inform guidance to athletes and coaches; incorporating placebo
 evidence into UK Athletics’ Clean Sport Interventions, to the (self-reported) benefit of over 500
 elite and performance pathway athletes. However, a primary purpose of our impact strategy at
 this stage is to shift perceptions about policy and practice orthodoxies, and to nurture a receptive
 climate for future evidence to support longer-term structural impacts.

 Across Policy, Politics and Education the pro-active development of long-term relationships with
 our portfolio of research user organisations is a vital part of our strategy for delivering both
 transactional impacts from specific projects and longer-term structural impacts. Relationships
 begin with smaller or pilot research, with milestones of success to deliver transactional impacts
 for end-users and practitioners through programme improvements. This builds relationships,
 which we deepen further with repeat delivery of larger and often linked projects, or broaden as
 new primary relationships develop with ‘secondary users’. For example, we engaged MenCap
 with our Paralympics research for Sainsbury’s and the Youth Sport Trust (YST), following which,
 they directly commissioned pilot research which revealed sport initiatives unexpectedly impacted
 employment outcomes for those with learning disabilities: outcomes which are now designed into
 the programme’s main roll-out, benefitting 4,000+ people with learning disabilities at ~80 UK
 locations. Similarly, we connected parkrun with our research for YST and Department of Health
 quantifying health impacts, leading to an invitation to Weed to join its Global Research Board,
 which led to a commission for an evidence review of outdoor COVID-19 transmission, which
 informed parkrun’s post-pandemic re-opening decisions and delivery protocols across 2,100+
 events in 22 countries benefitting ~7million parkrunners. The work also featured in debates in
 national print and broadcast media in UK, USA and Ireland about outdoor event safety, delivery
 of sport and activity for physical and mental health during Autumn 2020 lockdowns, and in Public
 Health England’s December 2020 advice on COVID-19 risks. Our strategic sharing of previous
 work on the impact of the Olympics on young people, development and sport coaching led: (i)
 Terres des Hommes to commission an evidence review on mega-events and children’s welfare;
 (ii) Peace and Sport to commission a report on the achievement of the Sustainable Development
 Goals through sport; (iii) UK Sport to commission research on informal coach education. Impacts
 comprised: (i) the development of Terres Des Hommes’ campaigns supporting vulnerable
 Brazilian children before, during and after Rio2016; (ii) girls participation opportunities and
 measures to safeguard from crime included in 7 programmes across 25 developing countries
 benefitting ~385,000 young people per annum; (iii) the development of an informal coach
 education model adopted by UK Sport for work with Official Development Assistance (ODA)
 countries. Finally, we leveraged previous work with VisitKent to successfully secure funding from

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Arts Council for England and VisitEngland to understand regional cultural destinations, which
 led to the development of a new partnership model across tourism and cultural organisations,
 Culture Kent, to deliver economic and social benefits to the regional economy.

 We have used multiple larger or linked projects delivered over more than a decade spanning REF
 cycles, to develop deep and longstanding relationships with key research user organisations, such
 as YST, Sport England, ukactive, Mencap and the Departments for Education and Health and
 Social Care. We strategically seek to evolve these relationships beyond contractor-client, to
 trusted partner and advisor, enabling us to broker relationships across and between research user
 organisations to achieve our long-term success marker: to deliver evidence-based systems
 change for the sustained benefit of successive cohorts of end-users spanning projects,
 programmes and funders. These long-term markers of success have been delivered for physical
 activity and sport for the least active (REF3), Olympic/Paralympic legacies (REF2014:REF3), and
 perinatal physical activity (REF3), to the benefit of health and education professionals, whose
 practice and delivery is improved, and current and future generations of end-users, including the
 least active, socially and culturally excluded communities, and pregnant and post-partum women.

 4.2) Academic Collaborations, Networks and Interdisciplinarity

 Our strategic development of collaborations is a driver of success for both the milestones and
 markers of impact described above, and for increased research quality (1.3). We have pro-actively
 developed co-authorship: three-quarters of REF2 outputs collectively include 53 co-authors from
 38 other HEIs, including 20 international authors. This significant volume of collaborative activity
 and outputs derives from strategies to: continue collaboration between ECRs and former PhD
 supervisors; build relationships through funded research; develop networks to enhance
 interdisciplinarity; facilitate partnerships to develop and scale-up impact. These strategic
 collaborations are driven by an issues-led focus on the primacy of the research questions and
 benefits to end-users, and as such they necessarily reach across and beyond subject, disciplinary
 and methodological boundaries to integrate quantitative and qualitative designs, scientific, social-
 scientific and humanities concepts and theories, and insights from, inter-alia sport, health,
 medicine, education, politics, management, culture and tourism as part of our trans-disciplinary
 approach to research (1.4;2.1).

 Illustrative international trans-disciplinary networks, that we have strategically developed to deliver
 markers and milestones of success for quality outputs and impacts include: a ten-centre
 collaboration, including colleagues in Australia, Canada, USA, Brazil, Belgium and UK to develop
 a landmark meta-analysis of the impact of isometric exercise on resting blood pressure
 (REF2:U24.004); an international academic advisory panel from USA, Canada, Australia and
 Germany supporting a Department of Health funded systematic review on Olympic sport
 participation legacies (REF2:U24.035); and an international network of placebo and anti-doping
 researchers across Netherlands, Belgium, USA, Greece and UK realising multiple publications,
 including a cross-country cluster randomised controlled trial of an anti-doping intervention
 (REF2:U24.006;U24.085), and facilitating the appointment of Roelands (2.1). Illustrative
 longstanding and continuing relationships, strategically developed across multiple projects and
 outputs in both specialist research programmes and exploratory research, include O’Driscoll’s
 collaborations      with      Sharma      (St    George’s     University)    on     Cardiac     Health
 (REF2:U24.018;U24.023;U24.086), Brighton’s work with Sparkes (Leeds Beckett University) on
 embodied experiences of performance in disabled populations (REF2:U24.053;U24.087),

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Edwards’ research with Deakin (James Cook University) on endurance and fatigue
 (REF2:U24.024;U24.028), and Butcher’s work with Smith (University of West London) on the
 social value of volunteer tourism (REF2: U24.091).

 4.3) Influence, Recognition and Contribution to Sustainability

 The Unit’s contribution to the sustainability of research in sport and exercise science, leisure and
 tourism studies derives from our continuity and longitudinal commitment to our three research
 themes, our distinctive and dynamic specialist research programmes, and to supporting
 exploratory areas of related research (1.2). This is driven by our sustained strategic
 collaborations, our longitudinal partnerships with research users and funders, and our support for
 and the stability of our staffing base (1.3.1). It has allowed us to make leading and enduring
 contributions to the research base in the areas of our specialist research programmes, and to
 contribute to international debates among both research users and the academic community about
 the development of these specialist areas of research. Further illustrative indicators of this
 influence beyond that widely evidenced in REF2;REF3;1.3.1;3.1;4.1;4.2 include:

 •   23 Editorial Board Memberships, including Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Sport & Tourism
     (Weed), Senior Editor of Cogent Social Sciences (Chatziefstathiou), Associate Editors of
     International Journal of Sports Physiology & Performance (Roelands), Performance
     Enhancement & Health (Hurst).
 •   Journal Reviewing: all UoA members review for the main journals in their fields (~100+), but
     many also review for mainstream disciplinary journals such as The Lancet, BMJ, and
     Circulation.
 •   Grant Reviewing includes all relevant UK research councils and charities (e.g. Economic and
     Social Research Council, Medical Research Council, Leverhulme Trust), international
     research councils (e.g. l'Agence Nationale de la Recherche, France, Academy of Finland,
     Research Grants Council of Hong Kong), and sector funders (e.g. British Heart Foundation,
     International Olympic Committee, National Institute for Health Research).
 •   50+ Academic Keynote and Invited Presentations, including keynotes at European College of
     Sport Science (2019;2020), European Association of Sport Management (2016;2018), British
     Association of Sport & Exercise Sciences (2016;2019), Sport & EU (2017).
 •   Hosted 12 International Conferences and Symposia, including: International Symposium on
     Placebo Effects, 2017 (leading to a peer-reviewed international consensus statement);
     International Roundtable on Perinatal Physical Activity, 2018 (leading to the founding of the
     Active Pregnancy Foundation); Association for Tourism and Leisure Studies (ATLAS) Annual
     International Conference, 2016 (leading to two guest-edited peer-reviewed journal issues on
     Cultural Tourism and Volunteer Tourism).
 •   Service, Fellowships and Prizes include: UK Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity
     Communication Committee (DeVivo, Mills); European Association of Sport Management
     Scientific Committee (Weed); International Pierre de Coubertin Committee
     (Chatziefstathiou); Hon Secretary of British Psychological Society Division of Sport &
     Exercise Psychology (Uphill); Fellowships of European College of Sport Sciences (Edwards,
     Roelands) and British Association of Sport & Exercise Sciences (Edwards); NIHR CRN
     Cardiac Research Award (O’Driscoll), Outstanding Keynote Speaker, Global Conference on
     Sport for Social Change (Chatziefstathiou).




                                                                                             Page 16
