Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 20 - Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Introduction
 Founded in 1966, the Department of Social Policy and Social Work’s (SPSW) origins can be
 traced back to the pioneering social reform traditions of the city’s Rowntree family. We aim to be
 a contemporary torchbearer of these traditions through the production of high-quality social
 policy and social work research that is relevant to policy and practice in the UK and beyond.

 In REF2014 we ranked third overall; nonetheless we flagged then our intention to make
 significant changes to our research and impact strategies by building on existing strengths and
 developing new agendas that would appeal to key funders.

 Since 2014, external funding has averaged over £2.2 million per annum. We have created a
 more flexible research environment that is better able to respond to changing research agendas,
 extended our support to early career researchers and taken greater account of equality and
 diversity issues.

 We have done this while remaining sustainable in the face of the major challenges to our
 disciplinary bases that have unfolded since 2014. Indeed, our strategic approach has proved
 remarkably robust in the face of continued public sector austerity, public service reforms that
 have weakened HEI participation in key public sector agendas, and pressures on the public
 sector arising from Brexit and Covid-19.


 1.2.1 Departmental Research Strategy
 The Department’s Research Strategy is grounded in a broad vision of SPSW as a key player in
 intellectual debates in the applied social sciences, playing a leading role in advancing the
 methodological and theoretical dimensions of social policy and social work research. To achieve
 this vision, our strategy is founded on six key principles: Research Excellence; Innovation;
 International Perspective; Impact; Collaboration and Partnership; and Integrity.

 The strategy has four key objectives:

    1. Giving our major research strengths focus, identity and presence both within the
       University and externally (see immediately below);
    2. Recruiting and retaining the best researchers at all career stages, and supporting and
       mentoring existing staff, so as to offer all staff an attractive environment in which their
       research can flourish (see section 2);
    3. Recognising the role of the Department in supporting its staff in the development of their
       research interests and research careers (see section 2);
    4. Deploying University, Faculty and Departmental resources to support research
       excellence (see sections 1.2.2 and 3).
 The first objective is the most significant. We have adopted a new model of working that clearly
 articulates our research strengths through seven key research themes (detailed below), each of
 which is well-supported with respect to financial resources and infrastructure. The themes
 provide a flexible, yet focussed, model that guides research activity, each with a named lead at
 Professorial or Reader level.

 The second and third objectives are largely embedded within the activities of the themes, which
 are best placed to operationalise mentoring arrangements relevant to staff members’ needs and
 allow for the planning of personal ‘research strategies’ in ways that take due account of
 individual research interests and career development. Cross-theme coordination and strategic
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 decision-making are clearly important, however, and these functions are undertaken by the
 Department Research Committee (DRC), which plays the central role in the ongoing
 development of SPSW’s research strategy. Theme leaders make up the core membership of the
 DRC, which is chaired by the Director of Research, who also sits on the Department’s
 Management Team (DMT).

 The final objective relates to how the Department works with the Faculty of Social Sciences and
 the wider University to further our research objectives. The University’s decision to identify broad
 institution-wide research strengths has helped us to shape our own strategy in ways that
 articulate well with these wider overarching priorities, particularly via the University’s ‘Justice and
 Equality’ and ‘Health and Wellbeing’ themes (Institutional Environment Statement (IES),
 paragraph 4). A significant outcome has been much stronger facilitation of cross-departmental
 research activity through an institutional research champion for each priority area; this has
 helped the Department in its own ambitions to grow collaborative cross-departmental bidding
 activity in order to expand our portfolio of funders (see 1.2.2).

 We outline below our seven Departmental themes and examples of their key agendas and
 achievements.

 Applied criminal justice (Lloyd)
 A significant new theme developed since 2014, established after strategic growth of expertise
 relating to criminal justice had reached critical mass. We place a particular emphasis on the
 interaction between social harms, vulnerability and the criminal justice system within a wider
 context of social policy and social inequalities. The theme’s key strengths include work on
 drugs, prisons, policing, sex work and the care and control of ‘vulnerable’ groups of people. Key
 funders include DoH PRP (Drug recovery wings in prisons: Lloyd, Grace, Page), ESRC (Sex
 work and hate crime: Campbell, Brown), N8 Policing Research Partnership (Policing
 cannabis: Lloyd, Grace, Page; Sex work liaison officers: Grace, Brown, Redman) and British
 Academy (The politics of fake drugs in West Africa: Klantschnig).

 Applied health and social care (Beresford)
 Led by the Director of the Department’s Social Policy Research Unit (SPRU), this is a long-
 standing research theme that continues to generate research directly relevant to health and
 social care policy, service organisation, delivery and practice. Its portfolio of work encompasses
 evaluation of service delivery models and interventions, professional and provider issues, and
 the lived experiences of illness and impairment. Two large funded programmes have
 underpinned our work: the NIHR School for Social Care Research (SSCR, led by Birks locally
 and nationally as Deputy Director), where membership was secured for a third time in 2018, and
 The Martin House Research Centre (co-directed by Beresford), an innovative partnership with
 Martin House Children’s Hospice. In addition, significant funding from NIHR outside of the SSCR
 has supported activity, including the NIHR’s HS&DR (Beresford on supporting adults with high-
 functioning autism and Asperger’s syndrome) and RfSC (Baxter’s qualitative study on finding
 and funding social care), along with grants from other sources including ESRC (Innovation in
 social care: Birks, Baxter), ESRC/NIHR (Inequalities in Dementia DETERMIND study: Birks,
 Baxter), Abbeyfield Research Foundation (Person-centredness In the community support of
 older people: Wilberforce), and Thomas Pocklington Trust (Vision rehabilitation services:
 Rabiee).

 Applied mental health social research (Webber)
 This theme is based around the International Centre for Mental Health Social Research
 (ICMHSR), a cross-departmental, cross-institutional collaboration based in the Department and
 established in 2013 with support from the University’s Vice-Chancellor’s Initiative Fund.
 ICMHSR, though social-work led, is interdisciplinary and collaborative, connecting with
 psychology, psychiatry, health economics and social policy. It focuses on the development and
 evaluation of social interventions that aim to improve social outcomes for people with mental
 health problems, particularly where these focus on wellbeing in their local communities. Key
 funders include NIHR SSCR (Developing, piloting and evaluating implementation of the

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Connecting People model: Webber), SCENE - NIHR Programme Grant (Improving quality of
 life and health outcomes of patients with psychosis through a new structured intervention for
 expanding social networks: Webber), ESRC IAA (Mental health training for police officers:
 Moran), and Crisis (Evaluation of Crisis Skylight’s mental health services: Pleace, Bretherton).

 Children, young people and families (Skinner)
 A long-standing focal point for work in the Department, formally drawn together in the
 Department’s Centre for Childhood, Youth and Family Research, established in 2015. Key
 strengths include child maintenance, child poverty, child wellbeing, child neglect, looked-after
 children and youth transitions. Our work on child wellbeing has broken new ground by focusing
 on children’s own assessment of their wellbeing. Key funders have included: NORFACE
 (Policies and responses with regard to child abuse and neglect: Biehal), Jacobs Foundation
 (Children’s Worlds survey: Bradshaw, Rees), UNICEF (Inequalities in child wellbeing: Hudson,
 Kühner), ESRC (The role of the family in children's health disparities: Kiernan; Outcomes for
 looked after children: Biehal), Department for Education (Evaluation of the Children’s Social
 Care Innovation Support Programme: Dixon), and Australian Research Council (Women’s
 access to child support: Skinner).

 Comparative and global social policy (Holden)
 This builds on the Department’s Centre for Research in Comparative and Global Social Policy
 (CRCG), developing a commitment flagged in REF2014 to capitalise on the Department’s
 strengths here. Theme members have undertaken innovative work on how international trade
 impacts health services provision and public health outcomes, welfare state typologies, the
 political economy of welfare and the nature and extent of ‘corporate welfare’. Key funders
 include British Academy (Welfare states and competition states: Horsfall; East Asian &
 European global medical travel: Lunt), ESRC (Transnational organised crime in West Africa:
 Klantschnig; Culture and welfare states: Hudson), Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust
 (Corporate welfare: Farnsworth), US National Institutes of Health (The tobacco industry, public
 health and the global economy: Holden), MRC/ESRC/DFiD/Wellcome (Strengthening health
 systems; Lunt), and Praksis (Family support service outcomes in Greece: Pleace, Roumpakis).
 Through CRCG, the theme also hosts the Journal of Comparative and International Social Policy
 (edited by Farnsworth and Irving).

 Housing and environment (Pleace)
 Centred on the Centre for Housing Policy (CHP), established in 1990, this draws on expertise
 from across the Department and wider University in housing policy, housing markets, housing
 inequalities, sustainability and wider issues around equity, inclusion and the built environment.
 Work on the private rented sector has generated high-profile debate on gaps in policy
 frameworks and work on homelessness has contributed to the international evidence base
 supporting the innovative Housing First approach. Key funders have included Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation (Evaluating pro-environmental behaviour change: Quilgars; Preventing, mitigating
 and reducing poverty in a dynamic housing context: Croucher), ESPRC (Policy pathways to
 justice in energy efficiency: Snell, Bevan; Heat or eat - Food and austerity in rural England:
 Snell; Co-design of the built environment for mobility in later life: Tunstall), FEANTSA (Housing
 First for Europe, Pleace), Leverhulme (Shared ownership: Wallace), and Nationwide (Review
 of the private rented sector: Rugg).

 Welfare, employment and conditionality (Dwyer)
 Focused on the interactions of work (paid and informal) and welfare within 21st century welfare
 states. Examining how welfare reform connects with the theory and practice of social citizenship
 and with social values and attitudes, work reflects the Department’s long-standing expertise in
 the fields of social security and labour markets. Work on the lived realities of welfare reform has
 demonstrated the significant diswelfares arising from conditionality and highlighted significant
 gaps in social protection arising from welfare reform. The £2 million ESRC-funded Welfare
 Conditionality: Sanctions Support and Behaviour Change (WelCond) research programme
 (Dwyer), has been the largest project, but a variety of funders have supported our work including
 DWP (Employment and Support Allowance and the Work Programme: Sainsbury); Nuffield

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Foundation (Covid realities; poverty and large families: both Patrick), Forces in Mind Trust
 (Welfare conditionality and transitions from military life to civilian life: Dwyer), Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation (Universal Credit in Northern Ireland: Patrick) and Shelter (Attitudes to welfare:
 Hudson, Lunt).


 1.2.2 Relationship with the Wider University
 We collaborate extensively with other departments at York. Examples include collaborations
 with: the Department of Health Sciences, the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, the York
 Trials Unit and the Centre for Health Economics on many of our NIHR-funded projects; the
 Department of Economics on JRF-funded work on pathways out of in-work poverty; the
 Management School on ESRC-funded work on LGBT staff networks in public services; the Law
 School on an ESRC-IAA project on compliance during Covid-19; and the Department of Politics
 on an NIH-funded project on the tobacco industry, public health and the global economy.

 More broadly, the University and the Department enjoy a constructive and mutually-beneficial
 relationship. The Faculty of Social Science’s Associate Dean for Research, Professor Yvonne
 Birks, is a member of SPSW and the Department also provides the University with one of its
 Research Champions: Professor Nicholas Pleace (‘Justice and Equality’ lead). SPSW benefits
 from the shared research infrastructure developed by the Faculty of Social Sciences, especially
 with regard to research funding and impact. Funding applications are peer reviewed in the
 Department but we are able to draw on Faculty support for information about upcoming research
 initiatives and tailored advice for large grant applications and fellowships. Our research impact
 strategy (see below) is supported by University and Faculty-level Impact Managers and the
 Research and Enterprise directorate, who provide advice and co-ordinating support on major
 bids, act as conduits for KEI through Impact Accelerator funding and coordinate York’s input into
 key networks, such as its partnership with the Cabinet Office Open Innovation Team or
 membership of the Universities Policy Engagement Partnership (IES, paragraphs 49-50). The
 Faculty is a major source of support for doctoral training, hosting the White Rose Doctoral
 Training Partnership, which is crucial to the Department’s continuing success in postgraduate
 research recruitment. In addition, dedicated study space for research students is provided by the
 Faculty – an important resource that guarantees that research students are well-resourced and
 supported (section 2.8).


 1.3. Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) Strategy

 The Department has an established knowledge exchange and impact (KEI) strategy, which
 feeds into the Department Management Team (DMT) through the strategic lead (Dwyer). Our
 KEI strategy outlines the responsibilities of staff across the Department and includes a clear
 reporting and monitoring framework. We support investigators to:

    1. Recognise the value of different forms of impact (academic, economic and societal);
    2. Develop individually-tailored project impact plans;
    3. Engage with funders, relevant University staff and external partners to construct
       appropriate impact pathways;
    4. Build awareness of the research process within each ‘research audience’;
    5. Secure, support and encourage the commitment of a range of stakeholders to the
       research aims and process;
    6. Identify and maximise dissemination and KEI opportunities;
    7. Explore creative and novel approaches to participation, communication and knowledge
       exchange.

 To maximise impact, we engage with a wide variety of stakeholders from grant development
 onwards. This includes organisations at: international level (e.g. Dwyer’s WelCond project,
 which produced advice for the UN and OECD [see REF3 impact case study]; Webber’s work on

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 social work development in India, which involved WHO; Bradshaw, Hudson and Kuhner’s child
 wellbeing work with UNICEF [see REF3]); national level both inside and outside the UK (e.g.
 Sainsbury was a member of DWP Universal Credit Research Evaluation Advisory Group;
 Pleace’s work on homelessness for the Finnish government; Lloyd’s work with multiple UK
 government departments on drug recovery wings [see REF3]); and regional and local level
 (e.g. work by Brown and Grace with West Yorkshire Police on sex worker liaison roles).

 It also includes working with: politicians, civil servants, government departments and public
 sector organisations (e.g. Pleace has provided advice to MHCLG for the 2018 Social Housing
 Green Paper; Patrick advised Social Security Scotland’s senior team on lived experiences of
 welfare; Beresford has worked with a wide range of NHS trusts including South Tyneside and
 Sunderland, Sheffield Children's and Blackpool Teaching Hospitals trusts); NGOs, charities,
 social enterprises and think tanks (e.g. Farnsworth’s work with Oxfam and the Joseph
 Rowntree Charitable Trust on corporate welfare; Parker’s work with Carers UK and SCOPE on
 impairment, disability and caring; Patrick’s work with the Resolution Foundation on the impacts
 of Covid on low-income households; Bretherton’s work with Homeless Link on Housing First;
 Quilgars’ work with Centrepoint on Housing First for care leavers; Snell’s work on fuel poverty
 with the EAGA Charitable Trust); private companies (e.g. Rugg’s work on the private rented
 sector for Nationwide Building Society; Wallace’s work with Lloyds Banking Group on landlord
 mortgages); practitioners and professional bodies (e.g. Skinner’s work on collaborative law
 services for separated families with the national family law association, Resolution). Impact is
 also achieved through working closely with service users and citizens (section 4).

 We utilise a variety of tailored approaches to enhance our established relationships and
 networks to cultivate, develop and deliver the instrumental, conceptual and capacity-building KEI
 activities required of contemporary social science. These include: developing KEI logs; hosting
 conferences, seminars and workshops; making presentations to national/international academic,
 policy and practice conferences; publication in international peer-reviewed academic and
 professional journals; producing research reports, executive summaries and briefing papers;
 undertaking multi-level, face to face briefings with policymakers and use of web based, social
 and mainstream media platforms.

 KEI activity is enhanced by York’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA), particularly in
 supporting user involvement and facilitating co-produced outputs (section 4). Since 2015 the IAA
 has provided £324,562 to support the activities of 13 different PIs working across our
 Departmental themes. Examples include projects on: co-production of resources with sexually-
 exploited young people (Brown); communication between actors in child protection conferences
 (K Graham); digital technology’s role in reducing loneliness (Webber); Growing up in North
 Yorkshire (Wenham), and participatory work on improving the delivery of Universal Credit in
 Northern Ireland (Patrick). Additionally, the Department itself is home to a long standing Making
 Research Count (MRC) hub, which runs around 10 events a year that translate research into
 lessons for social work practice.


 1.4. Research Integrity and Open Research
 Integrity is a key principle of our research. Much of our research is of a highly sensitive nature,
 often with vulnerable people, so ethical research practice is woven into everything we do. All
 staff and students must submit a detailed application to our Departmental Ethics Committee
 (DEC) and receive detailed scrutiny before data collection may begin. The need for careful
 management of data is integral to this process, which has also allowed us, over the REF period,
 to begin to give effect to the cultural change necessary to implement open research as standard
 practice. Staff and research students are therefore now required to develop detailed data-
 management plans as part of their submissions to the DEC. This ensures researchers’
 responsibility for complying with regulations, codes and policies on data management, research
 integrity, open research and open access, as defined by funding bodies, the University, and the
 Department (IES, paragraphs 14-17).


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff are supported to implement robust data-management procedures over the research life-
 cycle, including how data are collected, organised, securely stored, subsequently anonymised
 and deposited for further use by the wider research community. For example, Dwyer’s WelCond
 project developed detailed anonymisation protocols and procedures that, in line with ESRC
 requirements, enabled the two new, substantive qualitative data sets it generated (anonymised
 transcripts from 1,083 repeat interviews and 27 focus groups) to be deposited with the
 Timescapes archive for future secondary analysis. New analyses of these data have informed a
 number of subsequent studies in other institutions, including a Health Foundation project and an
 ESRC studentship.

 Consistent with our commitment to KEI and REF expectations, we ensure early sharing of
 outputs by making accepted versions of publications available in the White Rose Research
 Online repository wherever possible. However, we understand open research as stretching
 beyond open access or the promotion of openness, integrity and reproducibility of scholarly
 research, to also include making research accessible to the public and research participants
 themselves. Researchers are therefore encouraged to engage in innovative forms of public
 engagement and co-production (section 4.4).


 1.5 Future Strategic Goals

 Since 2014 we have implemented significant, strategically-driven, changes to our environment.
 These changes have safeguarded our research base in the face of a challenging external
 context, but in ensuring financial sustainability they have also laid the foundations for an
 ambitious new phase of our strategy from 2021 onwards. Central to our strategy has been more
 cross-departmental working, facilitated by York’s institution-wide research priorities (particularly
 the University’s ‘Justice and Equality’ and ‘Health and Wellbeing’ themes), which has allowed us
 to combine strengths and gain support from a wider range of funders. Further growth of cross-
 departmental activity of this kind will be key to future strategy.

 For example, the work of our Applied Mental Health Social Research theme will be enhanced by
 the University’s plan to establish a York Institute of Mental Health as part of its 2020-2030
 Mental Health Research Strategy. This will create a visible home for mental health research
 within the University, provide institution-wide leadership for authentically co-produced mental
 health research, effective partnership engagement and knowledge mobilisation, and act as a
 hub to facilitate novel interdisciplinary working. The social determinants of mental health and co-
 production, key strengths in SPSW, will be core foci of its activity.

 We expect to further grow the work of our Applied Criminal Justice theme by capitalising on
 linkages with other research themes in the Department to develop policy-focused agendas with
 a strong appeal to funders. In particular, we plan to develop research around concepts of
 policing, vulnerability and social harm that will draw together our thematic strengths in criminal
 justice, mental health, homelessness and welfare. We will also use collaborations developed
 with the Departments of Law and Sociology at York, both of whom have growing clusters of
 colleagues working on crime-related topics, as the base for significant new bidding activity.
 Internal pump-priming has supported both types of activity in this theme since 2019/20 in
 preparation for a large grant or centre bid in 2021/22.

 Significant medium-term funding provides a strong base to continue growing our Applied Health
 and Social Care theme, including: membership of the 3rd phase of the NIHR SSCR (Birks) that
 provides £1.8 million for activity in this area through to 2024; the Adult Social Care partnership, a
 £1.1 million NIHR HS&DR Programme grant (Birks) that starts April 2021; and a £390k
 partnership with Home Instead (Beresford) that supports a new programme of work, including a
 Research Fellow post, from 1 July 2020 - 31 December 2023. We expect closer working with the
 University of York Management School (UYMS) to open up significant new activity too, both by




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 building on recent joint grant success (e.g. Birks and Einarsdóttir, ESRC) and through new
 collaborations with the growing cluster of health services management specialists in UYMS.

 Closer working with UYMS will also help us to enhance governance, management and delivery-
 related research in other research themes and to grow work concerned with the interaction
 between state and market. This will include new collaborative activity relating to our Housing and
 Environment theme (e.g. around the social dimensions of housing markets), Comparative and
 Global Social Policy theme (e.g. influence of global corporations on welfare), and Welfare,
 Employment and Conditionality theme (e.g. on low pay and precarious employment).

 To maximise our contribution to the University’s renewed civic focus, we plan to draw on around
 £1 million of our Rowntree endowment to support new activity that will address key debates
 around how public, private and voluntary sectors might work together to grow the economy in a
 socially-inclusive and sustainable fashion and, in particular, to consider the role of housing, and
 its interaction with social inequalities, in such agendas. This will include engaging with the York
 Central development, which has secured £155 million of public funding and aims to build 2,500
 new homes, create 6,500 new jobs and grow the city’s economy by up to 20% in the next 10-15
 years.

 While strengthening local ties, we will remain internationalist in outlook, particularly by further
 strengthening our networks in South and East Asia developed by the ICMHSR and the Social
 Policy East Asia eXchange (SPEAX). We will build on our global social policy work to strengthen
 links with development studies agendas, including by building on our participation in the
 University’s Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre (IGDC) and expanding the quantitative
 child indicators work in our Children, Young People and Families theme to cover a still wider
 range of countries, including a much broader range of non-OECD countries.

 Significant new appointments during 2021-23, along with significant investment in improved
 office accommodation, will support our strategy.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff: Introduction
 The Department’s research strategy recognises people as our key resource and is explicitly
 focused on the recruitment, retention, mentoring and development of staff (section 1.2.1). Key
 changes were heavily informed by an action plan developed via widespread consultation for our
 successful Athena SWAN bronze application and embedded in a significantly-revised workload
 model. A new line-management model and stronger research theme leadership have further
 improved mentoring. Continued strength in research income generation and student recruitment,
 along with devolved budget management, has allowed the Department to strategically invest in
 staffing.


 2.2 Staff: Recruitment
 We returned 39 staff to UoA22 in REF2014 and 38 staff to UoA20 in REF2021 but under the
 apparent stability in the numbers there has been important change. A significant number of
 retirements have occurred since 2014, including 9 professors and 5 Senior Lecturers/Senior
 Research Fellows, following a similar number of retirements ahead of REF2014. Our staffing
 strategy anticipated this major demographic shift, planning at senior level for a mix of new
 appointments either side of REF2014 alongside a strong emphasis on internal progression of
 current staff to senior levels, while also using resources released by retirements to invest in new
 appointments at lecturer level. Over the REF period a total of 34 appointments have been made:
 6 in senior positions (Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow level or above) in the key growth
 areas identified in 2014, or to support our largest funding streams (3 in Applied Criminal Justice,
 2 in Comparative and Global Social Policy, 1 in Applied Health and Social Care); plus 8 lecturer


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments and 20 Research Associate or Research Fellow positions spread across our
 research themes.


 2.3 Staff: Supporting Career Progression
 Since 2014 there have been (excluding teaching-only posts): six promotions to Chair, plus six
 promotions within the professorial bands; five promotions to Reader; eight promotions to Senior
 Lecturer or Senior Research Fellow; and three promotions from Grade 6 Research Associate to
 Grade 7 Research Fellow. 55% of promotions have been female applicants, slightly below the
 proportion of staff in the group who are female (67%). Our Athena SWAN action plan identified
 actions to address this gap, especially in professorial promotions, particularly through
 refinements to Performance and Development Reviews (PDRs).

 PDRs provide a structured forum for discussion about career progression, offering intensive one-
 to-one discussion with a senior colleague focused on both short-term objectives (12 months) and
 their alignment with longer-term plans (3-5 years). Identifying development needs is central. All
 reviewers are brought together at the end of the annual cycle to help the HoD identify patterns in
 development needs indicated by PDR meetings and to inform career-development support.

 PDR is typically the first place where a promotion discussion will take place. We have formalised
 further opportunities for discussions and structured feedback about promotion, including the
 opportunity, each year, to receive detailed written and verbal feedback on a draft application.
 PDRs are undertaken by line managers and we have made changes to our line-management
 model so that managers have a smaller number of direct reports (typically no more than five)
 and are better able to accommodate proactive mentoring in their workload; this has been
 achieved by all Professors and Readers assuming line-management responsibilities as part of
 their role.

 Opportunities for research mentoring have also been improved through the introduction of our
 research themes; theme leaders assist the DRC Chair in providing research leadership, playing
 a key role in mentoring colleagues aligned to their theme and reviewing draft funding
 applications. All theme leads are given a workload allowance to ensure they have adequate time
 to undertake mentoring and are provided with a budget to run supporting activity for staff in their
 theme. Each theme also runs a programme of events, including ‘brown bag’ style seminars
 where staff can present work in progress and receive feedback from colleagues.


 2.4 Staff: Support for Development Activity
 All staff receive an individual annual allowance for training and professional development
 purposes, set at a level that facilitates participation in at least one national conference and/or
 training event per year (a minimum of £750 a year). Further support can be requested beyond
 this level to, for instance, support attendance at international conferences or fund significant
 development needs identified in PDRs.

 We actively support staff to attend the excellent training and development opportunities offered
 by the University and ensure staff are reminded about current opportunities through regular
 bulletins. Researchers in SPSW are part of the Faculty’s Research Centre for the Social
 Sciences (ReCSS), which has extensive infrastructure to promote social science research at
 York, including provision of training and skills development. The University also has extensive
 central training provision (IES, paragraphs 22 and 32). Staff have benefited greatly from these
 initiatives, developing a skills base in research methods, grant writing, research management
 and impact.

 All staff can apply for development leave under the Department’s ‘Research Excellence Support’
 scheme, which releases them from teaching, commissioned research and/or administrative
 duties for a pre-specified period of time. This offers a flexible, personalised and structured

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach. Crucially in a department with a high number of research-only staff, it is important to
 ensure that development opportunities are open to all. The DRC therefore reconfigured the
 previous research-leave arrangements to ensure that all staff can benefit from research leave
 via the scheme, regardless of contract type. Leave is planned around specific objectives, with
 the scale and duration personalised to take into account the purpose of the leave and
 developmental needs, and all staff receiving support and mentorship during their leave period.
 An enhanced version of this scheme for ECRs, called ‘Career Development Support Leave’,
 operates on a similar basis (see next section). We hold two writing weeks each year when all
 colleagues are encouraged to devote a full week to writing research outputs, alongside a
 programme of activities to share ideas and best practice, using a peer-support approach.


 2.5 Staff: Enhanced Early Career Researcher Support
 ECRs in the Department have reduced administrative loads to allow them to embed themselves
 within research clusters at the University, Faculty and Departmental level and to develop their
 own research, which is facilitated by mentoring from a senior colleague and through a
 development-focused probation process in place of PDR. As noted above, ECRs can apply for
 ‘Career Development Support Leave’, which releases them from teaching, commissioned
 research and/or administrative duties for a pre-specified period of time and allows them to also
 apply for time with a named mentor as part of their leave. The University’s Postgraduate
 Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP) is mandatory for all new lecturers, and colleagues
 receive a workload allowance to ensure they have time to participate.

 A number of colleagues have been supported to secure significant research funding in the
 current REF period while ECRs, including: K Graham, Threlfall and Jobling (£159,000, NIHR
 RfPB programme); Patrick (Nuffield Foundation, £360,000 and £313,000; JRF, £74,000); K
 Graham (NIHR SSCR, £168,000); Devenney (NIHR RfPB £203,000).


 2.6 Staff: Researcher Concordat
 A comparatively high proportion of our researchers are employed on research-only contracts
 (46% in 2014 and 43% in July 2020). This reflects our long-term success in securing significant
 levels of external research income, but also brings a responsibility to be particularly sensitive to
 the needs of research-only staff. To this end, we take great care to implement the principles of
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, ensuring researchers have
 the requisite support for their work and development. Key changes since 2014 that have
 strengthened this commitment include:

    ●   A guarantee of the minimum 5% development time outlined in the Concordat for
        research-only staff within a new workload model;
    ●   The provision of an annual allowance for all staff, irrespective of contract type, to attend
        training or conferences;
    ●   The right of all staff to apply for research leave, in addition to any externally-secured
        funding.

 There has been significant reflection on the equality and diversity issues arising from the fixed-
 term nature of much of our research funding. Corrective actions are included in our Athena
 SWAN action plan, with a particular focus on increasing job sustainability through improvements
 to contract monitoring, workload allocation and refinements to our strategy and target operating
 model. At institutional level the University has committed, with the campus unions, to reviewing
 all ‘non-standard’ working arrangements, including moving staff from fixed-term contracts to
 open contracts where this aligns with the nature of the work (IES, paragraph 26).




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.7 Staff: Equality & Diversity
 The Department submitted a successful Athena SWAN bronze award application in March 2020.
 We have made significant changes to our processes and culture as part of this process. We
 have established an Equality and Diversity Committee that reports directly to the DMT to
 oversee implementation of the Athena SWAN action plan and to develop action plans
 addressing other equality and diversity issues. Our Athena SWAN submission recognised the
 need for a broad approach to equality and diversity issues, including an action point to increase
 the diversity of our staff group, committing to working with the University’s Equality and Diversity
 Office and drawing on national good practice to increase ethnic diversity among the academic
 staff group. The Deputy Head of Department’s role description has been significantly adjusted to
 include formal responsibility for leading on equality and diversity issues as part of these
 changes.

 An understanding of equality and diversity plays an important role in staffing appointments and
 in managing staff. Those involved in recruitment and selection attend mandatory training,
 including unconscious-bias training. Around two-thirds of appointments to research roles have
 been female applicants, slightly above the proportion of female applicants for these roles. The
 Department actively supports flexible working requests and has accommodated all requests
 within the REF period; partly reflecting this, 33% of research staff in SPSW work part-time. Since
 2014 there have been 12 instances of researchers taking maternity leave in SPSW, with 83%
 returning within 12 months.

 We aim to create an inclusive research environment that supports all staff equally. Analysis
 undertaken for our Athena SWAN application showed that, for the period 2015-19, grant bidding
 activity broadly mirrored the gender composition of those staff who are eligible to submit
 applications (67% of named PIs were female) and that success rates were almost identical for
 female (41%) and male (39%) PIs. We adopted an inclusive and transparent process for
 managing decisions on the inclusion of activity in our REF submission, with all research staff
 involved in selecting returned outputs through a process of internal peer review.


 2.8 Research Students
 The Department has a strong postgraduate research community, with a good mix of home and
 overseas students. As of July 2020, we had 44 research students, of which 21 were home
 students, 6 EU and 17 overseas. In the REF period, 57.9 FTE PhD students (some co-
 supervised with other departments) and 4 MPhil students have completed. The Department also
 supported two members of staff to achieve their PhDs by publication. We secured 17 ESRC
 White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) Studentships for students starting in the REF
 period.

 Research students have at least one supervisor who they meet with regularly and a thesis
 advisor who acts as an additional source of advice. Training needs are planned with supervisors
 at an early stage and students can draw from Departmental and other University training
 provision (IES, paragraphs 31-32). Students are also encouraged to attend courses run by the
 ESRC, NCRM and the Essex Summer School. The Department runs a PhD seminar series
 involving three seminars per term, which all research students attend. PhD students have
 access to the wide range of staff research seminars run within the Department through our
 research themes, in addition to those run elsewhere across the University. Students are strongly
 encouraged to make presentations at academic conferences, including international and
 interdisciplinary conferences, and the Department runs a student development fund to support
 attendance.

 Core research training provision is led at faculty level by the ESRC-funded White Rose DTP,
 including advanced quantitative methods, advanced qualitative methods and other specialist
 modules. SPSW is a key contributor to this faculty-level training, including a foundational
 ‘Research Design’ module attended by over 100 MA and PhD-level students from across the

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University each year. All students are encouraged to complete a training needs analysis which
 then informs their ongoing Professional Development Plan so that they can consider
 employment goals from an early stage and plan their training needs accordingly. SPSW also
 holds a series of seminars given by PhD graduates on their personal career pathways.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 In an intensively competitive environment, SPSW has continued to raise significant levels of
 income across a range of funders; £15.5 million in total and an average of £2.21 million per
 annum since 2013/14. UK health and social care (primarily NIHR) is the largest source (46%),
 followed by Research Councils (20%, with ESRC the largest in this category) and UK Charities
 third (15%). Since 2014, we have diversified and refocused our research to take advantage of
 funding opportunities in the health and social care sector and research councils, with growth
 here compensating for a reduction in central and local government funding, which comprised
 33% of research income in REF 2014 compared to 10% in 2014-20.

 As this suggests, strategies for generating research income balance the need to respond to the
 external environment with our ambitions to maintain critical mass in each of our seven research
 themes. We pursue funding through researcher-led streams in the main funding bodies and
 respond to invitations to tender to fit current strengths, or where new areas of research have
 been identified for development. We have consolidated University-wide relationships to
 successfully bid for larger, longer-duration and interdisciplinary grant applications (e.g. DHSC
 Partnership for REsponsive Policy Analysis and REsearch [PREPARE] with King’s Fund).

 Particularly significant for the sustainability of our research base is that the Department’s work
 has been underpinned by large grants or endowments that have supported our research activity
 and infrastructure, including:

    ●   Membership of the NIHR School for Social Care (SSCR), which aims to develop the
        evidence base for adult social care by funding world-class research. We have been
        members of the SSCR since its foundation and our membership was renewed, through a
        competitive bidding process, for a third time during the current REF period. Since 2014
        the SSCR has provided funding in SPSW to support 8 projects and leveraged funding on
        4 further ESRC and NIHR successful applications. The newly-commissioned phase will
        provide £1.8 million. Birks, who leads SSCR activity in the Department, is also the
        National Deputy Director for SSCR with the portfolio for capacity building nationally.

    ●   The Martin House Research Centre, a partnership between Martin House Children’s
        Hospice and the Universities of York and Leeds, which funds research on children’s
        palliative and end-of-life care. The partnership has provided around £1 million of funding,
        leading to £3.4 million of external funding for the Centre.

    ●   The ESRC Welfare Conditionality: Sanctions, Support and Behaviour Change large
        grant (WelCond), a multi-institution, £2 million grant led from York that ran from July
        2013 - March 2019. As well as providing underpinning funding for researchers in SPSW
        and our partner HEIs, the grant allowed SPSW to employ a dedicated WelCond Impact
        Officer.

    ●   The Rowntree Endowment, which has supported housing-related research in SPSW
        since 1990, particularly the work of CHP.

    ●   Membership of the N8 Policing Research Partnership (PRP), a £3 million investment
        from HEFCE. The PRP was founded in 2013 as a platform for collaborations between
        universities, Police and Crime Commissioners, police forces and partners across the



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        north of England to enable and foster high-quality, independent research and to facilitate
        research-based contributions to public debate, policing policy, governance and practice.
 All staff are supported to make applications on a regular basis and expected to be either holding
 a grant or preparing an application in line with our Research Expectations Policy. Our overall
 success rate for external grant applications for the REF period stands at 46%, reflecting strong
 peer review and support ahead of submission, particularly by the DRC Chair and research
 theme leads. We have fostered a collegiate culture where senior academics support each other
 and ECRs to achieve. This can be seen, for example, in the success of our Social Work team,
 which in REF 2014 had a less-intensive research portfolio but which now has high research
 intensity, with all of our ECR Social Work lecturers having secured research funding.


 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 A central part of SPSW’s research infrastructure is our specialised in-house research support
 team, which is integral to our success. This includes our own Research Facilitator, who is
 supported by a Research Support Assistant. The Department also has a Research Support
 Manager and two dedicated Research Support Administrators. In addition, the high volume of
 externally-funded projects in SPSW means the Faculty of Social Sciences also provides us with
 a dedicated full-time Finance Officer, who assists with the financial management of projects.
 This team, in turn, are supported by the Faculty’s and University’s research infrastructure, as
 detailed in section 1. The research environment in SPSW is greatly enhanced by the
 Departmental team’s work. Our Research Facilitator works closely with the chair of DRC and the
 HoD and provides frequent updates to all researchers on funding opportunities, training
 opportunities and any relevant changes to current policy and procedures. She works with
 research theme leads to provide one-to-one support for staff applying for research grants,
 offering more intensive support for ECRs unfamiliar with the processes around bidding (such as
 costing a proposal) and guiding colleagues through the requirements of each specific funder.
 Our Research Support Manager leads in managing complex operational issues relating to
 research, including HR and health and safety risk assessment. Our Research Support
 Administrators assist the research theme leads and provide bespoke project-specific support for
 PIs.

 Our researchers also benefit from access to nearby facilities in the Research Centre for the
 Social Sciences (ReCSS), which provides all social science disciplines with additional research
 training facilities, access to research development, business development and impact support. It
 houses the principal offices of the ESRC DTP and workspace for doctoral and postdoctoral
 researchers, as well as visiting scholars and research groups. ReCSS also provides bespoke
 rooms for focus groups, interviews, audio-visual recording and editing facilities, sound-proof
 telephone interviewing rooms, high-quality research seminar and conference rooms and
 software support services.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Reflecting York’s historic social reform legacy and the University’s commitment to pursuing the
 public good, the Department is committed to high-quality social research that both advances our
 academic disciplines and directly informs policy and practice in the UK and across the globe,
 with the ultimate aim of improving social outcomes. That means working to support and develop
 our disciplines through proactively contributing to their learned societies and professional
 associations, building collaborations with academic partners across institutional and national
 boundaries, collaborating with non-academic partners on an ongoing basis, and reaching out to
 the public, marginalised citizens and service users through public engagement and co-
 production.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Contribution to Research Base
 The scale of our contribution to our disciplines is captured well by the volume of our output;
 since the start of 2014, staff in the Department have:

    ●   published 713 journal articles, 68 books, 258 commissioned reports, 247 book chapters;
    ●   delivered 411 invited talks, including 94 overseas;
    ●   served on editorial boards 23 times.

 We see our purpose not simply as building a thriving hub of social research, but as using our
 expertise to advance the wider profile of our disciplines and their associations through taking
 leading roles within relevant organisations and forums beyond the University. We strongly
 encourage the active participation of our staff in these bodies and have played a leading role in
 the life of the major learned societies and professional associations for social policy and
 social work during the current REF period, including:

    ●   UK Social Policy Association (SPA): Ellison (as Chair), Farnsworth (as Treasurer), and
        Hudson, Kühner, Irving, Reuter and Roumpakis on the Association’s Executive
        Committee. Three colleagues have served as editor of the Association’s annual Social
        Policy Review (Farnsworth, Hudson, Irving). Ellison was (2011-15) and Holden is Chair
        of the Editorial Board for the SPA’s Journal of Social Policy. Farnsworth and Irving are
        the editors of the SPA’s Journal of International and Comparative Social Policy.
    ●   British Society of Criminology (BSC): Vipond has served on the Executive Committee,
        including as Executive Secretary.
    ●   Foundation for International Studies on Social Security (FISS): Sainsbury has served
        on the Board of Governors, including as Treasurer.
    ●   Housing Studies Association (HSA): Wallace has served as Secretary.
    ●   International Society for Social Indicators: Bradshaw has been a Board member.
    ●   The International Society for the Study of Drug Policy (ISSDP): Lloyd has served as
        a trustee, including periods as Secretary and Treasurer.

 We have supported the organisation of major conferences in the field, including large scale,
 broad based, meetings. Examples include:

    ●   The UK Social Policy Association annual conference was hosted in York in 2018 and the
        2020 conference was to be held in York, but has been postponed to 2022 due to Covid-
        19;
    ●   The 9th International Conference on Social Work in Health and Mental Health was
        hosted in York in July 2019 (Webber is also a member of the International Steering
        Committee for this conference series).

 More focused events around large funded projects include high-level meetings that have brought
 together international experts, for example:

    ●   The Welfare Conditionality conference in 2018 (c.125 scholars, policy makers and
        practitioners from 13 countries);
    ●   The 2nd International Incident Disclosure conference in 2014 (c.75 international
        academics, policy makers, clinicians and third sector organisations).

 Other significant examples of citizenship within the disciplines include:

    ●   Research council and other major funder activities: Beyond refereeing, these have
        included membership of: the ESRC GAP; NIHR Academy; NIHR PGfAR: NIHR HS&DR;
        NIHR RfPB; Philip Leverhulme Prize Committee.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   National committees: Ellison is Chair of UoA 20 for REF 2021 and Lunt is a panel
        member. Birks is Deputy Director NIHR School for Social Care Research and part of its
        Executive. Additionally, our staff have been members of over 100 national, regional and
        local advisory committees including; North Yorkshire Police; Dementia UK; DWP;
        Research Centre for Life with Mobility Disability; Member of the Department of Health
        Science Public and Patient Participation Committee.

    ●   Editorial Board membership: Journal of Social Policy; Social Policy and Society; Global
        Social Policy; Social Policy and Administration; International Journal of Housing Policy;
        Policy Studies; Journal of Health Services Research and Policy; Journal of Social Work;
        Journal of Long Term Care.
 Prizes and awards from learned societies are another indicator of the depth of our contribution to
 the disciplines. Key examples include receipt of the SPA’s International/Special Recognition
 Award (Ellison in 2019, Parker in 2016, and Glendinning in 2014), and Bradshaw and colleagues
 receiving the International Society for Child Indicators Impact Award in 2019.

 4.2 Key External Collaborations and Consultancies (Academic Partners)
 In line with our outward-looking orientation, evidenced by our immersion in our disciplines’
 learned societies and associations, members of the Department have forged sustained
 collaborations with colleagues from other HEIs in the UK and beyond.

 Examples of major funded collaborations within the UK include: the NIHR School for Social
 Care with the Universities of Kent, Bristol, Manchester, Birmingham, King’s College London and
 LSE; a large ESRC NIHR DETERMIND grant on dementia with University of Sussex, LSE and
 University of Newcastle; the N8 Policing Research Initiative involving the Universities of Durham,
 Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield plus 13 police forces in
 northern England; the ESRC large grant on Welfare Conditionality with the Universities of
 Glasgow, Heriot Watt, Salford, Sheffield and Sheffield Hallam.

 International collaborations are an intrinsic part of our work, with significant collaborations
 including: the Women’s Homelessness in Europe Network (WHEN); the INTERDEM
 collaboration investigating social interventions for people with dementia (Wilberforce); the
 International Centre for Mental Health Research’s British Council funded collaboration with
 University of Melbourne and WHO on a project with the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in
 Kerala, India; the International Network of Child Support Scholars (INCSS) (Skinner is Co-
 Director); the 33-country COST Action CA15218 on 'Measuring homelessness in Europe'
 (Bretherton is a member and Pleace is Work Group leader for the ‘Hidden Homelessness’
 strand); the 4-country ‘Tobacco industry, public health and the global economy’ research
 programme funded by the US National Institutes of Health and hosted by Simon Fraser
 University (SFU) (Holden was UK lead); the MRC/ESRC/DFiD/Wellcome Project ‘Strengthening
 health systems’, a collaboration with LSHTM and the African Centre for Migration (Wits
 University) (Lunt); the WelCond project’s extensive collaboration with a host of international
 policy actors and academics from 8 countries as well as the WHO and the UN, and Dwyer’s
 subsequent ESRC-funded international research network on welfare conditionality, bringing
 together scholars from the UK and 6 other countries.


 4.3 Key Collaborations and Consultancies (Non-Academic Partners)
 Our research strategy aims to support all seven of our themes to develop meaningful external
 collaborations with non-academic partners in order to make a significant contribution to the
 economy and/or society, including civil society organisations, professional associations and
 public service providers. Indeed, given the focus of work in the Applied Health and Social Care
 and Applied Mental Health Social Research themes, and our core funders here, almost all
 projects in these themes include local authority, NHS and/or NGO partners.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key examples of collaborations and connections with non-academic partners within each
 research theme include:

 Applied criminal justice
 A leading role in the Ex-Prisoners Recovering from Addiction (EPRA) Working Group, chaired by
 Lord Patel (Lloyd, Page; ESRC IAA); conducting a Department of Health Policy Research
 Programme-funded evaluation of the drug recovery wings in English and Welsh prisons (Lloyd,
 Page and Grace); leading the co-production of a bespoke training package on mental health
 awareness for frontline police officers and research methods training for mid-senior ranking
 police officers and staff to support evidence-based policing within North Yorkshire Police (Moran:
 N8) - this training was shared with Greater Manchester Police and forces in Canada and
 Australia; working with Leeds City Council, West Yorkshire Police and Basis to inform regional
 policy on the policing and protection of sex workers (Brown); working with Adfam, the national
 charity working with families of substance users, on a peer-support intervention for the families
 of forces veterans with substance use problems, for the Forces in Mind Trust (Lloyd).

 Applied health and social care
 Work with: the National Autistic Society on the evaluation of specialist autism team service
 models (Beresford; NIHR HS&DR); Skills for Care & Development (the Sector Skills Council for
 adult social care and children and young people’s services in UK) and LMCP Care Link (a
 community third sector organisation in Greater Manchester) on enhancing person-centredness
 in the community support of older people (Wilberforce; Abbeyfield Research Foundation); the
 DIPEx Charity (who specialise in disseminating health and social research to the public and
 professionals) and City of York Council on the experiences of self-funders in social care (Baxter;
 NIHR RfPB); Dementia UK and TIDE (a national network of carers of people with dementia) on
 an evaluation of a specialist nursing support service for carers of people with dementia (Parker,
 Gridley; NIHR HS&DR).

 Applied mental health social research
 A Connecting People Pilot and Demonstration Project worked with: the Jewish Family Service of
 Atlantic County (JFS) and the Atlantic County Jail on prison and homeless populations with
 mental health difficulties in New Jersey, USA (Webber: Robert Woods Johnson Foundation); the
 Mental Health Coalition in Sierra Leone to create Sababu, a social intervention based on
 Connecting People; and the development of a cultural adaptation framework for social
 interventions with the National Institute for Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bangalore, India.
 Other collaborations include: Webber and Irvine (N8, ESRC) worked with North Yorkshire Police
 and Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust on co-design, co-evaluation and co-
 learning of street triage, mental health and policing in North Yorkshire; Webber, Moran, Dixon
 (ESRC-IAA) North Yorkshire County Council and youth mental health charity Young Minds were
 partners on Supporting the Mental Health of Looked After Children: using co-production to
 develop a training package for children's social workers project.

 Children, young people and families
 Dixon and Biehal worked with York and Leeds local authorities on including children and young
 people in research on the child protection system (ESRC-IAA); extensive collaborations in our
 research on child well-being (Bradshaw, Hudson, Kühner, Rees) with UNICEF (via Innocenti
 Report Cards), OECD (in its How’s Life for Children series), ONS (in its Measuring National
 Well-being series), the Children’s Society (Good Childhood reports), European Commission,
 CPAG and the Child Poverty Unit; Skinner has provided advice issues around child maintenance
 to a wide range of bodies, including the National Audit Office, the Child Maintenance Group of
 the DWP, the OECD; Wenham has worked with North Yorkshire County Council, North
 Yorkshire Children's Trust Board and Scarborough Sidewalk Youth Project on youth transitions
 with a particular focus on coastal towns (ESRC-IAA).

 Comparative and global social policy
 The Social Policy East Asia eXchange (SPEAX), led by Lunt, acts as a focal point for our
 exchange of knowledge and research with East Asia specialists, regularly hosting delegations of

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy makers, for example from the Korean Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Korean Ministry
 of Safety and Public Administration, the Korea Institute for Health and Social Affairs, the Korea
 Central Self-Sufficiency Foundation, Korea’s Presidential Committee on Jobs, the China Family
 Planning Association, and a three month delegation from Vietnamese civil servants on
 leadership, social policy and public management (Project 165). Hudson acted as adviser for a
 Renmin University (China) based, ILO and Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung (FES) funded, 7-country
 project on social security and economic growth.

 Housing and environment
 Pleace headed an international review of the Finnish homelessness strategy with colleagues
 from Tampere, Lund and Pennsylvania; Quilgars has been working with the Housing First Hub
 Europe, a collaboration between FEANTSA, the European Federation of Homelessness
 Organisations, and the Finnish Y Foundation, a quasi-governmental body focused on
 homelessness, advising on interventions in relation to youth homelessness; Bevan and Wallace
 worked with the charity Electrical Safety First informing current debates about health and safety
 compliance in social housing; Rugg produced a review of the private rented sector for the
 Nationwide Foundation, as well as advising Cambridge House, a legal advice organisation, on
 the characteristics of criminal landlord behaviour and tenants' experiences of landlord criminality,
 with work from the latter voted the top housing report of 2020 by Inside Housing, the leading
 monthly magazine for housing professionals.

 Welfare, employment and conditionality
 Patrick has served on Oxfam's UK Poverty Policy Advisory Group; Sainsbury was Chair of the
 Trial Steering Committee Individual Placement and Support pilot for people with alcohol and
 drug dependencies (Public Health England); activity stemming from attitudes to ‘welfare’
 research (Hudson, Lunt, Patrick) included a policy roundtable in the House of Lords organised in
 association with CPAG, and a roundtable event organised with Shelter - these events included
 representatives from 36 other policy organisations, including campaigning groups, think tanks,
 policy research institutes and governmental bodies. The WelCond project (Dwyer) collaborated
 with numerous policy stakeholders to influence national/international debate, policy and practice;
 examples include Dwyer’s membership of the Labour Party’s Commission on Social Security,
 which informed the Party’s 2019 election manifesto commitment to scrap Universal Credit.
 Similarly, his two-day visit to the Manx government in 2018 was instrumental in their subsequent
 decision to abandon plans to introduce Universal Credit and intensify conditionality within their
 social security regime.


 4.4 Co-production and Public Engagement
 Our motivation to undertake research to serve the public good is underpinned by a commitment
 to using participatory approaches to work collaboratively with welfare service users and
 marginalised citizens to co-produce knowledge and proactively shape knowledge exchange and
 impact activities. Much of this activity is underpinned by Involvement@York, a public and patient
 involvement network supported by The Centre for Future Health, an interdisciplinary research
 centre jointly funded by the Wellcome Trust and the University.

 Examples of co-production and public engagement include:

    ●   The Exploring experiences of loneliness and improving social care support project, which
        included My Life My Choice, a charity run by and for people with learning difficulties, as a
        partner;
    ●   Patrick’s work on lived experiences of welfare collaborating with Dole Animators, Thrive
        Teesside, ATD Fourth World, Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the APLE Collective;
    ●   Dixon’s work with care leavers, involving five DfE funded evaluations and two ESRC IAA
        studies, which included young people’s co-development of research materials, as well as
        participation in advisory groups and dissemination activities;



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Supporting carers providing end of life care project (Lunt), which utilised participatory
        learning and action research to support involvement of members of the public with
        experience of caring for a dying relative in co-designing the intervention;
    ●   Webber’s Connecting people implementation study, which had a co-production group
        including service users developing the implementation pack.

 An important dimension of our approach in recent years has been the growth of public-facing
 dissemination through creative visual media. Using ESRC IAA funding to bring in artists and
 filmmakers in many instances, we have expanded our use of participatory arts approaches in
 particular, not least because of their scope for co-producing outputs with service users, carers or
 members of the public. Key examples include:

    ●   Brown’s work on young people’s experience of childhood sexual exploitation and moving
        on from it: Breaking Through (the launch of which involved her being interviewed on
        Radio 4’s Today programme; a YouTube video has over 3,500 views);
    ●   Patrick’s work, including the Dole Animators project (with a YouTube video viewed over
        16,000 times);
    ●   A project led by Jobling and Wenham on the experiences of young people growing up in
        coastal towns that involved collaboration with Sidewalk Youth Organisation and
        culminated in a co-produced art installation ‘Coastopia’;
    ●   A photography exhibition, Celebrating people and place (2019), that supported the IAA
        Local area coordination project, led by Lunt. Images were showcased in community
        locations across the City, designed to celebrate people and place within each locality;
    ●   Baxter and Lindley’s work on Finding and funding social care, in which
        Socialcaretalk.org, a website of self-funders’ experiences, was tested by self-funders
        themselves.

 These examples of our recent co-production and engagement activity both underline the role of
 the ESRC-IAA in facilitating important KEI activity and point to the direction our new strategy will
 head (section 1.5). We see co-production and engagement as central to our ethos and plan to
 significantly increase resources and infrastructure supporting these dimensions of our work.




                                                                                              Page 17
