Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 18: Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Kent Law School (KLS) is an interdisciplinary centre of critical legal scholarship (in Canterbury
 and Brussels), with our collective endeavour predominantly focused on forms of social, economic,
 financial, political, and environmental justice. Our research ethos is rooted in collaboration and
 inclusivity, aiming to foster an enquiry-driven research environment, particularly attentive to issues
 of inequality. We engage in research in public regulation, gender and judging, the forging of
 conceptual and methodological pathways in the arts and humanities, critical and innovative
 historical readings, law and legality in everyday life, and empirical law reform and social policy
 research at the national, European, and international levels. Our submitted and emerging impact
 case studies (ICSs) similarly reflect social justice priorities, evidencing KLS as a leader in
 generating impact from research on social policy, gender equality, and with marginalised
 communities.

 Our research ethos is strengthened by a diverse range of Centres and Groups, including the KLS
 Centres for: Critical International Law (CECIL); European and Comparative Law; Sexuality, Race
 and Gender Justice (formerly the AHRC Centre for Gender, Sexuality and Law); and the research
 group Social Critiques of Law (SoCriL). Our interdisciplinary curiosity has produced a network of
 University-wide research centres that were co-founded by KLS researchers and include the
 Centres for Critical Thought; Heritage; Interdisciplinary Spatial Studies; Interdisciplinary Studies
 of Reproduction; and Clio (Law and History Group). All are run collectively, resourced by KLS (and
 other Schools), and serve as intellectual hubs and meeting-places for academics, undergraduates,
 and postgraduates.

 A key strength is that research collaboration takes shape internally (e.g., the Centre for Heritage
 and CECIL together organised a roundtable series on Heritage and International Law) and seeds
 collaboration externally. For example, SoCriL and CECIL are founding partners of the multi-
 institutional International Economic Law Collective, established in 2019. Our scholars are leaders
 of numerous national/inter-continental initiatives, including new externally funded networks such
 as the UK-Japan SSH Connection (ESRC 2019-20), Legal Materiality (AHRC 2018-20), Law and
 the Human (AHRC 2019-21), Regulating Time (AHRC 2015-17), and Inclusionary Practices, UK,
 Brazil, Colombia (BA 2015-18).

 Collaborative and capacity-building work is a hallmark of our research practice and evidenced by
 the publication (since 2014) of 27 diverse collections co-edited by KLS staff. We contribute to the
 wider research base through leadership roles in over 20 national and international research
 networks and professional associations (s.4). Our collaborations extend beyond the academy to
 working with over 30 NGOs, governments, and arts organisations (s.4). Generating national and
 international impact and public engagement are a vital part of our work, as exemplified in our
 submitted and emerging ICSs (s.1[c]; 4). We also work collaboratively in the local Kent community,
 for example on: heritage with the Beaney Museum in Canterbury; art and law lectures with Open
 School Margate; homelessness with Canterbury Housing Action; lectures at Friends Meeting
 House in Canterbury organised by CECIL; and through the research and practice of our
 outstanding Law Clinic.

 Research vitality during this REF period is further demonstrated by hosting more than 200
 speakers, and organising over 260 conferences, conference streams, workshops, and Research
 Network meetings. We increased grant awards by over 230%, with 33 staff (a large majority of
 those entered) collectively winning over £4,000,000 (including a £1.2 million ESRC grant and a
 Philip Leverhulme Prize to start in 2021) from more than 20 different external funders. We are
 submitting eight prize-winning publications. In addition to these outward-facing achievements, we
 enriched our internal research environment in numerous ways detailed below.


                                                                                                Page 1
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Our PGR community is an integral part of our interdisciplinary research environment (s.2).
   Success in developing and supporting PGR students since REF2014 is demonstrated by: more
   than doubling our PhD awards; significantly improving retention; and reducing completion times
   from an average of five years to under four. In 2018, we won the University’s Prize for School
   Director of Graduate Studies for Alessandrini’s ‘work in creating a supportive, stimulating and
   inspirational research environment for doctoral students at the Law School’. We established a
   successful track record of ESRC and AHRC Doctoral studentships, and PhD students obtaining
   academic positions and publishing their work. Beyond KLS, we built wider research student
   capacity through, for example, new, externally funded PhD exchange partnerships with leading
   international law schools and our Paris Summer School in Critical Theory (see below). Beyond
   our own PGRs, we have contributed to PhD training in twelve countries across five continents.

   Our sustained commitment to producing the highest-quality research is evidenced in KLS’s ‘Top
   20’ GPA performance in the last two REFs (as well as 7th in ‘research power’ in REF2014), and
   our placing 45th of law schools in the world in the Times Higher World University Rankings 2021
   as well as 8th in the UK for research quality in the Times University Guide 2021. We are equally
   committed to consistent, high-quality research-led teaching and support for students, as
   evidenced in our 2019 and 2020 ‘Top 20’ performance in the Guardian and Complete University
   Guide, as well as 13th in the Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2021.

   Research and Impact Strategy

a) a) 2014-20 review

   Our major objectives as outlined in REF2014 were to: support intellectually ambitious research;
   increase external funding; further enhance KLS’s international profile; develop and support our
   PGR community; strengthen and extend interdisciplinary and non-academic collaborations;
   embed a more systematic approach to maximising impact; and enhance infrastructure and
   administrative support. Various measures to achieve these objectives were undertaken (see below
   and ss.2, 3, 4).

   Supporting intellectually ambitious research
   We aim to support all colleagues to produce rigorous, original, and ambitious research. New
   initiatives to support this objective included book-in progress workshops, interdisciplinary methods
   workshops and festivals, writing cafés, and peer-to-peer knowledge transfer. Our strategy’s
   success is evidenced by the quality of our entered outputs, including 15 substantive research
   monographs (from one-third of entered staff). Furthermore, since REF2014, ten submitted
   academics won external prizes and awards and five others won University Research Prizes.

   Increasing grant funding
   Since REF2014, we successfully increased: total grant income (by 230%), applications made for
   external funding (by 22%), and success rate by value (by 2%). The range of funders supporting
   staff has significantly diversified (by 25%) and includes three UKRI Research Councils, the EU,
   British Academy, Leverhulme, Wellcome, National Institute of Health Research, numerous other
   bodies and charities, as well as international funders such as the Social Sciences and Humanities
   Research Council of Canada, Australian Research Council, Swedish Research Council, and
   National Science Foundation (s.4).

   The spread of colleagues winning grants also increased by 23%. Strategies to achieve these
   results included: intensive peer review of draft applications; increasing range of targeted funders;
   applying for larger grants; holding regular funding events and encouraging colleagues to
   participate in funding training provided by the University; using our own and University internal
   funds to scope external opportunities; and providing one-to-one advice sessions for colleagues
   with the research director responsible for supporting funding applications.



                                                                                                Page 2
     Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Developing and supporting our PGR community
      KLS PGR students are fundamental to the vitality of our research community. We have more than
      doubled the number of PhD awards since REF2014 (62 vs 30), as well as seeing a significant
      increase in retention (student withdrawals dropped from 37% at the start of the REF period to 18%
      average throughout it). Average completion time fell from five years to under four. Strategies to
      achieve these outcomes included piloting a ‘writing-up’ coaching scheme, reducing teaching loads
      for Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs), and strengthening the progress review process (s.2[b]).
      PGR students actively participate in research seminars, Visiting Scholar sessions, Centres and
      Groups, national and international conferences, and lead ad hoc discussion/reading groups
      (s.2[b]). We established three new, externally funded international PhD exchange partnerships
      with leading law schools: University of Minas Gerais (Brazil, British Academy), Melbourne Law
      School (Australia, Australian Research Council), and University of Los Andes (Colombia,
      Erasmus+), as well as our Summer School in Critical Theory held bi-annually at the Kent-Paris
      Institute. Multi-disciplinary postgraduate students from around the world (180 thus far) attend an
      intensive week’s programme of research led by internationally renowned academics. In 2018, we
      founded the Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Network, a PhD-mobility collaboration between 9
      national and international law schools; already, 61 students from 11 countries have benefited.

      Strengthening and extending interdisciplinary and non-academic collaboration; enhance our
      international profile
      International and interdisciplinary collaborations are a significant aspect of our practice. New
      research networks involve international collaborations with demonstrable outcomes; for example:
      Albi’s ERC-funded network resulted in the open-access, 29-country volume National Constitutions
      in European & Global Governance (2019, 234,000 downloads); Grabham’s international
      Regulating Time network culminated in her co-edited volume Law and Time (2020); Jivraj’s
      Decolonising Sexualities Network produced the landmark, open-access international collection
      Decolonizing Sexualities (2016); Kang and Kendall’s AHRC-funded Legal Materialities Network
      culminated in an open-access special issue of Law, Text, Culture in 2020. Eslava and Parfitt’s
      International Law & Politics, a Law & Society Association Collaborative Research Network
      launched in 2015 in partnership with Melbourne and Harvard Law Schools, now comprises more
      than 380 members from across the world. Our international profile is further enhanced by
      CI/partner participation in internationally funded projects, including Bellido and Kang (Sweden,
      ERC 2017), Eslava (Canada, SSHRC, 2017), Kendall (Canada, SSHRC, 2016 and USA, National
      Science Foundation, 2020), Payne (Canada, SSHRC, 2019), Rackley (Australia, ARC, 2017),
      Ramsay (Canada, SSHRC, 2018).

      Non-academic collaborations are numerous. In addition to those detailed in our ICSs, non-
      academic partners include governments, UN agencies, legal professionals, NGOs, charities, and
      arts and social movement organisations (elaborated in s.4).

      Maximising impact, enhancing infrastructure
      See c) and 3b for details of how these objectives have been met.
b)
      b) 2021-27: Objectives

      Building on the fundamentals of our successful strategies in 2014-20, we will respond to new
      challenges and take advantage of new opportunities to maintain and enhance our vibrant,
      inclusive, and outward-facing research culture.

      Ensure All Researchers Are Valued and Supported
      We aim to nourish a workplace culture that preserves space for academics to have a productive,
      scholarly life not overwhelmed by institutional demands; promoting an understanding of academia
      rooted in collaboration rather than competition; and that takes equality and diversity seriously,
      including by:

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •   Ensuring workload decisions and research strategies prioritise the time and energy
            required to produce intellectually ambitious research;
        •   Developing innovative approaches to supporting mental health at work;
        •   Creating bespoke strategies to address issues faced by mid-career academics;
        •   Soliciting staff feedback on work/life balance and taking necessary actions, particularly
            in the pandemic context.

 Produce High-Quality, Interdisciplinary Outputs
 We aim to capitalise on new opportunities to support intellectually ambitious, interdisciplinary
 research through:
    •   Pursuing collaborative scholarship on social and economic inequalities within our new
        interdisciplinary division for Law, Society and Social Justice (LSSJ);
    •   In September 2020, in collaboration with Canterbury Christ Church University, the
        University launched the Kent and Medway Medical School, with a strong focus on
        interdisciplinary study and person-centred care. The Medical School offers an important
        new focus for health-related research within the University, and we aim to build on this in
        developing new interdisciplinary research collaborations;
    •   Developing interdisciplinary skills and ambition through a new range of targeted
        workshops, collaborations, and internal peer review processes made possible by the
        division for LSSJ.
 Diversify Public Engagement and Collaboration [on Impact see (c) below]
 We aim to increase staff capacity to communicate their research beyond academia, and to engage
 collaboratively with non-academics by:

    •   Playing a significant role in the new, publicly engaged Migration and Movement and Future
        Human University Signature Research Themes;
    •   Identifying relevant ‘publics’ at an early research stage and building strategic links;
    •   Nurturing synergies between the public engagement activities of academics and Kent Law
        Clinic;
    •   Engaging in peer knowledge transfer about ‘how to collaborate’ and nurture long-term
        partnerships, including learning from experts outside KLS in the division for LSSJ.

 Enhance the Experience of ECRs and PGRs
 We aim to enrich the research environment for all early career scholars and will:

    •   Develop existing and new international networks;
    •   Institute a series of masterclasses led by internal and external speakers;
    •   Provide further opportunities for training and career development;
    •   Enhance ECR and PGR media presence, in particular through training provided by the
        Centre for Journalism;
    •   Sustain and further develop research mentorship for ECRs through: workload
        management; probation and promotion support; skills-based workshops; involvement in
        PhD supervisory teams; involvement in School and research governance (see also 2[a]);
    •   Build on our success with the SeNSS (ESRC) postdoctoral scheme to explore developing
        a permanent postdoctoral scheme.

 Increase and Diversify External Funding
 We aim to increase the amount, range, and number of externally funded projects and will:

    •   Explore large collaborative bids arising from the synergies in LSSJ;
    •   Participate in new Signature Research Theme collaborative bids;
    •   Build on successful collaborative network funding to underpin large grant applications;

                                                                                              Page 4
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •   Intensify our successful stepping-stone strategy in supporting colleagues to move from
           small to large grants, and from CI to PI status;
       •   Maintain all existing support for grant writing, application completion, costings, and post-
           award support (s.3).

   Develop Existing and New Research and Teaching Collaborations
   We aim to increase the synergies between research and teaching to:

       •   Develop research and funding collaborations between Category A and other academic
           colleagues;
       •   Develop and, where necessary, refresh UG-led research initiatives (i.e. Critical Legal
           Conference; summer student RA scheme; Dissertation modules; Undergraduate Research
           Project);
       •   Build PGT research aspirations through further training in research methods and
           interdisciplinary scholarship.

c) c) Enabling the Achievement of Impact
d)
   KLS was an early advocate of the need for sustained, reciprocal research relationships with
   partners beyond academia, and to engage them at an early stage of research. We work closely
   with 30+ domestic and international collaborators who not only benefit from but also inspire,
   support, shape, and directly commission our research. Our approach enhances the salience,
   significance, and reach of our work, ensuring that it benefits law- and policy-makers, judges and
   other legal practitioners, medical practitioners, activists and NGOs, international organisations,
   and higher education practitioners (s.4).

   Strategy
   Our impact strategy is driven by intellectual curiosity, collaboration, and ethical co-production. It is
   underpinned by the following principles:

       •   Impact can be planned, and can also arise organically through curiosity-driven research;
       •   Impact is facilitated through the establishment of networks and long-term relationships with
           potential research beneficiaries/co-producers;
       •   It is important to acknowledge and learn from the expertise of diverse collaborative partners
           and, where possible, to include them in the early stages of research, for example as co-
           investigators;
       •   The achievement of impact requires robust infrastructure, visible research, and nimble,
           tangible support.

   Implementation mechanisms include: identifying and supporting potential research impact through
   regular ‘impact audits’ and providing tangible supports (workload reduction; seed funding) to
   promising projects; providing colleagues with an online impact toolkit; regular expertise-sharing
   events with our in-house Impact Experts team (which comprises appropriately experienced
   colleagues); embedding impact capacity-building in our PGR training; facilitating the publication
   of public-facing research findings (e.g. through working papers, blogs, social media, podcasts);
   with this work overseen by an academic Director of Public Engagement (an innovation in this REF
   period).

   Our ICSs exemplify the approach above. For Horsey, Sheldon, and Carr/Kirton-Darling, impact
   arose organically from pre-existing capacity-building relationships with a wide range of partners,
   including NGOs, charities, local communities, and parliamentarians. Horsey and Carr/Kirton-
   Darling’s impact involved non-academic co-producers of knowledge from the outset, including
   public engagement and knowledge exchange, as well as ‘REF impact’. All three ICSs describe
   work that has the potential to benefit many thousands of individuals in terms of parenting, housing,
   and reproductive rights. Hunter’s case study involves a targeted intervention in judicial thinking

                                                                                                    Page 5
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   about vulnerable parties and demonstrates the impact possible from commissioned research
   rooted in an existing body of scholarship and long-term networking building and public
   engagements. The direct beneficiaries are judges and policy-makers, and, indirectly, domestic
   abuse victims, litigants-in-person, and their children. All of our ICSs received tangible support from
   KLS and the University, including: significant workload reductions (10-20%); funding for events,
   research assistance, and open access publication (£45,000+); hands-on guidance from our REF
   Impact Lead; case study writing workshops; and full support from the KLS Media Officer and
   University Press and Research Offices.

   Our future impact strategy will aim to: provide colleagues with systematic impact training with a
   view to developing personal ‘impact agendas’ (to include consideration of potential
   collaborators/co-producers/beneficiaries); explicitly include a consideration of impact potential in
   hiring strategies; increase online access to research events; and further develop non-academic
   outlets for sharing research findings.

e) d) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

   For KLS, ‘interdisciplinarity’ signifies a normative aspiration to work with a range of methods and
   literatures reflecting upon and contributing to conversations about law and legality across
   disciplinary boundaries. We hope to make a leading contribution to interrogating what legal
   scholarship and methodology is and can be. Our scholars draw from a range of other disciplines,
   including Anthropology, Architecture, Critical Race Studies, Feminist Theory, Geography, History,
   Literary and Cultural Studies, Philosophy, Political Economy, Psychology and Psychiatry, Science
   and Technology Studies, Social Policy and Social Welfare, and Visual Culture. Our PGR
   programme is home to interdisciplinary training and projects (see above and s.2) and our
   interdisciplinary commitment is evidenced by our membership of both ESRC and AHRC Doctoral
   Training Partnerships. Our Brussels academics are situated in BSIS, an interdisciplinary School
   of International Studies. In autumn 2020, a new Divisional partnership was established between
   KLS, Kent’s prestigious School of Social Policy, Sociology and Social Research, and the Centre
   for Journalism; together we are actively exploring new research structures and pathways.

   Diverse interdisciplinarities are evidenced throughout the submitted publications, for example in
   the number of refereed articles published in non-law journals, including: Globalizations; Historic
   Environment; History of Science; Housing Studies; Antipode; New Political Science; Feminist
   Theory; Theory, Culture, Society; Journal of Industrial Relations; Citizenship Studies; The
   Translator; Economy & Society; International Critical Thought; Radical Philosophy; Politics and
   Space; and by the range of funders supporting our projects over this REF period, including the
   ERC, ESRC, AHRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust, Science History Institute, Academy of Medical
   Sciences, British Academy, Leverhulme, National Institute of Health Research, and numerous
   international and smaller funders (see s.3[a]).

   National and international interdisciplinary initiatives include: the 2015 launch of our Paris Summer
   School in Critical Theory; training academics in Ecuador in interdisciplinary research methods; the
   Women’s Legal Landmarks project, involving 80 academics from five Humanities and Social
   Science disciplines; and, in 2018, an internal workshop entitled At the Crossroads of Social
   Sciences and Humanities: Interdisciplinary Methods and Approaches, where colleagues spoke
   about their methodological journeys, including using archives, visual arts, clay models, and
   interviews. In 2019, we presented it at the SLSA annual conference. As a result of the session’s
   success, the organiser was invited to produce an edited book based on these contributions
   (Interdisciplinarities: Methodological Challenges and the Body of Law, Palgrave Macmillan 2022).

   We also train scholars in interdisciplinary methods; for example, through a week-long
   Interdisciplinary Research Methods Festival (2017) featuring sessions with internal and guest
   speakers on media training, writing a funding bid, using archives, participant action research, and
   a roundtable on archival methods in critical legal research. In 2017, we launched the international
   Interdisciplinary Legal Studies Network for PhD students and ECRs, a partnership with nine


                                                                                                  Page 6
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   universities across four continents. In spring 2020, we organised a special series of external
   speakers on interdisciplinary methods, unfortunately cancelled due to COVID-19.

f) e) Progression Towards Open Access Beyond REF2021

   The Open Access agenda aligns with many of the key values of KLS’s research and impact
   strategies, including inclusivity and ethical, co-produced research. All researchers, regardless of
   contract type or career stage, deposit their work (to the extent possible) in the Kent Academic
   Repository to facilitate the widest sharing of their research. The University’s Office for Scholarly
   Communication (OSC) provides training for creating open materials and dissemination planning.
   In 2011, researchers at Kent Law School founded, with University sponsorship, the diamond Open
   Access journal feminists@law (with over 500,000 views of articles and multi-media content in this
   REF period). The editorial board currently includes eight KLS staff who encourage submissions
   from around the world, and have contributed through editorials, publishing networks, and the OSC
   to wider Open Access debates and consultations.

   We have also worked to ensure that research outputs in a wider range of formats are available
   openly: in addition to all the Open Access publications available in the Kent Academic Repository,
   dozens of theses are available for full text download. We published open books aimed at
   practitioners, academics, and European legal actors (Albi, 234,000 downloads; Sheldon, 5,000+
   downloads), and two ‘pay what you can’ edited collections for activists (Jivraj, 600+ downloads).
   The University has supported our OA publications with over £10,000 of funding.

   We continue to make our research available in non-academic formats to reach a wider audience,
   including through research reports and social media. Our academics are involved in the review of
   the University’s intellectual property policies to ensure that they are in line with the principles
   required by funders and the PlanS initiative.

g) f) Supporting Research Integrity

   A commitment to research integrity is integral to KLS scholarship. We observe the University’s
   Code of Ethical Practice, and Kent is compliant with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
   At School level, we have disseminated the principles of the Concordat and held bespoke Ethics
   workshops for colleagues. The SLSA’s Statement of Principles of Ethical Research Practice also
   guides our researchers. KLS’s Research Ethics Chair reports to Research Committee and sits on
   the Research Ethics Advisory Group, which is itself overseen by the University’s Research Ethics
   and Governance Committee. As many KLS academics work with diverse stakeholders, our
   research reflects a normative commitment to engage with those communities in a respectful, non-
   exploitative way; impact case studies evidence the success of our practice.

   2. People

   a) Staffing Strategy and Development

   Our Category A staffing strategy is driven by our desire to hire strong researchers contributing to
   theoretical, conceptual, and empirical innovation. Appointments exemplify our distinctive ‘social
   justice’ character, including a commitment to diversity and equality in hirings. We have made 17
   Category A new appointments since 2014 (all permanent positions), including six professors.
   While these were mainly replacement posts, there is a small increase in FTE returned in this REF
   compared to last (45.2 vs 43.6). These appointments enhance our notable strengths in feminist
   law reform (Hunter, McCandless, Rackley, Renz), critical international law (Eslava, Kendall,
   Parfitt), economic, labour, and financial law (Ashiagbor, Hayes, Zokaityte), and legal history and
   theory (McVeigh, Zartaloudis). New areas of research strength have emerged; for example, in
   intellectual property (Bellido, Kang, Pottage), global security law (Sullivan), and public inquiries
   and legal process (Kirton-Darling).

   While 20 Category A colleagues have retired or moved jobs since REF2014, we have successfully
   renewed ourselves, and strengthened our strong interdisciplinary and international profile, with

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new colleagues originally from Australia, Canada, Colombia, England, Germany, Ghana, Greece,
 Ireland, Lithuania, Scotland, Spain, and the USA. We have six more female professors than we
 did in REF2014 (14 vs eight).

 While we are returning three post-2016 ECRs, we have appointed eight ECRs over this REF
 period (five of whom have already been promoted). Most appointments since 2016 have been to
 Chairs, responding to senior staff retirement or lateral moves. We will be prioritising ECR hirings
 in the coming years. Moreover, this REF period witnessed the emergence of significant early
 career capacity-building through: employing several Research Associates on Research Council
 and Wellcome-funded projects; successfully winning three ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowships; and
 trialling a pilot postdoctoral scheme, with two researchers appointed from 2015-17.

 All 47 (45.2 FTE) of our Category A staff are on permanent contracts. Mainly due to a deliberate
 strategy of regularising precarious contracts during this REF period, we also have 17 permanent
 (FT and PT) non-REF-eligible colleagues (most of whom were previously hourly paid lecturers).
 There are also six lawyers working in Kent Law Clinic. We have several non-research colleagues
 on full- and part-time fixed-term contracts (including semi-retirees and grant replacement staff), a
 number of hourly paid lecturers (all but one PGRs), and 9 Graduate Teaching Assistants (29 GTAs
 over whole REF period). Regardless of contractual status, non-Category A colleagues contribute
 to the research culture detailed in this narrative; for example, through: participation in events;
 scholarship activities; international collaborations; and grant acquisition.

 In terms of staff development, all academic staff (including RAs and postdocs) are offered
 ‘Reflect/Plan/Develop’ (appraisal/mentoring) meetings with a senior or peer colleague to discuss
 short- and long-term planning, including challenges they may be facing. Probationers receive
 bespoke mentoring from a senior colleague for the length of their probationary period. We
 implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers by developing
 our own KLS guidelines (see below). All research-active colleagues also participate in annual
 individual research planning meetings with the Directors of Research. Training sessions (for
 example, on PhD supervision; media; writing funding applications) are provided for all academic
 staff (s.3) and KLS provides generous funding for individual and group research activities (s.4). In
 2018, we introduced further research culture development through an internal Research Speed
 Dating event. It attracted over 30 colleagues, including from professional services, and involved
 making our research more visible to each other. In 2019-20, we inaugurated a Funded Research
 Support Group for colleagues holding external grants, and our Inspirational Concepts series,
 where colleagues discuss foundational ideas motivating their research. Specific supports for
 achieving impact are detailed above (s.1[c])).

 Our ECRs are supported through: a 25-50% teaching reduction in their first two years; a dedicated
 member of the Research Team with ECR responsibility; invitations to join PhD supervisory teams;
 and strong support for career progression, with specialised promotion support (see below). The
 University offers ECRs numerous training events through the Graduate and Researcher College
 (formerly, the Graduate School) and Research and Innovation Services. Postdoctoral colleagues
 are provided with a mentor, and we implemented our own Policy on Research Associates and
 Postdoctoral Researchers that provides guidance to staff drafting funding applications regarding
 how support for RAs can be built into a project, and outlines what RAs can expect in terms of KLS
 support once they arrive. The success of our ECR development initiatives is in part demonstrated
 by four ECRs publishing major monographs in this REF period and by their success in achieving
 promotion (see below).

 All academic staff are entitled to apply for one term’s study leave in seven (as per University
 policy). All eligible Category A staff who applied received at least one period of study leave during
 this REF period.

 Recognition for research and impact activities is primarily achieved through the promotion
 process. Of the eight new Category A lecturers hired during this REF period, five have been
 promoted, including three to Reader. Two of three new Senior Lecturer appointments are now

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Readers. KLS addresses promotion in appraisal meetings, and through a separate promotion
 support process lasting several months. A senior Professor chairs the KLS Promotions Panel
 advising/assisting potential applicants in the summer preceding the annual promotions round. The
 Panel meets twice during the Autumn Term to provide feedback on application drafts to improve
 the prospects of promotion success. Applicants with strong impact are assisted to convey this as
 part of their case for promotion. In 2018, we created an internal site where colleagues can access
 advice and copies of successful applications. Since 2014, KLS has successfully put forward for
 promotion 11 men and 17 women.

 We further recognize outstanding research by successfully nominating colleagues for external
 prizes (e.g. Philip Leverhulme Prize, Grabham 2020; eight SLSA prizes in this REF period, Carr,
 Eslava [2], Grabham [2], Hayes, Hunter, Perry-Kessaris), and, working through professional
 associations, for membership of the Academy of Social Sciences and membership of the REF
 Panel. The University rewards excellence in research and impact through its Faculty Research
 Prizes, three of which have been won by current or past KLS scholars since 2014.

 b) Research Students

 KLS has a vibrant PGR community of approximately 55 scholars who participate in the research
 and governance life of the School. We supported them during this REF period through a range of
 measures detailed below. Our Postgraduate Directors team expanded to four colleagues
 responsible for: Programme Oversight; Admissions and Scholarships; Progress Reviews; PGR
 Study Group; and the Research Methods module. The team is supported by a fifth colleague with
 particular responsibility for GTA liaison (expanded to support all PGR students who teach), and a
 Professional Services colleague dedicated to the PhD Programme. From 2014-20, we focused
 attention on three aspects of our postgraduate research programme to: better orient recruitment
 to our research strengths; enhance the experience of our students; and improve our completion
 rates. We succeeded on all these fronts.

 Recruitment
 We encourage PGR applications from Home, EU, and international students in areas of research
 strength within KLS. Admission to the PGR programme is based on a strong academic record and
 the quality of the research proposal. We work to maximise access to available scholarships for all
 eligible applicants. In assessing the quality of applications and shortlisting for scholarships, we
 value interdisciplinarity and do not exclude those without a primary Law degree. PhD registrations
 have fallen slightly since the last REF, as we have increased selectivity. In turn, our completion
 and retention rates have substantially improved (see below).

 Our main PhD cohort in Canterbury has become more diverse since 2014, with (as of 2020 cohort)
 over 50% from BAME backgrounds (35% in 2014), 17% with declared mental health or physical
 disabilities (4% in 2014), and 37% ‘widening participation’ students (27% in 2014). Our gender
 profile at both campuses remains majority female.

 KLS belongs to the ESRC South-East Doctoral Training Partnership (SeNSS) and, since the last
 REF, the new AHRC Consortium for Arts and Humanities in South-East England Doctoral
 Partnership (CHASE). During this REF period, we have received nine studentships from these
 bodies, as well as 29 University/KLS Graduate Teaching Assistantships, and 2 Larry Grant
 Scholarships (for LLM-R in Social Justice). We received SeNSS funding for three post-doctoral
 fellowships. Students have additionally won Commonwealth, University Alumni, and MLR
 Scholarships. Students proposed for scholarships receive intensive support in preparing their
 applications. The Co-Director for Admissions/Scholarships participates actively in University and
 doctoral partnership review and selection processes, drawing on their experience from those
 processes for the benefit of KLS students. We do not offer professional doctorates.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Student support linked to progress and completion
 Our success in developing and supporting PGR students is demonstrated by a doubling of PhD
 awards (62 vs 30), a significant improvement in retention (withdrawals reducing from 37% at the
 start of the REF period to 18% average throughout), and moving from an average of five years to
 completion to four (3.93).

 We substantially improved research student support, including: ensuring a teaching-free third year
 for GTAs; piloting a three-year Coaching Scheme for students writing up; a member of academic
 staff as a dedicated GTA/PGR Teaching Support; sessions dedicated to explaining the progress
 review process (see below) and why it is important; walk-in pastoral care hours offered by the
 PGR team lead; and increasing opportunities for social interaction amongst students. Our students
 have created a ‘well-being’ group that meets termly and makes recommendations to KLS and the
 University. We continue to provide access to dedicated conference funds (£500 per annum) and
 ‘extra’ discretionary funding to support external training, and in-house workshops on careers and
 publishing.

 New training initiatives include an ESRC-compliant training course focusing on research design
 and methodologies, and using this course to identify students who need particular support.
 Several of our students benefitted from undertaking the MA in Social Research Methods in the
 School of Sociology, Social Policy and Social Research, as part of an ESRC 1+3 scholarship. We
 also provide: more intensive weekly study group training focusing on a mix of conceptual readings;
 research skills seminars; ‘encounters’ with KLS staff and visiting scholars; and work-in-progress
 presentations. The University Graduate and Researcher College (formerly the Graduate School)
 has developed comprehensive training provision available to all our research students (s.3).
 SeNSS and CHASE students can also access the training provided by these consortia.

 Further new support includes:

    •   Dedicated PGR space consisting of a new common room and study room;
    •   Funding PGR attendance at our Summer School in Paris and at Science Po’s Summer
        School;
    •   Facilitating annual conferences and research groups organised by PGRs and PGTs in
        Canterbury and Brussels;
    •   Ensuring GTA representatives sit on our Education Committee;
    •   Reorganising the Staff-Student Liaison Committee into the Student Voice Committee to
        better reflect the needs of different groups of PGRs (i.e. GTAs; HPLs; all PGRs);
    •   Establishing a PGR Visiting Fellow Scheme attracting approximately ten international/EU
        students thus far;
    •   Supporting students to apply for and win prizes (e.g. Silver Award from International
        Insolvency Institute 2018; Modern Law Review Scholarships 2019, 2020).

 Oversight of PhD student progress is through compulsory, formal annual reviews conducted by
 KLS PGR Directors and monthly database reporting (by student and supervisor), all overseen by
 the Graduate and Researcher College. Formal reviews include a Year 2 Presentation Day held in
 June, designed to celebrate our research student community and to share their research topics
 with the wider KLS audience. Both our Year 1 Research Methods module and Years 1/2 Study
 Group (compulsory for Year 1) provide additional opportunities to assess student progress.

 Supervision takes place through teams with an experienced Supervisory Chair, is spread as
 evenly as possible across the School according to research expertise and experience, and
 credited in workload allocation.

 In 2016, the Periodic Review of KLS’s PGR programme concluded that ‘the general support
 provided to research students was excellent’ (PPR, 2016) and also ‘commended the School’s
 approach to treating its PGR students as academics in the making and developing their research


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 skills, including a research portfolio, presentation skills, and delivering conference papers and
 writing publications’ (PPR, 2016). In 2018, Alessandrini won the University Prize for School
 Director of Graduate Studies for her ‘work in creating a supportive, stimulating and inspirational
 research environment for doctoral students at the Law School’.

 c) Equality and Diversity

 Equality and diversity involves the fair treatment of individuals, and is also about the positioning
 of a UoA within a wider social context of intersecting inequalities. We take both aspects seriously,
 and include in our discussion below both our commitment to the fair treatment of individuals, as
 evidenced through our 2019 Athena SWAN Bronze Award (Silver application in preparation) and
 our appointment of an academic as KLS Director of EDI, and to wider concerns of inequality at
 local, regional, and international levels, including through our scholarship.

 In terms of gender, women held many leadership roles during this REF period, including Head of
 School (three times and for entire REF period), Deputy Head of School, Director of Education, Co-
 Directors of Research, Postgraduate Research and Graduate Studies, REF Coordinator and
 Impact Lead, and Chief Examiner. Over this REF period, 17 women and 11 men were promoted.
 Apart from this focus on individuals, our commitment to feminist scholarship and gender justice is
 evidenced in our: publications; Centre for Sexuality, Race and Gender Justice (SeRGJ); founding
 and hosting of the journal feminists@law; and in our wider collaborations with scholars, activists,
 and artists (s.4). KLS is also led by scholars who identify as gay, lesbian, queer, or non-binary,
 and/or are submitting work in the field of sexuality. KLS leadership roles held by such scholars
 include most of those listed above. Notable publications in gender and sexuality include submitted
 work by: Cain; Cloatre; Drakopoulou; Grabham; Hayes; Horsey; Hunter; Kendall; McCandless;
 Rackley; Renz; and Sheldon; as well as former colleagues Cooper and Fudge.

 We currently have a number of colleagues from BAME backgrounds, including a Black female
 Professorial Head of School for most of this REF period (now Director of the Division of Law,
 Society and Social Justice). We recognise that achieving progress on issues of race and ethnicity
 is an ongoing process within both KLS and the University. We tackle this in a range of ways,
 including through having instigated a University-wide ‘decolonising the curriculum’ project led by
 Jivraj and SeRGJ. Although this work focuses on the undergraduate student experience, it
 sparked the formation of a BAME Staff Network, and is part of a national and international
 movement to ‘decolonise the university’. In summer 2020, KLS was actively involved in supporting
 Black Lives Matter student protests, including through social media. Eslava, Haslam, Oduntan,
 and Parfitt’s submitted monographs are notable examples of how KLS supports scholarship on
 race and colonialism, as are Jivraj’s co-edited, Open Access collections (s1[e]). In 2020, we also
 launched our KLS Next Generation Doctoral Scholarships, one of which will be reserved for a UK-
 based candidate of Black or mixed-Black heritage.

 We are confident that KLS is supportive of scholars with diverse national origins (Category A staff
 origins include 19 countries from five continents). Much of our scholarship is concerned with the
 historical and contemporary exclusion of marginalised peoples from modes of international justice
 (Ashiagbor, Eslava, Haslam, Kendall, Oduntan, Parfitt, Parsley, Sullivan), including refugees and
 non-nationals (Arai, York). Our award-winning Law Clinic is a national leader in defending the
 rights of refugees with two posts dedicated to asylum/immigration law and advocacy. We are also
 keen to progress practice in relation to religion, and in particular to how it interrelates with
 race/ethnicity. Our EDI Director (amongst others) will be advancing this area of work in the next
 REF period.

 In terms of disability, we observe the University’s policies towards colleagues with disabilities, and
 go further in the area of mental health. The KLS Mental Health Policy outlines a range of measures
 to support colleagues with mental health issues, and to pursue a stronger approach to mental
 health support within the University. The REF Coordinator and Head of School attended MIND
 training workshops on mental health in the workplace, and we now have an academic with a ‘Well-
 Being’ portfolio who works closely with Occupational Health to support colleagues with health

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 issues. We do not operate a culture of ‘presenteeism’ in KLS, so that research-active colleagues
 and those with caring responsibilities and health issues are able to work remotely as far as we can
 accommodate within University constraints. Our commitment to combating disability discrimination
 is further evidenced by successfully nominating three leading disability rights campaigners for
 Honorary Degrees in Law in 2019. Cain’s ongoing work with psychiatrists at the Institute of
 Psychiatry (Maudsley Hospital) exemplifies how academics can bring experiential and legal
 knowledge about mental health into collaborative endeavours across disciplines.

 In terms of age discrimination, KLS provides all ages and career stages with access to the same
 opportunities and support. ECRs are encouraged to play a role in School governance at every
 level, and we have made a concerted effort to ensure they join PhD supervision teams. We operate
 a vigorous system to support their promotion (s.2[a]). As colleagues approach the end of their
 careers, they are offered fractional contracts before fully retiring. Once retired, many colleagues
 remain affiliated with KLS as emeriti. We are conscious that mid-career-scholars can experience
 particular kinds of challenges, and hope to address these more directly in the future (s.1[b]).

 All colleagues have access to the University’s study leave provision (1 term in 7), and parental
 leave support. We also have our own KLS Return from Leave Policy, offering support (workload
 reductions) to colleagues returning from various forms of leave. Maternity/paternity and sickness
 leave count as qualifying service when calculating study leave entitlement. Supportive polices for
 carers include timetabling and other adjustments and, during COVID-19, a KLS ‘no detriment’
 policy that we successfully lobbied the University as a whole to adopt.

 In terms of career pathways for fixed- and part-time staff, the only fixed-term research contracts
 offered in this REF period were for RAs funded by external sources and postdoctoral fellows. All
 part-time staff are entitled to the same supports as full-time staff (pro-rata). KLS is committed to
 the elimination of zero hours contracts, and over this REF period we facilitated 7 non-Category A
 staff moving from hourly to permanent contracts. All non-Category A permanent staff can apply
 for study leave, may choose to be active in our Centres and Groups, and can access research
 funding (one such colleague is a CI on a major grant (approx. £1.4 million) awarded to the School
 of Computing by the EPSRC in 2018).

 Our approach to staff satisfaction is to create, to the extent possible, an open, inclusive, fair,
 democratic workplace. Workloads are allocated on a transparent model that includes credit for a
 range of activities, including leadership roles and PGR supervision. All Category A staff receive
 approximately one-third of workload credits for research. Participation in School governance is
 open to all through open committee meetings and non-professorial staff representation (including
 on the Promotion Panel). We encourage research-active colleagues to work in their areas of
 enthusiasm and facilitate colleagues teaching in their research areas to the extent possible. We
 hope to identify early on colleagues that may be struggling (i.e. through the appraisal process and
 other mechanisms), and provide support. See 2(b) for our approach to doctoral student welfare.

 Finally, our preparations for REF2021 were as open and inclusive as possible: staff unanimously
 approved a proposed output selection process; we held several ‘all staff’ meetings to explain and
 update the process and collect feedback; and added ‘REF update/discussion’ as a standing item
 to School meeting agendas. The REF Coordinator met with every colleague submitted to discuss
 publication selection and take feedback on the process, and a similar exercise will be undertaken
 following submission. The selection of outputs for submission was based on: assessment by a
 reading group of senior professors in KLS (4 men; 6 women); moderation/calibration conducted
 by the REF Coordinator; and the use of a small number of external assessors where a colleague
 made that request or where the REF Coordinator determined an external view would be helpful.
 Reading group members worked to the same criteria (expanded from REF guidance) and
 colleagues could request feedback (anonymised) on their work if they wished. Where outputs were
 assessed to reach the same REF grade, choices for inclusion/exclusion took into account EDI
 concerns. ECRs (appointed as new lecturers since REF2014) are responsible for 20 (of 98)
 outputs, and women for 60. Fifteen colleagues submitted approved Individual Staff Circumstances
 declarations (all have at least one output entered) and we followed up to support any continuing

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 needs. The Impact Lead worked closely with submitted ICSs. Our four ICSs (three women/one
 man) were selected early on in the process (taking account of EDI concerns) and nurtured over
 the course of several years.

 The University provided all colleagues involved in REF selection with EDI training. In addition, the
 REF Coordinator provided staff with written guidance about REF assessment, led a session on
 ‘Lessons from REF readers’ for future guidance, and gave feedback on numerous drafts of
 colleagues’ works-in-progress. The KLS REF Strategy Group of six professors (five women, one
 man) approved the final REF submission, and provided advice to the REF Coordinator. Our goal
 throughout the preparation process was to use the REF as a catalyst for sustainable, transparent,
 and consensual research developments.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a) Research Income and Funding Strategy

 We see research funding as an input, not an output, with a full range of support offered to
 applications that emerge organically from colleagues’ existing research interests. This approach
 (rather than one based on targets) has proved successful as grant income increased by 230%
 since REF2014. While increases from national and European research councils account for most
 of this, we also successfully diversified our income sources as detailed below. External funding
 awarded (2014-20) amounts to over £4,000,000 and was won by 33 individual staff. We increased
 the numbers of colleagues applying for external funding from 40 (REF2014) to 56 (REF2021), and
 the range of funders applied to by 25%.

 External major (£25,000+) grant awards 2014-20: ESRC (£1,195,134 Sullivan); ESRC (£579,717
 Cooper/Grabham/Renz); AHRC (£36,413 Drakopoulou/Parsley; £35,882 Kang/Kendall; £287,737
 Sheldon; £31,734 Grabham); ERC (£123,843 portion Bellido/Kang); Wellcome (£675,647 Cloatre;
 Hayes £71,204); European Commission, Marie Curie Fellowship (£130,500 Croce); Academy of
 Medical Sciences (£24,938 Carr); British Academy (£129,925 Alessandrini; £26,350 Williams);
 MacArthur Foundation (£37,267 Oduntan), Nantes Institute for Advanced Study (£29,636 Fudge);
 Swedish Research Council ( £63,279 Fudge); Leverhulme (£100,000 Philip Leverhulme Prize,
 Grabham); £32,883 Perry-Kessaris; £49,580, Kendall; £80,686 Rackley); National Institute of
 Health Research (£36,188 Sheldon). Together, this funding has already resulted in numerous
 scholarly publications, hundreds of academic and public engagement activities, and potential
 future ICSs. We also received three ESRC/SeNSS postdoctoral fellowships (£284,119).

 External grants awarded between £5,000 and £25,000: AHRC (£12,616 Bellido); CREATe
 (£20,000 Bellido); Australian Research Council (£10,689 Fudge, £9,890 Rackley); EPSRC
 (£14,762 Dickson as proportion); Christensen Fund (£7,172 Howarth); MacArthur Foundation
 (£8,000 Oduntan); Society of Legal Scholars (£11,000 Rackley); MYRIA (£15,914 Schepel);
 British Academy (£9,236 Sullivan), Wellcome (£8,907 Sheldon).

 Smaller grants have been won from the SLSA (Casey, Cloatre, Cooper, Jivraj, Perry-Kessaris,
 Parfitt, Piska), Science History Institute (Bellido), the National Museum of Play (Bellido), University
 of Technology, Sydney (Sheldon), Social and Legal Studies (Cooper, Rackley), Society of Legal
 Scholars (Haslam/Jivraj; Perry-Kessaris). As per our ‘stepping stone’ strategy, some of these
 colleagues then successfully applied for major grants (i.e. Bellido; Sullivan).

 Additionally, KLS received a total of £202,000 in innovation project funding from collaborators and
 commissioners, including the Government of Wales, the Ministry of Justice, Unbound
 Philanthropy, the Samuel Sebba Charitable Trust, and the Migration Foundation.

 In addition to total funding of over £4,200,000 from the above external sources, KLS provided
 £80,000+ research funding to 39 academic staff, and a number successfully bid to University
 research and impact support funds for a total of £120,000. We can trace a direct link between this
 internal seed funding and the achievement of external grants (for example, Kang and Kendall;

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sullivan; Jivraj). These successes demonstrate the effectiveness of our funding strategy
 discussed above and in s.1.

 KLS academics are also formal collaborators on several new internationally funded projects
 totalling over £1,000,000: Australian Research Council (AUS$432,000 McVeigh; $204,500 Parfitt;
 $336,999 Rackley); National Science Foundation (US$299,999 Kendall); Social Science and
 Humanities Research Council of Canada (CDN$83,000 Eslava; $74,903 and $161,858 Kendall;
 $172,836 Payne; $49,191 Ramsay).

 b) Organisational, Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure and Facilities

 KLS research at both our Canterbury and our Brussels campuses is overseen by a team of three
 Co-Directors (CDRs), including a colleague responsible for supporting funding applications. In
 addition to leading on research development, the CDRs annually review colleagues’ publications,
 plans, and impact activities. Research is also discussed during annual appraisal (s.2), and was
 supported by a KLS Research Office staffed by two full-time colleagues (Grade 7 and 5): a
 Research Manager who supported all research funding applications and REF preparation, and a
 Research Support Coordinator who primarily supported post-award grants and events. Canterbury
 colleagues had two in-house IT support colleagues and a dedicated Law Librarian, and Brussels
 colleagues were additionally supported by a research administrator based there. All colleagues
 have access to the longstanding KLS lawlinks portal. The KLS Publicity Officer and the University’s
 Press & Public Relations Officer support external research dissemination.

 Our organisational infrastructure continuously improved over this REF period. Notable
 developments resulting in the successes noted above are:

    •   Investments in internal funding mechanisms, including the creation of a REF fund (£10,000
        per annum) to support a range of activities, including impact) and new detailed ‘how to’
        guidance on applying for funding;
    •   A dedicated CDR to galvanise colleagues to generate research income and to provide
        grant support, including: funding drop-in sessions; training workshops, including on
        collaborative funding; KLS-bespoke writing cafés; a new funding support group for grant-
        holders;
    •   A workload-credited position of Impact Lead, to support existing ICSs and to actively
        promote sustainable impact in KLS;
    •   A new Director of Public Engagement academic portfolio;
    •   Other investments in impact include University Impact Funding (£40,000+ received by KLS
        staff) and workload allocation recognition for those who undertake significant impact-
        related activities. We support attendance at national impact training events by both our
        Impact Lead and ICS Leads.
    •   Ensuring our REF Coordinator actively works with colleagues to strengthen their outputs
        (e.g. reading drafts) and organises relevant training events.

 Academic colleagues were supported with £2,000 per annum in personal research allowance, as
 well as enjoying access, by application, to our Research Initiative Fund (£25,000 per annum).
 Colleagues are provided with workload allocations to pursue grant applications. Our KLS-based
 and co-hosted Research Centres receive funding and the impact of this funding can be seen in
 the range of activities and outputs in s.1.

 As noted in s.1, we fund an annual seminar series where 90+ external colleagues presented over
 this REF period, as well as focusing on the work of our own researchers. Our Centres, Groups,
 and informal networks run regular events throughout the year, many of them interdisciplinary. Our
 Visiting Scholar Scheme is currently funded with £6,000 per annum, and we also supported an
 ambitious 20th anniversary lecture series in Brussels.

 New facilities include the £6 million Wigoder Building, housing a state-of-the-art moot court room
 where many staff seminars, workshops, and conference plenaries are held, and a new

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 common/computer room for postgraduate students. Also new to this REF period is our use of the
 Kent-Paris Institute (partnered with Columbia University) to host our Paris Summer School in
 Critical Theory and other activities.

 Notable examples of improved University infrastructure include the development of the Graduate
 and Researcher College’s Grants Factory; and the ECR network, with strong contributions from
 KLS staff to each; and a major Library renovation (£27 million) (see Institutional Statement).

 c) Addressing E&D Issues in Terms of Access to Infrastructure

 We operate a proactive approach to identifying infrastructural needs for all colleagues. All staff
 have an opportunity to raise such issues in annual research audit and appraisal meetings. We
 make infrastructural and practical adjustments (e.g. software, furniture, facilities, travel) for
 colleagues with disabilities. As noted in s.2, we have our own ‘return from leave’ policy. Working
 from home during COVID-19 poses unique infrastructural challenges that we address through
 regular audits of IT and equipment.

 d) Impact Infrastructure

 See (b) above and s.1(c).

 e) Cross-HEI or Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure and Benefits-in-Kind

 We share research infrastructures with a range of collaborators (s.4), including national and
 international HEIs, museums, galleries, and architectural practices. Benefits-in-kind from various
 hosts, collaborators, and ICS partners are numerous and include: space; time; expenses; access
 to information/resources. Examples of ongoing benefits-in-kind partnerships include our work with:
 University of Minas Gerais; University of Los Andes; Melbourne Law School; Mexico Museum of
 Modern Art; Shelter; Beaney Museum; and the many institutions where staff have held Visiting
 Fellowships (s.4).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As a key aspect of our research strategy, KLS supports a wide range of collaborative activities,
 and all our internal funding mechanisms are available to colleagues seeking to pursue them. Most
 submitted staff work with diverse collaborators and contribute to wider national and international
 research activities.

 Academic Collaborations are integral to our research, and most KLS scholars work
 collaboratively with other academics. Our external funding awards involve local, national, and
 international collaborations, and several colleagues are partners in projects funded in other
 countries (see s.3[a]). Collaborations involve networks and activities with colleagues at a range of
 national and international HEIs, discussed further below under ‘Wider Contributions’.

 Non-Academic Collaborations and Public Engagement are increasingly important to our work.
 Submitted ICSs are exemplars of impact-generating collaboration with partners outside academia;
 here we select a few other significant projects that are taking place in collaboration with non-
 academics, including NGOs, arts organisations, governmental partners, students, and
 universities:

    •   Decolonising the University: Jivraj’s nationally recognised research leadership in the
        area led to her establishing a major curriculum project at Kent involving dozens of students
        and resulting in a Manifesto presented to University leaders challenging perceptions of the
        ‘BAME attainment gap’. Its success resulted in the award of two 2019 University prizes to
        the project – as well as the award of external funding, numerous invitations to Jivraj to
        share her expertise at universities across the country, an edited collection, and a special
        issue of The Law Teacher (2020). We hope to include this work as an ICS in the next REF.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Fascism and the International: In conjunction with working on her submitted monograph,
        Parfitt established the ‘Fascism and the International’ project in 2016. She collaborates
        with artists, museums and cultural centres, including Mexico’s Museum of Modern Art, the
        Swedish art centre Konstepidermin, the Melbourne-based sound art collective Liquid
        Architecture, and the Italian Cultural Institute in London, to organise numerous public
        events, including a performance of Futurist ‘Words in Freedom’ by Luciano Chessa, an
        internationally acclaimed composer and musicologist.
    •   Transnational Listing Project: Following on from his submitted monograph, Sullivan’s
        research on transnational ‘anti-terrorist listing’ has been a catalyst for work with lawyers in
        London and Rome to provide representation to individuals targeted by security lists. He
        was also contracted by UNHCR to produce recommendations on how best to counter
        threats posed by foreign fighters in a way that is human rights compliant. His
        recommendations resulted in UNHCR ‘best practice’ guidelines for all member states. In
        late 2020, Sullivan was awarded an ESRC Future Leaders grant for £1,200,000 for a
        project entitled Infra-Legalities: Global Security Infrastructures, Artificial Intelligence and
        International Law.
    •   Refugees and Asylum: York and Warren’s research has impacted on national practitioner
        and judicial understandings of asylum and immigration law; their 2014 Report and article
        on Children as Failed Asylum Seekers is referenced in Rhuppiah v SS Home Department
        [2018] UKSC 58, and resulted in their delivering training on asylum-seeking children to
        foster carers for Kent Social Services. York advises the Home Office and Kent County
        Council on asylum matters, contributed to recommendations made in the ‘Windrush
        Lessons Learned’ review (2020), and most recently is active defending migrant rights
        during COVID-19.

 New collaborations resulting from the pandemic include Hayes with UNISON and GMB on care
 workers, Alessandrini and Eslava’s multi-partner project on labour precarity in Colombia, and
 Piska/Carr with Canterbury Housing Advice on evictions and homelessness.

 In addition to our ICSs and these exemplars, KLS staff work closely with a number of other third
 sector organisations, including: the Runnymede Trust, Psychologists for Social Change, Inclusive
 Mosque, JUSTICE and Women’s Aid, Quaker Homeless Trust, BPAS, and the Abortion Support
 Network. Our research has also informed the activities of national, devolved, and international
 governmental departments and bodies, including: Welsh Government; Ministry of Justice; Judicial
 College of England and Wales; UK Association of Women Judges; Council of Europe; Children’s
 Rights Ombudsman (Ireland); Cabinet Office, Victoria, Australia; Financial Crimes Committee and
 Federal House of Representatives, Nigeria; United Nations.

 Public engagement is also facilitated by our use of conventional and social media. During this REF
 period, our research expertise was profiled in a wide variety of national and international media
 outlets. Several colleagues are frequent contributors to The Conversation. We host three
 research-related blogs/newsletters, many of our funded projects also have their own outward-
 facing public sites and blogs, and we regularly organise webinars with legal professionals and
 third sector organisations. A public engagement highlight is our collaborative activities with
 national and international arts organisations; notable examples include: Drakopoulou and
 Parsley’s lecture series with Open School East (Margate) on ‘the artist and political authority’;
 Parfitt’s collaborations (see above); Vigneron’s heritage work with the Beaney Museum
 (Canterbury); and Zartaloudis’s collaborations with architects and designers leading to award-
 winning and publicly exhibited collaborations in Venice, Berlin, and Athens.

 Responsiveness to Policy Priorities
 Our outputs, ICSs, law clinic work and research collaborations show our responsiveness to
 numerous national and international priorities, including: criminal justice; economic inequality;
 environmental degradation; labour rights and standards; mental health; homelessness; health and
 reproductive rights; international conflict and human rights; democracy and political accountability;
 gender justice; indigenous rights; and refugees and asylum.

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Further Contributions to the Research Base, Economy, and Society
 Three areas in particular demonstrate our contribution to shaping the broader research base over
 this REF period:

 Theoretical, Conceptual, and Methodological Innovation
 In addition to our monographs on ‘time’ (Grabham), ‘nomos’ (Zartaloudis), and ‘legal reasoning’
 (Samuel), as well as the body of conceptual work produced by our intellectual property scholars
 (Bellido, Kang, Pottage), colleagues have played an active role in bringing researchers together
 to build new theoretical, conceptual, and methodological pathways, nationally and internationally.
 Notable (co)edited collections include: Bellido’s Landmark Cases in Intellectual Property Law
 (Hart, 2017); Grabham’s Law & Time (Routledge, 2019); Glanert’s Comparative Legal Reasoning
 (Wily, 2018) and Law’s Hermeneutics (Routledge, 2017); Jivraj’s Decolonizing Sexualities (2017)
 and Towards Decolonising the University (2020); Kang and Kendall’s ‘Materialities’, Law, Text,
 Culture (2020); Parsley and Piska’s ‘Legal critiques and social justice’, Griffith Law Review (2019);
 Piska and Gibson’s Critical Trusts Law (Counterpress, 2019); and Zartaloudis’s Law and
 Philosophical Theory (Rowmann, 2018) and Land Law & Urban Policy in Context (Routledge,
 2017). KLS staff are also founders of several conceptually innovative networks over the REF
 period, detailed in s.1.

 Social Policy and Feminist Law Reform
 In addition to the submitted monographs on ownership (Carr), caring labour (Hayes), family justice
 (Hunter), debt policy (Ramsay), and financial literacy (Zokaityte), colleagues have played a leading
 role in social policy and feminist law reform through (co)edited collections, for example: Carr’s Law
 & the Precarious Home (Hart, 2018); Horsey, Revisiting the Regulation of Human Fertilisation and
 Embryology (Routledge, 2015); Hunter, Feminist Judgments of Aotearoa New Zealand (Hart,
 2017), and Australian Feminist Judgments (Hart, 2014); McCandless’s Northern/Irish Feminist
 Judgments (Hart, 2017); Rackley’s Women’s Legal Landmarks (2019), and through their founding
 roles in networks such as: Carr’s Home, City, World; and Hunter, Rackley and McCandless’s
 collaborations on various feminist judgment projects in more than twelve countries around the
 world. Horsey, Hunter, and Sheldon’s ICS activities also make an important contribution here as
 does Grabham and Renz’s CI collaboration on the ESRC-funded project (based at KCL) ‘The
 Future of Legal Gender’ and their 2020 co-edited special issue of feminists@law.

 Critical International and Economic Law
 In addition to the seven submitted monographs on critical international and economic law
 (Alessandrini, Eslava, Haslam, Oduntun, Parfitt, Ramsay, Sullivan), KLS colleagues have shaped
 this field through (co)edited collections such as: Ashiagbor’s Re-imagining Labour Law for
 Development (Hart, 2019); Eslava’s Bandung, Global History & International Law (CUP, 2017),
 ‘Imperial Locations’, Leiden J of IL (2018), and ‘History, Anthropology and Archive of International
 Law’, Leiden J of IL (2017); Kendall’s Contested Justice: Politics and Practice of the International
 Court (CUP, 2015); and through founding research networks, i.e. Ashiagbor’s Informal Work in the
 Global North and South and Labour Law RN; Eslava and Parfitt’s International Law and Politics
 (LSA); Grief’s Airspace Tribunal Network; and Oduntan’s Air and Space, and World Anti-
 Corruption networks. Our research centres CECIL and SoCril are founding members of the multi-
 institutional international Economic Law Collective (2019).

 In addition to the three areas above, other leading wider contributions include: Albi’s co-edited,
 open access National Constitutions in Europe and Global Governance (2019), bringing together
 leading scholars of constitutional law from twenty-nine European countries to revisit the role of
 national constitutions in Europe (over 200,000 downloads, earning Albi the ‘Contribution of the
 Year’ Award, Estonian Academy of Sciences Constitutional Law Foundation 2020); Casey’s co-
 edited Changing Landscapes of Food Governance (2015), an innovative collection focused on
 public/private debates in regulatory theory; Glanert’s co-edited Law’s Hermeneutics (2017), a


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significant interdisciplinary intervention in the field of legal translation; and Vigneron’s co-edited
 ‘Critical Perspectives on the Management of World Heritage Properties’, a special issue of the
 multi-disciplinary journal Historic Environment (2016).

 Professional Association/Organizational Leadership
 These include: SLSA, Former Chair (Hunter); SLSA Board (Ashiagbor; Cloatre; Kirton-Darling;
 Perry-Kessaris; Renz); Onati Institute Governing Board (Hunter); Law and Global Justice Centre
 Advisory Board (Ashiagbor); Industrial Law Society Executive Committee (Ashiagbor); Organising
 Committee, Assoc. Law, Culture, Humanities (Kang and Kendall); International Society for
 Research on Art and Cultural Heritage Law Board (Vigneron); British and Irish Legal Institute
 Trustee (Ashiagbor); Wales TUC, GMB Union, Institute of Employment Rights (Hayes); Law,
 Literature and Humanities Association (Aus), Former President (McVeigh); International
 Association for History/Theory of Intellectual Property, Executive Committee (Bellido).

 Journal Editorial and Advisory Boards
 These include: Economy and Society (Pottage); Feminist Legal Studies (Ashiagbor; Grabham;
 McCandless; Renz); feminists@law (Alessandrini; Drakopoulou; Gibson; Haslam; Hayes; Hunter;
 McCandless; Parfitt; Rackley; Renz; Williams); European LJ (Schepel, Co-Editor-in-Chief);
 Journal of Immigration, Nationality and Asylum Law (York); Child and Family Law Quarterly, Nordic
 Journal of Law and Society, International Journal of Discrimination and the Law, Law, Culture,
 Humanities, Australian Feminist LJ (Hunter); Art/Law Journal (Parsley); Current Legal Problems
 (Ashiagbor); Japanese Yearbook of International Law (Arai); Journal of Consumer Law and
 Journal of European Consumer and Market Law (Ramsay); Journal of Medical Law and Ethics
 (Horsey, McCandless); Hague Journal on the Rule of Law (Perry-Kessaris); Law and Critique
 (Alessandrini); International Journal of Law in Context; Social and Legal Studies; Reproductive
 Biomedicine and Society (Sheldon); Latin American LJ (Eslava); Law and History (Bellido);
 Nigerian Yearbook of International Law (Oduntun, GE); Birkbeck Law Review (Bellido); Droit et
 Societé (Cloatre); Journal of Italian Philosophy (Parsley); Leiden Journal of International Law
 (Kendall, GE); Yearbook of Polish European Studies (Albi); Humanity (Eslava, Kendall); Journal
 of Social Welfare and Family Law (Carr); Journal of Law and Society (Hayes); Law, Text, Culture
 (McVeigh); London Review of International Law (Ashiagbor, Kendall).
 Book Series General Editorships and Advisory Boards
 These include: Ashiagbor and Hunter, GEs of IALS Open Book Service for Law; Sheldon, Law in
 Context (CUP); Hayes, Transforming Legal Histories (Routledge); McVeigh, Critical Studies in
 Law, Literature and Humanities (EUP); Herman, Diverse Voices (Bristol UP); Hunter, GE of Onati
 International Series in Law & Society (Hart) and Edward Elgar Research Handbook on Law &
 Society, Palgrave Socio-Legal Studies; Parsley, Advances in Critical Thought (Anthem); Williams
 and Piska, GEs of Kent Critical Law (Bloomsbury); Zartaloudis, GE of Encounters in Law &
 Philosophy (EUP).

 Peer Review Colleges and Grant Committees
 A majority of submitted colleagues participate on grants committees, peer review colleges, etc.,
 including: Australian Research Council; AHRC; Research Council for Culture and Society,
 Academy of Finland; ERC; EU H2020; ESRC; FWO (Netherlands); Irish Research Council; COST;
 Wellcome; British Academy GCRF; British Council.

 Notable International Fellowships
 These include: University of Geneva (Arai); Osgoode Hall Law School (Ashiagbor); Institute for
 International Law and the Humanities, Melbourne (Ashiagbor, Eslava, Parfitt, Parsley); United
 Nations University Institute (Ashiagbor); Flinders University (Sheldon); UTS Sydney (Hunter,
 Sheldon); New York University (Bellido); University of New South Wales (Bellido); Brown
 Foundation Menebes and Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (Glanert); RMIT Australia (Hayes); Hong



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kong University (McVeigh, Williams); Scuola Normale Superiore Pisa (Parsley); LUISS Guido
 Carli Law School, Rome (Schepel); University of Torino (Schepel).

 International Invited Talks, etc.
 KLS scholars gave many invited talks across five continents over this REF period. All submitted
 colleagues have also acted as reviewers/assessors for journals and/or publishers, and most have
 engaged in conference, workshop, and conference stream organising. A number of submitted
 colleagues also contributed to the sustainability of the discipline by teaching and training PhD
 students in 12 countries across five continents.




                                                                                         Page 19
