Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow (UofG)

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Social policy research at the University of Glasgow (UofG) seeks to understand, challenge and
 ameliorate social inequalities and injustices. Our work reflects seriously on the challenges facing
 social policy, is creative and publicly engaged, and is independent, critical and reflexive. We aim
 to make a difference, by engaging constructively with public debate, policy development,
 professional practices and the lived experiences of citizens in a variety of situations.

 We comprise 57 Category A (CatA) staff (51.48FTE), along with seven Learning, Teaching and
 Scholarship (LT&S) staff, 39 Postdoctoral Research Associates (PDRAs) and 104 postgraduate
 research students (PGRs). Staff are line-managed through three organisational units across the
 University: the Schools of Social and Political Sciences (SSPS) and Interdisciplinary Studies (SIS)
 both based in the College of Social Science (CoSS), and; the Institute of Health and Wellbeing
 (IHW) whose staff work in both CoSS and the College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences
 (MVLS). Based in five locations, our Unit incorporates staff from a research institute (IHW), six
 research centres/units, and two cross-University research networks. We lead the ESRC/Nuffield
 Foundation-funded Glasgow Q-Step Centre, which promotes quantitative literacy in the social
 sciences, and we contribute centrally to the University’s public engagement and policy-oriented
 body, Policy Scotland.

 We are united in our commitment to civic social science, and share common interests in tackling
 social inequalities and injustices, both nationally and internationally, through policy-relevant
 research underpinned by social theoretical expertise and methodological rigour. Our international
 reputation is built on these twin qualities, as evidenced through our world-leading, theoretically-
 informed work in key policy areas of health and inequalities, criminal justice, migration, and
 racism. These areas also reflect major challenges for the city in which we live and work, as well
 as for our partners and research participants across a range of settings.

 Expertise in social theory is a longstanding strength, and we combine methodological approaches
 (e.g., multi-method modelling; digital ethnography, visual and sensory methods, collaborative
 action research) to produce innovative analyses.

 We imagine, design and conduct much of our research in collaboration with non-academic
 partners, together analysing social problems and injustices, thus informing the development,
 delivery and reform of preventive and responsive social policy at local, national and international
 levels.

 We have created a thriving and supportive research culture and working environment, facilitated
 by the CoSS Equality, Inclusion and Diversity Committee, and as recognised by IHW’s Athena
 Swan Gold award.

 1.1 Research Themes

 Our research is primarily organised in four thematic areas, as shown in Figure 1, which allow for
 coherence and interaction across our constituent parts. Incorporating research and teaching staff,
 the themes reflect synergies between these dual responsibilities. Our thematic areas are collegial,
 collaborative forums for incubating research ideas, for peer review and support. Individual
 scholarship beyond the themes is however welcomed and innovation celebrated, and we include
 in this return the work of four CatA colleagues (4FTE) not affiliated to a specific theme.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                  Figure 1. Research Themes and Unit Centres and Networks




 a. Health and Wellbeing (H&W): Our largest theme, with 25 CatA (22.63FTE) (together with
 two LT&S staff and 27 PDRAs) are from the IHW, including the Medical Research Council/Chief
 Scientist Office-funded Social and Public Health Sciences Unit (SPHSU), along with the Centre
 for Disability Research (CDR); and;End of Life Studies who research the challenges presented
 by death, dying and bereavement.

 Over 200 research awards since 2014 (with over £18m spend within UofG) enable research on
 tackling health inequalities and evaluating policies to mitigate them. Research is diverse,
 interdisciplinary, and includes work on social and environmental determinants of health; service
 delivery across health conditions and health services; candidacy; public health and how
 communities might be mobilised to address health problems; impacts of policies and initiatives on
 health systems; disproportionate effects of health policies on vulnerable groups; and; gambling
 practice and its influence on wellbeing.

 b. Crime and Justice (C&J): Ten CatA (8.35FTE) (with two LT&S staff, and eight PDRAs) are
 affiliated to the globally recognised Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research (SCCJR), a
 research collaboration between four Scottish universities, producing research that informs policy
 and practice and advances understandings of justice. At UofG, this includes work on: violent
 victimisation; global youth gangs; community impacts of organised crime; plural policing; forms
 ofpunishment; criminal justice experiences of those with disabilities and mental health conditions;
 responses to rape, domestic abuse and forced marriage; trafficking of antiquities, and; desistance
 from crime, rehabilitation and reintegration.

 With over 60 awards since 2014 (circa. £2.5m spend), research improves understandings of crime,
 punishment and social control, and provides critical analyses of the development of institutions,
 cultures and practices of contemporary criminal justice, whilst exploring the prospects for
 progressive reform.

 c. Migration, Racism and Citizenship (MR&C): With 12 CatA (10.7FTE) (and two LT&S staff
 and two PDRAs) from the Centre for Research on Racism, Ethnicity and Nationalism (CRREN)
 and SSPS and SIS-based researchers in the cross-university Glasgow Refugee, Asylum and
 Migration Network (GRAMNet), work focuses on documenting, explaining, and addressing
 inequalities and injustices related to ethnicity, integration, migration and sexuality. This includes
 work on racism and political mobilization; the populist radical right; camp displacement of


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 refugees; sexual citizenship, and; multi-level policy-making and migrant integration.

 Twenty-nine awards (circa £1.6m spend) have shaped third sector policy and practice supporting
 asylum seekers in Scotland, influenced government thinking on the integration of migrants from
 eastern Europe into rural areas, and informed international LGBT human rights and equalities
 practice in the Commonwealth.

 d. Social and Digital Transformations (S&DT): With six CatA (5.8FTE) (one LT&S, and two
 PDRAs), our newest thematic area launched May 2019, following three new appointments and in
 recognition of increasing research strength in the dynamics of digital society. This also includes
 the long-established Glasgow University Media Group (GUMG).

 Thirteen grants (almost £1m spend) enable examinations of how digital technologies (services,
 devices, networks) shape and intersect with social, political and cultural change, such as: smart
 innovations in public services using AI and related technologies. A timely theme given the range
 of digital innovations being implemented in the public and private sector, and in everyday life, and
 their potential for creating new, and exacerbating existing inequalities. Staff incepted and lead the
 multidisciplinary cross-university network, Digital and Social Change Group.

 These themes have helped to coalesce social policy research at UofG, without constraining
 diversity in approach, methodology or focus of inquiry.

 Each theme is led by a senior/mid-career academic, and staff and PGRs in each theme meet
 regularly to explore research ideas, plan research bids, identify suitable collaborations, and offer
 mutual support. Decisions about specific research priorities are devolved to the communities of
 scholars in each theme.

 Overall coordination of Unit research activity is provided by a Research Oversight Group (ROG)
 comprised of centre/unit/network leaders who also represent our four thematic areas. The ROG
 acts in a facilitative capacity: reviewing draft publications and grant applications, and applications
 and fostering collaborations across the Unit.

 1.2 Interdisciplinarity

 Our Unit is inherently interdisciplinary, enabling us to address complex policy challenges whose
 solution does not lie in a single area of policy or disciplinary perspective, and allows us to merge
 and adapt theoretical frameworks from different fields.

 Interdisciplinarity has been extended through:
     • Recruiting staff with diverse disciplinary backgrounds: social policy; law; criminology;
         sociology; anthropology; area studies; public health.
     • Four designated Interdisciplinary Professors (Health and Wellbeing (Wyke), Health and
         Behaviour (Gray), Global Security (Hoskins), and Social Data (Murtagh)).
     • Regular interdisciplinary ‘sand-pits’ to encourage collaborative grant bids.
     • Interdisciplinary research grants and networks (e.g. ‘What Works Scotland’, a joint initiative
         with the University of Edinburgh, to improve the way local areas use evidence to make
         decisions about public service development and reform, had Co-Is in Education and Urban
         Studies; Public Trust and Online Content Moderation has Co-Is in Computer Science;
         EuroFIT brought together social, behavioural, public health, and cardiovascular specialists;
         Operationalising One Health Interventions in Tanzania has a PI in the Veterinary School).
     • Cross-disciplinary supervision of PGRs (with Creative Writing, Education, Law, Theatre
         Studies, Theology, Urban Studies, and Veterinary Studies).

 With University support, we have established research structures with clear and extensive cross-
 University interdisciplinary research interactions that also reach into the wider community, e.g.
 GRAMNet (of which the co-founder and five current/previous co-convenors are Unit members)

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 brings together researchers, NGOs and policy makers working with migrants, refugees and
 asylum-seekers. Academic research is complemented by artists-in-residence; a film series; co-
 production of theatrical pieces, and community cafés.

 1.3 Strategic Aims and Objectives

 We reviewed all activities in 2015, reflecting on the challenges facing social policy research, to
 devise innovative ways to best support research. We identified three strategic objectives, seeking
 to achieve these within the context of a strong and inclusive research culture, fostering integration
 between theoretical and applied research, and embedding principles and working practices that
 support equality, diversity and inclusion.

 a. Develop and sustain a shared vision: This cycle, the Unit experienced investment and growth
 with new appointments and, in 2016, the inclusion of nine social scientists from MVLS. Bringing
 together a coherent programme of research and engagement across several organisational units
 located across five different sites was a challenge. To address this, we created our vision for a
 civic social science: fully committed to engagement with a range of different publics, whilst
 continuing to ensure that this engagement is independent, critical and reflexive. We also
 consolidated our research themes, and developed ways to support staff inclusion. Support for staff
 and PGRs is detailed in Section 2, but the following activities fostered a shared vision:

    •   Civic social science discussions and a seminar series to debate and develop our shared
        vision, 2015-16.
    •   Residential writing retreats supporting writing and idea-sharing, 2016–ongoing.
    •   Workshops on ‘what makes a high-quality publication’, 2017–ongoing, and; on ‘research
        impact’, 2018–ongoing.
    •   New mechanisms for output peer review, offering feedback on work in progress, 2015–
        ongoing.
    •   A system for peer review of funding applications, 2015-ongoing, and; structured, but peer-
        led, grant-skills workshops, 2017-ongoing.

 b. Increase grant income and enhance our global reputation: our 2015 review identified on-
 going strengths in health, justice, migration and racism. Building on this, and through our growing
 staff base, we stepped up grant applications on pressing issues, successfully targeted Global
 Challenge Research Funds (GCRF), and increased collaborative research conducted with non-
 academic partners (leading to almost 40 funded partnerships this cycle). Our research income has
 increased significantly, from a total of £5,440,804 in 2014 to £23,796,350 in 2021. We increased
 public engagement and contributions to critical debate on social problems; strengthened academic
 links to produce impactful research which addresses global challenges (particularly in LMIC
 countries where we previously had no collaborative research projects), and; appointed staff with
 expertise in fields of international significance: digital inequalities (Ivani, Wessels), social data
 (Murtagh), and ethics (Kerr). We launched S&DT, and enhanced future research capacity by
 developing a new doctoral training programme (Section 2.3).

 c. A more strategic approach to impact and engagement: In REF2014 we highlighted our
 commitment to engaged, impactful, social science but the 2015 review identified that such
 engagement was mostly associated with a relatively small number of staff, and that understanding
 impact and how to enable and sustain it was not fully embedded across the Unit. We revised our
 impact strategy and developed processes to support staff and PGRs to understand how research
 can best make a difference, detailed below.

 1.4 Impact Strategy and Processes

 Our approach to impact recognises it is best pursued through the development and maintenance
 of long-term relationships with non-academic partners in governments and parliaments, public
 services and NGOs, and with activists and communities of interest. We do not generate and deliver
 new knowledge to these groups; rather, we develop research agendas, processes and impact with

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 them. In this process, the value and quality of our contribution rests on our diverse conceptual and
 methodological expertise, and also on our independence, criticality and reflexivity. We endeavour
 to bring publicly engaged, civic social science to collaborative efforts to challenge social inequality
 and pursue social justice.

 In addition to the appointment of an Impact Champion (McNeill), our impact strategy combined
 the provision of bespoke impact workshops, with utilisation of the University’s internal training and
 financial resources to deliver a programme of support for engagement and impact. Our central
 ambition was to support staff to foster links, build collaborations and extend the reach of their work,
 where compatible with their research, whilst providing additional targeted support for development
 of Impact Case Studies (ICSs).

 Our Impact Champion leads ‘impact workshops’ for staff and PGRs, with additional support for
 those with protected characteristics. Regular (3 x per year) training on impact planning is also
 offered via the CoSS Researcher Development Programme. The core of this training is
 development of a personal impact plan, which starts with developing strong, mutually beneficial,
 relationships with non-academic partners. H&W’s Impact Toolkit provides practical guidance on
 impactful research, from establishing research agendas to innovative forms of communication.
 Impact is recognised in our workload model and the appraisal and promotion process is structured
 to recognise significant impact achievements.

 We enhanced and extended our partnerships with non-academic partners through outreach,
 engagement, and co-production of research and, as in ‘What Works Scotland’, through using
 participatory or collaborative action methods to support communities of inquiry. We increased our
 publications in policy and practitioner journals/newsletters, set up blogs, and developed more
 diverse forms of outputs, pioneering creative and innovative modes of research, KE and
 engagement, detailed in subsequent sections.

 We made use of three sources of internal funds to support KE and impact: UofG’s Knowledge
 Exchange Fund (GKE), REF Contingency Fund (established to support the development of ICSs,
 and secured 22 awards from the ESRC-funded Impact Acceleration Account (IAA). Examples
 include:
     • GKE £30,112 for collaborative work with the Scottish Professional Football League Trust
        to develop training for coaches to deliver the healthy living programme for ‘Football Fans
        in Training’ (FFIT) and to develop and evaluate the FFIT for women programme.
    •   GKE £20,000 for collaborative work with the charity Paths for All to develop practical,
        simple, and accessible online resources to support older people to sit less and move more.
    •   ‘Distant Voices’ was developed with support from GKE and IAA totalling £40,000 (over 2
        years) and £30,000 from the Scottish Prison Service, leading to ESRC £1.1m funding for
        a three-year project co-designed with external partners.
    •   IAA £20,000 enabled a professional photographer to work with research participants to
        produce images representing their ‘Justice Journeys’.
    •   IAA £24,000 supported a community engagement project in Children’s Neighbourhoods
        Scotland, a £4m investment by the Scottish Government in collaboration with the Glasgow
        Centre for Population Health (GCPH) to bring together multiple sectors to improve the lives
        of children and young people in disadvantaged neighbourhoods.
    •   IAA £34,229 to support a Fellowship (part-funded by Scottish Parliamentary Fellowship
        scheme, £10,000) to evaluate the idea of introducing an inclusive social integration
        strategy for post-Brexit Scotland as a way of attracting and retaining migrants.
    •   £28,097 from the REF Contingency Fund was obtained to support the development of
        research impact from 17 projects.

 To deepen relationships with partners and enhance engagement and impact, three Unit staff
 (Burman, Watson, Wyke) with others in CoSS, were instrumental in setting up Policy Scotland
 which brokers research and policy knowledge and facilitates discussion and collaboration with

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policymakers. PS is used as a vehicle for engagement, KE and impact, through its discussion
 papers, blogs, and podcasts.

 Our activities garnered impact prizes and generated 14 potential Impact Case Studies (ICS), 9 led
 by female colleagues. Of our five submitted ICSs, four are led, and the fifth co-led by females.

 McNeill was runner-up, Outstanding Impact in Public Policy category of the ESRC Celebrating
 Impact Awards for ‘The Desistance KE Project’ (2014), Gray and Wyke’s ‘Football Fans in
 Training’ (2015) won the Universities Scotland/Scottish Funding Council Gamechanger Silver
 Award, while Burman and Mackenzie’s ‘Security Planning for the 2014 Commonwealth Games’
 (2015) won the Bronze Award.

 1.5 Strategic Priorities 2021-2027

 Going forward, our key priorities are:

 a. Production of theoretically informed and impactful research on pressing policy issues:
 Through collaborative and interdisciplinary research, we aim to address urgent social policy
 challenges. H&W aims to investigate and instigate changes in public health and health services,
 giving continued prioritisation to addressing health inequalities, ‘what works’ to improve health
 outcomes, and the embodied experiences of wellbeing. C&J will focus on crime and inequalities;
 gender-based violence; alternatives to prison; justice and health, and; global harms and social
 justice, whilst expanding the use of forms of creative practice, working with communities, policy
 makers and practitioners to inform policy and practice and collaboratively build just societies.
 MR&C will interrogate the multifarious ways in which migration and ethnicity are racialized by the
 State and other actors and support the struggles of migrants and ethnic and sexual minorities
 seeking social justice and substantive citizenship, whilst also directly informing policy at local and
 national levels. Key objectives for S&DT are to identify and mitigate mechanisms of social and
 cultural exclusion in the light of digital transformations. Research will foster and deploy more
 exploratory or data-driven approaches to address questions around the impacts of new
 technologies on social and economic lives, and address ethical challenges brought by new forms
 of data and associated analytics.

 b. Building research capacity: We face significant challenges from marked expansion of taught
 FTE numbers, exacerbated by the need to adapt teaching to online provision due to the pandemic.
 A key objective remains to recruit more staff to bring different forms of expertise, particularly to
 our new S&DT theme, and to invest in capacity development, supporting our PGRs and early
 career staff, focusing on activities that make Glasgow a great place to develop a career.

 c. Generating research income from diverse sources: Maintaining our grant success will
 depend on our capacity to respond quickly to challenge-led funding (building on our GCRF
 successes) and take advantage of opportunities presented by inter-disciplinary and international
 calls. We plan, then, to widen and diversify our funders to support priority areas.

 d. Expand collaborative research with academic and non-academic partners: Recognising
 that successful partnerships depend on an understanding and appreciation of diverse forms of
 expertise, we will work to remove (practical, procedural) barriers and strengthen our mechanisms
 for supporting staff to initiate and sustain meaningful collaborations and partnerships. We aim to
 increase the scale and diversity of such partnerships, and will do this by encouraging staff
 exchanges and secondments, and the further use of creative and participatory methodologies.

 1.6 Impact of COVID-19

 COVID-19 disrupted much of our research, affecting regulatory and ethics issues, study design
 and participant recruitment. Investigations of health challenges and evaluations of interventions
 were particularly affected. Some projects were suspended. Research teams collaborated in


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing plans for addressing differential COVID-19 impacts across multiple domains, gauging
 the impact of personal circumstances, and taking concrete steps to ensure scientific rigour while
 encouraging flexibility in approach, paying close attention to minimising the burden on research
 participants and researchers. Where feasible, fieldwork was moved online, and adaptations made
 to study design. No-cost extensions were sought, underpinned by a University commitment to
 bridging costs to support our staff base, and allocation of internal resources from UKRI and
 Scottish Funding Council to ensure project delivery. COVID-19 significantly affected staff,
 particularly those with caring responsibilities, and in the Unit we are working to mitigate this by re-
 configuring workloads, and securing additional resources from Schools to support those whose
 research activities are disproportionately affected. The government furlough scheme was used for
 a small number of staff.

 We gained funding to address COVID-19 related issues: ‘Social and Health Impacts of COVID-
 19 Suppression on Vulnerable Groups’ (£186,000) funded by Scottish Government Chief
 Scientist Office which is producing resources to inform policy development, improve worker
 training and support third sector organisations, and; two ESRC-funded studies, ‘The impact of
 COVID-19 on disabled people in the UK’ (£357,539) and ‘Betting and Gaming: the COVID-19
 impact study’ (£469,412).

1.7 Maintaining Research Quality and Integrity

 We adhere to the ethical guidelines of our respective professional societies. All research involving
 human participants, material or data must be approved by College Research Ethics Committees
 and the ethics committees of external bodies where relevant. Advice is available from School and
 College Ethics Officers. Ethics applications are scrutinised by two reviewers.

 We rigorously implement UofG’s processes on research integrity and ensuring rigorous data
 management. We have a Research Integrity Advisor. Integrity training and data management
 training is provided to new PGRs and staff; this has evolved to include online modules, webinars
 (to accommodate those based off-campus or part-time students), and discipline-specific content.
 Our research data management provision comprises an institutional repository and registry for
 long-term storage and sharing of data that underpin research publications. Allegations of research
 misconduct are taken seriously and dealt with under UofG’s Code of Policy and Procedures for
 Investigating Allegations of Misconduct in Research.

 UofG has clear procedures on open access (OA). Our Library manages all OA requirements based
 on a simple email from authors. The overall proportion of our outputs that are OA increased from
 38.4% in 2014 to 89.1% in 2020; for journal articles it increased from 50% to 95.6%. In the 2015-
 2018 Leiden Rankings for Social Sciences and Humanities, UofG was ranked ninth in the world
 for OA and eighth for green OA (in both cases up from 25th in 2011-14). 100% of Unit staff have
 an ORCiD.


2. People
2.1 Staffing Strategy and Profile

 Our staffing strategy has been two-fold: to build research excellence and critical mass to tackle
 societal problems, so we can address global research challenges whilst sustaining educational
 best practice and scholarship, and; investing in training and development to build commitment and
 sustainability and enhance retention. Our strategy is underpinned by a commitment to equality,
 diversity, inclusion and career development for all staff, supported by UofG’s commitment to the
 Concordat for Researcher Development.

 We leveraged growth in external research income and postgraduate student numbers to invest
 inrecruitment of outstanding scholars in areas that enhance teaching and research capacity, and
 further develop our strengths and skillsets. We specifically sought to maintain synergies between
 our research and teaching, recruiting those who can develop both. We prioritise recruitment

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of scholars who, whilst often rooted in a particular disciplinary tradition, work deliberately and
 creatively at the interfaces between disciplines, and who work to develop and sustain the
 relationships with non-academic partners on which impact depends.

 As Chart 1 shows, we have grown considerably from 30 CatA staff (29.2FTE) in 2014 to 57
 (51.48FTE) in 2021, due to internal reconfigurations and investment. Since 2014, we gained 21
 new CatA appointments: five Professors, a SRF, a Senior Lecturer and 14 Lecturers, with five
 of the latter migrating from fixed term contracts or competitive Fellowship schemes. Four of
 these new Lecturers have since been promoted. We also benefitted from the inclusion, in 2016,
 of nine researchers from IHW/MVLS to strengthen and extend our work on health inequalities
 and, in 2018, from two area studies colleagues in SSPS who strengthen our work on migration
 and integration.

                     Chart 1. Cat A Staffing Profile REF 2014 and REF 2021




 Of our 57 CatA staff, nine are early career (grades 7/8 with < 8 years employment), and seven
 are R-only.

 Almost a quarter (23%) of staff and almost two fifths (39%) of PGRs come from overseas. With
 8.11% of staff declaring as BAME, we recognize that ethnic diversity in the Unit is not what it
 should be. UofG’s comprehensive Race Audit (co-chaired by Virdee) produced an action plan
 which includes commitment to increase BAME employment. We are also redressing this through
 the CoSS Equality, Inclusion and Diversity Committee and IHW Athena Swan processes, with
 all job adverts specifically encouraging applications from underrepresented groups.

 Just over eight percent of staff identify as disabled. UofG is a Disability Confident employer and,
 guided by our expert colleagues in CDR, and School-based Disability Co-ordinators who provide
 support for disabled staff and students, we work to remove any barriers faced by disabled
 colleagues, ensuring full access to opportunities, e.g. in 2019 we developed a checklist for all
 research events – ensuring disability access and inclusive dietary provisions.

 In 2014, just five of our 14 Professors (35%) were female. To address this imbalance, we
 encouraged applications from strong female candidates and used the annual review process to
 identify and encourage promotion applications from women. Females now constitute 59% of the
 professoriate, 52% of SL/Readers, and 66% of Lecturers. Currently, 60% of all CatA staff are
 female. We seek to avoid horizontal divisions of labour through attention to workload (see Section
 2.2.e.), mentoring support, and by ensuring access to development opportunities.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Staff Support and Development

 Staff are our most valuable asset. We endeavour to ensure their training and development needs
 are met, they are able to pursue their research and teaching agendas, and they are rewarded for
 success. We seek to mitigate precarity of short-term contracts by advertising all new posts
 internally first and highlight opportunities to those within 12 months of funding end-date.

 Career development and advancement opportunities are offered throughout each career stage
 through training, mentoring and leadership opportunities, although these may differ according to
 whether staff are in CoSS or MVLS. Both however have an induction process. Shared features
 include:
     • An introduction to Head of School/Institute and an induction pack with information on how
        and where to seek help, and on health and safety matters.
     • Information about University training courses and HR processes, including performance
        and development review and objective setting.
     • A mentor who checks in daily and then weekly with new staff.
     • A checklist used by the admin team to ensure that arrangements are set up for new arrivals
        in advance (such as equipment, office space, keys, IT etc).

 a. Early Career Development Programme (EDCP)
 This cycle, 16 early career staff participated in the University’s award-winning ECDP. This provides
 learning and development opportunities in all aspects of the academic role, including grant writing
 and impact, the creation of a bespoke Personal Development Plan, and the setting of annual
 objectives to develop skills to meet the criteria for promotion from Grade 7 to Grade 8 within 3
 years, and to Grade 9 within a further 5 years. Tailored learning and development is provided via
 17 modules in three areas (Learning and Teaching, Research and KE, and Leadership), aligned
 to promotion criteria, and includes the compulsory completion of PGCaP (now RET). All those on
 the EDCP are allocated a mentor, whose role is to provide advice and support on all aspects of
 the job and offer career advice. They have a reduced teaching and administration load in the first
 two years of their appointment (50% in year 1; 25% in year 2). All those who have completed
 ECDP have been promoted.

 b. Support for Post-doctoral Research Associates (PDRAs)
 As at July 2020, we have 39 PDRAs who are non-REF eligible but who play a full part in the Unit’s
 intellectual life, through seminar presentations, active involvement in research planning, and
 collaboration in grant applications. UofG has signed up to the Concordat for Researcher
 Development and published a 3-year action plan for how we can continue to improve.

 At Unit level, we ran workshops on implementing the Concordat and, in June 2020, all PIs
 undertook training to support PDRAs in research career development. In the Unit, we also offer
 the following:
    •   A mentor;
    •   Opportunities to gain teaching experience: lectures, dissertation supervision; undertaking
        assessment;
    •   Opportunities to join PhD supervisory teams;
    •   Involvement in workshop and seminar organisation;
    •   Provision of seedcorn and conference funding to enable the development of personal
        research (described in Section 2.2.i.);
    •   Provision of a wide range of skills development;
    •   Ensuring ten days per annum of CPD are properly funded, planned for and taken up;
    •   Provision of better continuity of employment, and putting plans in place for career
        development.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We embed early career staff (lecturers and PDRAs) within grant applications. Examples are: Mirza
 and Mulvey as Co-I’s on Armstrong and Pickering’s ‘Social and Behavioral impacts of COVID-
 19 Suppression on Marginalized Groups’ and Bunn as Co-I on Reith’s Football Fans and Betting.

 c. Continuous Professional Development (CPD): UofG offers diverse CPD courses, including:
 personal development, research governance and organisation, careers workshops and advice,
 engagement, influence and impact, as well as IT training and a set of mandatory training courses
 including health-safety-wellbeing, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), Equality and
 Diversity (E&D), research integrity, unconscious bias,and recruitment and selection. Since 2014,
 Unit staff have completed 127 CPD courses.

 d. Mentoring: Mentoring is offered to all staff, not only those on EDCP. Mentoring guidance
 promotes the use of objectives; and is led by mentees’ needs to cover advice and support on
 career progression, working environment and work-life balance. Workload hours are allocated to
 mentors to ensure meaningful support is provided.

 e. Workload allocation: We are mindful that teaching and administrative burdens can fall
 disproportionately on certain groups (women, early career staff) if steps are not taken to avoid
 this. Fairness in work allocation has been developed in consultation with the CoSS Equality,
 Inclusion and Diversity Committee, which safeguards equitable allocation of teaching and
 administrative duties, and helps to ensure that all staff – regardless of grade, gender or any other
 characteristics – benefit from protected research time (one third of work model hours). There is an
 additional allocation for research and general administration, in recognition that allocations for
 specific roles will not cover the full range of administrative duties required of academics. Success
 in relation to income generation permits additional research time (and reduction in teaching and
 administration responsibilities).

 f. Performance and development reviews (P&DR): All staff undergo a tailored annual review,
 which provides the context for an appraisal of developmental needs, academic performance and
 the setting of forward objectives. P&DR includes one-to-one review meetings between staff and
 their line manager to reflect on successes, objectives, and challenges, and to agree future plans
 that enable the fulfilment of longer-term career aspirations. P&DR focuses on identification of
 development and training needs, and extensive use is made of internal and external training
 opportunities, such as skills training (e.g., use of software and new analytical techniques).
 Objectives are tailored to facilitate progression by covering the same areas as promotion criteria,
 including innovation in learning and teaching, research income and outputs, PGR supervision, KE
 and impact with attention paid to building internal and external partnerships.

                              Table 1. Promotions for REF Period
       Grade                                   Total No.    Females                      Males
       6 to 7                                      1               1                 -
       7 to 8                                     12               7                5
       8 to 9                                     16               11               5
       9 to Reader                                 2               -                2
       9 to 10 (Professor)                         6               4                2
       Professorial Rezoning                       3               -                3
       Total                                      40               23               17




                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 g. Support for promotion: Promotion workshops are held annually, providing guidance on
 promotion criteria and how to write strong applications. Senior colleagues offer one-to-one support
 on application drafts, and detailed feedback is given on outcomes. Table 1 shows that 40
 promotions were achieved this cycle (constituting 82.5% success rate).

 h. Research leave: CoSS staff are eligible for six months’ research leave after six consecutive
 semesters (or three years) with full relief from teaching and administrative duties. Entitlement
 continues to accrue during periods of leave (e.g., medical absence, maternity leave) and of
 research buy-out due to securing external funding. Since 2014, 20 periods of research leave have
 been awarded, generating 12 successful grant applications. Unit staff line-managed in MVLS do
 not receive study leave because most are R-only, and those who are R&T have lower teaching
 loads than those in CoSS.

 i. Internal seedcorn funding: Staff have access to College Strategic Research Funds (CSRF)
 which provide up to £5k for new projects, and to smaller Research Incentivisation (RI) awards,
 which support seedcorn development of research proposals, covering costs of early interviews,
 travel to meet potential non-academic partners, hosting workshops for research co-production,
 engagement and/or dissemination. This cycle, 11 colleagues benefitted from CSRF awards,
 receiving a total of £22,602. From 2017/18 to 2019/2020, 109 RI awards were made (average
 value £300), including 30 to early career staff.

 j. Conference/travel support: All staff, including PDRAs, have an annual conference attendance
 allowance of up to £1200 to present their work and for networking and dissemination purposes. In
 recognition that those with disabilities and/or caring responsibilities might find travelling to
 conferences difficult (and due to COVID-19), funds can be used for any type of research-related
 support.

 2.3 Postgraduate research students (PGRs)

 PGRs are integral to our research culture and community. In 2015, our PGR strategy was
 reviewed, and objectives identified in relation to exploring studentship opportunities, encouraging
 interdisciplinarity and further embedding our PGR community within research themes. Key
 aspirations were to sustain thriving and successful cohorts of PGRs and enhancing their skills
 through a new doctoral training programme, the Postgraduate Research Training Programme
 (incepted 2017). We currently have 104 PGRs at all stages, affiliated to one or more of our
 research themes.

 a. Approach to PGR recruitment: Schools organise annual PGR information sessions to inform
 potential students (moved online due to COVID-19), with existing PGRs talking about their own
 experience. The event includes a ‘showcase’ of potential thesis topics to inspire prospective
 applicants. PGR Convenors circulate advance notice of PGR opportunities prompting staff
 discussion about applications and co-supervision.

 We target competitive studentship opportunities, working closely with potential students from
 across the world to develop their proposals into strong applications for funding. Applicants write a
 proposal as a core part of their application which is evaluated in terms of research potential,
 originality, rigour and feasibility, alongside the candidate’s track record and ‘fit’ with supervisorial
 strengths of the Unit. In a rigorous evaluation process, each application is reviewed by two
 academic staff, who provide comment on a set of criteria and may also interview the applicant.

 Evidence of success is found in the diversity of financial support for our PGRs, with studentships
 gained through six pathways in the ESRC/SFC (SGSSS); AHRC, BBSRC, Scottish Government;
 Medical Research Council (MRC); Dawes Trust; Carnegie Trust; Nuffield Foundation; Leverhulme
 Trust; and from foreign governments (e.g. Chile, China, Czech Republic, Kuwait, Singapore and
 Turkey). Thirty PGRs were funded through internal UofG studentships. Our research centres are
 attractive and welcoming places to study, as attested by growing numbersof visiting PGRS from


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 institutions around the world who bring additional perspectives and skills which in turn enrich our
 environment

                                                 Table 2. Number of doctoral degreesawarded
                                                 2013/2014 – 2019/2020
  Table 2 shows that over the REF cycle,          HESA Doctoral        Degree Headcount
  numbers of doctoral degrees awarded                   Year
  has steadily increased; with 60%                   2013-2014                   11
  awarded to UK students; 13% to EU and              2014-2015                   13
  26% to international students. Three               2015-2016                    6
  quarters (74%) were female and 26%                 2016-2017                   10
  male.                                              2017-2018                   24
                                                     2018-2019                   28
                                                     2019-2020                   18
                                                        TOTAL                   110

 b. Facilities and support mechanisms: A Social Science Postgraduate Research Hub provides
 dedicated space and state-of-the-art facilities. All PGRs are provided with office space with a desk,
 computer,access to phone, free printing and library resources, transcription equipment and data
 analysis software. Since COVID, PGRs have been encouraged to take equipment home but in
 recognition that many do not have homes conducive to work, safe access to workspace on campus
 has been provided when permitted by Scotland’s tier system.

 Administrative support for PGRs is provided by Graduate Schools and students attend Unit and
 Graduate School events, which encourages the building of disciplinary and inter-disciplinary
 networks of academic exchange and support. A PGR student guide details submission deadlines
 and contact points for questions regarding PGR studies. Unit staff deliver a Research Induction
 week for all new PGRs.

 Supervision is conducted according to UofG’s PGR Code of Practice. Supervisors attend
 mandatory training (re-training every five years) and, in the interim, have access to a
 comprehensive suite of supervisor support resources, events and workshops provided by the
 University. Supervision teams comprise two members of academic staff with complementary
 areas of expertise (methodological or substantive). Students get close support (and progress
 monitoring) through monthly supervision meetings, where training and development needs are
 discussed, and a development plan devised to support research requirements.

 An annual review process provides independent monitoring of student progress. Students submit
 a yearly progress report to PGR convenors who meet with them and their supervisors for a face-
 to-face discussion on progress. Training needs are reviewed as part of the review process and all
 students complete a Training & Professional Development Log covering their training in three
 broad domains: subject specific training, research methods/epistemology, and researcher
 development skills (aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework).

 c. Skills development and training: PGRs undertake the CoSS Postgraduate Research Training
 Programme which, in addition to skills-based research training, includes workshops on viva
 preparation and future careers. Unit staff shape and deliver this programme, including leadership
 of residential weekends and full-day workshops.

 PGRs undertake the Researcher Development Programme (c. 20 modules annually) including
 mandatory courses on E&D, research data management, General Data Protection Regulation
 (GDPR), and research integrity. Following COVID-19, the Programme pivoted online with Linked-
 in-Learning programmes, and multiple routes to support through PGR@Home.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs also undertake advanced training, much of it delivered by Unit staff, via the Scottish
 Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS), the largest of the ESRC’s accredited DTPs.

 UofG’s Learning Enhancement and Academic Development Service (LEADS) runs programmes
 designed to support PGRs in completing their theses, and developing transferable skills to
 enhance their career prospects.

 PGRs enthusiastically participate in events through our centres, networks and research themes.
 They present work-in-progress at working lunches and seminars; collaborate with staff on
 research and KE activities, and are encouraged to engage in the organisation of social and
 research related activities, e.g., conferences, residential workshops, editing blogs, and managing
 Twitter feeds.

 Dedicated internal budgets support PGR participation in conferences and workshops, and they
 can also obtain funding from College Fieldwork Support Funds and the Robert and Angus Fleck
 endowment scheme to reimburse fieldwork costs by self-funded doctoral students (the latter
 supporting three doctoral fieldwork trips each year).

 We provide opportunities for PGRs to gain experience beyond their research: seven PGRs were
 placed on Scottish Government intern schemes for three-month paid work placements (during
 which time their studies are temporarily suspended) and another five on paid internships brokered
 through the CoSS Intern Hub. Eight PGRs have been employed as RAs on projects for periods
 of 1-6 months. Paid opportunities for teaching are offered (through a formal graduate teaching
 assistant application and appointment process to ensure equality of opportunity) as a contribution
 to career development.

 Over 20 papers and reports were published by PGRs in the REF period, either alone or with Unit
 staff. Those nearing completion have developed collaborative funding bids with staff and nine
 hold/have held academic positions in the Unit, exemplifying the integration into our research by
 those we have trained. Notably, SCCJR brokered a partnership with Scottish Government to
 establish the paid Scottish Justice Fellows scheme for PGRs to turn their completed theses into
 outputs that can inform policy and practice, extended in 2020 for a further 3 years.

 Our PGRS have gone on to academic positions (Lecturers, PDRAs and Clinical Academic posts),
 and to policy or research positions in local and national government, charities and research
 consultancies; others have become schoolteachers, journalists, fundraisers, police officers,
 housing officers and social workers.

 2.4 Fostering our research community

 A key aim following our 2015 review was to encourage a shared vision, and a coherent programme
 of research within and across our research themes. An important part of this was the development
 of a range of fora for staff discussion, stimulation and mutual support.

 a. Fostering collegiality: Seminar series in each theme provide opportunities for collegial
 engagement, helping staff make connections across disciplines and topics, e.g., a 2-day workshop
 on Prison Health and Wellbeing brought together health and criminology researchers with prison
 staff and prisoners, with the second day run in prison; the interdisciplinary Solway Seminar Series
 pairs staff and PGR papers.
 Six reading groups (on Ethnography; Social Theory; Anthropology; Qualitative Methods;
 Quantitative Methods; Social Network Analysis) and a Gender and Sexualities forum encourage
 co-reading and promote stimulating discussions of key publications, theorists and/or
 methodological approaches. Our interdisciplinary café-style discussions for staff and students at
 all stages (e.g. the Sociology Café) offer a chance to take a break, catch up with others, offer
 advice, get support and – when these moved online during lockdown - generally undo some of the‘

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

‘distance’ in ‘social distancing’.

 b. Writing support: Following the 2015 review we introduced a pre-submission peer-review
 process, in which colleagues receive critical but constructive feedback on papers in preparation.
 Lunchtime sessions allow staff to present emerging ideas and share new work. Both aim to
 increase the quality of submitted papers but also to orient staff towards understanding what
 constitutes a strong paper and how to peer review, as well as increasing awareness of work going
 on across the Unit. We encourage senior staff to co-author with earlier-stage colleagues, seeing
 this as beneficial for both parties since it tends to combine experience and craft with enthusiasm,
 innovation and new ideas.

 In 2016, we commenced off-campus ‘writing retreats’. As well as fostering relationships between
 scholars working in different themes, writing retreats create dedicated time and space for high-
 quality writing and have led to over 40 publications. We use these retreats – attended so far by
 over 50 staff and PGRs from across the Unit – to underscore our commitment to supporting staff
 in their research endeavours, but also to foster collegiality in the peer feed-back and constructive
 discussion that is a fundamental part of the retreats. Since lock-down these ‘write-outs’ have
 migrated online.

 c. Grant development support: we have offered structured grant-skills workshops since 2017,
 and peer review of funding applications since 2015. This entails review at Unit level for all
 applications, with additional review at College level by senior academics with research council
 experience for applications over £100k and all UKRI applications. Mock panels are assembled to
 offer interview experiences for those applying for ERC grants and large-scale programmatic
 grants. To improve overall quality, we provide examples of successful bids to staff. We use
 discretionary funding to pump prime research (see Section 2.2.i). This has undoubtedly
 contributed to our success in securing over 300 research awards from diverse sources since 2014.

 2.5 Equality and Diversity (E&D)

 We aim to ensure a learning and working environment based on fostering good relations, with a
 commitment to promoting respect, and challenging and preventing stereotyping, prejudice,
 discrimination and harassment across all protected characteristics. The CoSS Equality, Inclusion
 and Diversity Committee, which is led by and includes several Unit staff, reviews processes and
 ensures a supportive and flexible working environment. Our commitment to E&D is recognised
 through IHW’s Athena Swan Gold Award (awarded 2018).

 In line with UofG, we are committed to inclusiveness, which embraces diversity by valuing and
 respecting the perspectives and contributions of all colleagues and students. E&D training is built
 into the new staff induction programme, and all staff are required to complete online training in
 E&D to ensure they are aware of their duties and obligations as laid down by the Equalities Act
 2010. Line managers take mandatory courses on reasonable adjustment and managing diversity.
 We are leading UofG’s work to ‘Decolonise the University’. In recognition of our expertise, Virdee
 co-convenes UofG’s Race Equality Group and led a race audit to identify and address patterns of
 inequality in the University, developing an action plan. Unit staff sit on UofG’s Gender Equality
 (Robinson) and Disability Equality (Watson) Groups. We organise events to celebrate equality,
 including Black History Month, LGBT History Month, 16 Days of Activism, and International
 Women’s Day.
 All staff appointment panel members undergo Recruitment and Selection training (a pre-requisite
 is Unconscious Bias training); all panels include at least one member of each gender. Candidates
 for interview are selected using pre-determined essential and desirable criteria, and all panel
 members participate in shortlisting. Interviews are offered to all self-identified disabled people who



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 meet the essential criteria. UofG is committed to accommodating childcare arrangements of
 potential interviewees when scheduling interviews, while interviewees can claim caring expenses
 associated with attendance.

 Unit committee meetings and research-related events are scheduled within core hours to
 accommodate those who need to leave for caring responsibilities or other reasons. All our
 research-related policies undergo equality impact assessment.

 We are highly supportive of flexible and part-time working, with five staff (including a Professor)
 making successful flexible working applications, and two others being appointed part-time on
 request. Our workload allocations (Section 2.2.e) ensure that part-time staff are treated fairly and
 allocated teaching and administrative duties commensurate with their fractional appointment.

 Three colleagues returning from parental leave secured funds from UofG’s Academic Returners
 Research Support Fund which provides up to £10,000 to support an individual’s research career,
 also available to those returning from adoption leave and shared parental leave of four months
 or more. It can provide teaching, research and administrative assistance; conference
 attendance; research collaboration visits; small equipment purchases; and training. Funds
 allowed the recipients, variously, to gain teaching relief in order to complete an edited book and
 several articles; submit a UKRI bid; successfully apply for IAA funding to develop research
 impact, and deliver engagement and dissemination activities.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Strategy

 Our research funding strategy has been to consolidate and grow areas of strength through
 increasing funded research. We aimed to increase overall grant capture, but also to diversify grant
 holders and funding sources, making success more sustainable in the longer term.

 We successfully extended the range of funding sources, aiming for a mixed portfolio, striking a
 balance between:
     • Small grants that enable specific fieldwork and/or support impact plans, like the British
        Academy funded ‘Leisure or Livelihoods? Youth Perspectives on Gambling and its Social,
        Economic and Health Impacts in Ghana and Malawi;’
    •   Medium-sized grants supporting individuals (such as our successful British Academy Mid-
        Career, Leverhulme International, Marie Sklodowska-Curie and Alexander von Humboldt
        Fellowships);
    •   Collaborative, co-produced projects with non-academic partners, like the ESRC-funded
        Dying in the Margins: uncovering the reasons for unequal access to home dying for the
        socio-economically deprived;
    •   Larger collaborative and interdisciplinary grants with multiple academic partners that
        enable longer-term projects, such as the H2020 ‘IMPRODOVA’ project (2018-2021) which
        is delivering recommendations, toolkits and collaborative training packages for European
        police, medical and social work professionals to improve institutional responses to
        domestic abuse.

  To generate research proposals that meet our interdisciplinary aims and which address
  complex policy problems, we collaborate extensively within UofG, as in the NIHR-funded
  ‘Arthritis in Kilimanjaro’ project researching the distribution, lived experience, and health, social
  and economicimpact of inflammatory arthritis in Northern Tanzania.




                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2 Infrastructure

 a. Facilities: We benefit from good facilities. Everyone has office space, with high-quality PCs
 replaced every three years, and laptops or iPads for flexible working. One-on-one and web-based
 training tutorials are provided for staff and PGRs. There are high-quality IT facilities in all research
 centres, e.g., facilities in GUMG comprise 17 high specification PCs, specialist software, industry
 standard audio-visual recording equipment, data storage facilities and a simulated newsroom.

 We have several dedicated meeting spaces and informal/kitchen spaces. Our communal spaces
 contribute strongly to the research environment by providing venues for reading groups, allowing
 discussion of research-in-progress in informal settings, and providing opportunities for supportive
 interactions between staff. We sustain this positive aspect of the research environment by actively
 encouraging staff to make use of these spaces, but we also make extensive use of digital
 technology for seminars and meetings, accelerated by COVID-19 restrictions, to enable flexible
 working and accessibility.

 We benefit from a world-class library with exceptional physical and electronic holdings. It has an
 extensive social science collection and full coverage of social policy topics. It has collections of
 large data sets and expertise to support their use along with an extremely well-resourced
 infrastructure to support a range of research related activities, including dedicated AV and
 technical support. There is a Print and Photographic Unit which we use extensively to produce
 videos and podcasts to share our research, and to design and print reports, posters and
 publications.

 UofG is constructing a £113m Advanced Research Centre (ARC) housing 600 researchers
 (including PGRs) to encourage interdisciplinary collaborations in five broad thematic areas across
 and beyond the University. Robinson leads the ‘Sustainable Development’ theme. When the ARC
 opens, several Unit researchers will relocate there. A new £50m dedicated IHW building with
 support from the Pears Foundation is under construction; it will bring all IHW staff together, whilst
 also increasing PGT and PGR capacity.

 b. Professional services staff: To support staff expansion and reflecting the expanded remit,
 scale and diversity of our research, Unit-dedicated professional services staff increased from two
 in 2014 to seven in 2021. Two Project Coordinators provide support with identification of funding
 opportunities and grant costings, attend to funder specifications, and provide pre-award
 administration. A Research Administrator, an Impact Officer and two KE, Engagement and
 Communication Officers play key roles in web design, development of digital content and
 dissemination of research materials. A Technician supports GUMG’s activities. All are essential
 for the support and integration of our teaching and research practice, and we support their ongoing
 training and development.

 3.3 Income

 As a result of our mechanisms of peer support, access to professional services staff, expertise
 and research facilities, we achieved major success in grant applications this cycle. Our total
 income, from diverse sources, more than quadrupled, from £5,440,804 in 2014 to £23,796,350
 in 2021, with 61% of awards held by women. Early career staff raised £1,342,679 (from grants
 and Fellowships). At the census date, 77% of CatA staff held research grants.

 A major achievement in H&W was continued funding from the MRC/Chief Scientist Office for
 SPHSU following quinquennial review in 2019, which supports ongoing work to understand how
 social, behavioural, economic and political factors affect health and wellbeing, and allows a focus
 on whole systems approaches to improve health and reduce inequalities.




                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Other large awards include an NIHR funded project to evaluate the impact of the M74 motorway
 on urban mobility, transport infrastructure and public health (Hilton); a Wellcome Trust Senior
 Investigator award for ‘Global Interventions at the End of Life’ (Clarke), and; funding from CSO,
 NIHR and the EU for a programme of research ‘Football Fans in Training’ supporting healthy
 lifestyles through partnerships with professional football clubs (Wyke, Gray). Funding obtained by
 Bunn, Reith and Wardle supports research on the health implications of gambling, generating
 policy recommendations to ameliorate negative effects.

 C&J won funding from diverse sources, including for ‘Distant Voices’ a collaboration with the
 charity Vox Liminis exploring punishment and reintegration through song-writing and other creative
 methods (McNeill, ESRC, £1m). McNeill’s British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship facilitated the
 ‘Pervasive Punishment’ project. Brooks-Hay and Burman’s portfolio of research on gender and
 justice comprises the 40 month ‘IMPRODOVA’ project examining frontline responses to domestic
 abuse with 16 European partners (European Commission, H2020); ‘Justice Journeys’ (Scottish
 Government) which is informing policy and practice through the lived experience of rape survivors;
 two evaluations of advocacy support services for rape survivors (funded by Police
 Scotland/Scottish Government) and; a study on ‘Football and Domestic Abuse’ funded by Sir
 Halley Stewart Trust. Other awards include a study on ‘Understanding Repeat Violence
 Victimisation in Scotland’ (Batchelor) and ‘Community Experiences of Serious Organised Crime
 in Scotland’ (Fraser) both funded by Scottish Government. ‘Policy Transfer in Violence Reduction’,
 in collaboration with the University of Edinburgh, LSE and Open University runs from 2020-2022
 (Fraser, ESRC, £765,00).

 MR&C obtained a large AHRC award ‘Researching Multilingually at the Borders of Language, the
 Body, Law and the State’ (2014-2017) with colleagues in the Schools of Law and Education, to
 investigate translation and interpretation for migrant and asylum seekers in different settings
 (Gibb). Others include a five-year ESRC project ‘Social Support and Migration in Scotland’
 (SSAMIS) in collaboration with Swansea University (Nov 2013-Nov 2018); Mainwaring’s
 Leverhulme-funded work addresses the externalisation of borders and bordering practices by
 looking at the way in which the UK uses visa practices to control migration, and; Scrinzi’s Marie
 Sklodowska-Curie and British Academy mid-Career Fellowships supporting her research on
 migrant domestic labour and the international division of care within institutional and
 bureaucratised settings in Italy and France.

 S&DT had success with the Nuffield Foundation-funded ‘Me and My Big Data’ (2019-2021) in
 collaboration with the universities of Liverpool, Sheffield Hallam, and the Good Things
 Foundation (Wessels); from AHRC, with ‘Beyond the Multiplex’ to understand how to enable
 different audiences to participatein a more diverse film culture (Wessels), and; from EPSRC
 ‘Public trust and understanding of online content moderation, and its impacts on public discourse'
 (Happer).



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Innovation through collaboration

 We play a leading role in shaping the research base nationally and internationally, through
 research building on existing strengths and in emerging areas of expertise. A philosophy of
 collaboration and interdisciplinarity underpins much of our research and is expressed in our
 practice. Colleagues are supported to conduct research collaboratively, in a culture of expertise
 sharing and mutual development.

 Developing and sustaining diverse collaborations is an intrinsic element of our approach to
 developing innovative, engaged and impactful research that addresses social, economic, and




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 political problems. It is central to bringing in fresh ideas and expertise, and ensuring the
 significance and sustainability of our research. Importantly, much of our research is conceived and
 conducted in and through collaboration, and this is both a key strength of the Unit and a key source
 of sustainable impact. Evidencing this, we contributed to over 40 collaborative projects this cycle,
 and participated in 13 national and international networks or consortiums.

 This cycle we sought to balance our national contributions by placing emphasis on developing our
 international presence, through expanding and invigorating external partnerships and by:
     • Supporting staff to apply for networking grants, e.g. Berg’s leadership of a research
         network on the role of intelligence services in African countries contributing to
         contemporary debates on security sector reform, and conducted in partnership with 12
         African and European Universities, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute,
         and the US Naval Postgraduate School;
    •   Utilising UofG’s MoUs to engage with external collaborators, e.g. the University of
        Sydney/University of Glasgow Partnership supporting ‘Smart Publics’ (Wessels) which
        examines effects of the placement and use of sensors, chargers, digital screens and WiFi
        points in streetscapes;
    •   Hosting visiting academics from around the world, as in SCCJR’s Visiting Fellowship
        Scheme, which led to Burman’s Wellcome Trust research on ‘Vicarious Traumatisation’
        amongst criminal justice practitioners, in collaboration with a colleague at the University of
        Massachusetts.

 Our international research collaborations represent our aspirations to innovate through
 collaboration and interdisciplinarity; our strategic targeting of grant funding at all staffing levels;
 the closeness between research and KE/impact, and; the importance of practice in engaging
 diverse communities. In particular, we have endeavoured to develop visual and creative arts-
 based methodologies and methods of engagement.

 4.2 International and national research collaborations

 All research areas have successful funded collaborations which enable wider perspectives and
 innovation, for example:
 Within H&W, the EU funded EuroFIT consortium (Gray and Wyke) focusing on physical activity
 for health collaborated with three other Scottish Universities, six European Universities and three
 SMEs: Healthy Stadia, PalTechnologies, Pintail Research Management. It delivered a physical
 activity programme in 14 professional football clubs, benefitting around 2,000 men, and led to
 UEFA supporting ‘Healthy Stadia’ to roll out the programme in Europe, along with the production
 of several publications.

 Wight’s partnership with the Child Health and Development Centre, Makerere University and
 MRC/UVRI and LSHTM Uganda Research Unit to conduct research on parenting interventions to
 reduce violence against children, led to the development of a parenting programme taken up by
 the Ugandan government.

 In C&J, international collaborations include McNeill’s leadership of a European Commission-
 funded research and KE network on Mass Supervision involving 70 researchers across 23
 countries. With a focus on development of new methodologies, training and capacity building, it
 produced two further research grants, three edited collections and two special issues of journals,
 and a raft of policy and practice briefings for use in the participating countries. A training school
 and a series of short-term scientific missions provided opportunities to develop research skills and
 networks. Mackenzie’s Trafficking Culture programme of transnational research into the
 contemporary global trade in looted cultural objects and art crime, conducted with colleagues at




                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the Universities of Cape Town, Victoria Wellington, Oxford and Maastricht, highlights the
 importance and limitations of regulatory frameworks, supporting the formulation of effective
 cultural heritage protection policy by the UN Office of Drugs and Crime (UNDOC).

 SCCJR’s partnership with Edinburgh, Stirling and Strathclyde universities has led to 20
 collaborative projects. A Visiting Fellow Scheme enables inward and outward mobility and
 intellectual exchange; over this cycle, five international scholars were hosted at Glasgow, leading
 to successful grant applications. In 2018, partnerships were formalized with five criminological
 research centres (Universities of Oslo, Hong Kong, Leuven, Toronto and Queensland University
 of Technology) to support research links and facilitate exchanges for staff and PGRs.

 MR&C’s productive collaborations with the University of Manchester led to the ‘Understanding the
 Dynamics of Ethnic Identity and Inequality’ (CODE) large research centre (2014-2017) with work
 packages led by Smith and Virdee. Virdee co-led the ‘Racism and Political Mobilisation’ network
 focusing on economic crisis, racialised violence and working lives co-produced with the British
 TUC, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Tricontinental Institute (India) and the Institute of Race
 Relations.


 S&DT’s Norface-funded research with colleagues in Norway, Estonia and Denmark, focused on
 the digitalisation of public sector services (Wessels). Happer and Philo’s ‘Public Understanding
 and Behaviour, and the Impact of Diet for Climate Change and Food Security Policies: Case
 studies in Brazil, China, UK and US’ was conducted with academic partners in those countries,
 and funded by the Avatar Alliance Foundation.

 4.3 Collaborations with non-academic organisations

 We have worked hard and purposefully to gain a reputation for our collaborative approach to the
 conception, design and delivery of research, and consider that we have particular strengths in this
 area, as evidenced by the range of mutually benefitting research relationships our centres have
 with non-academic organisations, from Government ministries to third sector organisations. For
 example: CDR is a strategic delivery partner of the Scottish Government's learning disabilities
 policy team; SCCJR’s collaboration agreement with Scottish Government through which
 researchers disseminate findings and discuss policy implications of their research; our migration
 researchers’ close relationship with the Scottish Refugee Council through which projects on
 migrant integration have been co-produced, and GUMG’s collaboration with Chatham House on
 studies investigating the potential role of the public in reducing GHG emissions through dietary
 choices.

 Many of our relationships have developed organically over many years through longstanding
 professional associations; others are more recent and stem from our targeted outreach, which
 includes invitations to potential partners to attend research workshops, and direct approaches for
 partnership and/or consortium membership. We have fruitfully used the University’s facility to
 appoint Honorary Affiliates and Honorary Professors (reserved for non-academic appointees) to
 work with us devising, implementing and delivering research.

 We collaborate with external organisations to produce research-informed resources for public use,
 as in C&J’s work with the Modern Studies Association to produce Resources for School Pupils.
 MR&C’s ongoing work with the West of Scotland Regional Equality Council and ESOL/TESOL,
 supported by Education Scotland, in the co-production of educational materials on LGBT and
 migrant equalities is contributing to changes in practice by embedding issues of social justice and
 gender/sexual diversity in ESOL teaching. GCRF-funded collaborative work with West
 Dunbartonshire Council on the experiences of young Syrian migrants in Scotland is being used by
 the Coalition of Scottish Local Authorities as a means of identifying best practice around Syrian
 resettlement.


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Influence on policy and practice developments

 We are a large and vibrant Unit, whose researchers, collectively and individually, are making
 important and timely contributions to a range of academic, policy and practice debates in
 established and emergent fields, e.g.
     • Funding from the ESRC and Scottish Government established ‘What Works Scotland’
         (2014-2020) in collaboration with the University of Edinburgh, to work with local authorities
         to improve the way local areas use evidence to make decisions about public service
         development and reform (Watson). This provided intellectual leadership for public sector
         reform, the development of tools and training for Participatory Budgeting (PB), advice on
         participatory policy-making for Local Authorities, and the development of a tool for
         assessing local decision-making used by Community Planning Partnerships.
     • Kay’s participatory action research on migration from Central and Eastern Europe
         conducted in collaboration with University of Swansea, identified innovative solutions to
         isolation, informing Scottish Government’s response to migrant settlement in rural areas.
     • Happer’s submission to Westminster Select Committee on ‘Communicating Climate
         Science’ was extensively cited in the recommendations in the subsequent report, and her
         submission to the Scottish Government’s Adaptation Consultation in 2019 helped to
         finalise the new outcomes-based five year Climate Change Adaptation Programme.

 We also draw on our research expertise to design and/or deliver training to non-academic bodies,
 e.g., Public Health England, Police Scotland (on honour-based violence), the Scottish Government
 (on criminal justice systems and processes), and the Judicial Institute for Scotland (on gender,
 sexual offences, and women who offend).

 4.5 Engaging diverse publics

 We engage with a wide range of publics including: the academic community globally; national and
 international governments, policymakers, practitioners and wider society, particularly, but not
 exclusively, with marginalised groups. We do this for four main reasons: to generate research
 questions and agendas; to provoke interest in our research; to encourage its use and application,
 and to provide feed-back to research participants. We do this in a variety of ways: through our
 websites, social media, especially Twitter, and through workshops and intersectoral events to
 promote KE and develop research and policy agendas. We participated in over 50 engagement
 activities this cycle, including the annual ESRC Festival of Social Science. All research centres
 distribute regular newsletters or bulletins to academic, policy, practice and public audiences. We
 use blogs and podcasts to generate interest and engagement, e.g. SCCJR blog, End of Life
 Studies blog and the PGR-run IHW blog.

 Our expanding use of creative arts-based methodologies generates novel forms of outputs and
 enables wider engagement, e.g., a graphic novel in Schinkel’s Lives Sentenced project; Malara’s
 multi-award winning documentary ‘The Devil and the Holy Water’; use of fiction in McNeill’s
 monograph ‘Pervasive Punishment’ which deploys visual techniques, music and songwriting as
 ways of exploring being supervised, and the diverse range of creative media generated through
 the Distant Voices project. ‘Glasswalls: shining a light on domestic abuse’ is a collaborative
 community project raising awareness of domestic abuse through the use of stained glass
 developed by PGR Emma Forbes and subsequently exhibited in the Scottish Parliament and
 venues across Scotland. Stella’s exhibition ‘Home is where the heart is: LGBT migrants in
 Scotland used participant photo diaries as exhibits and drawings, displayed in public libraries.

 We deliver research insights to influential audiences through positions on advisory boards,
 working groups and external committees to inform policy, practice or legislative reform initiatives.
 Thus, Reith’s membership of the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board which advises the
 Gambling Commission and the UK Government on gambling policy; Kay’s membership of the
 Scottish Government’s Expert Advisory Group on Migration and Population; Mulvey’s

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 membership of the Scottish Government’s New Scots Integration Strategy forum, and; Burman’s
 membership of the Prison Reform Trust Expert Group on reducing female imprisonment across
 the devolved nations, and of the Scottish Prison Service/Scottish Government Women’s Strategy
 Programme Steering Group. Clark served as Consulting Editor to the Scottish Government’s
 Strategic Framework for Action in Palliative and End of Life Care, and assisted the Scottish
 Parliament in its enquiry ‘We Need to Talk about Palliative Care’. O’Donnell sits on the Scottish
 Government’s Expert Group on COVID-19 and Ethnicity. Craig has been a member of the Cabinet
 Office’s Cross Government Trials Advice Panel since 2015.

 Unit staff have provided, by invitation, oral or written evidence to Parliamentary committees
 ranging from: the House of Commons Select Committee on Climate, Policy and Public
 Understanding (Happer and Philo), through the Government Select Committee on Health and
 Sport in relation to the promotion of healthier lifestyles (Gray and Wyke), to the Scottish
 Parliament Justice Committee in relation to the presumption against short sentences and release
 from prison (Armstrong and McNeill) and the Migration Advisory Committee: EEA workers in the
 UK Labour Market, and Scottish Parliament’s Culture, Tourism, Europe and External Relations
 Committee's Immigration Inquiry (Kay).

 4.6 Contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Our contribution to the research base relies upon engaging all colleagues. Since 2014, staff have
 peer reviewed for a vast array of journals and given 38 plenary or keynote talks, e.g., British
 Society of Criminology 2018 keynote (McNeill); British Sociological Association 2019 keynote
 (Virdee), and Swedish Royal Academy of Science, Stockholm 2018 (Craig). Sixteen colleagues
 performed roles in academic meetings and conferences, as conference chairs, organising
 committee members and session/panel organisers.

 This cycle, Unit staff won five best article prizes. Scholarly contributions were recognised through:
   • FacSS: Clark (2015) Virdee (2018); Burman (2019).
   •   FRSE: Wyke (2016); Burman (2018), Watson (2020).
   •   Honorary Fellow of Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) O’Donnell.
   •   OBE to Clark for services to end of life care research (2017); CBE to Burman for services
       to criminology (2019).

 Five colleagues were appointed to adjunct/visiting positions, e.g., University of Toronto
 (Armstrong); NORDWIT Centre of Excellence on Women in Technology-Driven Careers,
 Uppsala Univ. (Wessels); KU Leuven and Hong Kong (Burman); Yale University School of Public
 Health (McDaid); Université Libre de Bruxelles (Waites).

 During this cycle, staff were Editors-in-Chief of seven international journals: Media, Culture and
 Society (Armstrong); Criminology and Criminal Justice (Armstrong and Burman); Memory
 Studies (Hoskins); Disability and Society (Watson); Journal of Digital War (Hoskins); Ethnicity
 and Health (Wight); Sexual Health (McDaid). 22 colleagues serve on leading journal editorial
 boards, including the British Journal of Criminology, Punishment and Society, Sexualities,
 Sociology and Health and Illness, Ethnic and Racial Studies and Disability and Society.

 We provide leadership within learned societies and professional associations, e.g. Vice President
 of Hospice, and Board member, European Association for Palliative Care (Clark); Ethics Officers,
 Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK & Commonwealth (Robinson and Pickering);
 Co-Convenor, European Society of Criminology Working Group on Gender and Justice (Burman);
 Chair, Board of Trustees Howard League for Penal Reform (McNeill); Board member,
 Confederation of European Probation (McNeill); Co-chair, UK National Awareness and Early




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diagnosis Initiative (Wyke); Disability Advisory Committee, Equalities and Human Rights
 Commission (Watson); Co-chair, Climate Psychology Alliance Scotland (Happer); Chair of
 Society of Academic Primary Care (O’Donnell).
 The Unit’s expertise has provided leadership through:
    • ESRC Review College (Stella, Hoskins and Craig).
    •   ESRC Large Grants Committee (Wyke).
    •   ESRC Joint Collaborative Studentships Commissioning Panel (Waites).
    •   Wellcome Trust Expert Review Group on Population and Public Health Sciences
        (O’Donnell).
    •   Chair, Marie Curie Funding Board (O’Donnell).
    •   Health, Care and Welfare Services Research Committee, Research Council of Norway
        (Wyke).
    •   MRC/ NIHR/ ESRC/ DfID funding panel for research on adolescent health in LMIC settings
        (Wight).

 Unit staff have evaluated applications for over 20 different funders, including: AHRC, European
 Research Council, Medical Research Council, NIHR, Nuffield, Wellcome Trust, Academy of
 Finland Strategic Research Council, New Zealand Research Council, the Research Council of
 Norway, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the South African Human
 Sciences Research Council, H2020 Marie Sklodowska Curie Fellowships, Research Foundation
 Flanders and the Estonian Research Council.

 We provide leadership in the ESRC/SFC Scottish Graduate School of Social Science the UK’s
 largest facilitator of funding, training and support for doctoral students in social science, holding
 key roles in six Studentship pathways, the advanced training programme, and the delivery of the
 Summer School.




                                                                                               Page 22
