Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: D34 – Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Loughborough made its first submission to the Communication, Cultural and Media Studies,
 Library and Information Management sub-panel under REF2014. It was the second largest
 submission to this sub-panel (30.7 FTE) and 50% of the submission was rated ‘world leading’
 and 37% ‘internationally excellent’. The panel praised our ‘outstanding, evidence-led’ research
 strategy, ‘outstanding and very considerable impact on policy’ and noted ‘a high proportion […]
 of world-leading research’. Our post-2014 REF cycle was marked by unprecedented institutional
 investment and growth, designed to further enhance the quality of our research and expand its
 reach and impact. This included a 30% increase in staff, establishment of an Institute for
 Media and Creative Industries on Loughborough’s new London campus, as well as £2.2
 million investment in support for events, networking and partnership development, PhD
 studentships, and pilot research leading to external funding bids. This support enabled us to more
 than double our external research income compared to 2014, establish three new research
 specialisms, and develop an outstanding leadership profile nationally and internationally, within
 and beyond academia.

 1.1 Research structure

 Our 2021 submission comprises 40 FTE staff; 31 based in the School of Social Sciences and
 Humanities on the Midlands campus, and 9 in Loughborough University London on our London
 campus. Our research infrastructure is organized through the Centre for Research in
 Communication and Culture (CRCC, est. 1991) and the Institute for Media and Creative
 Industries (IMCI, est. 2015). Together, they benefit from enhanced support via the university-
 wide Communication and Culture ‘Beacon’ (est. 2016), one of five university-wide ‘Beacons’ of
 research excellence.
      From the very beginning of communication research at Loughborough (late 1980s) we have
 taken a distinctive multi-scale, interdisciplinary approach, ranging from the micro-dynamics of
 interpersonal interaction rooted in social psychology to the macro-dynamics of mediated
 communication and culture grounded in political science and sociology. This expertise coalesces
 into five research specialisms (Figure 1).




       Figure 1: The organisation of communication and culture research at Loughborough University



                                                                                                     Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The first two of these specialisms, ‘Language and Social Interaction’ and ‘Political
 Communication’, are long-established areas of strength and were identified as world-leading in
 the REF2014 feedback. ‘Media, Memory and History’, ‘Culture, Economy and Policy’, and
 ‘Communication for Social Change’ are the three new specialisms we have grown during this
 REF period via new investment and appointments.

 1.1.1 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research. Interdisciplinarity has been a hallmark of
 our approach to communication and culture from its inception. This is reflected in the disciplinary
 backgrounds of our staff, spanning the social sciences and humanities. Throughout the REF
 cycle, we have ensured that interdisciplinarity is embedded in our research strategy and
 infrastructure at two levels.
      First, our organisational and funding structures support interdisciplinary collaboration in our
 Schools. On the Midlands campus, the Centre for Research in Communication and Culture
 (CRCC) acts as a cornerstone of interdisciplinary collaboration, from communication to
 sociology, political science, geography, and history. On the new London campus, we created an
 environment designed to encourage interdisciplinarity: the Institute for Media and Creative
 Industries (IMCI) is one of seven co-located institutes, alongside design innovation; international
 management; diplomacy and international governance; sport business, innovation and
 entrepreneurship; and digital technologies.
      Second, interdisciplinarity is actively supported at university level, through institution-wide,
 interdisciplinary research priorities (known as ‘Beacons’ and ‘Global Challenges’), introduced in
 2016 as part of Loughborough’s new ‘CALIBRE’ research strategy. ‘Communication and Culture’
 is identified as a ‘Beacon’, with our staff leading interdisciplinary activity across the university
 and beyond. We also actively contribute to another university-wide priority via the ‘Health and
 Wellbeing Global Challenge’, reflecting growing expertise in health communication.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims set in 2014

 In 2014 we outlined four strategic aims, designed to extend the reach and impact of our
 research. This ambition was achieved and, in many ways, exceeded.

 1.2.1 To develop communication and culture research as a core research priority at
 Loughborough. The University’s research strategy placed an explicit emphasis on excellence
 and a sharper focus on identifying and supporting institutional research strengths, including the
 Communication and Culture Beacon, led by our staff (Downey, 2016-19; Keightley, 2019-). Its
 launch in 2016 was accompanied by immediate investment in eight academic posts, five PhD
 studentships, and a dedicated Research Development Manager. This was paralleled by the
 reorganisation of our research infrastructure. The Communication Research Centre (established
 1991) was renamed as the Centre for Research in Communication and Culture (CRCC),
 expanding to encompass the growing importance of our research on culture and interdisciplinary
 collaborations.

 1.2.2 To establish a research institute on our London campus. The Institute for Media and
 Creative Industries (IMCI), established in 2015, represents a major expansion of our research
 environment. It has proved instrumental in growing the reach of our research and impact
 nationally and internationally, acting as a base for international events and attracting London-
 based stakeholders. For instance, IMCI hosted two conferences (2017, 2020) on the General
 Election and the EU Referendum, which attracted leading pollsters, campaign directors, and
 journalists, and constituted an impact pathway for one of our ICSs. IMCI staff also led the
 development of a new research specialism: Communication for Social Change.
      We incentivised collaboration across our two physical locations to ensure colleagues benefit
 from and cross-fertilise each other’s research environments. For example, the success of a
 substantial five-year Leverhulme Leadership award Imperial Memory and the Post-colonial
 Imagination (£994,904, 2017-21, PI Keightley) was critically dependent on teams based on both
 campuses, enabling the examination of memories of Indian Partition among diverse
 communities in different parts of the UK. More recently, a joint visit from the CRCC and IMCI to


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the University of Hyderabad (ranked first in India for Communication) led to award of an AHRC
 project on citizenship, conflict, and the media in India (2020-21).

 1.2.3 To extend our research impact. Our plans envisaged a step-change in impact activity
 associated with research in Language and Social Interaction. This is reflected in the rapid
 growth of the ‘Conversation Analytic Roleplay Method’ (CARM) led by Stokoe, which
 transformed communication training practices across several sectors, including policing, dispute
 resolution, and healthcare. CARM funded four post-doctoral researchers between 2015 and
 2020 and provided the basis for one of our Impact Case Studies. More recently, our investment
 in health communication expertise (appointment of Pino in 2017, and Parry in 2018) led to the
 establishment of ‘Real Talk’, a communication training resource developed by Parry and her
 team, designed to support health professionals engaged in palliative and end-of-life care. Since
 2018, ‘Real Talk’ has been used to train over 500 health professionals, mostly NHS and hospice
 staff.
      We have also seen a considerable growth of impact activity across other research
 specialisms, and collaborations with high-profile stakeholders including major policy and
 industry players such as UNICEF, Council of Europe, Ofcom, European Broadcasting Union,
 Victoria & Albert Museum, Tate Modern, and the British Museum.
      Our increased impact capacity is demonstrated by our involvement in shaping the public
 response to the COVID-19 crisis. Early in the pandemic, Stokoe was invited to join both the
 UK government’s SAGE Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on Behaviours (‘SPI-B’) and the
 Independent SAGE’s Behavioural Advisory Group. Parry was asked to produce evidence-based
 guidance for NHS staff engaged in difficult conversations with COVID-19 patients and families.
 More recently, Leguina became Co-I on a COVID-19 AHRC project investigating the impact of
 video streaming on widening access to arts and culture; Suzina started collaborating with NGOs
 and media in Brazil to devise strategies to tackle the impact of COVID-19 on everyday life, and
 Chadwick was invited to join the UK Government’s new Counter-Disinformation Policy Forum,
 which brings together industry, civil society, academia and Government stakeholders to tackle
 the harmful effects of misinformation that have been magnified by the pandemic.

 1.2.4 To enhance international collaboration. We have invested strategically in the
 development of international networks and partnerships, through embedding incentives and
 opportunities for international networking into our research infrastructure. For instance,
 sustained support between 2016 and 2018 enabled Loughborough colleagues to join the Global
 Media Studies Network (GMSN), with the University of Michigan, The New School for Social
 Research in New York, Jamia Millia Islamia University in India, and the Central European
 University in Hungary/Austria as partners. We have also hosted a wide range of high-profile
 communication scholars and impact partners from around the world and organised several
 international conferences and workshops. These activities directly contributed to the growth of
 externally funded research networks and research projects involving international
 research and impact partners, across all five of our research specialisms. Examples include
 an EU-funded COST network, two H2020 projects, and the award of a BA-funded Global
 Professor in 2020 (one of only 10 annual awards) to Punathambekar from the University of
 Virginia.

 1.3 Facilitating research impact

 Our submission includes four ICSs, which reflect three elements of our approach to impact. First,
 the thematic range of our case studies illustrates our commitment to treating impact as
 an integral element of research across all five specialisms. Two of our Impact Case Studies
 build on the established tradition of impact in Political Communication (Improving the Quality of
 Media Coverage and Public Debate During Elections and Referenda; Improving the Accuracy
 and Impartiality of the BBC’s Coverage of Rural Issues), and one (Transforming Communication
 Training) is rooted in our long-established practice of applied conversation analysis under
 Language and Social Interaction. Alongside these traditional areas of impact, we have
 encouraged the development of impact in our new research specialisms (see 4.1.2). As impact


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work in Media, Memory and History was most advanced, a case study from this area
 (Challenging Cold War Stereotypes) is included in our submission.
      Second, all four ICSs illustrate our emphasis on impact as a collective endeavour in
 that they are all underpinned by research from more than one staff member, reflecting impact
 generated through activities built by several staff, including early career colleagues. For
 instance, Challenging Cold War Stereotypes is underpinned by research and impact generated
 by Mihelj, Reid and Huxtable, the two Political Communication ICSs are a collective product of
 Deacon, Downey, Stanyer, Wring, Smith, and Harmer, and Transforming Communication
 Training draws on research and impact developed by Stokoe and Sikveland.
      Third, the four ICSs also illustrate our broad understanding of impact, as they are built
 through pathways that encompass traditional forms of public scholarship such as public lectures,
 blogs, and stakeholder workshops (particularly important for Improving the Quality of Media
 Coverage and Public Debate During Elections and Referenda), as well as more formal
 arrangements such as secondments (Transforming Communication Training), curatorial and
 advisory roles in cultural institutions (Challenging Cold War Stereotypes) or commissioned
 research for public institutions (Improving the Accuracy and Impartiality of the BBC’s Coverage
 of Rural Issues).

 1.4 Future strategic aims (2021-2025)

 Our research strategy will be organised around three key pillars (‘three Is’) –
 Interdisciplinarity, Internationalisation and Impact – and characterised by a proactive
 commitment to advancing equality and diversity. We are aiming for a step-change in each
 area, moving significantly beyond past achievements.

 1.4.1 Interdisciplinarity has been a distinguishing trait of our research activities from the start,
 but the problems faced by contemporary societies require us to expand our interdisciplinarity
 ambitions further. We envisage two directions of development, both reaching beyond the
 disciplines we have engaged with so far. The first direction will involve new collaborative
 endeavours with STEM disciplines, including computer science and engineering, to address,
 for instance, new challenges and opportunities brought by Artificial Intelligence and datafication
 in communication and cultural industries. The second direction will focus on growing new
 connections with Humanities, benefitting from a recent restructuring on our Midlands campus,
 which brought Humanities under a common roof with Social Sciences. Three strategically
 beneficial opportunities have been identified so far, one involving collaboration between our
 health communication experts and medical humanities, another bringing together our research
 on visual political communication with expertise in visual culture, and the third linking our
 expertise in memory and media history with research on art history and literature.
       These developments are envisaged to enhance our capacity to address key societal
 challenges which require interdisciplinary solutions, while also contributing to the growth and
 diversification of income. Several recent developments are indicative of capacity in this area. A
 British Academy project on AI use among people with disabilities is already under way (PI Albert,
 2019-21); new collaborative interdisciplinary work with speech analytics and AI-augmented
 conversation software companies is being developed (Stokoe, Albert, with Sentient Machines;
 Microsoft Research), and, in 2021, the Head of Conversation Design Outreach at Google will
 spend a month at Loughborough as Residential Fellow, working with our staff on research
 combining communication expertise with computer science and design.

 1.4.2 Under internationalisation, our priority will be to fully globalise and de-westernise our
 research priorities and networks. To this end, we will focus on collaborative research with
 partners in four regions – Eastern Europe, Southeast Asia (with a focus on India), southern
 Africa, and South America.
      Most of our recently awarded externally funded projects are international in scope, and
 several involve partners beyond the Global North. These projects are expected to further expand
 the reach of our research. Examples include the £1.9M DFID-funded Para Sport Against Stigma
 (2020-24), in collaboration with the International Paralympic Committee, focused on the
 upcoming Tokyo Paralympics, with partners in Malawi, Ghana, and Zambia, the AHRC-funded

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reframing the Nation project (2020-22), with Co-Is in India, and the Advancing Creative
 Industries for Inclusive Development in Ghana (2019-24), funded by the Danish International
 Development Agency, with partners in Denmark and Ghana. Our staff are also Co-Is on two
 Norface-funded projects with partners from across Europe – Populist Backlash (Co-I Celik,
 2020-2024) and Threats and Potentials of a Changing Political Information Environment (Co-I
 Stanyer, 2020-24).
       A new senior post in International Development and Social Change has been
 approved, to be based in our Institute for Media and Creative Industries. While advancing our
 internationalisation agenda, this also speaks to our ambitions in interdisciplinarity and impact, as
 the post will involve collaboration with STEM and with impact partners in the Global South.
       Finally, networking initiatives with global ambitions are already under way. For instance,
 our Language and Social Interaction colleagues have augmented established Discourse and
 Rhetoric Group (DARG) ‘data sessions’ with online methods training attracting global
 participation. Our internationalisation efforts will also benefit from collaborating with Professor
 Punathambekar, who joined us in 2020 as a British Academy Global Professor for five years and
 will expand our expertise in digital politics and memories of Indian partition.

 1.4.3 Our impact ambition for the years ahead is twofold: (a) to enhance the reach and visibility
 of our impact through consolidating links with high profile partners; (b) to grow impact activities
 benefitting marginalized communities. In a world marked by a global pandemic, structural
 inequalities, and major challenges to liberal democracy, the significance of communication
 research is increasingly accepted inside and outside academia, creating strong opportunities for
 translating our research into practice.
     Several recent developments indicate these impact potentials. In January 2020 Andrew
 Chitty, the AHRC Creative Economy Champion, joined our team as a Professor of Practice,
 part-funded by a dedicated £885,585 grant to lead UKRI’s Creative Clusters and Audience of the
 Future programmes. This appointment is central to a University-wide ambition to strengthen our
 connections with creative industries. We now host the ‘Creative Research and Innovation
 Collaboration’ (CRAIC), which brings together projects that examine the nature and impact of
 applied research and innovation in the creative industries. One of the first projects, launched in
 September 2020, will investigate the effect of COVID-19 on creative businesses in East London.
      The expertise of our staff has recently been sought by high-profile partners that will
 remain important for us in the next five years. As well as providing support to the NHS, and
 joining national advisory bodies managing the UK’s pandemic response (SAGE [SPI-B];
 Independent SAGE; Counter-Disinformation Policy Forum), our staff have partnerships with key
 regulatory bodies and industry nationally and internationally. Sabiescu and Natale are
 collaborating with the Victoria & Albert Museum; Stetka and Mihelj are working with the
 European Broadcasting Union, the European Platform of Regulatory Associations and the
 European Federation of Journalists; Downey and Dasgupta are collaborating with the Indian
 Union of Journalists; and Vaccari acts as the rapporteur on Freedom of Expression and Digital
 Technologies of the Council of Europe. These partnerships and our policy impact will receive a
 further boost through the planned establishment of Loughborough’s new Policy and
 Governance Unit, on the London campus.
      Several recently funded projects are designed to improve the livelihoods of
 marginalized communities. This includes the already mentioned ‘Para Sport Against Stigma’,
 which works with community organisations in Malawi and National Paralympic Committees in
 Malawi, Ghana and Zambia; Celik’s partnership with a Turkey-based women’s rights NGO
 Kampussuzler, supported by the European Endowment for Democracy (2020-22); and Suzina’s
 Leverhulme-funded ECR fellowship (2020-23) that examines media use among riverside
 communities in the Amazon region.

 1.4.4 Equality and diversity: The evidence in this statement and the range of our outputs testify
 to the fact that we have created a supportive research environment in which all staff and PGRs,
 including ECRs and colleagues of all backgrounds, are flourishing. Over the next REF cycle, we
 are determined to ensure that a new generation of highly promising ECRs, regardless of
 gender, ethnicity, or other characteristics, fulfils their potential by securing larger externally
 funded grants, being promoted to personal titles, and assuming research leadership positions.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Much has already been achieved but there is work yet to do. Having achieved the Athena Swan
 Bronze Award, our next objective is to secure the Silver Award, and Bramwell and Leguina are
 already contributing to Loughborough’s Race Equality Charter submission, planned for 2021.
 This will be achieved through implementing the Athena Swan Action Plan, integrating EDI in all
 processes and practices relating to research and impact, monitoring progress annually,
 mentoring, and ensuring that all strategic initiatives across the ‘three Is’ are inclusive.

 1.5 Open Research Environment

 Loughborough University was a pioneer of the open agenda and currently ranks 9th in the
 CWTS Leiden Index for the proportion of outputs available open access. Our staff have
 embraced this agenda and deposit their research outputs, including book chapters, in the
 Institutional Repository within three months of acceptance, exceeding the REF2021 requirement.
 As a result of this policy, 100% of our submitted outputs (and 83% of all outputs, as well as
 100% of all 2020 outputs) are openly available.
      Colleagues make their research data available to other users through LU’s institutional Data
 Repository and the UK Data Service, or through other specialist shared repositories such as
 TalkBank, used by conversation analysts, and the National Institutes of Health Figshare platform
 for healthcare research data. We also contributed to the culture of open research, for example,
 Deacon’s work on an open access tool ‘Diva’ for calculating qualitative diversity in media
 coverage.

 1.6 A Culture of Research Integrity

 Our unit operates within the robust structures designed to support research integrity, embedded
 in Loughborough’s institutional Ethical Policy Framework, which steers the work of the University
 Ethics Committee, and the institutional Code of Practice for Research. Our staff have developed
 protocols adopted by the University (Butler’s work on how to research with children), across the
 community (Parry’s work on consent-gaining amongst patient groups), and have researched
 consent-gaining practices directly (Stokoe).
       Colleagues also actively advocate against unethical research practices or seek to raise
 awareness of ethical dilemmas arising through engagement with non-academic stakeholders.
 Pfoser published a journal paper examining the unequal pressures in artist-academic
 collaborations in the contemporary academy; Belfiore has given invited talks on the ethical
 dilemmas of combining research integrity with impact; Štetka has criticized the practice of
 ‘predatory publishing’; Downey published a paper reflecting on the difficulties of conducting
 critically-informed public communication research; and Suzina wrote about the problematic
 impact of defining English as the lingua franca in academia.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

 A total of 40 FTE staff are returned in this submission, an increase of 30% since 2014. Of the
 staff submitted in REF2021, only 15 FTE were submitted in 2014, meaning that over 60% of staff
 submitted in the current cycle are new appointments. Given this growth and generational
 change, employing the right people, while retaining and developing existing colleagues, has
 been crucial for us in the current REF cycle. Our staffing strategy also enables career pathways
 for part-time and fixed-term staff: two staff members are on part-time contracts, including one
 professor. The achievements of our staff detailed below indicate that our staffing strategy has
 been outstandingly successful in enriching and sustaining our environment.
      Our unit has benefitted from institution-wide recruitment campaigns and dedicated
 investment in new staff in our unit: eight appointments on the Midlands campus in 2016 (two
 Professors, six Lecturers/Senior Lecturers) and parallel investment in a completely new team on
 the London campus (two Professors, seven Lecturers/Senior Lecturers). In addition, our unit
 gained three senior appointments for the Midlands campus through a campaign called
 ‘Excellence 100’, initiated in 2017 to attract 100 of the world’s best academics, at all career

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stages, to Loughborough. This was followed in 2019 by the successful recruitment of a two-year
 postdoctoral fellow through a university-wide ‘Doctoral Prize Fellows’ competition.
      To ensure consistency with our strategic plans, recruitment was aligned with our five
 research specialisms, while also facilitating internationalisation and growth of impact. In
 the interests of a good demographic balance, appointments have included both senior figures in
 respective areas (Chadwick and Vaccari in Political Communication, Peel and Parry in
 Language and Social Interaction, Tacchi and Tufte in Communication for Social Change,
 Belfiore in Culture, Economy and Policy) and highly talented early career researchers across our
 research specialisms. Reflecting our commitment to internationalisation, most of our new
 appointments have expertise in comparative research and/or research beyond the UK. This
 intellectual shift has led to a considerably more cosmopolitan staff profile; the proportion of
 international staff grew from 26% in 2014 to 43% in 2021. In line with our commitment to growing
 research-led impact, several new appointments also had an established record of engagement
 with external stakeholders (e.g., Parry – NHS, Tacchi – UNICEF).
     We pay close attention to succession planning for research-related leadership roles,
 through appointing staff in deputy roles in preparation for them taking on key leading roles.
 Examples include the appointment of Keightley as deputy-lead of the Communication and
 Culture Beacon in 2018, followed by her taking on the Beacon Lead role in 2019; and the
 appointment of Belfiore as CRCC theme lead, as a stepping-stone to her appointment as CRCC
 Co-Director in 2019.

 2.2 Staff development strategy

 2.2.1 Probation – the ‘New Lecturers’ programme. New Lecturers have a reduced teaching load
 (year 1: 33% of normal teaching load, year 2: 50%; year 3: 66%). Over the course of the three
 years, they are expected to undertake a range of professional training, publish three high quality
 journal articles or equivalent, become involved in PhD supervision, and submit a funding
 application. Senior staff members act as mentors and support new lecturers through termly
 meetings; mentors receive dedicated training and a workload allowance.
      Given the extensive recruitment drive and the large number of new appointments in our
 area, almost a third of our staff have undertaken the ‘New Lecturers’ programme since
 2014. The clearest evidence of the effectiveness of this support is that five of our lecturers were
 successful in obtaining competitive external research funding: an ESRC New Investigator Grant
 (Pfoser), an AHRC Early Career Grant (Natale), an AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship
 (Sabiescu), a standard ESRC grant (Štětka), and a Leverhulme/British Academy grant (Albert).

 2.2.2 Support and integration of Early Career Fellows and Research Associates. Loughborough
 is committed to providing a supportive environment for postdoctoral fellows and researchers on
 fixed-term contracts, as evident in the implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, and provision of designated development and networking
 opportunities. This institutional commitment is important to our Unit, as we attract growing
 numbers of staff in this category. Since 2014, we have hosted nine postdoctoral fellows (none
 prior to 2014): two funded by the ESRC, one by the British Academy (Newton), one by
 Leverhulme, two by the EU (Marie Skłodowska-Curie), one by the Swiss NSF, one by Fulbright,
 and one by Loughborough. We also welcomed numerous postdoctoral researchers on externally
 funded projects.
      All postdoctoral fellows and researchers are supported by a mentor and benefit from School
 and Unit-level support. For instance, selection criteria for CRCC funding for pilot research and
 events include participation of ECRs, and in London, an ECR network was established in 2018
 to support career development.
      The career trajectories of our former postdocs suggest that this support is effective, as
 several have gone on to full time appointments, including Lectureships in the UK at Goldsmiths,
 Leicester, and Cardiff and internationally at universities in Trondheim, Katowice, and St
 Petersburg.

 2.2.3 Appraisal, reward, and promotion. All staff, including ECRs on fixed-term contracts, are
 supported via an annual Performance and Development Review, which was redesigned in 2017

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to ensure a more transparent way of appraising staff and rewarding excellent performance.
 Trained reviewers, selected from among senior staff, facilitate discussion about ambitions, and
 areas for development across the full range of activities including research and impact.
 Consideration of progress against promotion criteria is an integral element of this developmental
 process. Our staff have been highly successful in not only exceeding ambitious baseline
 expectations of annual performance, but in going on to secure promotion. Since the last
 REF our staff received 17 promotions in total, with seven promoted to Senior Lectureship (Çelik,
 Dasgupta, Natale, Pfoser, Skey, Štětka, Thurnell-Read), five to Readership (Elder-Vass,
 Keightley, Nyhagen, Saukko, Tileaga), and five awarded personal chairs (Keightley, Mihelj,
 Stanyer, Vaccari, Wring). The analysis revealed a small underrepresentation of women among
 those promoted since 2014 (41% of promotions compared to 49% of women in UoA as a whole).
 While this disparity appears to be in part due to differences in years in post, we will monitor
 developments and take appropriate action.

 2.2.4. Enabling staff to pursue research and impact. Our staff benefit from comprehensive
 support for research and impact, including ring-fenced workload allocations for research and
 impact, personal research allowances, and research and impact leave.
       In our workload model, all staff have 34% of their workload ring-fenced for research. This
 is increased by 6% for each full-time PGR supervision and Research Associate. Our staff were
 granted additional hours for impact work, and, since 2016, those with Impact Case Studies were
 allocated 25% of their time for impact activities.
      Staff across all grades receive an annual personal research allowance, totalling £161,000
 over the course of the assessment period. Staff are also rewarded for bringing external funding
 and receive an additional allowance for the duration of funding.
       All staff, except those on probation (who already benefit from a reduced load), are also
 eligible for research and impact leave through the internal fellowship system. In 2016, to step
 up research ambition, the University introduced a competitive, two-tier Fellowship system, one
 run at School level, with staff eligible to apply for up to six months leave, and one run at
 University level, allowing staff to apply for up to 12 months leave with funding to work on more
 ambitious projects. Our staff have been very successful in obtaining Fellowships at both levels.
 Since 2014, we attracted a total of 20 School Fellowships and 5 University Fellowship, totalling
 177 months of additional time for research and impact. The study leave system played a
 vital role in pursuing our research and impact strategy. Several major research outputs in our
 submission, including three double-weighted monographs (Chernilo, Richardson, Tileaga) have
 been produced during periods of leave; and our Impact Case Study leads have all benefitted
 from leave (Deacon, Mihelj, Stanyer, Stokoe). Two further University Fellowships have been
 approved to start in 2021 for early career staff who are pursuing major externally funded
 projects, expected to lead to important monographs and impact (Pfoser, Štětka).

 2.3 Support for postgraduate researchers (PGRs)

 Our PGRs play an important role in our research effort and play an active role in shaping our
 research culture. We have a sustained record of domestic and international PGR recruitment,
 with 73 doctorates awarded since 2014. Recruitment shows a rise over time since 2014,
 reflecting growth in internal and external funding, alongside steady recruitment of self-
 funded PGRs:

    •   We are partners in ESRC and AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships that will continue
        into the next REF cycle; since 2017 the CRCC leads the Communication and Media
        pathway of the ESRC-funded Midlands Graduate School (twelve studentships to date),
        and in 2019 IMCI joined the AHRC doctoral training partnership technē2 (two
        studentships to date).
    •   Our unit also hosted six PhD studentships funded through research grants, four
        associated with the Leverhulme Leadership award, and two AHRC Collaborative
        Doctoral Awards.
    •   Our unit benefitted from the university-wide scheme of mini doctoral training centres
        (DTCs), allocated to interdisciplinary groups of supervisors on a competitive basis. Our

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        staff have led two such DTCs, one in digital health (Saukko, 2014-18) and one on online
        civic culture (Chadwick, 2018-2022), and participated in three other DTCs.
    •   We also won the equivalent of 22 FTE studentships via university and school-level
        competitions.

      Our PGRs benefit from support at different levels. University-level support is provided
 via the Doctoral College, which offers a wide portfolio of training courses for doctoral students,
 PGR events such as conferences, and funding to support travel for research and conferences
 via two schemes (Santander Travel Awards and International PGR exchanges). At School level,
 all doctoral students undergo 6-monthly reviews of progress, performed by staff independent of
 the supervisory team. Every PGR is guaranteed a desk on campus and a computer, receives an
 annual research allowance, and benefits from a dedicated Careers Consultant for our field.
      In terms of unit-specific support, our world-leading expertise in communication research
 methods has been recognised by an ESRC award (2014-17) enabling staff to lead intensive
 advanced training courses for PGRs and ECRs (one of only eight such awards in the UK).
 These courses have been offered since 2014 and have been integrated into the ESRC Midlands
 Graduate School provision since 2017. Our doctoral students also benefit from the international
 profile of our unit. Loughborough is a consortium member of the European Communication
 Research Association’s annual European Media and Communication Doctoral Summer School,
 which involves the participation of our lecturing staff and full funding for one current PGR per
 year. Thanks to our participation in the Global Media Studies Network, our PGRs were also
 involved in virtual seminars run collaboratively with the University of Michigan in 2017-18 and
 participated in Summer Schools run by the Network in 2017 and 2018. Loughborough also
 participated in the EU Erasmus+ funded Graduate SPIRIT (2018-20) project, which included
 nine leading graduate schools from across Europe, developed an inventory of best practices,
 and tested several training innovations.
      Our PGRs actively contribute to our research culture and to delivering our strategic
 goals. They co-organise weekly seminars and collaborate with staff in the organisation of
 events, organise their own annual conference, and they have also contributed to our
 internationalisation efforts by organising two specialist international PGR conferences – on
 nation and nationalism (2018) and on media, memory, and history (2019). Our PGRs have won
 Loughborough Student Union prizes for their contributions to the PGR community, and they also
 co-lead Loughborough’s Qualitative Digital Research Laboratory, which was established in 2009
 as an interdisciplinary network for qualitative PGRs. Consistent with our commitment to impact
 growth, we have also seen a rise in the number of PGRs involved in collaborative research with
 external stakeholders, including two funded by the AHRC and five by the ESRC.
      The effectiveness of this support is evident from external recognition obtained by our
 PGRs, and their career trajectories post-PhD. Hofstetter won the National Communication
 Association Language and Social Interaction Division Dissertation of the Year award in 2018;
 Joyce was voted ‘favourite scientist’ in the British Psychological Society’s competition in 2019,
 Thomson joined the Diversification of the Media programme run by the Black Collective of Media
 in Sport, and Parslow was awarded a Fellowship at The Alan Turing Institute and a placement at
 the Microsoft-funded start-up Deployed. Our PhD graduates have gone on to successful careers
 in academia, with appointments including full-time lectureships at Exeter, Keele, Leicester,
 Lincoln, Liverpool, and Loughborough, and appointments abroad, including a Marie Curie
 Postdoc at the Leibniz Institute in Germany, a fellowship at Linkoping in Sweden, and
 lectureships at Curtin University, Australia, and Utrecht University and Vrije Universiteit
 Amsterdam, Netherlands.

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 Our staff have played a leading role in the institution-wide culture change with respect to
 EDI. Since 2014, we have become considerably more diverse; the proportion of women among
 our staff rose from 43% in 2014 to 49% in 2020, the proportion of BAME staff from 5% in 2014 to
 28% in 2020, and we have also seen a notable growth in the proportion of international (non-UK)
 staff (26% in 2014 to 58% in 2020). Several women were appointed to key leadership
 positions since 2014, with Stokoe currently serving as Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor for REF

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2019-), having previously served as Associate Dean for Research in the School of Social
 Sciences (2014-18), Peel currently serving as Associate Pro-Vice Chancellor for the Doctoral
 College (2018-), Tacchi as Associate Dean for Research in London (2017-), Keightley as the
 Communication and Culture Beacon Lead (2019-), Mihelj as Director of Research for
 Communication and Media (2018-), and Belfiore as CRCC Co-Director (2019-). Our staff have
 also led a successful School-level Athena Swan Award submission (Nyhagen) and are
 contributing to Loughborough’s submission under the Race Equality Charter (Bramwell and
 Leguina). Finally, our staff also play a leading role in pursuing the EDI agenda internationally;
 Belfiore co-leads the Women in Academia Support Network, established in 2017, with over
 11.000 members globally, which offers peer-to-peer support through a closed social media
 group and regional meetings.
       While these successes demonstrate the depth of cultural transformation since 2014, we
 are not complacent, and remain committed to rigorous analysis of EDI data and taking
 appropriate action. The most recent breakdown of our staff by job grade suggests that we
 are now approaching gender equality on this dimension, with only a small
 underrepresentation of women at professorial level (42% of our professoriate are women,
 compared to 49% of women in UoA as a whole). In contrast, BAME staff are more significantly
 underrepresented at professorial level, with 13% of our professoriate self-identifying as BAME,
 compared to 28% BAME in UoA as a whole. An action plan for addressing this imbalance is
 under preparation as part of Loughborough’s submission under the Race Equality Charter.
      Equality and diversity were central to preparing our REF submission. Our core REF
 team comprised three men and three women, and all staff involved in preparing the submission
 have attended dedicated EDI training and have undergone an additional sight unseen review
 exercise to check for unconscious bias in reviews of staff outputs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 The unit started the current REF cycle with high aspirations for generating research income from
 blue-chip funders, to sustain and grow our world-leading research and impact. To foster the
 development of funding bids, support was put in place for pilot research, networking, and
 partnership development through competitive internal funding. The unit also benefits from
 experienced colleagues with strong funding records who can provide feedback on draft bids in
 addition to a formal peer review scheme.
        This strategy has borne considerable fruit in a highly competitive funding landscape. The
 unit more than doubled its research income compared to the REF2014 period, reaching a
 total of £4,699,423 (£1,941,111 in 2014). This included funding gained as part of large
 international consortia (two H2020 awards, one EU COST Action) and prestigious leadership
 awards (Leverhulme Leadership Award, AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship). The
 composition of funding sources has shifted considerably since 2014, in a manner that reflects
 our strategic commitment to internationalisation and growth in new research specialisms,
 including investment in a completely new staff complement at IMCI in London. While the highest
 proportion of funding (46%) still comes from UK Research Councils and the British Academy,
 there was a notable increase in funding from the Leverhulme Trust (rising from 1.7% to 18% of
 the awards total, for four separate awards). The largest proportion of RCUK funding still comes
 from the ESRC (47%), but the unit also received significant funding from the AHRC (10.7%) and
 EPSRC (33%) which is consistent with our investment in culture-focused research specialisms
 since 2014 and interdisciplinary collaborations. Reflecting the more international outlook of our
 research, the unit has also seen a marked growth in funding received from EU government
 bodies, which grew from 2% in the REF2014 period to 14% in REF2021.
        Since 2014 we have attracted significant income across all five research specialisms.
 Substantial income obtained in our two established research specialisms – Political
 Communication and Language and Social Interaction – confirms continued vitality in these areas
 and reflects shifts resulting from staff changes and new priorities. In Political Communication
 there has been a strategic shift towards online communication and political communication
 outside of the UK, moving beyond our traditional strength in UK political communication and

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘legacy’ media. Examples include: The Illiberal Turn: News Consumption, Political Polarisation,
 and Democracy in Central and Eastern Europe (ESRC, £817,143, Štětka & Mihelj, 2019-21),
 and Visual Misinformation in Global Perspective: Platforms, Devices, and Users (Facebook,
 $150,000, Vaccari, 2019-20). In Language and Social Interaction awards have followed the
 planned expansion of expertise in health communication and enhanced international leadership.
 Examples include Enhancing staff-patient communication in palliative and end of life care (NIHR,
 £330k, Parry, 2018-21), and the Conversation Analytic innovation for Teacher Education
 (Research Council of Norway, £1.3M / £127k to our unit, Stokoe Co-I, 2018-21).
      Among new research specialisms, the outstanding record of success in Media, Memory and
 History reflects rapid growth in this area, with projects coalescing around contested media
 histories and divided memories. The project Screening Socialism: Television & Everyday Life in
 Socialist Eastern Europe (Leverhulme Trust, £242,759, Mihelj, 2013-16) investigated socialist-
 era television, while the ongoing project Circuits of Practice: Narrating Modern Computing in
 Museum Environments (AHRC, £201,158, Natale, 2020-21) focuses on new media histories and
 heritage. Three separate awards focus on divided memories, including memories of the Indian
 Partition among British Asians (Imperial Memory and the Post-colonial Imagination, Leverhulme
 Trust, £994,904, Keightley, 2017-22), memories of the Soviet past in Eastern Europe and
 Eurasia (Tourism as Memory-making: Heritage and Memory-wars in Post-Soviet Cities, ESRC,
 £235,158, Pfoser, 2019-21), and women’s memories in Turkey (Women's Memory and Media in
 Turkey , European Endowment for Democracy, £127,761, Celik, 2020-22).
      Awards in Culture, Economy and Policy reflect a growing concentration on cultural
 participation and creative industries. Examples include Performing Hip-hop Englishness: The
 Performance of Alternative British Identities through Rap (AHRC, £37,972.80, Bramwell, 2016-
 17), Connect2Aspire: Cultural Engagements and Young People’s Professional Aspirations
 (AHRC, £236,000, Sabiescu, 2019-21), and Advancing Creative Industries for Inclusive
 Development in Ghana (Danish International Development Agency, £1,464,927 in total/ £42k to
 our unit, Belfiore Co-I, 2019-24). The appointment of the AHRC Creative Economy Champion in
 January 2020, funded by a £885,585 AHRC grant, is expected to significantly boost this
 research area in the coming years.
      We have also recorded several funding successes in our most recently established
 specialism, Communication for Social Change, which is indicative of potential for future growth in
 this area. Examples include Para Sport against Stigma (DFID, £1.9M / £982k to our unit, Tacchi,
 2020-24); and Cross-Border Queers: The Story of South Asian Migrants in the UK (British
 Academy, £37,559, Dasgupta, 2019-21).
      Across our five specialisms, there are three funding-related achievements, aligned with
 our strategic aims, that we are especially proud to report:

    •   ECR success: Five early career colleagues (Albert, Bramwell, Natale, Pfoser, Sabiescu,
        Štětka) won major grants and/or attracted funding through prestigious early career
        routes, and we also secured nine postdoctoral fellowships, which demonstrates our
        capacity to attract and nurture high calibre ECRs.
    •   Reflecting our investment in internationalisation, we have a strong record of funding for
        comparative and/or transnational research, with a particular concertation in comparative
        research on East European media and culture (Mihelj, Pfoser, Štětka, Tileaga) and on
        Asia and Asian diaspora (Dasgupta, Downey, Keightley, Punathambekar).
    •   External funding was instrumental in enabling us to undertake theoretically and
        empirically ambitious research, and resulted in several research outputs, including five
        double-weighted monographs (Elder-Vass, 2x Keightley, Mihelj, Nyhagen). As externally
        funded projects are still ongoing, two further monographs are currently in press or review,
        and several others under development.

 3.2 Research and Impact infrastructure

 In addition to university-wide support through the Research and Enterprise Office, our staff
 benefit from tailored support for our research area at university, school and unit level. At
 university level, we receive assistance from the Communication and Culture Beacon, with a
 dedicated Research Development Manager who helps with identifying funding opportunities,

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fostering close relationships with funders, supporting interdisciplinary collaborations, and
 developing bids financially and intellectually. The Beacon was instrumental in funding several
 strategic initiatives, including Loughborough’s participation in the Global Media Studies Network
 (2016-18), leading to a successful BA Global Professorship bid; our involvement in the Tate
 Exchange project and a week-long exhibition at Tate Modern in 2017; and a visit to India in 2020
 that led to a successful AHRC-funded project.
      At School level, staff on both campuses have access to internal funding for pilot research
 and impact activities, allocated on a competitive basis. Since 2014, our staff won £51,586 of
 funding for 21 projects. Several of these led to external funding, supported the early stages of
 our ICSs, or led to joint publications. For instance, funding allocated to Pfoser and Keightley
 supported pilot research for Pfoser’s successful ESRC bid; and funding won by Mihelj and
 Deacon enabled the initial impact work that fed into two of our ICSs.
      Our staff can also access internal funding for events. In the Midlands, the CRCC
 manages an annual budget of £20,000, which is used to support an interdisciplinary external
 speaker seminar series and the organisation of workshops, symposia and other activities. In
 London, IMCI runs seminars for PGRs and staff, along with an external speaker series. Funding
 for events is allocated on a competitive basis, with selection criteria prioritizing interdisciplinary
 projects, activities leading to research outputs, and events co-organised with ECRs and PGRs.
      With regards to support for impact, dedicated Partnership Development Managers help
 our PGRs and staff with building knowledge exchange partnerships and generating impact, and
 with applying for funding for impact activities through the Enterprise Project Group,
 supported by the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF). Our staff have attracted £225,300
 for 11 impact projects, of which seven supported our Impact Case Studies, and the rest fed into
 other impact work. We also benefitted from biannual sessions with an external advisor (Fast
 Track Impact, since 2016) to ensure that we were following most up-to-date expertise in this
 area.
      Our impact was also supported from sources beyond HEIF, confirming public sector
 and industry demand for our work. For instance, Stokoe’s research on social interaction has
 been funded by, among others, the Metropolitan Police, Police Scotland, Typeform, Deployed,
 the NHS, and the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service; and Thurnell-Read received
 funding from the Campaign to End Loneliness to examine the role of pubs in tackling loneliness.
      An important university-level infrastructural development has been the establishment of the
 Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) in 2017, which offers funding for short and longer-term
 fellowships on a competitive basis and has been instrumental to supporting our
 internationalisation efforts. In its inaugural year, IAS sponsored a series on ‘Communication’,
 organised by the CRCC. This series saw eminent communication scholars such as Zelizer
 (USA), Lyon (Canada), Mazzoleni (Italy), Haddington (Finland), Kevoe-Feldman (USA), Broth
 (Sweden), Wasko (USA), and Wilkins (USA) come to Loughborough to collaborate with our staff
 and PGRs, and several further IAS-sponsored visitors followed since then. These visits have
 resulted in joint publications, networks, and funding bids. For instance, the 2017 IAS-sponsored
 workshop on media and illiberalism led to a special journal issue (2019) and helped partnership
 development for the ESRC Illiberal Turn project; funding for an international workshop in
 September 2017 laid the basis for the edited collection Communicating for Change (2020), and
 the 2019 visits by Haddington and Kevoe-Feldman generated a special journal issue
 (forthcoming 2021), an international research network on crisis communication, and a Routledge
 monograph (forthcoming 2021).
      In terms of facilities, our Unit benefited from the opening of the £50M Loughborough
 University in London campus in 2015, which represents the biggest institutional investment to
 date. The new campus, which operates over 9,000 m2 of collaborative learning space, is located
 in the former Olympic Broadcast building on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in the new
 innovation quarter Here East. The campus is home to our Institute for Media and Creative
 Industries and serves as a base for joint events organised by our staff from both campuses.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 4.1.1 Collaborating with academic partners across disciplines and borders
 Several elements of the research infrastructure detailed in the previous section – the
 Communication and Culture Beacon, the dedicated Research Development Manager, the
 Institute for Advanced Studies, and internal funding for pilot research and events – support
 network building nationally and internationally. The effectiveness of this support is evidenced in
 the growth of externally funded networks and projects with both UK and international partners,
 which often involve interdisciplinary teams.
      Nationally, externally funded interdisciplinary projects with UK academic partners
 enabled us to demonstrate the importance of communication and culture research in
 interdisciplinary approaches to key societal challenges. Peel is currently Co-I on an
 interdisciplinary ESRC funded project Reforming Legal Gender Identity (2018-2022), with
 colleagues from King’s College London and Kent. The project brings together our expertise in
 Language and Social Interaction with expertise in law and political theory to tackle the question
 of gender as a legal status assigned at birth and investigate the implications of reform in this area.
 Another prominent example is Belfiore and Leguina’s involvement on a major AHRC funded
 Understanding Everyday Participation project (2012-18), which brought together leading cultural
 sociologists, cultural geographers and cultural policy experts from Manchester, Loughborough,
 Leicester and Exeter, to investigate the cultural value of mundane activities, leading to a radical
 re-evaluation of the relationship between participation and cultural value.
      Strategic investment in international partnerships also led to our participation in several
 externally funded international research projects. These facilitated our contribution to
 interdisciplinary projects tackling major global challenges, as illustrated by two EU H2020
 projects:

    •   The Toxi-Triage project (2015-19) mobilized our communication expertise to help
        develop a new global ‘gold standard’ for how emergency services should tackle
        chemical, biological, radioactive, or nuclear (CBRN) incidents. Led by Loughborough’s
        Chemistry Department, with Downey as Co-I, it brought together emergency and health
        services, defence, industry, and university academics, and produced recommendations
        on CBRN incidents for the European Commission.
    •   The EduMAP – Adult Education as a Means to Active Participatory Citizenship project
        (2016-19) brought our Communication for Social Change staff in conversation with
        educational experts. Led by University of Tampere, with Tacchi as Co-I, the project was
        designed to help policy makers, educational authorities and practitioners adapt adult
        education practices to better cater for the needs of young adults from vulnerable and
        minority groups.

      International collaborations also facilitated the expansion of our research impact
 internationally, as illustrated by the following two examples:

    •   Our participation in the European Network of Political Communication Scholars
        (NEPOCS), a group of 17 leading political communication experts from across Europe
        who share an interest in comparative research, led to a successful funding for EU-funded
        COST Action network on Populist Political Communication in Europe (2014-18), with
        Stanyer as Co-I and Working Group Chair, which brought together 120 scholars from 31
        countries to examine the role of communication in the rise of populism, a major challenge
        facing liberal democracies around the world.
    •   Our investment in training in Conversation Analysis and the Conversation-Analytic Role
        Play Method, aimed at scholars both domestically and internationally, inspired a major
        Norwegian Research Council project Conversation Analytic innovation for Teacher
        Education (2019-2021). The project, led by the University College of Southeast Norway,
        uses Stokoe’s CARM method to enhance teacher education with the aim of improving
        assessment and feedback.

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These and other collaborations provided fertile grounds for co-authored publications, some of
 which – for example, Histories of Cultural Participation, Values and Governance (Belfiore) – are
 included in our submission.

 4.1.2 Engaging with professionals and policymakers
 In addition to significant growth of impact activity under Language and Social Interaction
 (detailed in 1.2.3), we have also invested in impact activities in other research specialisms, well
 beyond the remit of the four ICSs.

      Under Political Communication, impact activities beyond our two ICSs reflect the strategic
 shift towards online political communication and internationalisation:
     • Chadwick and Vaccari’s research provided evidence-based knowledge that can help
         mitigate the democratically dysfunctional aspects of social media, and has attracted
         attention among policymakers. They submitted evidence to the Online Harms White
         Paper consultation (2019); provided a testimony for the Democracy and Digital
         Technologies Committee of the UK House of Lords (2019); delivered a briefing on
         misinformation and trust at the Cabinet Office Online Harms division and DCMS (2019);
         became founding advisory board members of Clean up the Internet, an independent
         NGO concerned about the degradation in online discourse and its implications for
         democracy; and joined the Committee of Experts on Freedom of Expression and Digital
         Technologies of the Council of Europe (2020-).
     • Štetka and Mihelj partnered with major international stakeholders representing media
         regulators and media professionals (European Federation of Journalists, the European
         Broadcasting Union, and the European Platform of Regulatory Authorities) and are using
         their expertise to help shape effective responses the role of the media and democratic
         backsliding in Eastern Europe. Štetka is also contributing to leading international media
         monitoring initiatives, including the Media Pluralism Monitor project, funded by the
         European Commission, and the annual World Press Index by Reporters without Borders,
         and has secured our partnership in the Athens Democracy Forum, a major global event
         organized by the New York Times, bringing together leading policy-makers, business
         leaders and scholars to debate contemporary challenges to democracy (2017, 2018).

      Under Media, Memory and History, impact growth was aligned with our commitment to
 internationalisation, and driven by a twin focus on media heritage and divided memories:
     • We have developed partnerships with major media heritage stakeholders nationally and
         internationally and have used our expertise to enrich museum collections and enhance
         the understanding of media history among heritage professionals and museum visitors.
         One strand, described in one of our ICSs, was focused on Cold War media heritage,
         while the second focuses on new media heritage. Here, Natale is collaborating with
         leading heritage institutions in computing (National Science and Media Museum, Victoria
         & Albert Museum, National Museum of Computing, BT archives and others) and our
         PGR student Kitcher is working with the Science Museum, examining the history and
         heritage of the electrophone, the Victorian-era precursor to live streaming.
     • We are collaborating with community groups, local authorities, heritage institutions and
         NGOs involved in the mediation of contested pasts, helping them develop more effective
         strategies for tackling divisive memories, and improve the visibility of minority
         experiences. Keightley’s work with UK local councils, schools, and heritage and
         community organisations (e.g., Tower Hamlets, Leicestershire Museums, Charnwood
         Arts, Equality Action, BritBangla, Geeta Bhawan) is designed to improve the diversity and
         visibility of collective memories of Indian Partition; Pfoser’s engagement with tourism
         stakeholders in Estonia, Kazakhstan and Ukraine (tourism departments in city
         administrations, tour guiding companies, independent guides) is aimed at developing
         more effective strategies of communicating contested pasts in the context of tourism; and
         Tileaga’s work with leading Polish and Romanian heritage institutions (Polish Genetic
         Database of Victims of Totalitarianism, Institute of National Remembrance, Sighet
         Memorial Museum) is tackling the impact of generational change on the dissemination of
         communist heritage.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Impact activities have also grown under the Culture, Economy and Policy, aligned with
 our strategic focus on cultural participation and creative industries:
     • One strand involves using arts and culture to foster public dialogue on citizenship,
         identity, and belonging. In 2017-18 we became partners on the Tate Exchange project;
         Belfiore and Pfoser participated in a week-long exhibition at Tate Modern entitled Who
         Are We? (2017) featuring the work of artists exploring issues of migration and identity
         and organised a symposium and exhibition at Loughborough (2018).
     • The second strand focuses on using cultural activities to enhance participation among
         underrepresented groups. Bramwell collaborated with the Hackney Council, using his
         expertise in Hip Hop and Youth cultures to develop services aimed at improving
         outcomes for young black men in Hackney (2016-17); Nyhagen used her expertise on
         gender and religion to contribute to policy debates in the House of Lords Select
         Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagement and Citizens UK’s Commission on
         Islam, Participation & Public Life (2017-18); and Sabiescu is working with the Victoria
         and Albert Museum, developing recommendations for improving youth access to creative
         industries (2019-).

     Colleagues in the Communication for Social Change specialism have already built an
 impressive range of impact partnerships with global, regional, and community organisations:
    • At the global level, we brought UNICEF into the techne2 AHRC DTP as a full partner,
        and Noske-Turner (2020) edited an open-access book Communication for Development,
        co-authored with UNICEF communication for development staff from their New York
        headquarters, regional office in Eastern and Southern Africa, and country offices
        in Vietnam, India and Malawi.
    • At the European level, Tacchi and Sabiescu’s EduMAP project included close
        collaboration with the German Adult Education Association DVV International
        and resulted in two policy briefs and a final conference to deliver policy implications to
        the European Commission.
    • At national and community levels, Tufte is founding chairperson of the HIP Edutainment
        Foundation that supports the International NGO Femina (a civil society initiative aimed at
        promoting heathy lifestyles, gender equality and sexual education in Tanzania), and
        Suzina is collaborating with NGOs, community media and community organisations in
        Brazil.

 4.1.3 Wider contributions to society
 Our wider contributions to society are also evident in numerous awards from non-HEI bodies,
 invitations to speak at events aimed at non-academic audiences, and popular science
 publications. To mention a few examples: Pfoser received an award from the Federal
 Chancellery of the Republic of Austria for her interdisciplinary work with artists (2014); Stokoe
 won a Wired magazine Innovation Fellowship, awarded to ‘innovators changing the world and
 promoting disruptive thinking and radical ideas’ (2015); and Roman-Velazquez received an
 award from the United St Saviours charity in recognition of work with migrant and ethnic women
 and groups in Southwark (2018). Albert and Stokoe ran talks and science demonstrations at
 New Scientist Live (2018). Stokoe wrote a popular science book Talk: The Science of
 Conversation (2018) and has given invited lectures at prestigious venues, including TED (2014),
 the Royal Institution (2015), Cheltenham Science Festival (2018), Google (2019), and ‘Word of
 Mouth’ (Radio 4, 2020).

 4.2 Contributing to the sustainability of the discipline

 Our most influential contributions to the sustainability of the discipline are linked to our
 leadership of key professional organisations in our field, nationally and internationally.
 Downey served as Vice President of the European Communication Research and Education
 Association (ECREA, 2016–21) and as member of the Media, Communication and Cultural
 Studies Association’s Executive Board (MECCSA, 2012-), Murdock as Vice President of the
 International Association of Media and Communications Research (IAMCR, 2016-20), and Miller
 as Vice-President and then President of the Association for Cultural Studies (2016-18; 2019-21).

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our collective commitment to leading the field extends across career stages, as evident in the
 involvement of several ECRs in leading sections of major international associations. Robles
 was Vice-Chair (2016-17) and then Chair (2018-19) of the ICA Language and Social Interaction
 Section, Štětka is Vice Chair of the Political Communication Section of ECREA (2016-), and
 Celik was member of the IAMCR Committee for the Improvement of Academic Life (2017).
       These roles have enabled us to play an important role in steering the development of our
 discipline through co-organising major conferences, lobbying key funders, bolstering the
 external visibility of media, communication, and culture research, and responding to
 national and international priorities. In his role on the MECCSA Executive Board, Downey
 was involved in lobbying for more funding for communication research with the AHRC and the
 ESRC, and responded to national consultations affecting our field, including in relation to REF,
 TEF, KEF, and PhD training. As Vice-President of ECREA, he was responsible for the academic
 programme of three ECREA conferences, coordinated the work of sections, networks and
 working groups, and led on the establishment of a closer connection between ECREA and two
 major European journals in our field: European Journal of Communication and European Journal
 of Cultural Studies. As Vice President of the IAMCR, Murdock was responsible for liaising
 between the Executive Board and three key committees (Publications, Membership and
 Environmental Committees), and sat on the judging panels for annual IAMCR awards. He also
 bolstered IAMCR’s external visibility through the expansion of the Ambassador Network,
 reorganization of IAMCR’s relations with external agencies, and launch of a new journal.
       We also played a leading role in shaping interdisciplinary research agendas by
 advancing the visibility of communication and culture research in neighboring
 disciplines. We achieved this through leading sections in major professional associations in
 political science, sociology, and psychology. International examples include Vaccari as Chair of
 the Information Technology and Politics Section of the American Political Studies Association
 (2019-20), Chadwick as Executive Committee member of the same section (2018-21), and Parry
 as Treasurer-Secretary of the Ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis Section of the
 American Sociological Association (2013-15), Leguina as Board Member of the Sociology of
 Consumption section of the European Sociological Association (2017-19). Nationally, Thurnell-
 Read convened the Alcohol Study Group of the British Sociological Association (2012-18), Peel
 chaired the Psychology of Sexualities Section of the British Psychological Society (2014-17);
 and Wring is Advisory Board member of the Media and Politics Group of the UK Political Studies
 Association (2010-).

 4.3 Indicators of wider influence

 Since 2014 we have accrued significant recognition for our research achievements, as well as
 made substantial contributions to the research base nationally and internationally. As evidence
 of recognition of our research achievements, our staff delivered a total of over 100 keynote
 lectures and plenary talks in 23 countries. This included keynotes at major conferences of
 international professional associations in our field, including IAMCR (Keightley, Pickering and
 Tufte, 2016), ECREA (Mihelj, 2018), the International Pragmatics Association (Stokoe, 2017),
 the International Institute of Ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis (Stokoe, 2019), the
 Association of Internet Researchers (Chadwick, 2017), various International Communication
 Association pre-conferences and regional conferences (Downey 2014, 2015, 2016; Mihelj,
 2017), and the Central and Eastern European Communication conferences (Downey, 2016,
 Mihelj, 2018). Colleagues also delivered keynotes at thematically-focused conferences which
 reflect recognition of their specific areas of research. Example keynotes from early and mid-
 career colleagues include Skey (Sport and Nation Symposium, The Netherlands, 2018), Leguina
 (Music Learning and Teaching conference, Chile, 2017), Wigger (Power, Intimacy, and the State
 conference, the Netherlands, 2017), and Albert (European Conference on Conversation
 Analysis, The Netherlands, 2020).
      As further evidence of recognition and influence, a number of our research outputs have
 received prestigious awards. Robles won the Top Paper award in the ICA Language and
 Social Interaction division for five years in a row (2012-16), Vaccari and Chadwick won the 2015
 Walter Lippmann Best Article Award from APSA’s Political Communication Section, and Vaccari
 won the APSA award for the Best Article in Information Technology and Politics published in

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2016. Chadwick’s The Hybrid Media System was the winner of the 2014 Best Book Award of the
 American Political Science Association Information Technology and Politics Section and the
 International Journal of Press/Politics Best Book Award (2016), which recognises an outstanding
 book on media and politics published in the previous ten years.
      Further examples of recognition include prestigious distinguished positions, fellowships,
 and awards. Murdock and Tufte were elected as members of the Film, Media and Visual
 Studies section of the Academia Europeana (in 2016 and 2019), Peel was elected Fellow of the
 British Psychological Association (2016), Štětka received the 2019 Czech Science Foundation
 President’s Award for outstanding scientific achievements, and Tufte received the INTERCOM
 award from for his contribution to advancing communication research in Latin America,
 Africa and Europe (2019).
      Our Unit members contribute extensively to the research base as peer review college
 members and peer reviewers for a range of national and international research bodies, book
 publishers, and journals. Since 2014, our staff contributed peer reviews for all major UK
 research funding bodies in social sciences and humanities, and for national funding bodies from
 14 EU countries, Canada, Australia, US, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Africa, Turkey, New
 Zealand, Peru, and Colombia. We have also significantly increased our presence on grant
 assessment panels and peer review colleges; four colleagues serve on the ESRC Peer Review
 College (Downey, 2010-; Nyhagen and Tacchi, 2015-; Tileaga, 2018-), four on the AHRC Peer
 Review College (Belfiore, 2012-19; Keightley and Mihelj, 2017-; Nyhagen, 2020-), and Downey
 was appointed to the ESRC’s Grants Assessment Panel (2019-2023).
      We contribute to our research communities by organising workshops, symposia and
 conferences. Since 2014, we have co-organised over 60 events in 14 countries. These include
 the largest conferences in our field (IAMCR, ECREA); subject-leading conferences including the
 International Journal of Press/Politics conferences (2018, 2019, 2020, hosted at Loughborough)
 and the International Conference on Conversation Analysis (ICCA, 2018, hosted at
 Loughborough) and numerous other events, including Conversation Analysis and Clinical
 Encounters (CACE, 2015) and ICA pre-conferences on Global Media and Populism (2018,
 Hungary) and Visual Politics (2020, Australia).
      Our staff have also served as editors of 15 journals and four book series, and as
 Editorial Board members for over 90 journals and 12 book series. The journals we edit
 include leading outlets internationally, enabling us to shape our field across the full range of our
 expertise: International Journal of Press/Politics (Vaccari as Editor, 2019-), Research on
 Language and Social Interaction (Antaki as Editor, 2010-), Media, Culture & Society (Keightley
 as Editor, 2012-), and Cultural Trends (Belfiore as Co-Editor in Chief, 2020-). Our staff also edit
 important book series, including the Oxford Studies in Digital Politics (Oxford UP, Chadwick,
 2010-present), New Directions in Cultural Policy Research (Palgrave, Belfiore, 2015-), Gender
 and Sexualities in Psychology (Routledge, Peel and Stokoe, 2017-present) and Palgrave
 Studies in Discursive Psychology (Palgrave, Tileaga and Stokoe, 2018-present).
      Taken together, our collective service as editors, conference organisers, and peer reviewers
 is evidence of recognition and provides important mechanisms though which we shape future
 directions in our field.




                                                                                             Page 17
