Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A. Context and structure
 The research and impact activities submitted under the Engineering UoA are focussed on two
 themes: Energy, Environment and Sustainable Engineering (EESE) and Biomedical
 Engineering (BE). The activities directly support two of the University’s strategic priorities – namely
 Energy and the Environment, and Health and Wellbeing – and bring together colleagues from the
 Department of Engineering, Department of Chemical Engineering and Energy and
 Environment Institute (EEI).

 There have been a number of organisational changes since our last REF submission with the
 introduction of a new University structure. As a result engineering activities are now organised into
 a Department of Engineering, including Electronic & Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
 Engineering and Medical Engineering, and a separate Department of Chemical Engineering. In
 addition, some of Engineering’s energy-focussed research activities have been relocated to the
 Energy and Environment Institute (EEI) to strengthen Engineering’s links with the EEI, while
 colleagues in Chemical Engineering now also contribute to the EEI’s activities.

 The engineering activities are central to other major developments at the University level (e.g. Aura)
 as discussed below. Overall this has been an exciting time for Engineering and these changes
 have resulted in a significant expansion of its activities within the University. The two Departments
 now sit within the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FoSE) as illustrated in Figure 1. As a result
 of these changes, the appointment of new academic staff and the appointment of a number of
 independent researchers to support these developments, the number of staff returned in this UoA
 is more than double the size of the return made in REF2014 (which was to General Engineering).

    Faculties

         Faculty of               Faculty of Arts,         Faculty of                    Faculty of
         Science &                  Culture &               Health                    Business, Law &
        Engineering                 Education              Sciences                       Politics



                 Chemical Engineering                               Biomedical and Forensic Sciences
                 Engineering                                        Health, Nursing and Midwifery
                                                                    Medicine
                 Biological and Marine Sciences
                                                                    Psychology
                 Chemistry and Biochemistry
                                                                    Social work and Welfare
                 Computer Science and Technology
                                                                    Sport, Health and Exercise Science
                 Geography, Geology & Environment
                 Physics and Mathematics

    Research Institutes

                        Clinical &
       Energy &                                        Maritime &                         Culture, Place
                      Applied Health       Logistics                    Wilberforce
      Environment                                       Marine                              & Policy
                        Research


    FIGURE 1: Schematic showing the position of the Departments of Chemical Engineering
     and Engineering, and the Energy and Environment Institute within the University, and
                highlighting the departments of the Faculty of Health Sciences.



                                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B. Overview of research groups and activities
 Research in the EESE and BE priority themes is supported by five research groupings, including
 one centre (the Centre for Sustainable Energy Technologies). Members of staff are attached
 primarily to one of these groups, although inevitably some contribute to more than one activity.
 The following paragraphs give a brief outline of the groups’ primary research interests. In broad
 terms, the research is aimed at addressing the most important challenges facing the world today:
 (1) maintaining energy security and maximising use of scarce resources while minimising waste
 and reducing environmental impact; and (2) improving the healthcare of an increasing and often
 ageing population while satisfying growing patient expectations.

 Advanced Materials and Acoustics
 (led by Professor Mi with Fancey, Heyes, Itskevich, Rubini, Qin)
 Discovery of new materials and more efficient methods of producing the desired structures and
 functionalities is the foundation of modern industry and society. The Advanced Materials and
 Acoustics group focuses on designing, developing and exploring new structural and functional
 materials with a step change in performance and functionalities as well as sustainable materials
 manufacturing technologies for modern industry. We use the most advanced synchrotron X-ray
 and neutron sources around the world to study the fundamentals of materials synthesis in situ and
 research the optimal manufacturing strategies in operando. These include the design and
 development of new metallic glassy alloys for improved neutron absorption, and pulse magnetic
 field and ultrasound-based materials processing technologies for metallic alloys and 2D functional
 materials; viscoelastic morphing polymer composites; scalable on-chip single-photon sources for
 integrated quantum photonic circuits and networks; design, analysis and implementation of new
 sound attenuation devices in industrial gas turbine combustors; and novel simultaneous gas
 temperature and velocity measurement techniques based on thermo-graphic phosphor particles
 in heated flows.

 Biomedical Engineering
 (led by Professor Fagan with Fancey, Gilbert, Jaganathan, Langley, Wadhawan, Watson)
 The impact of the ageing population and pressure on healthcare budgets makes the continued
 wellbeing of the population difficult to ensure, while in parallel, there is a continuous drive to
 develop better medical devices to improve patients’ quality of life as well as improve the way in
 which healthcare is provided. The Biomedical Engineering group works across a number of areas
 to address these issues in a combination of applied and fundamental research projects, including:
 wound management and novel biomaterials especially scaffold-based materials; craniofacial
 biomechanics and musculoskeletal form and function in general; advanced data processing and
 diagnostic techniques to monitor cardiac health; development of novel medical devices and
 telehealth and care technologies to improve patient care while improving healthcare efficiency.

 Centre for Sustainable Energy Technologies
 (led by Professor Zhao with Li G, Li J, Ma, Monyei, Wang, Xiao, Zhu)
 The Centre for Sustainable Energy Technologies (CSET) develops new technologies for
 renewable energy, improved energy efficiency, and sustainable, integrated heating, cooling and
 power systems. Members of the group undertake a broad range of research, but have particular
 expertise in heating systems, including solar heat and power, heat pumps and heat pipes, cooling
 systems, novel energy materials, information systems and processing and energy management.

 Chemical Engineering
 (led by Dr Skoulou with Hasan, Ibhadon, Ke, Kuvshinov, Lawrence, Oko, Patel, Stevenson,
 Taylor, Wadhawan, Zein)
 The Department of Chemical Engineering pursues research aimed at solving industrial problems
 for the benefit of society in the broad areas of novel materials and chemicals, fuels and energy,
 and feedstock. This includes: electrochemistry for clean energy and specialised sensor
 development; process modelling and simulation of carbon capture and storage; multiphase flows,
 process control and simulation, microfluidics for pollution control, carbon nanofibers and H2;

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pyrolysis and gasification of waste for syngas H2 and optimized fuels, ‘green’ catalysis for the
 production carbon nanotubes and fatty acids, bio-oils, carbonaceous and other eco-friendly
 materials and sustainable chemistry; photocatalysis, carbon nanoparticles and chemicals and
 other new materials, metal frameworks and water splitting. This wide diversity in Chemical
 Engineering expertise allows us to deliver research ranging from new materials, low carbon
 energy, green fuels, and feedstock plant scale simulations, through innovative unit operations and
 bench-scale testing, down to molecular-level understanding of new generation, low carbon
 chemical engineering processes.

 Renewable Energy Technologies and Energy Storage
 (led by Professor Gilbert with Fagan, Fancey, Gilbert, Patton)
 The drive to reduce carbon emissions worldwide and the UK’s commitment to net zero requires a
 rapid adoption of renewable energy technologies for power generation while the intermittent nature
 of some renewable energy technologies means that large-scale energy storage, integrated with
 dispatchable generation technologies are needed to maintain supply. The Renewable Energy
 Technologies and Energy Storage Group aims to improve the performance and reduce the cost
 of marine renewable energy, through improved design, manufacture and control of offshore wind,
 wave and tidal energy devices. Through recent investment (after July 2020, see Section 2 below)
 the group’s activities are now poised to include bioenergy, biofuel and bioproduction technologies
 for integration into future energy systems, establish new technologies for efficient large-scale
 energy storage and introduce innovative techniques to manage heat and air flow in the built
 environment to reduce energy use.

 C. Research strategy and developments since REF2014
 We aim to deliver high quality and impactful research across a broad range of engineering activities,
 in particular (but not exclusively) in the areas outlined above. As demonstrated below, we facilitate
 this by supporting and nurturing our academic and research staff, while working to enhance our
 research infrastructure to support our staff’s ambitions and continuing to develop strategic external
 links and other partnerships to maximise new research priorities and opportunities.

 Open Science. We are enthusiastic supporters of open science, and the UoA’s publications meet
 the University’s Open Access Policy requirements. Supporting data from our research are also
 made publicly available when possible, for example either on a journal’s website and/or on
 recognised database repositories to ensure maximum accessibility. For example, for BE REF2
 paper Dutel et al. (Nature, 2019) 3D data have been made available on http://paleo.esrf.eu and
 http://phenome10k.org; and for EESE REF2 paper Wang et al. (Acta Materialia, 2018) data and
 synchrotron videos are available at data repository journal Data in Brief. In addition, we make our
 research tools available, such as our bespoke bone modelling software, VOX-FE, which is freely
 available on SourceForge (https://sourceforge.net/projects/vox-fe/).

 Research Integrity. Members of this UoA follow the principles of the UKRIO Concordat for
 Supporting Research Integrity and this is supported through the University’s framework of
 regulations, principles and standards of good practice. Before research grant applications can be
 submitted, a statement on ethics must be submitted with the application on our (Worktribe) research
 management system, while a full ethics application must be approved before a research project
 can start. The University’s ethics review system is managed through Faculty Ethics Committees to
 ensure that all research is subject to appropriate scrutiny and is undertaken with the highest levels
 of integrity. Ethics and integrity training are mandatory for all staff and postgraduate students
 undertaking research.

 Developments since REF2014. In REF2014 we said that we would continue to focus on and
 prioritise the EESE and BE themes but broaden our activities, which we have done. For example:
 BE staff have established a University-wide collaboration with Smith and Nephew on wound
 management, and we have expanded our biomaterials and electrophysiology research; while
 EESE areas of strategic growth include research into new heating and cooling systems, research
 on renewables, the development of energy from waste and biofuels, and the development of new

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 materials, processes and devices.

 2016 saw the formation of the EEI to focus on the environmental and energy challenges that are
 facing the world today. The Centre for Sustainable Energy Technologies (CSET) is a key part
 of that activity and works to develop new technologies for renewable energy, improved energy
 efficiency, and sustainable, integrated heating, cooling and power systems. Two exemplars of the
 value and practical outcomes arising from CSET’s research are described in an Impact Case Study.

 Opening of Siemens-Gamesa’s £310M wind turbine blade manufacturing facility in Hull prompted
 the formation of Aura in 2015, a research facility aimed specifically at bringing together industry,
 universities and other expert organisations to develop the low carbon energy sector, with a
 particular focus on offshore wind. Engineering has taken advantage of that development with a very
 significant expansion in wind and renewables research (led by Gilbert) who also leads the
 underpinning research, development and innovation activities of Aura and provides a link with the
 £9M EPSRC Supergen Offshore Renewable Energy Hub. With its strong links to industry and local
 government, Aura exemplifies our research ethos, and provides the ideal conduit through which
 the impact arising from the EESE groups’ research can and is being exploited and maximised. To
 facilitate and further expand that interaction, the £12M Aura Innovation Centre (AIC) has recently
 been built at the Bridgehead Business Park on the outskirts of Hull. The AIC not only provides a
 common space for large businesses, SMEs and the University to collaborate and innovate, but also
 houses the Engineering research labs and equipment that support those activities.

 Hull’s Institute for Clinical and Applied Health Research (ICAHR) is focused in particular on our
 ageing population and the multiple medical conditions that increasingly more people have to cope
 with. The BE groups in Engineering work on both applied and fundamental research projects with
 clinical colleagues in ICAHR, Hull-York Medical School (HYMS) and Faculty of Health Sciences,
 and further afield, which provide direct routes for application and adoption of the outcomes of that
 research. As an example of this, over this REF period ME’s activities with Smith and Nephew (S&N)
 Wound Management has been formalised through a Framework Agreement with the University to
 facilitate joint research (and services rendered). This agreement now not only includes Biomedical
 Engineering but also Biomedical Sciences, Chemistry and HYMS and saw the establishment of a
 PhD cluster in Advanced Wound Care, funded by the University and S&N, to work on topics that
 support S&N’s long-term research goals. That cluster has now drawn in other areas of Engineering,
 for example additive manufacturing and bioelectronics, and has recently led to the registration of
 two S&N employees on part-time Engineering PhD programmes.

 D. Impact strategy
 Through our innovative research we work to develop new products, processes and devices that
 generate: (1) a reduction in overall environmental impact from our collective activities; (2) improved
 delivery and cost-effectiveness for both industry and the NHS; (3) improved patient care and quality
 of life; (4) opportunities for commercialisation, with concomitant job and wealth creation. There are
 many potential beneficiaries of this work. For the EESE theme these include: industry, local
 government, policy makers and the general public; and for the BE theme: patients, the NHS (as
 an organisation, as well as nursing and medical communities), medical device companies and the
 general public.

 For both the EESE and BE themes we have strong, established relationships with industry and the
 NHS through which we can actively promote translation of our research. For example, recent past
 and on-going research and development partnerships with industry, include Airbus, Airco, ANB
 Sensors, Ansell Microgard, Aolan, Baosteel (the largest steel company in China), BASF, Bemrose
 Booth Paragon (BBP), BP, Centrica, Chevron, DSM Nutritional Products, Energy Works, Evonik
 Industries, Five Star, Gateway Chassis, Ideal Boilers, INEOS, Jaguar Landrover, Johnson Matthey,
 McPhy Energy, NPS Group, Ørsted, PCM (Phase Change Material) Products, Practical Control,
 Schlumberger, Siemens Gas Turbines, Siemens-Gamesa, Singleton Birch, Sinogreen, Smith &
 Nephew, Spencer Group, Stoli catalysts, TWI, Unilever, Zimmer and many others. Funded directly
 by the company, as partners on research grants or through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (see
 below), these links demonstrate that staff are actively involved in, and enthusiastic about, exploiting

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their research and expertise.

 Support for existing collaborations, the identification of new partnerships, and the development of
 research and commercialisation opportunities, are supported by the University’s Knowledge
 Exchange team, Faculty Directors of Business Engagement and Enterprise, and most recently the
 Aura Innovation team. These teams provide two-way engagement with industry and other bodies,
 either finding potential partners to join with or exploit on-going research activities, or identifying the
 best academic or research group to respond to an external enquiry for information or assistance.

 Where appropriate, we arrange meetings aimed at particular industries, clinical and/or academic
 colleagues where we outline and directly promote our current research and direction of travel of
 that research. For example, in order to promulgate our research in computational biomechanics,
 we ran a workshop in 2019 on the advanced computational techniques that we have developed to
 model the biomechanics of the cranio-cervical system. The attendees had a wide range of
 engineering and non-engineering backgrounds and came from the UK, Europe, USA and Australia.

 The University’s Research and Innovation team provides day-to-day support to assist with sources
 of research funding and research applications, to maximise research and innovation opportunities,
 and provide advice on governance and impact. This team provides support and advice on the
 protection and exploitation of intellectual property, and additional commercialisation and impact
 support; for example, through a University-funded Impact Acceleration Fund, KTPs and HEIF
 funding, as well as acting as a conduit for industry to secure funding to work with University experts,
 for example, through the ERDF-funded Sparkfund (Innovation Vouchers and R&D Grants).

 KTPs (Knowledge Transfer Partnerships) are considered as an effective and direct means of
 fostering impact, and over the REF period six KTPs have been active with two further due to start
 shortly. Innovate UK has ranked the three partnerships that finished during the period as either
 “Outstanding” or “Very Good”. The success and value of these KTP activities is further evidenced
 by the fact that two of our Impact Case Studies are based on very successful KTP programmes.
 Wadhawan has been particularly successful in securing KTPs over this period, and is now a
 University KTP-champion.

 Over the REF period, 34 patents were applied for to protect the research undertaken by members
 of the EESE and BE themes, covering areas such as speech synthesis, bone fracture repair, novel
 suture materials, and novel heat exchanger and heat pump designs. Some of these patents have
 been assigned to a joint spin out company (Stoli Catalysts, based at the University of Warwick)
 which has attracted over £2.3M start-up funding, while the worldwide patents associated with the
 Kingston Speech Valve (an impact case study from REF2014) have recently been assigned to a
 medical device company for exploitation in India where an increased valve life would have
 significant benefits to laryngectomy patients.

 E. Vision and future strategic aims
 With the expanded position of the Departments of Engineering and Chemical Engineering in the
 University, the University’s stated ambition to be a key driver of regional innovation, and the recent
 (after July 2020) and further planned increases in Engineering staff numbers, the next five years
 promise to be a time of significant opportunities for Engineering. Our current priority themes and
 research groupings have served us well and we expect to continue to focus on these priorities, but
 with development of our ECRs coming to fruition, new staff appointments and other organizational
 changes we are planning for a significant expansion of our activities.

 In particular, as outlined in REF5a the Humber region (currently the most carbon intensive region
 of the UK) is embarking on a transition to low carbon energy, to support the UK’s ambition to
 achieve Net Zero emissions by 2050, and indeed is already leading on the development and
 deployment of Offshore Wind (OSW) energy. Staff within the EESE theme are already heavily
 involved with that effort on OSW and other renewables. That work is accelerating with the recent
 award of the £5.5M EPSRC/NERC funded Aura Centre for Doctoral Training in Offshore Wind
 Energy and the Environment. Additional opportunities are developing for UK and international

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration through Hull’s involvement with the EPSRC Supergen ORE Hub. Similarly, CSET will
 continue to develop new heating/cooling energy systems and novel technologies to improve energy
 efficiency. In addition to securing more project and programme-level type of support, it is also in a
 strong position to look for opportunities for involvement in larger programme and infrastructure type
 of projects, for example addressing the Clean Growth Grand Challenge and its missions. CSET
 already has very strong links with China but will also look for other international development
 opportunities that have ‘carbon neutral’ priorities. Direct contact with government departments, for
 example, local councils (we already have links with Hull City Council, Nottingham City Council and
 Portsmouth City Council) and hospitals will also be pursued, to provide them with advice on policy,
 strategic planning and technologies where appropriate.

 Research in the Advanced Materials and Acoustics Group continues to develop and explore new
 materials and sustainable manufacturing technologies. Examples of current priorities include: new
 metallic glassy alloys and coatings with exceptional mechanical strength and corrosion resistance
 for offshore and marine infrastructure applications; responsive programmable materials and
 photonic devices for increased efficiency in energy harvesting; and, pulse magnetic field and
 ultrasound-based environmentally-friendly materials processing technologies.

 In addition, we anticipate that these EESE activities will be significantly bolstered by the recent
 employment (since July 2020) of four new staff in the areas of energy efficiency in buildings and
 energy storage technologies to better manage renewable energy supplies.

 Furthermore, within the EESE theme we also see significant opportunities through the recent
 expansion of Chemical Engineering activities in the University and their co-location with Chemistry,
 and the many chemical and allied industries in the Humber region. For example: (1) the Research
 England THYME project which is a joint venture with the Universities of Hull, York and Teesside in
 collaboration with regional industry and LEPs (Local Enterprise Partnerships) which focuses on
 transforming bio-based waste into new products, re-purposing industrial sites for bio-based
 manufacturing and growing the productivity of the region’s bioeconomy; and (2) the EPSRC-funded
 Evolving Circular Plastics Economy (ECPE) project involving both Chemistry and Chemical
 Engineering. “Adjacent innovation” between the different energy and environment themes of EESE
 and EEI is also now occurring.

 Under the BE theme, the recent renaming of the local NHS trusts to Hull University Teaching
 Hospital Trust is expected to further raise the profile of and opportunities for multi-disciplinary
 medical and biomedical engineering research with NHS colleagues and other academic colleagues
 in ICAHR. Within our current portfolio of projects, we aim to expand our activities in wound
 management and novel scaffold-based materials, as well as new developments in smart medical
 devices. For example, new research in real-time and remote wound-monitoring (with Smith &
 Nephew), and installation of bespoke electrospinning equipment is expected to lead to the
 development of a number of novel biomaterials for a wide range of different applications, including
 wound management. Meanwhile our transformatory UKRI (RCUK)-funded work on skull
 biomechanics is now transitioning from (largely) academic outputs to impact, including application
 of our methods to novel solutions for cleft lip and palate, craniofacial malformations (e.g.
 craniosynostosis), and 3Rs replacement of testing of novel biomaterials in cranial defects. An
 additional approved senior appointment in Medical Engineering will see further expansion of the
 BE research activities.

 In addition to these specific examples of expected developments over the next REF cycle, we will
 continue to proactively develop links with industry and promote effective technology transfer across
 the UK and worldwide. Aura is expected to act as a nucleus for that and we anticipate a significant
 boost in opportunities as Aura’s activities expand and its reach increases. Of course we will
 continue to focus on opportunities that support the UK’s priorities, for example, by addressing the
 relevant Grand Challenges identified in the UK’s Industrial Strategy, and by directing our efforts
 towards the specific priorities of the Research Councils and other international funding bodies and
 major charitable funders. We will also continue with our efforts to look further forward to new and
 emerging societal and industrial challenges, both locally and internationally, and prepare for those

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities where we can.

 We will continue to develop links with other universities and research organisations to promote our
 work and take advantage of joint research, academic exchange and knowledge sharing
 opportunities. Similarly, we will continue to develop links with research councils and contribute to
 theme development and research grant review.

 In terms of more immediate, shorter-term actions, we will continue with our strategy to focus our
 activities and any investment opportunities in our research strengths and priorities. With increasing
 staff numbers and a recent review and rationalization of degree programmes, we anticipate a
 substantial reduction in academic staff loading, freeing up more time for research and, in the longer
 term, allowing us to further build our research activities and community of postgraduate and
 independent researchers. This REF submission is a step change compared to REF2014, most
 significantly in terms of the number of staff submitted We anticipate another step change in our
 next REF submission, with a significant increase in volume and quality of research submitted.

 2. People

 A. Academic staffing
 Changes and strategy. Two professors and six other members of staff have left since REF2014,
 and this, together with a strategic investment in Engineering has led to the recruitment of sixteen
 new members of staff, across all grades, plus eight independent researchers. As a consequence
 this submission is more than double the size of REF2014. Since the July 2020 census date, four
 further staff appointments have been made in the Department of Engineering, targeted towards
 renewable energy and energy storage, including an RAE Fellow in CCS and board member of the
 new £21M national test facility at Sheffield’s translational energy research centre, a Hobart Fellow
 in nanomaterials from Adelaide, and a new Head of Department. A senior-level appointment has
 also been approved to further expand the Biomedical Engineering research. These were additional
 posts to support the University’s ambition to expand and develop its Engineering activities,
 normally, general succession planning, recruitment and retention issues are dealt with through the
 annual budget round to which departments and research institutes submit plans.

 Research fellowships. Five staff benefited from personal research fellowships, won in open
 competition, during the REF period, namely:
 • Blanke: Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) fellowship, 2015-2017; now Professor at
     the University of Bonn.
 • Haywood: Royal Society Industry Fellowship.
 • Mi: Royal Society Industry Fellowship, 2012–2016.
 • Moazen: Royal Academy of Engineering/EPSRC Fellowship 2013-2018; now Professor at
     UCL.
 • Yong Jiang Huang: Royal Society KC Wong Fellowship, 2012-2014; now Departmental
     Director at the School of Materials Science and Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology,
     China.
 In addition, our research activities have benefited from six Marie Curie Fellowships, all working in
 CSET.

 International staff visits. The following have made extended visits to Hull to collaborate with staff
 in the UoA:
 • Dr Copley (University of Michigan),
 • Professor Dendorfer (University of OTH Regensberg),
 • Professor Yulong Ding (University of Birmingham,
 • Dr Fazara (University Malaysia Perlis),
 • Professor Gangadhavan (Sahrdaya College of Engineering & Technology),
 • Professor Jun Ji (China Natural Science Foundation Council),
 • Professor Mehta (Panjab University, India),
 • Dr Michopoulos (University of Cyprus),

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Professor Riffat (University of Nottingham),
 •   Dr Sato (Geological Survey of Japan),
 •   Dr Volpe (Enna University),
 •   Professor Witzel (Honorary Professor of Biomechanics & University of Bochum, an annual
     visitor),
 •   Professor Zabaniotou (Aristotle University of Thessaloniki),
 •   Professor Zhiguo Zhang (Ji Nan University, China).

 Staff development and support. The University introduced the Academic Careers Framework
 (ACF) scheme in 2018 which was designed to allow academic staff to be recognised and rewarded
 for their contributions in the primary domains of research, education or knowledge exchange, with
 equality in promotion opportunities and personal and professional development regardless of
 domain. The ACF also provides the opportunity for staff to transfer between domains.

 Workload allocation is used to ensure that a balance is achieved between the demands of teaching,
 administration and research, with early career staff receiving a lower teaching and administration
 load for typically two years. For more established staff, research time is allocated dependent on the
 numbers of postgraduates supervised, research grants awarded, research output and the potential
 for strategic development of new activities. Research targets are established and subsequently
 monitored during annual staff appraisals.

 The University provides a comprehensive staff development programme including research
 seminars on key funding providers and special funding initiatives, managing research, and
 postgraduate supervision (compulsory for new academic staff). Within the Faculty of Science and
 Engineering a series of other initiatives has also been introduced which are open to all, but in
 particular aim to support new staff in developing their research careers. These include research
 training opportunities, for example: grant writing and paper writing workshops (run by Thinkwrite),
 mentoring and leading research teams (run by AdvanceHE), and media training (run by the
 Conversation), plus writing retreats and improved peer review processes.

 As outlined above, maximising research impact is encouraged and supported by the University’s
 Knowledge Exchange team and Faculty Directors of Business Engagement and Enterprise. These
 not only help with training and practical help in exploitation, but earlier stage identification of
 potential new areas of impact, and training and advice on mitigating conflicts that can arise within
 a research impact context, and collecting corroboration for maximising the evidence of impact.

 Early career academic and independent research staff. In addition to normal staff development
 opportunities, early career researchers (ECR) and independent research staff (IRS) are assigned
 a personal research mentor whose role is to help them establish themselves as a successful, fully-
 independent academic/researcher within the Academic Career Framework (ACF) established by
 the University. For example, the mentor is expected to give advice and support on the development
 of their research profiles, to partner with (and/or suggest other potential internal/external contact(s)
 who might partner with) the new member of staff to increase their chance of success in attracting
 research funding, to help polish and optimise funding applications, to provide specific advice on
 procedures relating to grant applications, to support the process of postgraduate supervision and
 examination, and encourage participation in University research activities. Probation is dealt with
 through the standard University staff appraisal system.

 Research staff. The University is a member of Vitae and actively supports the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers. It has held the HR Excellence in Research Award
 since 2012 and its practices align with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and
 Code of Conduct for Recruitment. (PhD students are discussed further below). We take regular
 feedback from the research community through staff surveys, including Careers in Research Online
 Survey (CROS) and Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES).

 Flexible staff and research support. To further support and encourage the research culture and
 environment within the Faculty, it has introduced Faculty Research Support Funds for academics

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (in particular ECRs), post-doctoral researchers and PhD students. These funds are used to develop
 researchers and can cover the costs of conferences, fieldwork, consumables, and pump-priming
 of research impact projects, for example. The funding supports colleagues returning from parental
 leave, illness or career breaks especially (and can cover childcare costs). It also offers post-doctoral
 researchers the chance to develop their personal research profile (rather than solely the grant they
 work on). In addition, Faculty funds are available to support Visiting Research Fellows, and Faculty
 Research Awards have been introduced to celebrate all aspects of research success.

 Research management. A new research information system (Worktribe) has been purchased
 since REF2014, streamlining operations and providing research staff with a single source of data
 on their research. In addition it provides automatic updates to staff website profiles and easy
 management of Open Access compliance. The University also provides access to Grantfinder,
 enabling researchers to search for relevant funding sources, identify new funders and identify new
 funding opportunities.

 B. Research students
 Research students are at the heart of our research activities. With the primary allocation of UKRI
 studentships now through CDTs, unfortunately some areas can find it difficult to attract as many
 PhD students as they would like. However, those that do come to Hull are nurtured and well looked
 after. The University supports PhD research directly with an annual investment of typically £3M for
 50-60 studentships which are now focused to create thematic clusters, encouraging researchers
 (especially ECRs) to collaborate on projects aligned with University priorities.

 Recruitment. PGR student applications in Engineering, Chemical Engineering and EEI are
 directed towards our priority themes wherever possible. All PGR vacancies, whether funded
 externally or by the University or Departments, are also advertised externally to ensure we attract
 the best applicants, who are always interviewed before being accepted for any postgraduate
 position. These advertisements are placed on academic recruitment websites, such as
 www.jobs.ac.uk, but in addition on subject specific distribution lists and websites, e.g. Biomech-L
 for the BE positions. Unsolicited applications to study for a self-funded PhD are also scrutinized
 carefully with an interview, in person or by video calling services.

 One success story is the Aura CDT in Offshore Wind and the Environment funded by EPSRC and
 NERC which has recently been established in collaboration with the Universities of Durham,
 Newcastle and Sheffield, and 20 industry and government partners (including Siemens-Gamesa,
 Ørsted, the Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult and National Oceanography Centre). In addition
 to approximately 60 core studentships, we have attracted direct industry funding of a further 8
 studentship to date. Students enter with a variety of backgrounds, and after studying for a University
 of Hull PG Diploma in Wind Energy, undertake their PhDs at one of the four partner institutions.
 These and other industry relationships create and maintain networks that obviously assist our
 students to transition into industry if they wish to do so.

 The PhD cluster in Advanced Wound Care was established in 2017 with Smith & Nephew and
 involves Biomedical Engineering, Biomedical Sciences, Chemistry and HYMS, and is aimed
 particularly at multi-disciplinary projects. After an initial allocation of 7 studentships (3 of which came
 to Biomedical Engineering) the number of PhD students working in this area has now expanded to
 13, over half of which are now in the BE group.

 In addition to two studentships funded directly by Smith & Nephew in the Wound Care cluster, a
 number of other positions have been funded directly by industry and other bodies. For example, by
 Keresa Plantations (Malaysia), Shanxi Jingxu Solar Energy Ltd (China), Suzhou Building Energy
 Research Institute (China), Diamond Light Source (UK) and a significant number by overseas
 governments, including 15 supported by the prestigious China Scholarship Council (CSC).

 PGR training and support mechanisms. The Doctoral College at Hull is an on-campus purpose-
 built facility with 24-hour access for research students and their supervisors. Both an administrative
 centre and a resource, with its own IT and common rooms, it liaises with all University faculties and

                                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departments on matters concerning research students. It also delivers continuing professional
 development for supervisors, and coordinates an established and fully-comprehensive
 Postgraduate Training Scheme which enables students to graduate with certificated evidence of
 their research and employability skills at master’s level. Interdisciplinary modules offered by the
 Doctoral College cover (for example) project management, career development, and enterprise
 and entrepreneurship skills. An annual ‘PhD Experience’ conference, organised by students, is
 hosted by the Doctoral College. The College also offers more informal activities supporting PGR
 students, for example, PGR Drop-in sessions, a PGR Writing Support Group and PhD Thesis Boot
 Camp.

 The University also promotes the use of the Researcher Development Framework (RDF),
 developed by Vitae, for both research students and staff – to plan, promote and support their
 personal, professional and career development – with the Staff Development Unit available to run
 focussed briefing sessions and more extensive workshops on using the framework.

 Within the Engineering areas, PhD students sit with post-doctoral researchers in dedicated Group
 research offices within the Engineering buildings and normally adjacent to the Group’s research
 labs. With typically 6-10 researchers in each office, this provides an ideal environment in which the
 PhD students can undertake their research and take advantage of the combined wisdom of their
 more experienced colleagues. Regular research seminars are held across the University, and
 within the Engineering subjects, which any researcher can attend, providing the PhD students with
 the opportunity to understand more what research is being undertaken, and, later on, for them to
 present their own research.

 The University’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic included funded extensions for PhD students
 (and PDRAs if needed), support with IT and workstation equipment for researchers working off-
 campus, and additional Research Culture and Community Seminars to sustain the research
 environment while normal university conditions were suspended.

 PGR progress monitoring. Each research student is supported by at least two supervisors. Where
 the project is multidisciplinary (multi-departmental) for example Biomedical Engineering projects, a
 supervisor from each department will be selected. Progress (in research, training and thesis
 preparation) is formally reviewed every six months, involving both supervisors and an independent,
 research-experienced chair – a process which is coordinated and managed by the Faculty. The
 review meeting finishes with a private discussion between the chair and student to allow the student
 to raise any issues or concerns they might with the project or supervisor(s). The chair will then
 follow this up with the supervisor(s), and Doctoral College if necessary. Typically we would expect
 the submission of one draft chapter or part-chapter every meeting. In parallel with formalised
 academic monitoring and support, the University has a pro-active student welfare system, which
 provides an additional support mechanism if the research challenges or any personal well-being
 issues become too much.

 C. Diversity and equality
 The University and members of the Engineering groups are committed to equality of opportunity
 and respecting and promoting diversity for both staff and students. This is championed across the
 campus by the University’s Inclusion and Campus Community Team which manages activities,
 communications and monitoring to advance this agenda.

 The University has an Athena SWAN bronze award, but the Engineering departments are still
 working on their individual applications. All eligible research staff are returned under UoA12, but
 because the number of female Engineering staff is low, they are inevitably under-represented in
 our submission (just 6.6%). There is clearly a long way to go with this, but it is hoped that University
 staff participation in initiatives such as the Minerva Network for Academic Women, the Women in
 Higher Education Network (WHEN) and Aurora Leadership programme (AdvanceHE), will
 eventually improve this. We are embedding policy and support for transgender colleagues with
 assistance from Gendered Intelligence for training and Stonewall as a member of their Diversity
 Champion Programme. We have also made significant commitments over the past year in direct

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 response to both the Equality & Human Rights Commission report on Tackling Racial Harassment
 and the #blacklivesmatter movement to more thoroughly advance our agenda for racial inclusion.
 We also remain committed to supporting our staff and students with disabilities and the University
 is a member of the UK Government’s Disability Confident (Employer) scheme.

 To support all these activities and raise awareness about equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI),
 different training opportunities ranging from online modules to bespoke training packages are
 offered by the University’s Staff Development team. Training participation is compulsory, recorded
 and reported regularly to all Deans and Heads of Department. For example, relevant modules
 include Equality and Diversity, Unconscious Bias, Safeguarding in HE, and Research Integrity.
 Within Engineering, Gilbert has a particular interest in EDI and recently co-authored a report on
 EDI in offshore renewables for the EPSRC Supergen ORE Hub, which have led to improved
 processes in CDT recruitment (and have been recognised by EPSRC) and are being implemented
 in Engineering.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A. Infrastructure and facilities
 The Engineering departments are currently well equipped with bespoke Energy Technology Labs,
 Biomedical Engineering Labs, Materials and Nanotechnology Labs, Acoustics Lab, Fluid Dynamics
 Facility, Chemical Plant Simulation Lab and Waste to Energy Lab, for example. The Chemical
 Engineering labs have recently been relocated adjacent to the Chemistry labs, significantly
 improving their facilities and providing easier access to a wider range of characterisation
 equipment. Significant investment in underpinning engineering support services has also been
 made over the period with the purchase of new CNC machines and a suite of rapid prototyping
 machines. As discussed in Section 1C above, some of these facilities are now based at the new
 Aura Innovation Centre including SEM, materials characterisation, PCB, virtual reality and
 composite manufacturing facilities.

 To support health related research, a £28M health campus was completed in 2017. This brings
 together clinically-focussed research across the University, and is conveniently located adjacent to
 the main Engineering building. At a similar time, a £3M collaboration with global medical technology
 company Smith & Nephew (S&N) was formally established (as previously described in Section 1C)
 to facilitate joint research. Building on the long-standing collaboration between the BE Group and
 S&N, this also brought in Biomedical Sciences, Chemistry and HYMS and saw the establishment
 of the PhD cluster in Advanced Wound Care, funded by the University and S&N. To support that
 activity a dedicated Biomedical Research Lab was also established in the Engineering building to
 support a number of PhD projects concerned with the development of novel in vitro wound models
 for improved device testing.

 In 2019, a new Energy and Environment Building was completed to house the EEI and, provide a
 dedicated collaboration space for research on environmental resilience and sustainability. In
 addition, CSET’s laboratories were rehoused with bespoke testing facilities for heating, cooling and
 power systems driven by solar and natural energy, and technology demonstration facilities also
 housed at the Aura Innovation Centre.

 One of the most important investments for Engineering during the REF period, was the purchase
 of a High-Performance Computer (VIPER) with 5500 processing cores – an investment of £2.9M
 for the machine and host facilities. VIPER ran its first job in 2016, and to date, over 3.2 million jobs
 have run on VIPER, consuming 120 million core hours. VIPER is used across Engineering, for
 example for computational fluid dynamics, high resolution finite element analysis and synchrotron
 data processing.

 In addition to specialist facilities, the University has invested significantly in research equipment
 across the University to improve and replace redundant equipment and provide support to new
 research areas. This included redeveloping PGR workspaces, including in some Engineering
                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas. Another relatively small but important investment in Engineering in 2019 was the purchase
 of a replacement nanoindenter and bioindenter (£0.13M), allowing the measurement of mechanical
 properties of both hard and very soft materials, in particular of biological materials. A specialist 3D
 printing facility (FabLab) was also established in Engineering (£0.35M), which includes a high-
 resolution multi-material + digital-materials printer, a printer that can print biocompatible materials,
 other 3D printers that can be modified for specific research projects and a high specification laser
 cutter.

 The University’s Brynmor Jones Library was also fully refurbished in 2015 at a cost of £28M. The
 library has separate research study areas, a PGR only facility and collaborative working zones, and
 is open 24/7. The Library also supports internal systems and contracts with external suppliers to
 meet research data storage and preservation needs through the Research Data Management and
 Sharing Policy. This includes the provision of research data storage facilities and expert advice on
 data management plans.

 B. Research funding portfolio
 During the REF period, the BE and EESE groups have secured grants from a wide variety of
 sources, reflecting the diversity and broad impact of the research. The different mix of that funding
 for the groups is summarised in Table 1, followed by a brief comment about that support for each
 of the five research groups.

                               Advanced      Biomedical       Chemical         CSET        Renewable
  Funding sources / total      Materials     Engineering     Engineering                   Energy …
  income                          …
  UKRI, Royal Society etc        67%             35%             45%            28%           53%
  UK      Charities   (incl
                                  1%             20%             2%             0%             0%
  Leverhulme etc)
  UK government                   0%            20%             26%            42%            10%
  EU government                   0%            13%             19%            29%            26%
  Industry                       27%             7%              8%             2%             4%
  Other                           5%             4%              0%             0%             7%
  Total income                  £0.95M         £1.98M          £1.95M         £2.80M         £0.74M


           Table 1 Table showing the percentage income from different funding sources
              and total funding over the REF period for the different research groups


 Advanced Materials and Acoustics. The group’s activities are funded from a variety of sources
 including: EPSRC(x4), STFC, Royal Society(x2), Royal Academy of Engineering and industry
 including Jaguar-Landrover(x2), Siemens(x4), Baosteel(x1) with total funding over the period of
 £0.95M, as well as beam time awards from the major synchrotron X-ray and neutron facilities
 around the world, i.e. Diamond Light Source, ISIS Neutron and Muon Facility (STFC), Advanced
 Photon Source (USA), European Radiation Facility (ESRF), the Swiss Light Source (value
 £0.87M). In particular, three notable EPSRC projects were awarded since 2014 (with total EPSRC
 funding of £2.2M) to support our new initiative on developing ultrasound-based materials
 processing technologies for metal alloys, 2D functional materials and catalytic esterification of
 pyrolysis bio-oil.

 Biomedical Engineering. This group’s research has been supported by BBSRC(x4), EPSRC(x2)
 and NERC(x2) grants, reflecting the multidisciplinary nature of the work, plus funding provided by
 the Royal Academy of Engineering, EU(x2), NIHR i4i/NHS(x3), Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust,
 Action Medical Research and other small charities, plus industrial sponsors and collaborators
 including Smith & Nephew and Zimmer. The total spend over the period has been £1.98M. In
 addition, in-kind facility-specific support has been received from ARCHER (UK National

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supercomputing Service), Deutsches Elektronen Synchrotron (DESY DORIS III and PETRA III) –
 although this is not included in the data return. Research related to musculoskeletal biomechanics
 has again been particularly successful over this REF period, as it was during the previous REF
 review. It has again been supported by all three main research councils (BBSRC, EPSRC and
 NERC) and in total this research (led by Hull) has now received over £8M (awarded to Hull and the
 projects’ co-investigators). Further information on these partnerships and the success and reach of
 this research is provided in Section 4. The breadth and standing of the journals in which this
 research has been published also reflects the interdisciplinary nature of the group’s work, and the
 reach of the findings, and include: Nature journals (x3), Royal Society journals (x6), Journal of
 Experimental Biology (x2), Computer Methods & Programs in Biomedicine (x2), PLoS ONE (x3)
 and many others.

 Centre for Sustainable Energy Technologies (CSET). The Centre’s funding over this REF
 period has been provided by a variety of sources, including EPSRC(x2), EU(x8), Innovate UK(x2),
 DBEIS(x3), British Council(x2), Newton Fund, Royal Society, and industry partners including
 China Singyes Solar Technologies and Shanxi Jingxu Renewable Energy Co Ltd, with total funding
 of £2.80M. During this REF period, CSET has been particularly successful in demonstrating the
 impact of its research through installation of its patented, novel cooling and heating systems in
 different environments in the UK and China, as described in more detail in Section 4 below and in
 an Impact case Study.

 Chemical Engineering. Our funding over this REF period comes from a variety of public sources,
 such as BBSRC(x2), EPSRC(x10), NERC, Research England(x3), EU(x3), British Council(x4),
 Royal Society(x2), Royal Academy of Engineering, Innovate UK(x4), and industry partners
 including Alstom, Johnson Matthey and Schlumberger, with total funding of £1.95M. Much of the
 work of the Chemical Engineering group is industry facing, which is evidenced by the award of 6
 KTPs over the period and 2 new KTP projects due to start in 2021, and related contributions to
 sustainable chemical engineering solutions for efficient energy, fuels/chemicals, materials and
 feedstock for the benefit of the global society. For this REF submission we have selected two
 Impact Case Studies from Chemical Engineering’s research to demonstrate the impact of our
 research.

 Renewable Energy Technologies and Energy Storage. Funding over the current REF period
 has come from EPSRC(x2), BEIS and EU(x4), Hull City Council, THYME Teesside, Hull and York
 Mobilising Bioeconomy Knowledge Exchange, Green Port Hull, Mocean Energy and
 UK/international government agencies, with total funding of £0.74M. With the recent recruitment
 of four additional staff (since July 2020) significant additional funding has been secured by this
 group from sources including EPSRC, BEIS, Innovate UK, EU and UK/International industry.

 Our research funding is further complemented by approximately £30M innovation funding awarded
 directly to the University which enables us to collaborate further with external partners and provides
 opportunities to drive impact from our research. These investments include £12M for the Aura
 Innovation Centre and the £17M Sparkfund, an innovation support and grants programme funded
 by ERDF. These more impact-focused activities have been described earlier in Section 1.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A. Overview
 Members of Engineering, Chemical Engineering and the EEI recognise the many obvious benefits
 of collaborative research and the great majority of on-going projects involve collaboration with one
 or more academic, industry and/or healthcare partners. There is insufficient space to list all those
 interactions. Instead, three exemplars are included to illustrate that commitment and highlight a
 selection of the contributions to our discipline (and others) over this REF period:

 Energy Technologies: A major focus of the EESE Theme is the development of new technologies
 for renewable energy, improved energy efficiency, and sustainable, integrated heating, cooling and
 power systems. For example, we have been working with a number of Chinese companies (e.g.
                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Five Star, Sinogreen, Jinxu), UK companies (e.g. NPS group, PCM) and Hull City Council, and
 Universities (e.g. Shanghai Jiao Tong, Tsinghua, University of Science and Technology of China)
 and the China Academy of Building Research (CABR). This research has led to a number of
 impacts that are addressing some of the greatest challenges facing the world today. Two examples
 of the output of this research are described in an Impact Case Study. The first of these, a novel
 super-performance dew point cooling technology, has won a number of awards (see Section 4B
 below) and has been licensed to Keda Ltd (China) and is now being transferred to PCM (UK) and
 Aolan (China). A number of buildings in the UK, including the Aura Computer Centre, the Hull
 Maritime Data Centre, and the Sinogreen Industry workshop, have also installed this technology.
 The second example is a novel near-zero carbon heating system. Again this technology has won
 a number of awards (see below) and has been applied in three villages in China and a number of
 office buildings and data-centres in China and the UK, including Hull University’s Library and
 Applied Science Building. The University is currently working with Group-Atlantic to set up a joint
 venture to commercialise this technology.

 Bone and skull modelling: One of the core activities of the BE Theme is modelling and simulation
 applied to musculoskeletal biomechanics. For example, we have a particular interest in the
 modelling of skulls, and they now lead the world in the complexity and biofidelity of their skull
 models. It is true interdisciplinary research, for example co-authors in this REF period are from
 dentistry and orthodontics (Dundee), paediatric orthopaedics (Liverpool, London, Oxford, Paris),
 human and animal anatomy (Aberdeen, Bonn, Chicago, Cologne, Leeds, Liverpool, Paris, York),
 evolutionary anatomy (Paris, UCL), Palaeobiology (Birmingham, Bristol) and computational biology
 and bioengineering (Bochum, Shandong). Originally focussed on the modelling of animal skulls,
 this research is now being applied to clinical applications, including novel research into dental
 biomechanics, cleft lip and palate, and craniosynostosis. Meanwhile, other 3Rs research
 (replacement, reduction and refinement of animal experiments) is now working to replace animal
 experiments which are still widely used to test new biomaterials and dental and orthopaedic
 devices.

 Other bone modelling work is (for example) researching the growth and development of the human
 femur, including an investigation into the biomechanical causes and potential prevention of Legg-
 Calvé-Perthes’ disease in young children, while fundamental computational biology models are
 being used to understand the interaction of cells in diseases such as multiple myeloma.

 In a tangential development we are using our VOX-FE bone modelling software, developed at Hull,
 to examine the possibilities of biomimetic design of the internal structures of wind turbine blades,
 as part of an EPSRC Prosperity Partnership Project “A New Partnership in Offshore Wind”.

 Fault detection, diagnosis and fault-tolerant control: Another core activity within the EESE
 Theme is Control and Intelligent Systems Engineering (C&ISE), which has extensive expertise in
 the development of new theories and application studies using mathematical techniques for the
 diagnosis of faults in uncertain and non-linear systems. C&ISE members continue to develop new
 tools to ensure that fault effects can be estimated robustly in the presence of modelling uncertainty
 and bounded disturbance, and compensated within active fault tolerant control (FTC). Since 2014
 work has focussed on application of FTC methods to enhance reliability, whilst optimising energy
 capture of offshore wind turbines. Several important contributions have been made, again most
 recently through the EPSRC Prosperity Partnership Project in Offshore Wind (2017-2022). In 2015
 a new project on wave energy conversion (WEC), developed with our own scaled device, was
 modelled and tested in the University’s wave tank. This work, using Gaussian process machine
 learning control for wave force estimation and energy enhancement, was one of three final entries
 in the WEC control competition (WECCOMP).

 B. Evidence of contribution to the discipline and leadership
 The following non-exhaustive list provides further examples of the wider activities and contributions
 to the research base, economy and society provided by members of this UoA.

 Editorial board membership and book editorships: For example, Ibhadon is on the editorial

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 boards of Catalysis and Synthesis, and Chemical Technology and Biotechnology. Jaganathan is
 a Biomaterials editor for Open Chemistry and on the editorial board of International Journal of
 Polymer Analysis and Characterization. Langley is on the editorial board of Biomedical Physics
 and Engineering Express. Ma was a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Energy of the
 American Association for Science and Technology (2014 to 2016). Mi is on the editorial board of
 review of Metallurgical and Materials Transactions, and was the lead editor on the first technical
 book on Solidification Processing of Metallic Alloys under External Fields (Springer Nature, 2018)
 which has so far attracted over 5000 paid downloads. Patton serves as a subject editor for
 International Journal of Applied Mathematics & Computer Science, and subject editor of
 International Journal of Adaptive Control & Signal Processing. Skoulou is the Guest Editor for a
 number of special editions, for example, Sustainability on: the use of bioenergy-biofuels originated
 waste for value added feedstock; biochar and bioenergy; and sustainability and resilience to climate
 change hazards and gender equality. Stevenson is on the editorial board of International Journal
 of Chemical Engineering. Zein is on the editorial board of eight journals including Natural Science,
 Journal of Applied Sciences, Trends in Applied Sciences Research, Research Journal of
 Nanoscience and Nanotechnology and Current Research in Chemistry. Zhao has served on the
 editorial boards of a number of journals during the REF period, and is currently a board member of
 Energy, Renewable Energy, Energies, and Journal of Architectural Research and Development.
 Zhu was the editor for a special issue of Energy on: Scientific and Technological Advances in EU
 and China; and Guest Editor for a special issue of Energy on: 2018 EU-China Symposiums on
 Renewable Energy/Sustainable Energy and Energy Storage Technologies.

 Keynote and invited lectures: Staff have given many keynote and invited lectures around the
 world, and organized a wide variety of sessions and symposia. For example, Ibhadon was invited
 to give a plenary lecture at the Green Chemistry and Engineering Conference (2016 Washington).
 Li delivered a plenary lecture at the conference of Alternative Energy Sources, Materials and
 Technologies (2019 Sofia). Ma gave a keynote lecture at the EU-China Symposium on Renewable
 Energy/Sustainable Energy and Energy Storage Technologies (2018 Hull). Mi gave a plenary
 lecture at the 8th International Conference on Electromagnetic Processing of Materials (2015
 Cannes). Patton gave plenary lectures in Auckland at the IEEE/ASME Conference on Advanced
 Intelligent Mechatronics (2018), and in Xiamen on Fault Tolerant Control at the 2019 CCA
 Safeprocess Conference. Zhao has also delivered a number of keynote lectures during the period,
 including those at the 2nd International Conference on Materials Technology and Manufacturing
 Innovations (2018 Moscow), the 18th International Conference on Sustainable Energy
 Technologies (2019 Kuala Lumpur) and the International Energy and Environment Summit (2017
 Dubai). Zhu was invited to give a keynote lecture at Data Centre World (2018 Hong Kong).

 National/international advisory panel and academic group membership: Over the REF
 period, staff have undertaken a number of key advisory roles. For example, Haywood (recently
 retired) was the President of the Engineering Professors Council (2015-2017), gave evidence to
 the UK Government’s Education Select Committee on Brexit and Higher Education (Jan 2017), and
 organised the 2016 EPC Congress at Hull. Ibhadon is a member of DEFRA’s Expert Panel on
 Chemicals, and recently provided expert advice to the Department of Business Energy, Innovation
 and Skills (BEIS) on plastics. Langley is a member of the international Consortium for ECG Imaging
 in particular working on atrial arrhythmias. Paulson is a member of the International Tele-
 communications Union UK Study Group 3, and is a co-author of the influential 2017 UK Climate
 Change Risk Assessment Evidence report (for telecommunications), and is currently working on
 the 2022 version. Skoulou is a member of the Management Committee for the COST action for
 the Establishment of a Pan-European Network on the Sustainable Valorisation of Lignin. Zhao is
 an executive board member of the World Society of Sustainable Energy Technologies, a steering
 committee member of the European DHC (District Heating and Cooling) Technology Platform,
 European Heat and Power Association, and an expert panel member of the International Academic
 Exchange Information Centre. Zein is an Academic Adviser to the Commonwealth Scholarship
 Commission. Zhu is a member of the World Society of Sustainable Energy Technologies.

 Participation on grant reviewing: All academic staff review for a large range of national and
 international grant awarding bodies regularly, including the main UK research councils and

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 charities. Many are members of the EPSRC Peer Review College. In addition, the following sample
 illustrates other contributions: Langley served on the 2019 EPSRC Healthcare Impact Partnership
 panel, and Mi served on the EPSRC 2018 Centre for Doctoral Training Outlines panel, the EPSRC
 Engineering Prioritisation Panel (2018) and the EPSRC Future MAPP Hub mid-term review (2020).
 Fagan was an invited member of the ERC LS7 Advanced Research Grants panel (2007 to 2015)
 and continues to regularly review for other ERC bio/medical funding panels. Ke reviews
 applications for the British Council Newton Fund. Patton served on the EPSRC Review and
 Prioritisation Panel for the Joint UK-China Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) call. Zhao is a
 Member of EPSRC Engineering Prioritisation Panel and an external advisor on the Newton Fund
 China Collaboration programme, and advises a number of other international funding bodies.

 Prizes and awards: Members of the UoA have received a number of prizes and awards during
 this assessment period, the most significant of which are: Ma and Zhao were awarded the Rushlight
 Energy Reduction Award (2019). Oko won the prestigious Ludwig Mond prize in 2015 for their
 Humber CO2 pipeline design. Zhao also won the WSSET Innovation Awards in 2016, 2017 and
 2018, the EU Dragon Star Innovation Award in 2015, and the UK Newton Prize Finalist Award in
 2019.

 Institutional fellowships and senior memberships and other external recognition: Most staff
 returned under this UoA are members of professional bodies and hold chartered engineering
 status. In addition, during this REF period: Haywood (recently retired) became an Honorary Fellow
 of the IET. Patton holds a prestigious lifetime Fellowship of the Institute of Electronic & Electrical
 Engineers (IEEE) for research contributions to fault diagnosis and fault tolerant control, is a Senior
 Member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and is a Fellow of the Institute
 of Measurement and Control. Ibhadon holds two visiting professorships at Panjab University (2016
 to present) and Sholini University (2016 to present) in India. Stevenson is an Adjunct Associate
 Professor at the Centre for Energy, University of Western Australia (2013 to present), and Visiting
 Professor at the School of Petroleum Engineering, China University of Petroleum (2013 to present).
 Zhao is a Fellow of the European Academy of Sciences, a Fellow of the Energy Institute, a Fellow
 of Charted Institution of Building Services Engineering, a Fellow of World Society of Sustainable
 Energy Technologies and held a number of Honorary Professorships during the period. He also
 appeared in the 2017 most highly cited researchers in Web of Science, one of only five in an
 Engineering subject in the UK.




                                                                                               Page 16
