Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Academic staff in the University of Leicester’s English Language and Literature UoA work across
 the full spectrum of literary, linguistic and visual disciplines, producing research characterised by
 chronological range, linguistic variety and disciplinary flexibility. Our profile is genuinely
 international, and our research priorities reflect our location in one of the most ethnically diverse
 cities in the UK. We engage in research that stimulates local and national debate, notable
 examples including projects on the legacy of Leicester playwright Joe Orton, particularly in
 relation to LGBTQ+ issues, and the previously overlooked implications of slavery and
 colonialism for country houses owned by the National Trust, which form two of our impact case
 studies (ICS4 and ICS2). We have built on our longstanding and dynamically evolving interests
 in gender, sexuality, race, and ethnicity. Our research has forged new agendas for how literary
 and cultural research impacts on public policy in relation to diversity.

 This focus on diversity is reflected in the composition of our unit. As part of the University’s
 strategic restructuring of its Colleges and Schools in 2016, the Departments of English, Modern
 Languages (ML) and History of Art and Film (HAF) united to form the School of Arts (SoA), a
 constituent part of the new College of Social Sciences, Arts, and Humanities (CSSAH). This
 institutional transformation enabled us to redefine the objectives and themes of our collective
 mission, and the staff base has been augmented by the strategic recruitment of 22% of current
 staff since REF2014. Bringing together colleagues with a range of approaches and overlapping
 interests has enhanced the interdisciplinarity of our research. Our collective research strengths
 include: race and ethnicity; migration and diasporas; gender and sexualities; health, including
 mental health; and cultural heritage. The decision to enter the SoA’s 49.1 FTE as a single unit to
 UoA27 reflects the extent to which the varied research in our different subject areas addresses
 shared strategic objectives.

 Research across our unit is organised into three themed interdisciplinary clusters. Colleagues
 each contribute to one or more of these. The clusters reflect and strengthen our respective
 specialisms and exemplify our commitment to the University’s strategy of fostering ‘disciplinary
 and interdisciplinary research excellence’ (Institutional Environment Statement (IES), 2.8)

  1) Literary and Cultural History (LCH)
 Colleagues in this cluster undertake research in literary and cultural history from medieval to
 modern periods, with strengths in the Victorian and early modern periods and in textual editing.
 27 colleagues contribute directly to world-leading research and impact activities in this theme.
 Major grants include P. J. Shaw’s ‘Wordsworth 2020’ and Dawson’s ‘Constructing Scientific
 Communities’ (both AHRC). Among several notable monographs, Loveman’s Samuel Pepys
 and His Books was named in the Spectator’s Books of the Year (2016). The 43-volume
 Complete Works of Evelyn Waugh, with Stannard as chief editor, the outcome of a project that
 received a major AHRC grant (2013-18), was acclaimed in the TLS as ‘one of the great
 monuments of twenty-first century literary scholarship’. The impact of research in this theme is
 seen in Loveman’s involvement in a multidisciplinary project to create a multi-sensory, user-
 controlled, VR reconstruction of the experience of Vauxhall Pleasure Gardens in 1752, and
 D’Arcy’s collaboration with Marsh’s Library, Dublin on the exhibition ‘James Joyce, Apocalypse


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Exile’ (2014-15), which attracted 22,540 visitors and continues online.

 2) Contemporary Culture, Writing, and Language (CCWL)
 Our research on key developments in literatures, languages and cultures from the 1940s to the
 present focuses particularly on questions of sexual and racial politics, and on creative writing.
 Research highlights include L. Evans’s ‘Crime and its Representation in the Anglophone
 Caribbean 1834-2018’ (supported by the British Academy International Partnership and Mobility
 Scheme, 2016-18). Among many significant monographs, Fulcher’s Re-examining Language
 Testing won the SAGE/ILTA award for Best Book on Language Testing (2016), while Taylor’s
 novel Melissa was longlisted for the Guardian’s Not The Booker Prize (2016). 3 of the 19
 colleagues in this cluster are involved in commissioning new writing, such as the New Walk
 poetry pamphlets co-edited by Everett.

 3) Visual Cultures (VC)
 The 15 colleagues in this interdisciplinary cluster produce cutting-edge research on painting,
 sculpture, film, video production, photography and performance, with strengths in the
 relationship between text and image, and in cinema and television. Research awards include
 Penn’s Leverhulme Fellowship for ‘Bergson and Bergsonism in Literature and Film’ (2018) and
 North’s 2016 Paul Mellon Research Support Grant for work on visual and literary images of
 Charles Dickens. There have been several major monographs in film studies, including
 Chapman’s Swashbucklers: The Costume Adventure Series (MUP, 2015), the primary output
 from his AHRC-funded project ‘Spaces of Television’ (2010-14). Naiboglu’s Post-unification
 Turkish German Cinema (Palgrave, 2018) and Feng’s Chow Yun-fat and Territories of Hong
 Kong Stardom (EUP, 2017) attest to growing strengths in international cinema. The outstanding
 impact of research in this cluster is evidenced by two of our Impact Case Studies, which centre
 respectively on Garavelli’s work on Argentinian Experimental Video (ICS3) and on Ekserdjian’s
 leading role in the attribution of Leonardo da Vinci’s Salvator Mundi (ICS1). Sold in November
 2017 for USD450 million, this is the most valuable painting in history, and its attribution has had
 profound implications for the international art market.

 Our three research clusters are augmented by five internationally-renowned research centres
 housed within the SoA:

 1. Victorian Studies Centre (VSC, established 1966)
 2. Medieval Research Centre (MRC, established in 1996)
 3. Centre for American Studies (CAM, established in 1997)
 4. Centre for New Writing (CNW, established in 2008)
 5. Centre for Translation and Interpreting Studies (LeCTIS, established in 2011)

 The centres foster interdisciplinary collaborations within Leicester and externally with universities
 and non-HEI partners across the world. LeCTIS collaborates with our strategic partner,
 Shanghai International Studies University, while the VSC has strong links in Japan and India and
 helped Jadavpur University in Kolkata establish a comparable Centre. The CNW has created
 numerous dynamic commissions with writers and local communities.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 The three UoAs entered in REF2014 that now constitute our unit identified different objectives
 for this census period, but we have worked strategically to build shared goals, some of which
 have gained in significance in light of changing national and international priorities. As evidenced


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by the projects outlined below, we are especially aligned with the University’s strategic aim of
 forging ‘vibrant partnerships and networks of excellence to address complex contemporary
 challenges’ (IES, 2.8)

    Research Objectives          Achievements
    Enhance the quality,             Focus on longer-form publications, with 30 authored
    distinctiveness and                 monographs, 3 critical editions and 12 edited
    visibility of our research          collections submitted to REF2021. These make up
    outputs                             68% of our output submission.
                                     Strategic targeting of funding enabling Gold OA
                                        publication, with Brock’s monograph British Women
                                        Surgeons and Their Patients (2017), funded by the
                                        Wellcome Trust, a notable example.
    Support impactful                Targeted support for individual researchers’ impact
    research, especially that           activity, including significant reductions in teaching
    which contributes to                where necessary, and individual impact development
    addressing the                      mentoring.
    opportunities and                Notable Impact Case Studies include Parker’s work
    challenges of diversity             on Joe Orton (ICS4) in collaboration with Leicester’s
                                        Curve Theatre, Leicester Arts and Museums Service,
                                        National Justice Museum, Museum of Contemporary
                                        Art, and Arts Council England. This project has
                                        significantly raised the profile of Orton as a working-
                                        class gay writer.
                                     Fowler was lead academic author and co-editor, with
                                        National Trust Curators, of the ‘Interim Report on the
                                        Connections between Colonialism and Properties now
                                        in the care of the National Trust’ (September 2020),
                                        which has underpinned a major reinterpretation of the
                                        NT’s 93 properties and stimulated vigorous national
                                        debate (ICS2).
    Facilitate greater               Delivery of major collaborative and interdisciplinary
    interdisciplinarity and             projects supported by the Leicester Institute for
    collaborative research              Advanced Study (LIAS), including L. Evans’s work on
                                        crime in the Caribbean.
                                     Working with interdisciplinary cross-University
                                        research networks, such as the ‘Prisons Network’, to
                                        which Halliwell belongs. This helped facilitate
                                        Halliwell’s involvement in a collaborative ESRC-
                                        funded GCRF project on mental health in Guyana’s
                                        jails (2018-22)
    Strengthen postgraduate            More than 100 PGRs currently registered in the School
    community, and                     136 doctoral completions since 2014 – an increase of
    registrations and                   more than 160% over the previous census period.
    completions of PhDs,               17 Midlands 3 Cities/Midlands 4 Cities research
    especially through                  studentships awarded since 2014, more than doubling
    externally funded                   the previous AHRC Block Grant recruitment figure of
    studentships                        one studentship per year.
    Increase research                  Total cumulative external research income from

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    income, from more                     August 2013 to July 2020 is £2,939,541, a yearly
    diverse sources and per               average of £420,000.
    FTE                                  This compares with a cumulative income in the
                                          REF2014 census period of £1,273,622 across the
                                          three previous UoAs, an increase of 130%.
                                         In addition to the AHRC, ESRC, BA and the
                                          Leverhulme Trust, significant funding has been
                                          received from the Lottery Heritage Fund, the Arts
                                          Council and private philanthropists such as the Hilaria
                                          and Alec Baldwin Foundation.
    Increase externally                  Between 2013 and 2020 we were awarded 3
    funded postdoctoral                   Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, 6 Research
    researchers and enhance               Associates funded by AHRC (x5) and Leverhulme (x1)
    support for all early                 and 1 Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support
    career colleagues                     Fund Postdoctoral Fellowship, drawing on the
                                          University’s 5-year Wellcome Trust ISSF award of
                                          £1.5M (2017), matched by the University, one of 30 in
                                          the UK
                                         We have implemented the Concordat to Support the
                                          Career Development of Researchers, and, in 2018,
                                          created an ECR forum. We have reinforced our
                                          targeted mentoring programme. The effectiveness of
                                          our staff development strategy for ECRs is seen in
                                          notable grants and prestigious publications by, for
                                          example, M. Evans and Wood.

 Our support for colleagues seeking research funding makes strategic use of schemes including
 the University’s International Development Fund, which awarded £9,987 to L. Evans’s project
 ‘Representing Gender-based on Crime in the Anglophone Caribbean’ (2018). Building on the
 work facilitated by this funding, in March 2020 L. Evans was awarded an AHRC Research Grant
 of £210,168 for a 2-year collaborative project with the University of the West Indies focusing on
 the representation of gender-based violence in Caribbean popular culture and engaging
 Jamaican and Trinidadian school children in activism against GBV. This work underlines the
 importance to us of the University’s strategic aim to ‘optimise the impact of our research’ (IES,
 2.8), while supporting research that is meaningful in the wider world, promoting positive change,
 and having the widest possible impact.

 Our strategic involvement in intra-institutional initiatives to develop interdisciplinarity has resulted
 in, for example, Loveman’s involvement, with colleagues from History, Informatics and Museum
 Studies, in the ‘Virtual Vauxhall Gardens’ project. This project received networking funding from
 the University and won the Research Team of the Year award at the 2019 'Discovering
 Excellence' awards ceremony.

 The strength and excellence of our postgraduate research provision is evidenced in our
 contribution to the Midlands4Cities AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership (M4C, previously M3C),
 which brings together eight universities in four cities across the East and West Midlands. A
 senior colleague from our School has been joint site director for the DTP throughout the census
 period (Halliwell, P. J. Shaw, Knight). Halliwell was Leicester Site Director between 2013 and
 2018 and was Leicester lead on the 2018 M4C DTP bid, ranked 1st out of 11 successful bids


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nationally, which has enabled the UoA to benefit from increased capacity in doctoral awards.

 Future Research and Impact Strategy

 Our strategy for 2020–25 is to:

       foster research excellence, especially in relation to interdisciplinarity and work that
        addresses complex contemporary challenges;
       optimise research impact, particularly in relation to public policy on diversity and
        inclusion;
       forge vibrant collaborations and networks of excellence and nurture the next generation
        of scholars, helping them to produce innovative world-leading research and impact, and
        to become leaders in the sector;
       build capacity for internal and external leadership roles through targeted mentoring and
        support of ECRs.

 The achievement of our objectives will be facilitated by the marked increase in our research
 income and postdoctoral awards. Six projects, with research awards totaling £792,808, will
 continue beyond 2021. Income growth will be facilitated by colleagues with experience of
 managing larger grants supporting ECRs in developing ambitious and collaborative research
 projects. For instance, Wood’s recent AHRC Networking Grant for ‘The Dickens Code’ (2021–
 22) builds on the citizen-science methods of knowledge-making generated by Dawson’s
 ‘Constructing Scientific Communities’ project (2014–18) and will establish the groundwork for
 another large interdisciplinary project, with several non-HEI partners.

 Other projects in development enhance our strategic focus on diversity. The growing urgency of
 issues of racial injustice internationally has given further impetus to our research in this area.
 With guidance from Fowler and our Leverhulme ECR Fellow Bhanot, this research informs our
 initiatives to decolonise our curricula.

 L. Evans’s new AHRC-funded project on gender-based violence in Jamaica and Trinidad
 (2021–23 – originally due to start 2020 but delayed by COVID-19) will also expand and
 internationalise the impact of our research relating to diversity, and forms part of a growing
 strategic emphasis on challenge-led research. We will enhance this focus by offering targeted
 mentoring and cross-institutional training for ECRs. This defining aspect of our future strategy
 will ensure the vitality and sustainability of our research and impact in the changing landscape
 for subject areas in our UoA and HE more widely and equip ECRs to be sector leaders in the
 future.

 2. People

 We prioritise the recruitment of staff with excellent research profiles and ambitious objectives
 incorporating clear plans for publication, impact and grant capture, in full observance of the
 University’s equalities policy. We engage fully with the University’s strategy of nurturing ‘the next
 generation of researchers to become world-leaders in their field’ (IES, 2.8). Through the strategic
 appointment of new permanent academic staff and the hosting of postdoctoral fellows we have
 been able to strengthen our expertise in our three research clusters. New permanent
 appointments contribute to Literary and Cultural History (Feghali; Wood; M. Evans);
 Contemporary Culture, Writing and Language (Hadjidemetriou; Taylor; Usoz de la Fuente;


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ying); and Visual Cultures (Garavelli; Jenkins; Feng; Naiboglu). These strategic
 appointments have enhanced research excellence in Victorian Studies, Digital Humanities,
 American Studies, Spanish and Latin American Studies, English Language, Creative Writing,
 Film Studies, and History of Art. For example, M. Evans’s work in historical linguistics,
 Renaissance writing, and digital textual editing, intersects with several of these areas. We have
 been able to extend the international and cross-cultural aspects of our research, with a
 concentration of research on Europe, the Americas, and Asia. Feng brings expertise on East
 Asian and transnational cinema, based on research she conducted at the Hong Kong Film
 Archive, Naiboglu research on Turkish-German film was underpinned by work at the Deutsche
 Kinemathek and Deutsche Film- und Fernsehakademie Berlin, and Hadjidemetriou has
 conducted empirical sociolinguistic investigations of English use among Greek-Cypriot
 communities in the UK.

 The sustainability and vitality of research and succession planning for academic leadership
 roles, have been enhanced by a total of 19 promotions (12 women; 7 men) during the census
 period, with 5 promotions to Professor, including 2 women, (Dawson, Knight, Fowler,
 Rogerson-Revell and Lindley who has since left) and 14 to Associate Professor (Barefoot;
 Brock; D’Arcy; L. Evans; James; Louwagie; Lund; Parker; Parsons; P. A. Shaw; Storchi;
 Taylor; Whitehead; Wylie). These promotions have replaced colleagues who have retired or
 left (12 FTE) in the census period and have re-energised our core research activities. We are
 mindful of the need to ensure a better gender balance and increased BAME representation at
 professorial level, and this will be achieved through continued engagement with the full range of
 EDI initiatives supporting staff development and leadership skills, in line with the University’s
 commitment to ‘valuing equality and advancing diversity’, outlined in the institutional EDI strategy
 (IES, 3.1). This has informed our staff recruitment. The gender distribution of our new
 appointments over the period is 10 female and 1 male.

 The University’s Academic Career Map (IES, 3.2) underpins the vitality and sustainability of our
 research environment by articulating expectations for colleagues at each stage of their career in
 relation to teaching, research, impact and knowledge exchange, and leadership and citizenship
 activities, including the mentoring of junior colleagues. It informs annual Personal Development
 Discussions (PDD) and the work of the SoA Staffing Group (comprising the Research Director,
 the Equalities Chair, the PGR Director, an ECR representative, the School’s three Directors of
 Studies, and the Head of School) in supporting the promotions process.

 We implement a detailed academic workload model in compliance with the University’s model,
 enabling us to plan individual workloads openly and transparently, manage the equitable
 allocation of teaching and administrative tasks, and maintain a sense of fairness, shared
 endeavour and collegiality. Research time – 40% for colleagues on Teaching and Research
 contracts – is built into the workload model. During teaching terms, colleagues have at least one
 day per week without teaching or administrative commitments to focus exclusively on research
 projects and grant applications.

 Strategies for staff development
 We are committed to developing individual researchers at all stages of their careers, and our
 mechanisms, procedures and principles are updated regularly, ensuring the continuing provision
 of excellent support and training at every level. We promote individual and collaborative
 research through annual development funding for library and archive visits, conference
 attendance and other research costs (£170,000 over the REF census period). Additional funding
 is available from the College and University for large-scale events and activities, including

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overseas conference attendance, and for pump-priming interdisciplinary research and impact
 development. The School has been awarded a total of £298,243 in such funding since 2014.
 Further funding is allocated to holders of overhead-bearing external grants.

 All colleagues are eligible to apply for research leave of one semester in seven. During the
 census period, 45 colleagues have taken a total of 90 semesters of leave. 9 monographs
 submitted to REF2021 have been researched or completed during University leave. Study leave
 applications and post-study leave reports are scrutinised by the School and College to maximise
 high-quality research outcomes, with clear and manageable objectives for publications, grant
 applications, and impact activities, as relevant. Colleagues are strongly encouraged to augment
 institutional study leave with leave funded by external research grants. For example, Lund’s
 AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2015-17) was followed by a semester of institutional leave, during
 which Lund was able to continue her work on Volume 13 of The Oxford Edition of the Sermons
 of John Donne.

 We conduct annual research interviews at which colleagues can access support and
 mentorship, review their progress and achievements in research, and plan for the short (1-2
 year) and medium (3-5 year) terms. These interviews provide the Research Director with data
 for holistic forward planning in relation to outputs, impact, grant applications and contribution to
 the research environment. Our PDDs allow discussion of the integration of research into
 colleagues’ overall workloads. Current and potential Impact Case Study Leads attend an annual
 interview and receive targeted advice and support from the Impact Coordinator and the
 Research Director, agreeing action points, and determining what support is needed at School
 and institutional level to maximise the reach and depth of research impact. Pairing of colleagues
 either within or between research clusters are actively promoted as an opportunity for
 developmental discussions of research in progress, and to enable sharing of best practice and
 consideration of research ideas in a mutually supportive environment.

 Research-focused information sessions and workshops are organised at School level to enable
 all colleagues to take full advantage of research opportunities. Recent events have included a
 Grant Writing Retreat, Collaborative Research Workshops, and an OA briefing session. ‘Using
 the Arts for Impact’, led by Louwagie and supported by CSSAH, brought together arts
 professionals and academics to discuss working together on impact (scheduled for April 2020,
 this took place online in July 2020).

 We benefit from a wide range of researcher development events at College and University. For
 grant writing, these cover all key stages of project costing, design and development and the
 application, management and delivery process. The University’s E-learning Academy provides
 online training materials to develop skills in project management, coaching and mentoring,
 leadership development, planning, and transformational change. We engage with the
 University’s Researcher Development Programme which consists of events grouped in relation
 to themes including Engagement, Influence and Impact, Researcher Effectiveness, Quantitative
 Skills and Supporting Postgraduate Research. We participate in institutional initiatives that focus
 on EDI and staff development, including the Women Leading with Purpose Programme (Wood);
 the Leicester Coaching and Mentoring Academy and the Aurora programme (Parker; Ying;
 Jones). An example of the benefits of such training is that Wood now has a School level
 leadership role as Chair of the School External Relations group, responsible for the publicisation
 of our research activities.

 Early-career researchers

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have made 9 permanent early-career appointments since 2013 (M. Evans, Feghali, Feng,
 Garavelli, Hadjidemetriou, Jenkins, Naiboglu, Usoz de la Fuente, Wood). During their three-
 year probation, colleagues receive a reduction in teaching hours of 30% in the first year, 20% in
 the second, and 10% in the third. They work closely with a mentor who has a pivotal and
 strategic role in supporting the professional development of ECRs. The mentoring scheme
 includes part-time staff, research assistants, and postdoctoral researchers, and takes place
 across subject areas. It involves regular one-to-one meetings, enabling new colleagues to
 review professional activities and objectives and discuss work in progress. Distinct from PDD,
 mentoring is confidential and aimed at giving the mentee the confidence and capability to take
 full advantage of the opportunities offered by the School and University to develop their research
 and academic profile, and to make a full contribution to the School’s work. This process forms
 part of the University’s implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, designed to increase the attractiveness and sustainability of research careers and
 to improve the quantity, quality, reach and impact of research. All 9 appointees since 2013
 successfully passed probation, reaching benchmarks in research and scholarship, teaching and
 supervision, and administration. Their mentors provided crucial guidance in ensuring the
 achievement of these goals.

 The effectiveness of this staff development strategy for ECRs is illustrated by M. Evans’s
 research as CI on the major, AHRC-funded project ‘Editing Aphra Behn in the Digital Age’ (2016-
 21), led by Loughborough University, with the University of Newcastle (Australia) as collaborator
 (£174k to M. Evans). She also received an internal award of £10K to fund teaching relief,
 supporting her in completing of her CUP monograph Language and Power in Tudor England
 (CUP, 2020). Wood received AHRC Research Network funding of £39,648 as PI for ‘The
 Dickens Code’ (2021-22, £26,521 to Leicester), to be undertaken in collaboration with a Co-I
 from the University of Foggia, and colleagues from the Universities of Manchester and California
 (Santa Cruz), in partnership with the Dickens Museum and the V&A. Her application was
 supported in the development stages by Dawson, drawing on his experience with ‘Constructing
 Scientific Communities’ (AHRC). The College Research Development Fund awarded Feng a
 grant of £2,666 for her ‘Shanghai Made in Hollywood’ project (2018) and, also in Film, Jenkins
 received £2,119 for ‘Hollywood’s Women Directors’ (2018). Feghali was awarded an Early
 Career Researcher Visiting Grant of £3,848 for archive work in the US related to her project
 ‘World Leaders and Citizen Readers’ (2019) after developing her application at a School Grant
 Writing Retreat.

 Postdoctoral researchers and research associates
 Post-doctoral research fellowships are key to our research environment and to the sustainability
 and vitality of the discipline. Since 2013, we have hosted four postdoctoral Fellows whose
 research is largely interdisciplinary and related to equality and diversity. Externally-funded
 postdoctoral projects include 3 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, with the CSSAH
 contributing a total of £263k to supplement the Trust’s awards. Fernandez Carbajal, now a
 Lecturer at the University of Roehampton, worked on ‘Queer Diasporas’ (2014-17). Butcher was
 named as BBC New Generation Thinker in 2017, just before beginning her postdoctoral project
 ‘War and Childhood in the Nineteenth Century’ and took up a lecturing post at Edge Hill
 University in September 2020. Bhanot joined us in 2018 to work on British Punjabi literature in
 English. Wiltshire’s Wellcome Trust ISSF Postdoctoral Fellowship centred on ‘Therapy and
 Health in Twentieth-Century Visual Arts’.

 During the census period, 6 research associates have worked on major projects: Findell, now
 Assistant Professor in Historical Linguistics at Nottingham University (‘Linguistic Variation in

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Early Anglo-Saxon England’, part of the major Leverhulme-funded project ‘The Impact of
 Diasporas on the Making of Britain [£1.37M]); Cooke, now a Lecturer at Loughborough, and
 Boland (‘The Complete Works of Evelyn Waugh’, AHRC-funded research project, £822k);
 Murphy (AHRC-funded ‘Exploring the Easter e.g.’ project, £189k to Leicester); Hogarth (AHRC-
 funded ‘Editing Aphra Behn’ project, £174k to Leicester); Belknap (AHRC-funded project
 ‘Constructing Scientific Communities: Citizen Science in the 19th and 21st Centuries ’, £409k to
 Leicester). Belknap is now Senior Curator at the National Science and Media Museum, Bradford.

 Postgraduate Researchers
 We recruit high-calibre PGRs from across the globe with more than 100 currently studying in the
 School. We have enhanced and developed our MA programmes to generate high-quality
 applicants for PGR study. Our PGR cohort is diverse: approximately 64% are female; about 30%
 identify as BAME; more than 30% are international.

 We provide a supportive research environment within which PGRs can thrive, in 2020 PGRs
 reported 98% overall satisfaction with the experience of their research degree programmes,
 compared with a national average of 80.1% (PRES). We have developed and implemented
 training and review protocols to ensure that PGRs become effective researchers, network with
 others at institutional level and externally (nationally and internationally), successfully complete
 their degrees, and embark on academic careers. Holders of Leicester PhDs have secured
 academic posts in the UK (e.g. Durham; York; UCL; York St John; Swansea; Falmouth;
 Portsmouth; Leicester; De Montfort) and abroad (e.g. Germany; France; Italy; USA; China;
 South Korea; Thailand; Turkey; Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Tunisia).

 PGR Training and development
 Comprehensive support mechanisms help to ensure PGR progress and completion. Each PGR
 is allocated a lead and second supervisor, with compulsory training for supervisors being
 delivered by the Doctoral College and ongoing support for supervisors overseen by the School’s
 PGR Director (currently Chapman). Colleagues consistently share good practice in relation to
 the diverse needs of our PGRs, who include campus-based, distance learning and part-time,
 international PGRs, and those with accessibility or other special requirements. PGRs have
 access to dedicated and fully equipped shared office space in the School and at the Nicholas
 Corah Doctoral College Reading Room in the David Wilson Library. MyPGR, an online tool,
 assists PGRs in recording and reflecting on their progress, and is used to view and book training
 sessions and record supervisory meetings and training events attended. In 2020 on average
 96% of PGRs expressed satisfaction with the supervisory processes, against a national average
 of 86.9% (PRES).

 PGRs present a Probation Review at the end of their first year and have an annual Progress
 Review in each of the following years. Reviews are led by two colleagues who are not members
 of the supervisory team and who assess progress, give feedback on written work and, provide
 advice on future directions and on training needs. Successful completion of those reviews
 informs progression to the subsequent year of study.

 The University’s support for PGRs, overseen by the Doctoral College, is informed by Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Network which identifies the knowledge, behaviour and attributes of
 successful researchers (IES, 3.3). As well as an induction programme, the Doctoral College
 offers a range of opportunities for PGRs to showcase their research, including the Festival of
 Research, which features a PGR poster competition with shortlisted PGRs presenting their work
 to judges from the government, charities, the media and the public, ‘Images of Research’, and

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Yes Competitions’, enabling PGRs to present their research to diverse audiences. The Doctoral
 Inaugural Lectures celebrate and showcase outstanding research. Palmer Heathman was
 chosen by the Doctoral College to present her research on the English folk revival in 2017.

 PGRs are strongly encouraged to engage with experiential learning in a supportive environment
 and to take opportunities to practice their skills by delivering talks, participating in competitions
 and community events or work placements. Fallon, an M3C-funded PGR, undertook a 3-month
 placement with Nottingham City Council Museums and Galleries in connection with the
 exhibition ‘Dinosaurs in China’, and had a central role in providing interpretative materials.

 Our PGRs benefit from and contribute to: Frontier, the University’s Postgraduate Research
 Magazine; Café Research, evening events featuring short PGR talks and an opportunity for
 discussion with other PGRs in an informal setting; and Lunchtime Lectures organised with the
 Leicester Adult Education College, enabling PGRs to present their work to the public. Lane
 spoke about her research on director John Schlesinger in this series in 2018. The Doctoral
 Writing Group gives PGRs the opportunity to set regular writing objectives in the context of an
 interdisciplinary community, while the University’s English Language Teaching Unit (ELTU)
 provides pre- and in-sessional courses for international PGRs focusing on a range of academic
 English skills, as well as one-to-one support.

 Research activities
 PGRs are fully integrated into the broad range of the School’s research activities, including
 seminars involving internal and external speakers, annual lectures and public talks featuring
 speakers from other UK and overseas institutions. They contribute to events (conferences,
 workshops, seminars, publications and outreach) in the five Research Centres. PGRs make an
 active contribution to the School’s research culture by organising workshops, and conferences
 and they can bid to College for up to £500 contribution to the cost of conference attendance and
 organisation. In May 2018, Fallon and Wale organised ‘Self-Fashioning Scientific Identities in the
 Long Nineteenth Century’ (June 2018), a postgraduate workshop that formed part of the AHRC-
 funded ‘Constructing Scientific Communities’. Hannigan, an M3C-funded PGR, co-organised
 ‘Borders and Crossings 2019’, an interdisciplinary conference on travel writing, held at Leicester
 in July 2019, with £200 funding from the Centre for New Writing.

 The annual School PGR Conference gives all PGRs the opportunity to deliver presentations and
 network. First year PGRs produce poster-style presentations on their research topics and PGRs
 at later stages give research papers. This enhances the sense of research community among
 PGRs and embeds them in the wider research culture of the School and College. PGRs are
 encouraged to present papers at other University and external events, and to publish academic
 outputs. Recent PGR publications include Coster’s articles in Review of English Studies and
 Marvell Studies and her chapter in The Oxford Handbook of Andrew Marvell, and contributions
 by Choi to Journal of Translation Studies. The work of our PGRs has been recognised in the
 award of prizes, with Senturk winning the Doris Lessing Graduate Student Essay Contest in
 2017, and Hannigan the 2020 SELVA Thesis Award.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 We work closely with the College and the University to embed and promote equality, diversity
 and inclusion in our daily practice, research culture, activity and strategy, and in our decision-
 making and management structures. Our activities are closely aligned with the latest University
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy (2017-21) and the Equality Action Plan, the objective
 of which is to ‘build our reputation as a Beacon of Equality excellence’ and all FTEs complete

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EDI training. 66% of colleagues submitted in this UoA are women and 60% of submitted outputs
 are by female academics.

 Colleagues with caring responsibilities are supported by the UoA’s three Directors of Studies
 and their timetables adapted to their circumstances wherever possible. The University’s flexible
 working policy helps staff manage their commitments more effectively. Specific support is put in
 place for colleagues with special needs or major illness to make sure that they can continue with
 or return to work. Colleagues are supported through pre- and post-maternity leave meetings with
 the Head of School and can use ‘Keeping in Touch’ days to maintain a connection with research
 activities during maternity leave if they wish. Thirteen colleagues took a total of 17 periods of
 maternity leave during the census period.

 The Equalities Chair (currently Feghali) coordinates and promotes EDI at all levels in the School
 and attends key committees at School and College level, working closely with colleagues to
 ensure that strategic developments relating to PGRs and staff are informed by best practice, and
 furthering our commitment to providing an inclusive and accessible work environment. As part of
 our strategy to address the EDI issues we have identified, a Self-Assessment Team in the
 School is preparing an application for an Athena Swan Bronze award, which we will submit
 before the end of 2022. The Self-Assessment Team includes colleagues from a mixture of
 grades, roles, and career stages, encompassing a range of protected characteristics, as well as
 PGR representation.

 We actively support the University’s Time to Change Pledge Action Plan to raise awareness and
 support in relation to Mental Health wellbeing (one of the priorities of the School Plan), and its
 engagement with the Race Equality Charter, the Stonewall Inclusive Employers initiative and the
 HeForShe campaign launched by the United Nations (UN Women) (IES, 3.1). In 2018, under the
 aegis of HeForShe, Senturk, a PGR in English, developed an initiative to use visual art to raise
 awareness of all forms of gender-based violence, resulting in the University commissioning an
 artwork from a local artist and displaying this on campus.

 We make a major contribution to organising Black History Month events in Leicester. In May
 2019, we hosted the annual Black British History Workshop in collaboration with the Institute of
 Commonwealth Studies, School of Advanced Studies (University of London), and Black British
 History (with financial support from the SoA and the School of History, Politics and International
 Relations). The Literary Leicester Festival (2007-17) had an inclusive remit, with events
 including ‘Black British Writing’ with Guardian columnist Gary Younge, events relating to
 Fernandez Carbajal’s ‘Queer Diasporas’ project, and ‘Migration Stories: South Asian Histories
 and Cultures’, which was sponsored by the British Council (India). These activities have helped
 to shape how our research addresses diversity.

 Our research areas speak directly to our EDI agenda, with priority themes relating to gender,
 race and ethnicity, sexualities, migration and diasporas, faith and religious practices, health
 including mental health and ageing. Examples include:

 Race and ethnicity, migration and diasporas: representation of slavery in Milton’s work
 (Dzelzainis); representation of indigenous cultures in Mexican literature (Penn); the poetics of
 plants in Latin American literature, with special attention to Chile and Cuba (Wylie);
 representations of the Holocaust in contemporary French-language and British literature
 (Louwagie; Stewart); migration in film, and Turkish-German cinema (Naiboglu); ethno-national
 identity and film (Feng); language, hybridity and belonging in the Greek Cypriot community in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the UK (Hadjidemetriou); ethnicity, racism, colonialism and migration in France (Aissaoui).

 Gender and sexualities: sexualities in medieval texts (Clark); medieval education and
 masculinity (Parsons); Pepys and women (Loveman); women writers and life writing in the
 Victorian period (James, North); women surgeons in the late-19th and early 20th centuries
 (Brock); masculinity in Caribbean literature, culture and society (L. Evans); tackling gender-
 based violence (L. Evans, Fayard); Crossing borders and queering citizenship in America
 (Feghali); gender in Spanish literature and rights for women and homosexuals in Spain (Usoz
 de la Fuente); women’s experimental video in Argentina (Garavelli, ICS3); gender, sexuality
 and class in the work of Joe Orton (Parker ICS4); language, youth and gender (Waters).

 Health, including mental health: scientific and medical genres (Brock); the history of mental
 health in the United States and a collaborative ESRC-funded GCRF project on mental health in
 Guyana’s jails (Halliwell); Dickens and death (Wood).

 Faith and religious practices: Milton and the toleration of Catholics (Dzelzainis); culture and
 religion in Renaissance England (Knight); The Oxford Edition of the Sermons of John Donne
 (Lund); translation and reception of the Quran (Elimam).

 Throughout the REF census period we have fostered a diverse research community that
 embraces and celebrates equalities. This has enriched our research culture and enabled
 researchers to thrive, while supporting them in developing creative ways of thinking and in
 promoting collaboration and interdisciplinarity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 In the current census period, we have diversified and significantly increased our sources of grant
 income. External grant income has more than doubled in the REF2021 census period compared
 to REF2014: £2,939,541 as against £1,273,622. This has been achieved through a strategy of:

    -   targeted support for colleagues at different career stages, including mentoring and a
        robust peer-reviewing system, that has improved the quality of applications;
    -   use of institutional support via LIAS for pilot projects and impact activity;
    -   encouraging and supporting colleagues in seeking more diverse funding sources;
    -   in 2014 our income came from a total of 7 funding bodies; this has been increased to 13,
        including research councils, charities, and philanthropic donations.

 Colleagues at all stages in their careers are assisted in strengthening funding applications by
 mentoring and reviewing processes, integrated support at School, College and University level
 and the expert guidance of experienced grant holders and reviewers. Successful applications
 are made available as best-practice models. Applications for funds of up to £150,000 are
 reviewed by the Director of Research and a member of the School Research Committee, and
 larger grant applications receive additional review at University level by members of Key Funder
 Working Groups (AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust and Wellcome Trust). These procedures
 have contributed to the significant increase in grant capture compared with REF2014,
 representing an 18% growth per FTE for REF2021.

 Since 2014, we have been awarded funds by the AHRC, for example for P. J. Shaw’s


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Wordsworth 2020’ (PI, £149,418) and had notable success with Leverhulme Research
 Fellowships (Penn, Wylie, James and Dawson, worth £153,478 in total). Interdisciplinary
 funding awarded in collaboration with other Schools and Colleges in the University, has included
 Halliwell’s award from the ESRC/AHRC for ‘Mental, Neurological and Substance Use Disorders
 in Guyana Jails’ (CI, with History, £1,243,030 with £94,143 to Halliwell) and his leading role in
 the University’s Wellcome Trust ISSF award (bringing £1.5M to the University in collaboration
 with the College of Life Sciences). The AHRC-funded ‘Dons, Yardies and Possies:
 Representations of Jamaican Organised Crime’ Network (L. Evans, 2016-19, £45,092), allowed
 research to be undertaken with partner institutions in the Caribbean. Over the census period we
 received awards ranging in value from £1,200–£58,000 from the British Council, Arts Council
 England, Heritage Lottery Fund, Toni Schiff Memorial Fund, Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in
 British Art, Hilaria and Alec Baldwin Foundation and Leicestershire County Council.

 Funding awarded in 2008–13 has supported outputs and impact in the current cycle. In addition
 to the ongoing outputs from the AHRC-funded the Complete Works of Evelyn Waugh project
 (2013-18), led by Stannard, Parsons’s AHRC Early Career Fellowship in 2012-13 enabled the
 research for Punishment and Education in the Middle Ages (Boydell and Brewer, 2018). The
 Wellcome Trust awarded £108,343 to Brock for ‘Women Surgeons in Britain’ (2012-14), with her
 OA monograph British Women Surgeons and Their Patients (Cambridge, 2017) its major
 outcome.

 Further support for research activities has come from significant institutional investment. £1.2M
 was invested by the University into our research (2013-14 to March 2020), enabling significant
 research outcomes.

 Table 2: Institutional Investment
     Source                          Amount   Projects Included
     College Research                £855,000 Matching funding for Leverhulme ECFs, GTAs,
     Environment Expenditure                  PGR fee waivers, Literary Leicester
     Fund
     LIAS                            £79,000   Halliwell’s Prisons Network; Tiger Team
                                               funding that supported development of ‘Virtual
                                               Vauxhall Gardens’, with Loveman as
                                               contributor
     Research Development            £20,040   Conference and research travel grants
     Fund                                      including support for Spunta’s work on Luigi
                                               Ghirri and Whitehead’s on Soviet Creative
                                               Writing programmes
     Grant Writing Fund              £19,800   Teaching buyout for M. Evans to complete
                                               bid; professional support for 2017 Grant
                                               Writing Retreat
     Impact Development Fund         £31,034   Research Assistance and teaching buyout for
                                               Impact Case Study Leads
     Research Excellence Fund        £3,572    Development of Loveman’s impact work on
                                               Pepys
     International Research          £9,987    L. Evans’s International symposium
     Development Fund                          ‘Representing Gender-based Crime in the
                                               Caribbean’



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University’s David Wilson Library houses significant archives and special collections that
 support specialist research and underpin grant applications. The Modern Literary Archives hold
 key materials, notably the Orton Collection, a unique gathering of manuscripts, letters and
 original material written or compiled by the Leicester born playwright. This underpins Parker’s
 Impact Case Study on Orton (ICS4).

 Our research benefits from extensive digital resources provided by the University Library. Our
 approach to using and managing these resources is embedded in the University’s IT strategy
 (2011-16) and digital strategy (2016-20). Researchers benefit from targeted training to make full
 use of the latest enabling technologies (devices, software and services) to enhance digital
 creation, innovation and scholarship. The Leicester Research Archive, powered by Figshare
 since November 2019, enables the preservation and discovery of our outputs. Between
 November 2019 and July 2020, our journal articles received 6834 views and 3190 downloads via
 Figshare, with 168 views and 112 downloads of books by users from at least 25 countries in the
 same period. These resources have helped to streamline grant funding applications and
 generate higher research impact and have benefitted a range of high-profile research activities
 and digital projects, for example:

       M. Evans’s 4-year AHRC project with international partners to produce a new scholarly
        edition of Behn’s writings titled ‘Editing Aphra Behn in the Digital Age (E-ABIDA)’, the first
        to apply computational attribution to Behn’s work;
       Dawson’s AHRC-funded project ‘Constructing Scientific Communities’ with the
        development of the ‘Science Gossip’ online platform involving more than 10,200
        volunteers contributing 161,397 pages of open data classifying science drawings in
        Victorian periodicals and helping map the origins of citizen science;
       M. Evans’s seminar ‘Historicizing the Digital’, funded by the British Association of
        Applied Linguistics;
       Loveman’s joint project with Informatics, Museum Studies and the School of History,
        ‘Virtual Vauxhall Gardens’, recreating part of the 1752 pleasure gardens in virtual reality;
       Fowler’s AHRC-funded project ‘Affective Digital Histories: Recreating De-Industrialised
        Places, 1970s to the Present’ (2014-15) and a MOOC co-produced by school children
        and historians for the Colonial Countryside Project (ICS2);
       D’Arcy’s 9 chapters for the University’s first MOOC, the highly successful, ‘England in
        the Time of King Richard III’, with 82,790 students enrolled since it began in November
        2013.

 The School allocates £25,000 annually from its non-pay budget and makes use of an endowed
 bequest to support research. In addition to annual individual research allowances, support is
 provided for the organisation of high-profile research events, workshops and international
 conferences that are aligned with our three strategic research themes and reflect our focus on
 transnationalism, interdisciplinarity, and equality and diversity. Two linked conferences on ‘Luigi
 Ghirri and Photography’, co-organised by Spunta, were held at The British School at Rome
 (October 2013) and at Leicester (September 2014), and ‘Visualising War: the Iconography of
 Conflict and the Italian Nation’, co-organised by Storchi, took place at British School at
 Rome/Galleria Nazionale d’Arte Moderna in Rome (September 2014). Fowler hosted ‘What’s
 Happening in Black British History?’, the 10th Annual Institute of Commonwealth Studies
 conference on this topic, at Leicester in May 2019. In July 2019, ‘George Eliot 2019’, an


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Bicentenary Conference, was hosted by the Victorian Studies Centre with the
 collaboration of the George Eliot Fellowship, and supported by the endowed bequest.

 Colleagues working on impact-related activities, including those submitting case studies to the
 current REF (Eksjerdian ICS1, Fowler ICS2, Garavelli ICS3 and Parker ICS4) and those
 whose projects are under development (Loveman, D’Arcy) have received support in the form of
 teaching relief. Projects which have secured institutional and external funding include: Fowler’s
 Colonial Countryside project (ICS2); University pump-priming, Heritage Lottery Fund; Arts
 Council England); Parker’s Joe Orton project (ICS4; University pump-priming; Hilaria and Alec
 Baldwin Foundation, Arts Council England); D’Arcy’s ‘James Joyce: Apocalypse and Exile’
 project, including a major exhibition at Marsh’s Library, Dublin (University pump priming;
 Department of Arts, Heritage, and the Gaeltacht, Government of Ireland).

 Workshops are organised regularly in the School, at College level and via LIAS to promote
 funding schemes and highlight specific calls, and to help in the establishment of research teams,
 the facilitation of networks, and the development of interdisciplinary projects. We work closely
 with the University’s Research and Enterprise Division (RED) which provides effective and
 targeted support for the organisation and administration of funding applications in the School,
 the development of research projects, and cross-departmental bids.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Much of our research activity engages directly with the economy and society, often with
 demonstrable impact in relation to matters of equality and diversity.

 Partnerships, Impact and Engagement
 The UoA has influenced the sector nationally and internationally. Since 1993, the English
 Association (est. 1906, the only English subject association with a Royal Charter) has been
 housed at the University and engages closely with the School. Halliwell was EA Chair (2014-18)
 and is its 90th President (2018-21), P. J. Shaw is a Trustee and both, along with Dzelzainis and
 Knight, are EA Fellows. The EA works across all education sectors, engaging closely with
 teachers, publishers and policymakers and embodying a full-spectrum approach to English
 Studies (in line with the English QAA Benchmark statement). It co-organised two landmark
 conferences ‘English Shared Futures’ (Newcastle 2017; Manchester 2020, rescheduled for
 2021) dealing with internationalism, interdisciplinarity, OA, well-being and respect in the
 workplace, and equalities/diversity. Halliwell’s other national roles include co-chair of the Arts
 and Humanities Alliance, memberships of the UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders
 Fellowships (UKRI FLF) programme, the British Academy Arts and Humanities Skills Advisory
 Group, and the AHRC Science in Culture Advisory Group. He is AHRC Lead on the cross-UKRI
 Mental Health Experts Group, ensuring that our research and equalities agenda is shaped by
 and responsive to national strategic priorities.

 Since 2016, Brock has been a Member of Expert Advisory Group for the Wellcome Trust
 Funded Surgery and Emotions project based at the University of Roehampton and Dawson
 became an Honorary Fellow of the Natural History Museum in 2016. Dzelzainis was President
 of the Andrew Marvell Society until 2015, and a Mayer Research Fellow at the Huntington
 Library, California in 2017. Knight was appointed to the Academic Advisory Board, Ludwig
 Boltzmann Institute for Neo-Latin Studies, Innsbruck in 2017. From 2019 Fayard has chaired
 United Against Violence and Abuse, a consortium of three Leicester charities. In 2018,


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ekserdjian gave the prestigious Slade Lectures at Oxford University (2017-18). D’Arcy was
 elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society in 2020.

 University funding has facilitated and supported a variety of interdisciplinary and international
 projects and partnerships. The involvement of LIAS has been instrumental in the delivery of
 ambitious and impactful research projects. In addition to funding a visiting fellowship for an
 academic from the University of West Indies (hosted by L. Evans), LIAS has supported the
 ‘Prisons Network’, to which Halliwell contributes and which facilitates work with the University of
 Guyana. Loveman was part of a group that received ‘Tiger Team’ funding to investigate Virtual
 Reality Heritage, and Jones, James and Whitehead are working with the School of Medicine in
 a ‘Tiger Team’ that will engage medical students in work on Empathy in the Curriculum.
 Jenkins’s research on Hollywood’s female directors has been supported by funding from the
 University’s research institute for Cultural and Media Economies (CAMEo IES, 2.2).

 Disciplinary Contribution
 Like our work with partners within and beyond the University, our disciplinary contribution is
 sustained by our Research Centres. Both those with long-established reputations, and others
 founded more recently, hold annual lectures, seminar series, conferences and workshops, thus
 engaging with the wider academic community and local groups. North chairs the Victorian
 Studies Centre’s public seminar series and its Annual Lecture, hosted the conference ‘Writing
 Lives Together: Romantic and Victorian Biography (2015), and was Associate Curator for
 ‘Technicolour Dickens’ (2020), an exhibition which continues the VSC’s long-standing
 association with the Dickens Museum. The Medieval Research Centre hosts the annual Richard
 III Public Lecture and international conferences, for instance, ‘Troublesome Elements’ (2018) co-
 organised by Parsons. Events hosted in 2019 by the Centre for Translation and Interpreting
 Studies included ‘Literary Encounters with Québec Writers’, supported by the Québec
 Government Office in London, and ‘Translating Memories in Contemporary Narratives of
 Migration’, a series of public talks and events in collaboration with Leicester’s New Walk
 Museum and Art Gallery.

 Our most recently founded Centre, The Centre for New Writing, has issued over 100 creative
 writing commissions on topics including ‘Adrian Mole’s 50th Birthday’, ‘Artificial Intelligence’ and
 ‘Colonial Countryside’, collaborating with archivists, historians and scientists to create projects
 which develop writers’ professional profiles. Many of its resources, including a repository of
 sound recordings of readings by and interviews with writers such as Amitav Ghosh, and a
 discussion forum, are open access. Since 2018, standalone events, including the Annual
 Creative Writing Lecture, continue to run under the ‘Literary Leicester’ banner. Through such
 initiatives, we contribute to the University’s position as an ‘anchor’ for local social and cultural
 development (IES, 2.1), enhancing the appreciation and understanding of English as a discipline
 beyond academia.

 Along with events hosted by the Centres, we have organised many other high-profile
 international conferences and workshops, ranging from ‘The Iconography of Conflict and the
 Italian Nation/Arte di Guerra in Italia. Iconografia e nazione’ (2014) to ‘Rethinking Film Genre:
 East Asian Cinema and Beyond’ (2017), and ‘On Difficulty in Early Modern Literature’ (2018),
 and several distinctive cross-disciplinary seminar series in areas including Early Modern Studies,
 Victorian Studies, Modern Languages, and Film Studies.

 As part of our international strategy, we currently host Lambert, Academic and Cultural Liaison
 Officer for Wallonia-Brussels International, the agency representing French-speaking Belgians

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Abroad. WBI sponsored ‘Tradition and Innovation in French-Belgian Bande Dessinée’, a
 symposium co-organised by Louwagie that also received sponsorship from the Association for
 the Study of Modern and Contemporary France and the Society for French Studies. This event,
 in March 2020, was partially moved online in order to include international contributions.

 We work closely with other interdisciplinary Centres in the College, such as the Stanley Burton
 Centre for Holocaust and Genocide Studies, of which Louwagie and Stewart are core
 members, and research networks across the University including the LIAS/Wellcome ISSF-
 funded Migration, Mobility and Citizenship Network, launched in 2019. Aissaoui is a core
 member, alongside colleagues from Medicine, Law, History and Geography. The SBC supported
 ‘Dissent and Displacement’, a public seminar series organised by Louwagie and Wiltshire to
 complement an exhibition of the same name at Leicester’s New Walk Museum. These events
 were part of the national ‘Insiders/Outsiders’ Festival, which highlights the contribution of
 refugees from Nazism to British culture. Collaborations with researchers in other Schools include
 Fowler’s work with Museum Studies and Halliwell and Brock’s projects on the history of
 medicine, with the School of History, Politics & International Relations and the School of
 Criminology.

 The many high-profile contributions to extending the research base in cultural history through
 interdisciplinary collaboration include P. J. Shaw’s leadership of the AHRC-funded network,
 ‘Passions of War Cross-Disciplinary Perspectives on Gender, Sexuality and Conflict, 1550-1945’
 (2015-17), with Ghent University, the Amsterdam Centre for Comparative Emotion and Sensory
 Studies (ACCESS, VU University), the Museum Dr Guislain (Ghent), and the National Army
 Museum (London). Stakeholders in this work, which fostered a re-examination of traditional
 accounts of war, gender and sexuality in the light of alternative, emergent and marginalised
 histories, included members of the Army LGBT+ Forum. Dawson was Co-Investigator of the
 AHRC-funded project ‘Constructing Scientific Communities: Citizen Science in the 19th and 21st
 Centuries’ (2014-18), an innovative collaboration with Oxford University, the Natural History
 Museum, the Royal College of Surgeons, and the Royal Society which worked closely with
 Zooniverse, the internet’s largest citizen science platform. The project's stakeholders included a
 distributed community of volunteers, who, via a range of online projects, including 'Science
 Gossip' and 'Orchid Observers', contributed to the advancement of science and to their own
 scientific education.

 Parker leads the AHRC- and Hilaria and Alec Baldwin Foundation-funded Orton project (ICS4)
 in collaboration with Curve Theatre (Leicester), Leicester Arts and Museums Service, National
 Justice Museum (Nottingham), Museum of Contemporary Art (London), and Arts Council
 England. This project has raised the profile of Orton as a working-class gay writer locally and
 nationally among a variety of publics and has included a range of activities aimed at 11-18-year
 olds. Louwagie jointly led an interdisciplinary project, ‘Across the Seasons: Memory Matters
 Today’ (2015-16), funded by the Toni Schiff Memorial Fund, with the University of Central
 Lancashire and in conjunction with drama company CCM Theatre, and co-organised the BA-
 funded workshop, ‘France, Vichy, and Me’ (2015), in collaboration with Queen’s University,
 Belfast.

 The Contemporary Culture, Writing and Language group is notable for its sustained engagement
 with cross-cultural and transnational issues. Fowler’s major Arts Council/Heritage Lottery-
 funded project, ‘Colonial Countryside', (ICS2) assembles authors, writers, historians and primary
 pupils to reveal National Trust properties’ Caribbean and East India Company connections, work
 that has prompted national debate and brought about a paradigm shift in how the NT and other

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisations present and interpret their collections. Halliwell’s interdisciplinary and archival
 work on the triangular relationship between American medicine, politics and cultural
 representation in the twentieth century informs his contribution as Co-Investigator on the
 collaborative ESRC/GCRF Mental Health project, ‘MNS Disorders in Guyana’s Jails, 1825 to the
 Present Day’. This project has produced capacity building and policy-relevant materials on
 mental health, cognitive impairment, addiction and substance abuse among prisoners and prison
 officers.

 The Visual Cultures group engages in multi-disciplinary research in a wide array of fields, with
 particular emphasis on Europe and the Americas. Among examples of our European research,
 Ekserdjian helped to authenticate Leonardo’s Salvator Mundi, sold for a world-record amount at
 Christie’s, New York in 2017 (ICS1), and his attribution of a drawing to Mantegna underpinned
 its sale for $11.7 million at Sotheby’s, New York in 2020. Spunta was Principal Investigator for
 the BA/Leverhulme-funded project, ‘Viewing and writing Italian landscape. Luigi Ghirri and his
 legacy in photography and literature’, with the British School at Rome. Research on the
 Americas include Garavelli’s cutting-edge work on Argentine video (ICS3), in collaboration with
 the universities of Lincoln, Carlos III (Madrid), SOKA (USA), and the National University of
 Central Buenos Aires, which has helped consolidate the School as a leading site for Latin
 American studies. Penn was awarded a Leverhulme Research Fellowship to work on the
 interdisciplinary project ‘Mexican Time and Identity: Bergson and Bergsonism in Literature and
 Film’ and has made extensive use of university and public research facilities in Mexico City.
 Exemplifying these research strengths, the School hosted a conference on ‘The Legacy of 1968
 in Latin America’ in 2018 and the Society for Latin American Studies Annual Conference in
 2019. Morley’s recent research includes a consideration of engagements with Dutch Golden
 Age painting in the work of American novelist Willa Cather. In UK-focused research, Chapman
 was a Co-Investigator on the AHRC-funded project, ‘Spaces of Television - Production, site and
 style’, in association with the University of Reading and University of South Wales, while North’s
 work on the interactions between biography and portraiture includes a Paul Mellon-funded
 project on visual and literary images of Charles Dickens, 1830-80.

 The Literary and Cultural History group is involved in several multi-institutional and multi-national
 editorial undertakings, and standalone projects (Dzelzainis, M. Evans, Loveman, Lund,
 Knight, Parsons, and Stannard), with a world-class constellation of expertise in the editing of
 early-modern texts by Greville, Donne, Milton, Marvell, Clarendon, Behn, and Pepys. As part of
 her involvement as Co-I on ‘Editing Aphra Behn’, M. Evans is a general editor of the Complete
 Works of Aphra Behn (CUP, first volume forthcoming 2021), which will include for the first time
 all Behn’s extant correspondence, and she is personally editing Behn’s spying letters.
 Dzelzainis is editing Volume 10: The Histories for The Complete Works of John Milton (OUP)
 and Marvell for the Oxford 21st Century Authors series, facilitated by his Huntington Library
 Fellowship. He is a general editor, with Paul Seaward (Director, History of Parliament), of The
 Works of Edward Hyde, Earl of Clarendon (OUP), in collaboration with the Bodleian Library, and
 is editing the Essays and Dialogues volume. Loveman edited The Diary of Samuel Pepys
 (Everyman, 2018) and is on the management board of ‘Editing Aphra Behn’. Finally, Stannard
 led the AHRC-funded Evelyn Waugh project (2013-18) and is co-executive editor of the
 Complete Works of Evelyn Waugh (2017-ongoing) a ground-breaking event in twentieth-century
 literary scholarship. The editorial principles established by this project will be employed in OUP’s
 forthcoming complete works of Ford Madox Ford, with Stannard as Editorial Board member and
 editor of Ford’s letters.

 Since REF 2014, the following 20 journal editorships, memberships of editorial boards, and

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 series editorships have been added to the existing portfolio: Northern Studies (Clark); British
 Journal for the History of Science; Journal of Victorian Culture; Notes and Records of the Royal
 Society (Dawson); Marvell Studies (Dzelzainis) SKASE: Journal of Translation and
 Interpretation (Elimam); Multicultural Shakespeare (Fayard); Journal of American Studies
 (Feghali); Siyi: A journal of Arts and Culture (Feng); Modern American Literature and the New
 Twentieth Century (Halliwell); Humanistica Lovaniensia: Journal of Neo-Latin Studies;
 Bloomsbury Neo-Latin Series (Knight); Contemporary Women’s Writing; Writers in
 Conversation (Parker); Literature Compass (P.J. Shaw); Tulsa Studies in Women’s Writing
 (Stewart); Writing in Practice (Whitehead); Dickens Quarterly; Research for All;
 Victoriographies (Wood).

 Our research thus has a national and global footprint. Colleagues have made extensive use of
 archives and research holdings across Europe and in the USA, Canada, Mexico, Argentina,
 Chile, Cuba, Jamaica, Trinidad, Hong Kong and China, and we have given more than 280
 lectures and papers in the UK and more than 150 internationally in 32 different countries,
 including keynote talks in the UK, USA, Guyana, Canada, Argentina, Italy, Spain, Ireland,
 France, Belgium, Turkey and Indonesia.

 Public Engagement, Exhibitions and Consultancy
 In Contemporary Culture, Writing, and Language and Visual Cultures, Aissaoui’s work on race,
 ethnicity and immigration in the context of Franco-Algerian relations, informed his contributions
 to the catalogue for the exhibition ‘L’Histoire des présences arabo-orientales en France’, which
 was shown across France during 2013-18. Led by the ACHAC research group on colonialism,
 immigration and postcolonialism, the Pangée Network and the University of Nice, this was
 supported by French governmental bodies and media organisations. It has had a direct social
 and political impact, being cited in the French Parliament as showing how the shared cultural
 history of France and Algeria can foster future relations between these countries. Aissaoui was
 also on the steering committee for the major exhibition ‘Générations’ (2009-13), led by the
 Association Génériques, which, after touring from Paris to other major French cities attracted
 20,000 visitors in Toulouse in Oct-Dec 2013. An unprecedented assessment of a century of
 cultural, political and artistic encounters between France and the Maghreb, it was sponsored by
 national and regional government bodies in France.

 Garavelli’s continuing work on experimental Argentine film and video (ICS3) included the
 curation of a major exhibition, ‘Entre Lenguas: Video Experimental Argentine’ which was held in
 the city of Rosario, October 2019-March 2020, and attracted more than 6000 visitors. The
 Cultural Secretary of Rosario acknowledged the major cultural significance of the exhibition to
 the city’s population.

 Elimam’s work on the problematics of translating the Qur’an has informed his co-directorship of
 an EU-funded SME project to help enterprises in Leicester resolve work-related problems and
 provide language support in targeting new markets. Fuente’s work on the post-Franco cultural
 transition (La Movida) establishes its relevance in achieving democratisation and equality for
 women and homosexuals. Hadjidemetriou’s sociolinguistic analyses of discourses of identity
 and belonging in the London Greek Cypriot community and the impact of a dominant language
 on a heritage community inform her collaboration with Civic Leicester and the Human Rights
 Arts and Film Festival in addressing linguistic and cultural diversity in the city.

 In Literary and Cultural History, Brock’s work on women surgeons showed for the first time how
 they participated in developing surgery and demonstrated how working-class hospital patients

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 actively negotiated their surgical encounters rather than simply being operated upon. She
 participated in the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Outreach Programme to increase public
 awareness of women’s historical contributions to science in the UNESCO International Year of
 Light (2015) and contributed to the Royal College of Physicians public exhibition ‘This Vexed
 Question: 500 Years of Women in Medicine’ (2018) in the centenary year of the Representation
 of People Act and the end of the First World War. These interventions have helped to make the
 general public and medical profession more conscious of how women fought for equality and
 contributed to medical and surgical developments.

 Parker’s work on Orton, and her commissioning of creative responses to Orton’s life and writing,
 engages with and challenges the stigmatisation of homosexuals and women by psychiatry
 (ICS4). Over four months in 2019, Parker’s crowd-funding campaign raised £115,000 to
 commission a statue of Joe Orton to be sited in Leicester city centre, highlighting in the process
 the importance of recognising the achievements of working-class and gay public figures.
 Fowler’s cultural-historical work drawing attention to British black and British Asian interventions
 into discussions about English heritage and empire, has had a direct impact in the
 commissioning of BAME writers under several auspices; the AHRC-funded project on ‘Affective
 Digital Histories: Recreating De-Industrialised Places, 1970s to the Present’, profiling forgotten
 black and working class histories in Leicester (6 commissions); the ‘Colonial Countryside’ project
 (10 commissions, ICS2); and the Centre for New Writing, in collaboration with Arts Council
 England, Harborough Museum, National Trust, and Phoenix Cinema (over 100 pieces by BAME
 authors), in the process elevating CNW to a national leadership role in fostering BAME writing
 talent.

 Our expertise has been recognised in invitations to contribute to radio, TV and Podcasts. Parker
 has spoken about Orton on many local and national BBC radio programmes (ICS4). Lund
 contributed to three of the ten episodes of Radio 4’s ‘History of Delusions’ (2018), and Stewart
 was interviewed on an edition of Radio 4’s ‘A Good Read’ (2018) marking the centenary of
 Armistice Day. North was the historical advisor for the ITV drama Beecham House (2017).
 Dawson spoke about Victorian spiritualism on the BBC4 documentary Victorian Sensations
 (2019)

 Conclusion
 During this census period, major infrastructural changes, together with a 130% increase in our
 research income, have facilitated new and impactful research. Much of this work is
 interdisciplinary in nature, and a significant number of our research projects have set the agenda
 for national debates relating to heritage, identity, and diversity. Our 160% increase in PhD
 completions and our highly successful programme of support for ECRs demonstrates our
 commitment to the future of the disciplines that contribute to the UoA.

 In order to address current and emerging funding priorities and global challenges over the next
 decade, our collective research has the interdisciplinary vitality, geographical reach and
 infrastructural depth to ensure that we will continue to make a major contribution to the rapidly
 re-shaping cultural landscape, locally, nationally and internationally.




                                                                                             Page 20
