Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

A. Overview
Birmingham Centre for Art and Design Research (BCADR) sits within the Faculty of Arts, Design
and Media (ADM). We build on a rich tradition of art and design research in and for Birmingham,
stretching back to our foundation in 1843. Our creative and intellectual project is to integrate art
and design research, practice, teaching, and knowledge exchange, with clusters defined through
staff expertise and world-leading research, strongly rooted in civic partnerships, and in
collaborations with communities and institutions regionally, nationally and globally. Our work is
characterised by a sustained commitment to practitioner and researcher development, exploring
theory and practice in and between eight research clusters: Art Activisms; Chinese Visual Arts;
Printing History and Culture; Material Encounters; Dress in Context; Craft Cultures; Urban
Cultures; and the interdisciplinary Performance Research Hub.
During this REF cycle, we have transformed our research community, its organisation, and the
diversity of the work we produce. Demonstrating our commitment to sustainable, high-quality
research, we have attracted and developed a new generation of talent, diversified sources of
income and enhanced our doctoral provision. In the wake of the retirement of 7 senior staff since
2014, we have appointed 4 research professors, 2 mid-career researchers, and a further 19
colleagues in the first phase of their independent research careers. We have also invested in the
research of 13 existing staff. Research income and externally funded projects have been sustained
in a challenging environment; and we have developed projects with new partners in new
disciplinary formations. AHRC- and BCU-funded studentships have allowed our doctoral
community to grow, enabling a 70% increase in completions since 2014.
This transformation has been achieved by: (i) restructuring our research leadership, clarifying our
strengths and purpose through new clusters of research, (ii) creating systematic support and
professional development programmes, achieving notable improvements in equality and diversity,
particularly for women researchers, and (iii) strengthening our research infrastructure and
international collaborations.

B. How research is structured across the UoA
The faculty structure for research support is shown in the following table:




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
BCADR’s structure is shown in the following overview table:




                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
BCADR supports 38 independent researchers with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR)
and a further 40 emergent researchers (of whom 11 are doing PhDs). In addition, we have 6
postdoctoral researchers and a cohort of 58 doctoral students. Our host faculty, ADM, was
established in 2014 to bring together all BCU’s arts and cultural provision. BCADR draws its
members from three of ADM’s five academic units: the Birmingham Institutes of Creative Arts
(BICA), Jewellery, Fashion and Textiles (BIJFT), and Architecture and Design (BSoAD). The
faculty includes three other research centres, for English, Media, and Music and Performing Arts,
the latter housed in the Royal Birmingham Conservatoire. ADM occupies a prominent place in BCU
research culture, accounting for 37% of its staff with SRR and 47% of its completing doctoral
students.
BCADR research is led by a directorate, all of whom hold management positions in their respective
Institutes. Each Institute has Associate Directors of Research (ADR) to co-ordinate support for four
key areas: (i) research careers, (ii) outputs and impact, (iii) external income awards, and (iv)
doctoral education. The eight research clusters listed in the overview table above draw staff at all
levels of research maturity from across the Institutes. They develop their own distinctive
frameworks for seminars and workshops, funding applications and support for research projects,
doctoral supervision, collaborative research, symposia and conferences, and hosting visiting
researchers and professors. As vibrant constellations of ground-breaking research, impact, funded
projects and doctoral study, our clusters have attracted notable figures in their fields, who have
played a key role in fostering the next generation of research talent.
Our research clusters include Art Activisms, with its significant regional cultural sector
engagements and a growing body of work in Asia and North Africa; CCVA, European leaders in
the curation and development of Chinese Art; and CPHC, an important focus for collaborative work
on print history. These are balanced by exciting emerging areas – dress, jewellery, and
architecture – and strong interdisciplinary work in Material Encounters and the Performance Hub.

A director will be appointed in 2021 to lead us through the next cycle. The finalisation of the
REF2021 submission is led by the Associate Dean for Research, who played a key part in the art
and design RAE2008 submission, and subsequently led BCMCR through to REF2014.

C. Review of research and impact strategy 2014 to 2020
Extending the aspirations in our 2014 REF5 document, BCADR has aimed to:
•   build a world-leading and inclusive research culture in all our schools of art and design;
•   establish an efficient, empowering and expert research environment;
•   support distinctive, high-quality, impactful research that contributes to our academic field and
    communities of creative practice.

To achieve this, we set ourselves five objectives, enacted through cluster plans and last approved
following periodic review by faculty Research Committee in 2018 and 2019. As the review table
below shows, we have met, and often exceeded those objectives, realising our REF2014
commitment to “foster a research culture that encourages greater staff engagement and
participation”. We achieved this with a focus on building a research leadership embedded in the
management of all academic units, that (i) ensured wider participation across all subject areas, (ii)
utilised the faculty’s support infrastructure, and (iii) developed the potential for interdisciplinary
work across the arts. Our defined communities of research practice engage doctoral students and
postdoc researchers in the life of our clusters, encouraging greater collaboration and diversity of
participation, interdisciplinarity and impact.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
D. Future research and impact strategy
In the next five years we will focus on integrating research, creative practice, teaching and
knowledge exchange by co-ordinating all aspects of our academic work aligned to REF, TEF and
KEF. We will support the maturing careers of our researchers and build quality by consolidating our
clusters of research excellence within their academic units. Ensuring the support structure is expert
and enabling will assist academic career progression and benefit all our students through
research-informed teaching. Further developing our external income and international
collaborations as pathways to impact will support our discipline’s contribution to culture and
society.
These aims will be realised through objectives consistent with our current trajectory:
     − consolidate our research in clusters of expertise in our academic units, extending our
         interdisciplinary activity across clusters, BCU and internationally;
     −   support research careers, especially for practitioner colleagues, through mentoring and
         professional development to increase staff working at doctoral standard, within a
         commitment to equality of opportunity for all staff and a diverse and inclusive research
         culture, particularly around gender, ethnicity and sexuality;
     −   increase the quality of research outputs to 70% internationally excellent or better; engage
         staff in articulating their practice as research and disseminating to international research
         communities;
     −   extend our portfolio of externally-funded activity into all clusters and support colleagues
         to deliver collaborative and interdisciplinary applications to secure £1.9m in BCU income;
     −   expand our doctoral research provision to create a balanced and sustainable cohort
         through targeted recruitment and supervisor development, including establishing MRes
         routes-in;
     −   consolidate research-informed teaching for all art and design UG and PGT students,
         ensuring participation of all SRR staff in taught programmes;
     −   build knowledge exchange collaborations through networks of museums, galleries and
         other arts organisations, establishing a Partner Practices Programme to deepen research
         impact and utilising STEAMhouse for interdisciplinary projects.

E.       Enabling research impact, interdisciplinarity, open access and research integrity
Sustaining impact. We have built on our 2008-14 achievements in impactful research (50:50 4*/3*)
by (i) facilitating our researchers’ full engagement in creative and professional communities, and (ii)
systematically integrating external engagement into our clusters. Our unique position in
Birmingham, and involvement in key research and public engagement projects like Eastside
Projects and New Arts West Midlands, brings substantial benefit to civic culture and creative
practice in Britain’s second-largest and most diverse city. All Associate Directors have
responsibility for impact. The regional, national and international research and creative research
networks set out in Section 4 are integral to our work, and we have enhanced staff skills to realise
these relationships as effective pathways to impact. Since 2016, we have run an annual
programme of impact workshops, working with impact consultant Saskia Walcott, who devised the
AHRC impact strategy. We have invested £228,018 in dedicated impact awards from our Faculty
Research Investment Scheme, and employ two Impact Research Assistants, supported by an
Impact Officer. Prof Tony Whyton (HERA KE Fellow) chairs the Faculty Impact Advisory Panel,
and we draw on the expertise of the Faculty’s M&ELab. Our Impact Case Studies (details in
Sections 3 and 4) derive from our longest-established research clusters, exemplifying the range
and depth of our influence beyond higher education.
Facilitating interdisciplinary research. Interdisciplinarity is enabled across ADM’s academic units,
facilitated by four strategic professorial appointments (for global arts and design, creative
industries, performing arts and jazz studies), and by ensuring our research clusters are porous by
design: the Performance Research Hub was created explicitly to encourage interdisciplinary
working. BCU’s STEAM-informed research ambitions further encourage and support cross-
disciplinary projects. STEAMhouse Phase One included six art and design STEAM Doctoral
studentships and a STEAM postdoctoral fellowship (detailed below in Section 2). Phase Two forms

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the background for aligning our REF, KEF and TEF strategies. Our doctoral programme
encourages interdisciplinary supervisory teams, while Midlands3/4Cities DTP studentships have
enabled interdisciplinary teams across the consortium’s current constituency of eight universities,
with 13 interdisciplinary supervisory teams involving BCU supervisors in this REF cycle [see
Sections 3 and 4].
Open research, effective sharing and management of research data. Our outputs are shared
through the BCU Research Repository (www.open-access.bcu.ac.uk), supported by an Open
Access Officer. BCU is currently implementing Elsevier’s Pure platform. The Faculty’s Primary
Research Data Archive and Access initiative has established a policy for research data that will
culminate in a searchable, GDPR-compliant digital archive of all art and design primary research.
We use Research Catalogue to ensure greater dissemination of our practice-based research.
Integrity, ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards. ADM has worked
with the RIEE Compliance Team to establish new BCU processes for quality assurance in
externally-funded projects. These bring together PIs with officers for research support, finance and
compliance for periodic review built around risk assessment, meticulous record-keeping and expert
advice. The art and design team, led by Downey, worked with ADR Wall and the RED team to
produce a PI Training Framework and deliver pilot workshops.
ADM’s framework for research ethical review was revised in 2015, with a process based upon
British Sociological Association’s ethical guidelines. The faculty Ethics Committee includes Ethics
Coordinators for each academic unit, with support from RIEE. All externally-funded projects,
doctoral programmes and significant projects undertaken by research-active staff are reviewed
before commencement. The Faculty’s integrity training is delivered by the RED team, and includes
Vitae provision.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

A. Staff development strategy: aims, policy and procedure
Our researcher development strategy is driven by (i) a commitment to an inclusive research
community, notably around gender equality, (ii) new systematic and fair structures of support
provided by the Faculty of Arts, Design and Media, and (iii) the need to build a new leadership after
the retirement of senior researchers. We have focused on appointing post-doctoral staff, on
supporting the careers of our existing academics in all promotion stages, and on establishing a
new research directorate. Our success is evident in the 20 staff returned with SRR who started
their careers in the current cycle, and the support provided to 6 postdocs and a further 41
emergent researchers, 12 of whom were undertaking a PhD. Nurturing mid-career researchers has
assisted 7 advanced promotions since 2014, bringing the conferred group to 4 Readers and 7
Research Professors.
These achievements are the result of policies and procedures that provide a transparent culture of
researcher development based upon career stage. From 2014, staff with SRR, and those in our
emerging researcher programme, have clear workload and performance expectations for personal
research and professional development, and where appropriate for leadership responsibilities.
These are encoded in our line management, performance review and workload management
systems. In BCADR, researcher development is coordinated by the four Associate Directors
(Research Careers) Profs, Archer-Parré and Jiang (BICA), Sara (BSoAD) and Boultwood as a
Reader (BIJFT). All are also members of the ADM RED team (Researcher Education and
Development), led by Director of Researcher Education (Mercer), Associate Director of Researcher
Education (Carter) and Associate Director for Doctoral Education and Postdoc Fellowships
(Taylor).
There are five support strands:
1. Personal Research Development Planning and Individual Performance Review. This enables
   researchers to develop five-year career plans with their mentors, and agree support and
   annually reviewed objectives with their line managers.
2. Workload management. Clear annual time allocations of 10% staff development apply for
   emerging researchers, rising to 20% for staff undertaking PhDs, while SRR staff have a
   Research Responsibility Allowance at 25%, 30% or 50%, with additional proportions for
   leadership roles.
3. Conferences, Mobility and Networking funding (£55,000 average annual budget) and a Faculty
   Research Investment Scheme (£379,218 in awards made since 2014) facilitate research
   activity, including funding for additional research workload allowances.
4. Researcher Education and Development Programme. This programme enhances skills through
   collaborative workshops and mentorship for career development, research dissemination,
   project funding and delivery, and doctoral supervision [see below].
5. Peer review gives access to expertise and models for achieving international standards in
   outputs and externally funded applications using REF and AHRC criteria. Co-ordinated by the
   four Associate Directors for Research Careers and the Associate Director for External Income,
   our review process draws upon the expertise of ADM’s seven AHRC Peer Review College
   Members, two Strategic Reviewers (Dudrah and Wall), and HERA KE Fellow (Whyton) [see
   Section 3].




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
B. Support for research careers

Starting a research career. Our key strategic ambitions to nurture staff at the beginning of their
academic careers are realised through dedicated support for those building a research career
based upon achievements in creative practice, and for postdoctoral staff establishing themselves
as internationally-excellent researchers. Focussing on five initial research career stages, we
provide dedicated development programmes, mentoring support, and clear workload allocation:




Developing a career and aiming for leadership – these schemes currently support 18 established
researchers as part of a larger faculty group. The RED programme includes specific workshops for
mid-career researchers, and for those building leadership roles and seeking conferment. Its focus
is on (i) building an international profile, (ii) developing partnerships with arts and creative
organisations in the commercial, public and third sectors, and (iii) crafting external funding
applications. Overall, the emphasis is on balancing new research with enhanced pathways to
impact. Increasingly, staff have opportunities to build leadership skills, including co-leading
research clusters, joining editorial or curatorial boards, and contributing to subject associations and
funding councils.
Five-year, Personal Research Development Plans focus on establishing evidence for conferment
as a Reader and then Professor. Specialist workshops provide insights from those who have
secured advancement along with exemplar applications; additional workshops are provided to
attract women researchers. Mentor support, from researchers more senior in their career, serves
as an encouragement to co-author and co-produce research. Mentorship is developed by a
bespoke training programme designed by the ADR and BCU HR in 2019.


C. Recruitment, promotion and sustainability
Recruitment. We have increased the appointment of staff with PhDs by ensuring that we offer an
attractive environment in which to build a research career, and through dedicated ADM and
STEAM Post-Doctoral Fellowships. Ceglarz (BICA), Grayson (BIJFT) and Nikologianni (BSDA)
currently hold such awards amongst the 19 postdoctoral appointments we have made since 2014.
This emphasis on attracting staff committed to building a research career is complemented by four
leadership appointments: Downey and Harris (BICA), followed by Bottomley (BIJFT) and Sara
(BSoAD), provide role models in each of our three academic units.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Promotion. This REF period has seen three BCU promotion cycles. Five staff were promoted to
Senior Lecturer on the basis of their research-related work, including Taylor for her leadership of
doctoral education and Xiao for her strong research profile. Taylor held an AHRC PhD studentship
at BCU, was then supported through a postdoc RA and mentoring, securing a post in 2015 as an
independent researcher. She built her expertise in doctoral education though supporting the
delivery of the ADM PGCert Research Practice, then becoming the Programme Director and,
subsequently, responsible for the whole university’s initial doctoral training. Xiao provides an
equivalent exemplar of support, this time for newly appointed ECRs. With mentor support she has
developed her leadership skills, successfully securing the role of Associate Director in a
competitive interview as a basis for promotion.

Three of our established researchers were conferred with a Readership in recognition of their
leadership role, as well as the expected outstanding publication record: Boultwood for her
researcher development work, Carey for impact with the Cheapside Hoard (an ICS for REF2014),
and Vaughan for leadership of doctoral education. The promotion of these women to senior roles
has been one of the key ways we have ensured our research leadership better represents our
academic community.

Sustainability. The measures described above have ensured we now have a broader range of
career stages within BCADR, and that expertise is shared more widely. The faculty has re-invested
all the QR funding allocated (averaging circa £1m per annum) directly into the development of our
researchers and research environment. Our clusters not only secure a focus for research but also
act as a magnet for new staff because of the world-leading research produced and the supportive
and vital culture they offer new staff. Five of our clusters are co-led by two staff at different career
stages, and the remaining three provide significant opportunities for ECRs to develop their skills.
The nine women cluster leaders and professors act as role models for those at earlier career
stages and are active mentors [see section 2E].

D. Research Students
We have a longstanding doctoral programme, receiving AHRC studentships in both BGP1 and
BGP2. Since 2014 we have aimed to (i) rebalance our cohort from predominantly part-time to full-
time, (ii) embed doctoral provision in all academic units, (iii) raise standards of supervision to
improve thesis quality and timely submission, and (iv) establish a professional development
programme. Our success is evident in a 70% growth in completions during this cycle, in a
rebalanced ratio of full-time and part-time students, and in the 56% of our current cohort
undertaking practice-based research. The quality of our provision, distinctive subject coverage and
pedagogy have been recognised by our inclusion in the Midlands3Cities and Midlands4Cities
Doctoral Training Partnerships (M3/4C), and further evidenced by our success in securing awards
from those schemes.
Our expertise in doctoral research pedagogy, supported by BCU’s Doctoral Research College, has
enabled us to provide a systematic doctoral education and development programme. This follows
the AHRC’s doctoral training framework and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. Our three Associate Directors for Research Degrees (ADRDs) work collaboratively
across the academic units with the Associate Director for Doctoral and Post-Doctoral Education to
assure and enhance standards in all aspects of our doctoral provision, which is coordinated
through the Faculty Research Degrees and Environment Committee (FRDEC). Two examples of
our published research on doctoral education have been included in our REF submission (Taylor).
Our approach to initial training (led by Boultwood and Taylor) and supervisory education (led by
Vaughan) has been adopted across the university.




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Recruitment, selection and studentships – cluster and supervisory expertise determine our
approach to recruitment of doctoral candidates. Our ‘Routes-in’ strategy focuses on workshops for
PGT students; an M4C Application Writing workshop run with the University of Birmingham attracts
over 100 participants annually. Adopting best practice from M3/4C, we have improved fairness and
quality by establishing Doctoral Interview Panels of subject specialists, chaired by ADRDs.
Potential applicants develop full applications under the eye of likely supervisors. Applications are
graded by M4C and BCU selection panels chaired by our M4C Site Directors or the ADR, while
final M4C awards are made by subject panels chaired by the M4C Academic Director.
As one of the two major providers of doctoral-level arts education in Birmingham, we have ensured
we offer distinct theoretical, historical and practice-based programmes, rooted in the work of our
clusters. We have taken a particularly strong place in M4C for our collaborative provision with
regional arts and cultural organisations, a number leading to Collaborative Doctoral Awards [see
Section 4 for details]. Birmingham’s place in printing history has helped us attract students to
CPHC, which currently has seven students, while all clusters utilise aspects of Birmingham’s great
civic creative history to recruit students on local projects. These are matched by a similar number
focused on the global arts world, with CCVA offering world-leading opportunities in Contemporary
Chinese art, Arts Activisms emphasising art practice in the Arab region and Asia, and Urban
Cultures attracting those who want to study architectural design.
We have shifted the balance in recruitment to a ratio of full-time to part-time of 55:45. BCADR
students held 17 doctoral studentships from the AHRC (10 M3C, 3 M4C, 2 AHRC BGP2
Collaborative Doctoral Awards, and 2 M4C CDA), and an award from EU Climate-KIC. In line with
faculty policy to increase international recruitment, we have looked to recruit students sponsored
by public and industry bodies, attracting nine in the current cycle.
Our reputation for equality and inclusivity is reflected in our role as host of a M4C Connecting the
Pipeline workshop series in 2019, and our leadership of a 2021 consortium of M4C-member
universities that seeks funding to improve BAME participation in doctoral work.
Induction – to orient and prepare students for the demands of doctoral level study, our induction
combines a meeting of BCU’s PhD intake, focused on university services, with a faculty event
organised by our Postdoctoral Research Fellows. In part a community-building exercise, these
events set out the roles and expectations of supervisors, the ADM PGCert RP, library training, the
PGRStudio, and a Q&A session with current PGRs and Postdoctoral Research Fellows. Our M4C
award-holders attend a DTP residential induction.
Initial training – the six-month ADM PGCert in Research Practice, led by Taylor and Sarson
(UoA34) and supported by two Postdoctoral Research Fellows and research academics, provides
ten weekly workshops that engage students in a range of interdisciplinary research methods. The
workshops are supported by weekly tutorials on how to complete research proposals and
undertake assignments involving critical reflection. On successful completion of the course,
students are able to articulate the theoretical and methodological aspects of their research, situate
their work amid current scholarship, and formulate research questions.
Supervision – is provided by subject specialists led by a Director of Studies, based upon weekly
and then monthly tutorials with each supervisor. Supervisory discussions support research
progress and professional development, recording progress against key milestones. Supervisors
are coordinated by ADRDs and rooted in the wider culture of the cluster to which the student
belongs.
All staff with SRR supervise PhD students and participate in the Supervisor Development
Programme. An initial Supervisor Development Day is followed by regular specialist workshops on
examination and viva preparation, supported by a bespoke resource on our virtual learning
environment (VLE). Our SEDA-accredited Supervisor Community of Practice programme employs
an innovative model of reflective dialogue and individual practitioner inquiry. In total, 27 BCADR
supervisors have been accredited since 2016, and the approach has been disseminated through a
journal article (2018) and SEDA Special publication (2019).




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Doctoral Professional Development – all doctoral students follow our PGRStudio programme led
by Taylor. The programme enhances students’ experience for the duration of their studies.
PGRStudio supports routes into and beyond PhD, fostering innovative new approaches to doctoral
researcher education in the arts; during the 2020-21 lockdown this has been fully sustained via our
VLE. Doctoral researchers participate in weekly training workshops, pastoral support, a peer-
mentoring scheme, specialist career advisors, and an annual conference. Support for good mental
health and wellbeing is a vital ingredient. Opportunities are available to be involved in SEDA-
accredited HE Teacher Training and to apply for Associate Fellow status of the Higher Education
Academy. ‘Routes out’ support includes a studentship extension programme, workshops in writing
postdoctoral applications, and a Postdoctoral Fellowship programme which in 2019 awarded 3
BCU-funded two-year fellowships in art and design.
Research travel grant and conference fee support is available from Conference, Mobility and
Networking (CMN) funding. M3/4C students apply for Cohort Development Fund, Student
Development Fund and Research Training Support Grants. We supported 13 students on work
experience and external engagement initiatives, with awards totalling £64,045 in this REF cycle.
Student leadership is a feature of PGRStudio: aspects of the programme are co-designed by
doctoral students, some of whom take up paid RA roles. In addition, we have subject and M4C
student representatives on our full FRDEC and in our university-level PGR Network.
Monitoring and support – BCU regulations provide clear stages for progression review, accurate
data on student performance, and evidence trails for monitoring by the FRDEC. Student progress
is reviewed initially at six- and at twelve-months (or PT equivalent), followed by annual reviews and
a final ‘readiness to submit’ review. The first faculty-level review is based on performance in the
PGCert Research Practice assignment; the second is chaired by ADRDs with panel members from
outside the supervisory team. Annual reviews are conducted by the supervisory team using an
evidence-based report. Monthly supervisory meetings are documented by Supervision Record
Forms, encouraging student ownership of their own progress and providing an audit trail for review.
Finally, ‘Readiness to submit’ reviews are chaired by ADRDs in a viva-like format.
These improvements have led to a rise in BCADR completions from 27 in REF2014 to 46 in this
submission. 70% of full-time and 59% of part-time students now achieve timely submission within
48 months or 72 months. 78% achieve a pass with no changes or minor changes at first viva voce.
Students are supported in preparing for oral examination with a compulsory mock viva and
interdisciplinary ‘viva survival’ workshops. Online post-viva interviews are booked via the PGR
Studio website.
Doctoral students whose progress makes timely submission doubtful are placed into a supportive
‘at risk’ process, with individually-tailored remedial plans and additional support. FRDEC
extenuating circumstances processes look at matters beyond the student’s control, offering a time-
limited suspension or extension of registration. Currently, 5% of our doctoral cohort are classed as
‘at risk’.

E. Equality and Diversity

BCADR’s commitment to a world-leading and inclusive research culture across all our academic
units entails a corresponding commitment to an open, transparent, and collegiate atmosphere.
Equality in the recruitment of new researchers, and in the opportunities afforded to our emerging
researcher scheme, has been a strategic priority. We support a Women Researcher’s Network,
while our new generation of research leaders is characterised by gender balance. We have used
our research mentor programme, Faculty Research Investment Scheme (FRIS) and Conference,
Networking and Mobility (CNM) funds, and open interview processes to achieve our objectives,
which are themselves subject to transparent annual monitoring. Our research directorship includes
newly research-active members, while 5 of our 8 research clusters model collaboration through co-
leadership.

In line with our strategic objective to address issues of gender representation and leadership
opportunities for female academics, we have reversed the previous balance of participation. Now,
research leadership matches the gender balance of the academic units in which research is

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
located and overall participation rates in research are now equal for both women and men at 18%.
In July 2013, the 42 staff with significant responsibility for research had a gender balance of
women-to-men of 43:57, while by July 2020, the 38 staff had a gender balance of 54:44, with one
member identifying outside the gender binary. Highlights of our work include a cross-disciplinary
ADM Women Researcher’s Network, led by Boultwood, with Naudin and Forkert (UoA34), which
features a speaker programme about women’s careers and the Aurora programme. BCADR
members participate in BCU’s annual month-long Xchange Festival in association with
International Women’s Day, supported by the Vice-Chancellor’s Strategic Investment Fund. That
event has included presentations by Sara, Taylor and PGR Albugami on their feminist approaches
to practice-based research. Taylor participated in the Aurora leadership programme in 2017/18
and, as noted above, secured promotion to Senior Lecturer in Research Practice; she now co-
leads our Material Encounters cluster. In the last promotion and conferment cycle, BCU held
women-only workshops on promotion and conferment led by ADM’s PVC/Executive Dean, Alison
Honour. Vaughan participated and successfully applied for a Readership.

This strategic emphasis on addressing issues of gender equality and participation has had positive
results at most career stages. The number of women at professorial and reader level has remained
constant at 6, while the women-to-men gender ratio has shifted from 33:67 to 59:41. Change in
early career participation has been even more noteworthy, with the women-to-men gender ratio
changing from 50:50 from 18 staff to 76:18 from 16. Our emerging researcher programme has
enrolled 22 women and 18 men. In 2020, 6 of 8 Associate Directors and 7 of 10 cluster leaders
and co-leaders were women.

Our leadership is still, however, predominantly white. Addressing our strategic objective to be
inclusive, we aim repeat the success in ensuring real opportunities for women researchers for our
ethnically-diverse staff and others with protected characteristics. Our research community does
reflect the larger faculty art and design academic communities in terms of ethnicity with a ratio of
BAME-to-white researchers of 15:77 with 8% not declaring, compared to 14:81 with 5% not
declaring. Among those who reported their ethnicity, those holding SRR accounted for 19% of staff
identifying as BAME and 17% of those identifying as white. Reporting on disability is more limited,
although of those who did report, 30% of both those reporting a disability and 17% of those
reporting no disability were research active. 87% of staff with SRR held a permanent contract,
close to the 95% of the wider art and design staff. However, 5 of the 12 art and design staff on
fixed term contracts held SRR (a 42% participation rate) contrasting with a 16% participation rate
overall.

We have ensured that the opportunity for doctoral research extends to all equally. Particular care
has been taken to ensure that our systems for recruitment and support of our students encourages
participation by women, by those from Black, Asian or other minority backgrounds, those
identifying as LGBTQ+, and by the differently abled. We particularly value the diversity this
provides for our research culture and recognise its contribution to rectifying the gender and
ethnicity imbalance that exists in UK HEI research communities. For those studying art and design
PhDs during the 2013 to 2020 period, the ratio of women to men was 69:31, with one individual
self-identifying outside the gender binary. This changed from a 65:35 ratio in 2013/14 to 74:24:2 in
2019-20. 36% of our students self-identified as from BAME backgrounds, with 59% White and 5%
declining to answer, and there was no discernible change over the years. Over the whole REF
period 10% of students declared a disability, with a rise from 6% to 16% between the 2013/14 and
2019/20 single year cohorts.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

A. Research funding and strategies for generating research income
Investment in staff development time and effective support systems have been key to our research
funding success. An Associate Director for External Income is supported by six professional
services officers. Our funding strategy has focused on (i) sustaining our Arts Council England NPO
income streams, (ii) collaborations with other HEIs to secure major AHRC awards, and (iii)
prestigious fellowship awards.
From 2013 to 2020 we secured 31 competitive external awards that will, by March 2024, have
generated £3,580,128 for BCU. This includes projects led by 19 different BCADR researchers, with
a total grant value of more than £7m (project value £10m). 15 were hosted by BCADR. These
include five major Arts Council England (ACE) awards (£2,723,385 total value and generating
£1,438,495 for BCU by 2022), 8 AHRC awards (£2,801,765 total value; £276,092 BCU income),
and a prestigious Leverhulme Fellowship (£200,581 total value; £93,000 BCU income). We ran
four KTPs (£440,428 total value; £325,888 BCU income).
Art Activisms has been particularly effective at securing awards, with Downey as Co-I in the £2m
AHRC-funded award Disability under Siege project (£83,156 BCU income). ACE-funded activities
include Eastside Projects, led by Wade (£1,409,595 value; £863,905 income in REF period; and
generating ICS-B The Public That Makes Art) and New Art West Midlands, led by Harris, involving
six HEIs and five arts sector partners (£581,044 value, £200,600 income for BCU). Our long-term
commitment to developing our staff as leading researchers is evident in Reeves-Evison’s
Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (£200,581 value). Reeves-Evison was supported by the
faculty through his PhD and our ECR programme.
CCVA is a model for building collaboration and supporting emerging careers. Successes include
an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award (£55,128 BCU income), a prestigious Leverhulme Trust
International Network Award (Everyday Legend: £95,114 BCU income) with five international
partners, and an AHRC Networking Award (Art Diplomacy and Nation Branding: £45,362 value,
£9,794 BCU income) which will run from 2021-22 (all Jiang). This series of successes generated
five major outputs, including two curated exhibitions in Shanghai and one at the 2017 Venice
Biennale. CCVA supported four ECRs and the impact of its work underpins ICS-A Repositioning
Chinese Contemporary Art.
As research across BCADR has been increasingly built upon creative practice, staff in the centre
have also secured 15 personal ACE and other awards, with a value of £1,123,250. Our emerging
clusters increasingly show similar success in securing awards, supporting emerging and ECR staff
and generating impressive cultural impact. Baker’s interdisciplinary work from the Material
Encounters cluster was enabled by the award of £20,000 from the British Scoliosis Research
Foundation in March 2021 and Metherell secured £1,726 BCU income of a larger £48,667 value
project. Both are exemplars of the commitment of Material Encounters to undertake research that
extends and interrogates the boundaries of materiality within the context of contemporary art. Over
the cycle, Craft Cultures secured five projects, with a BCU income of £286,494 and total value
£819,284, while Urban Cultures researchers secured seven awards with BCU income of £527,870
from projects valued at £2,524,438.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
B. The integration and operation of organisational and scholarly infrastructure supporting
   research & impact
ADM emphasises expert leadership, systematic support systems and clear strategy. BCADR’s
directorate structure ensures that research is fully integrated into the management of the Faculty’s
academic units. REF5a sets out BCU’s professional service support. IT is co-ordinated by a
Faculty IT Business Partner; technical facilities are supported by a technician team led by a Faculty
Technical Manager. HR supports the individual needs of staff through policies on leave and
phased return to work, and disability support for staff and PGRs. Managers of these services are
members of the ADM Faculty Executive Group along with the Associate Dean for Research.
We have made significant investment in facilities for teaching and research with art and design
studios and workshops in the Parkside, School of Art and School of Jewellery buildings (the latter
including new sites at the Birmingham Assay Office and a postgraduate centre in St Paul’s
Square), along with media production studios and performance spaces. These provide
professional standard facilities for the creative practice of staff and doctoral students alike.
ADM hosts its own dedicated research archive, originally focused on Birmingham School of Art’s
history and the work of Marion Richardson. Over the past thirty years it has grown into a major
resource, housed since 2013 within a specialist climate-controlled 31m2 store in the Parkside
Building at the University’s City Centre campus, and overseen by a Keeper of Archives. The ADM
Archive contains 26 significant collections, 9 of which have been acquired in the last 2 years with
the aim of supporting high-quality research and securing external funding (2 applications in
development, and one awaiting a funder decision). Current researchers and PhD students using
archive collections include Vaughan (creative-practice research using archives) Schenk (colour
and the arts and crafts movement) and a NPIF-AHRC funded PhD. Further doctoral archive
projects were presented for M4C awards in 2021. The ADM Archive is preparing to host the
Faculty’s Primary Research Data Repository for data and practice-based work generated by our
researchers. BCADR also hosts The Typography Hub, an internationally-significant archive of
books, journals and type specimens.

Our gallery and performance spaces at our City Centre campus and at the Birmingham School of
Art and the Birmingham School of Jewellery are central to research. All three ICSs used BCU
exhibition or technical spaces. Most notably, Eastside Projects’ gallery in the Digbeth district of
Birmingham. For other case studies, Deepres used the Parkside photography, video production
and editing facilities, while Jiang utilised the Margaret Street gallery. Other examples include the
School of Jewellery’s technical facilities for Carey’s impactful research on the Staffordshire Hoard,
and Parkside’s professional Digital Print provision for Moore’s work on the West Midlands National
Park project. Eastside Projects has been pivotal in STEAMhouse, which offers experimental space
in the creative industries quarter of Digbeth to test and develop new knowledge, and enhance
research impact. STEAMhouse brings together science, engineering and the arts through an array
of technologies. BCADR members contribute to its programme of workshops, conferences and
symposia, with doctoral researchers benefiting from the facilities.

The BCU Library has specialist art and design collections at City Centre campus and the Schools
of Art and Jewellery, ensuring easy access for our research-active staff and doctoral students. The
library has received significant investment in monographs and in databases such as JSTOR that
directly support staff projects as well as our research-informed teaching. The interlibrary loan
service makes an even wider range of books and journals available. BCADR staff have worked
closely with the Library Collections team to establish core holdings for each cluster, and with the
Library Research Services team to build training support for doctoral students and newly appointed
staff.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

BCADR provides leadership to our academic and creative communities and to civic, national and
international scholarly and artistic life. Our partnerships simultaneously benefit primary research
and creative practice in the public realm. BCU’s stated commitment to be the University for
Birmingham is manifested in our significant contributions to regional arts, culture and environment
through the organisations we host and the activities we lead. Our noteworthy national partnerships
have enabled us to help shape effective initiatives that have benefited the partners themselves, our
nation’s cultural vitality, and our own students’ education. At the same time, our role in numerous
international academic and creative networks has fostered innovation in practice, cemented
transnational alliances, and enhanced art and design research. This work is founded on the strong
collaborative orientation of our research clusters; by dedicated workloads and IPR objectives for
networking and conferences for all SRR staff, with enhanced allocations for leadership roles;
through long-term professional planning and mentoring; and by our major investment through CNM
funds and FRIS awards.

Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
Our most substantial and significant partnerships have been built by our three oldest research
clusters. Most notable is our strategic partnership with Tate Liverpool with the Birmingham School
of Art and realised in showcasing individual projects, in co-produced research, and in the financial
support and professional development of doctoral students. The partnership has yielded major
benefits: hosting by Tate Liverpool of the 12th CCVA Conference in 2019; a collaborative PhD
research project funded by Midlands3Cities and the National Productivity Investment Fund;
sponsorship of the annual Spring collaborative artist commissions, aligned to BCU research
interests; opportunities for our research students to publish in Tate Papers online journal; and free
access for students and staff to all exhibitions at Tate Liverpool, Tate Britain and Tate Modern.
The BCU-hosted Eastside Projects (see ICS-B: The Public That Makes Art and Section 2), as well
as Harris and Wade’s role in the strategic direction of New Art West Midlands, represent
significant contributions to the regional cultural sector: a model of how to respond to national
priorities and ACE themes. Such work extends to individual collaborations with community groups.
Whipps and Kargotis have established models of participatory practice to co-create research
through long-term projects with gallery and public art outcomes. Downey’s interdisciplinary
collaboration with the University of Birmingham and two higher education institutions in Palestine is
realised in the Global Challenges Research Fund Disability Under Siege project. This has created
a number of partnerships with practitioners and cultural organisations in the region, including
the Qattan Foundation (Ramallah), Al Ma’mal (Jerusalem), Sursock Museum (Beirut), and the
Queen Rania Foundation (Amman) – a striking example of our responsiveness to international
priorities and UKRI themes. These projects realise the ambition of Art Activisms’ challenge and
extend the potential of contemporary art to change the world, exploring its political dimension and
raising important questions about the role it plays in society today.
The Centre for Chinese Visual Arts (CCVA) and the Centre for Printing History and Culture (CPHC)
both host thriving research cultures built upon long-term and international partnerships. CCVA is a
collaboration between the Central Academy of Fine Arts in Beijing (CAFA) and the China Academy
of Arts in Hangzhou (CAA). It fosters new perspectives on Chinese contemporary arts, design,
media and visual culture through curated exhibitions, interdisciplinary practice and academic
research. Our researchers work on a global scale with 20 collaborating institutions, internationally-
recognised PhD research programmes, and an MA in Contemporary Arts China. Jiang’s
collaborations with government, local communities, traditional craftspeople and artists as part of a
curatorial research project culminated his curation of the Thailand Biennale in 2018-19. CCVA has
been particularly effective at securing funding for networking activities, based upon its extensive
academic and cultural collaborative partnerships (see Section 3).
CPHC is also a leader in its field. A joint initiative between BCU and the University of Birmingham
(UoB), CPHC supports research into all aspects and periods of printing history and culture, as well
as providing education and training into the art and practice of printing. Working with University of
Leeds, Archer-Parré co-leads an AHRC Networking Grant Letterpress printing; past, present,

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
future. With the University of Cambridge, the Birmingham Assay Office and our own School of
Jewellery, she also leads The Baskerville Punches project. In the Performance Research Hub,
Deepres enjoys longstanding collaborations with globally renowned choreographers, directors and
musicians, including Phyllida Lloyd, Shobana Jeyasingh and Wayne McGregor, who is also one of
our Visiting Professors, (see ICS-C: Beyond the Physical).
We have hosted Collaborative Doctoral Award studentships in partnership with Centre for Chinese
Contemporary Art, Grand Union, Eastside Projects, Tate Liverpool, Wye Valley AONB, and
Birmingham Children’s Hospital. This work has not only benefitted our collaborative partners
directly by providing research co-designed to meet their needs, but also develops the professional
skill of the students and establishes or sustains important partnerships.
The vitality of our research culture is enhanced by external specialist input provided by our panel of
two Visiting Research Fellows, one Visiting Reader, six Visiting Professors and one Professor
Emeritus. They ensure we are intimately connected to our most prestigious peer institutions, draw
on world-leading expertise and develop important, often externally-funded, projects. Professor
Anne Boddington has been invaluable in developing and supporting our research leadership
programme through workshops with the research directorate; she has also delivered keynote
presentations at BCU-hosted workshops on practice-based research. Dr Malcolm Dick and Dr
John Hinks from the University of Birmingham’s Centre for West Midland History are active
members of CPHC. Our joint initiative with the Library of Birmingham to digitize Aris’s Birmingham
Gazette involves Dick, who also co-edits three volumes published in the Liverpool University Press
‘Eighteenth Century Worlds’ series and delivers public engagement through the Baskerville
Society. Hicks has contributed to (i) the History of the Printed Image Network CPHC research
strand, (ii) our work with the National Printing Heritage Trust to establish the ‘Virtual Printing
Museum’, and (iii) with Dick and Archer-Parré, to a 6-volume book series published by Peter
Lang. Both Dick and Hinks act as joint PhD supervisors or advisers. Professor Phil Cleaver,
international award-winning book designer and typographer advises/mentors doctoral candidates,
and acts as an ambassador for BCU in the Middle East and China. Joanna Greenhill and Derek
Horton have contributed as Visiting Professors to work based at the Birmingham School of Art;
Elizabeth Turrell and Roberta Bernabei have been Visiting Professor and Reader respectively in
the Birmingham School of Jewellery, while Vanley Burke has been Visiting Professor in
Photography in BICA. Clive Richards, Emeritus Professor in Information Design, and past-
president of the International Institute for Information Design, advises ADM management on
research leadership and strategy. His role has included leadership of workshops with the faculty
professoriate and research directors, as well as representing us on the national Practice Research
Advisory Group. We are full participants in wider HEI art and design networks, including CHEAD.
Academic Beneficiaries
During this cycle, BCADR researchers have created an impressive volume and quality of work,
disseminated through 314 outputs, including: 82 exhibitions (34 in venues outside the UK); 24
performances; 38 other creative works; 12 monographs; 58 book chapters; 74 journal articles; and
26 edited journal special editions or books. Of those, 45 are collaborative outputs, a reflection of
our increasing commitment to collaboration as authorial teams within and across our clusters.
Vaughan’s work with Taylor and Boultwood, Sara’s collaborations with Jones, and Moore’s
jointly authored publications with Nikologianni are typical. The international reach of our work is
further evident in the more than 200 international conferences papers (88 overseas) we have
presented. Our focus on interdisciplinary collaboration is evident in contributions to conferences
and publications in disciplines outside art and design including education (Vaughan, Taylor),
history (May, Vaughan), natural and medical sciences (Schenk, Baker), music (Day), and
philosophy (Reeves-Evison).
We have taken particular care to ensure our most experienced researchers, and particularly our
professoriate, act as role models and encourage contribution to our disciplines’ research base
through citizenship activities of editorial work, peer review and conference organisation. The faculty
Researcher Education and Development and PGR Studio programmes underpin that ethos
through training and support in undertaking peer review, conferencing and networking. We have
encouraged and enabled staff to take on editorial roles, securing key positions within their fields.
Researchers in this return undertook peer review for 16 conferences and held positions on the

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
editorial boards of 27 journals, representing the full breadth of our academic engagement. CCVA
hosts the international peer-reviewed Journal of Contemporary Chinese Art, edited by Jiang, and
Downey is Editor-in-Chief of Ibraaz. Other board memberships include Downey’s role in Third
Text and Digital War, Taylor on International Journal of Applied Arts & Health, Day on International
Journal of Interdisciplinary Arts, Archer- Parré on Book 2.0, Journal of the Private Libraries
Association, Printing Historical Society, Midland History and Printing History, Alimen’s board
membership of Dress: The Journal of the Costume Society of America and special issue co-editing
for International Journal of Fashion Studies, Sara on Charrette and Architecture and Culture, and
Xiao on the advisory board of Journal of Contemporary Urban Affairs. Exemplar editorial roles for
books include Downey’s Research/Practice book series with Sternberg Press in Art Activisms, and
the CPHC Printing History and Culture series of edited volumes and monographs published
by Peter Lang Ltd (co-edited by Archer-Parré). Harris is a member of the AHRC’s Peer Review
College.
We have become a centre for international conferences, attracting the very best of the world’s
researchers to BCU. Such conferences include CPHC’s 32 international conferences and
symposia (organised since 1 August 2013), CCVA’s annual conferences in their 13th year in 2020,
and Dress in Context’s biannual Culture Costume and Dress conference (since 2017). The latter
conference provides an international platform for researchers to share their approach to studying
dress in all its manifestations, and its relationship to the individual and society. Researchers in
Urban Cultures have hosted the International Well-being Conference,14th Architecture Humanities
Research Association Conference 2017 and the 10th European Research in Architecture and
Urbanism Conference 2020. We hosted the 2015 Vision Plus symposium of the International
Institute for Information Design with an exhibition of the work of Ivan Chermayeff, organised in
association with the Da La Warr Pavilion.
Our frequent research cluster seminars and events have created opportunities for ECRs and PGRs
to build confidence in presenting their research, as well as welcoming external contributions from
academic speakers and senior representatives from industry and the cultural sector. Such cluster
events have been a mix of internal and public-facing events, making use of our blend of historic
and new academic buildings with their range of gallery and other specialist facilities. CPHC alone
has organised 50 seminars in the current cycle. The gallery spaces at the School of Art, the School
of Jewellery, and Parkside have similarly facilitated public engagement with research through
group, solo and doctoral exhibitions.
Wider Contributions to Culture and Society
Beyond Birmingham, Archer-Parré has contributed to BBC 2’s Civilisations Stories. From the Art
Activism cluster, Downey has given eight public talks, including events in Moscow, Brussels,
Aarhus and Copenhagen; Harris has delivered five lectures at institutions in Korea, Hong Kong
and Madrid, while Baker has been an invited speaker at the University of Cambridge Science
Festival. Jiang’s six talks include one at Manchester’s Imperial War Museum. Our doctoral
researchers are involved in The Brilliant Club, which introduces research to pupils in state schools
from under-represented groups. We value greatly this engagement, which matches our more direct
impact on creativity, culture and society set out in our Impact Case Studies.
We utilise our own expertise in enhancing the professional and creative fields to which our
research relates. BCADR’s researchers have been members of 28 award panels, including
L’Association Typographique Internationale (Archer-Parré), Association for Contemporary
Jewellery, Italian Contemporary Jewellery, and Amberif Jewellery Awards, Gdansk (Bottomley),
Royal Photographic Society and Flatpack Film Festival (Deepres), Confluence Ideathon and Beirut
Art Residency (Downey), 10th Barcelona Biennale and IFLA Asia-Pac LA Luminary Award 2017
(Moore), International Landscape Awards (Nikologianni), the Paul Hamlyn Foundation Awards
(Wade) and Confluence Ideathon International Design Competition (Sara). Our researchers have
also served on 18 advisory boards and acted as trustees of seven arts organisations, including the
Maryam and Edward Eisler Foundation, Strange Cargo community-based arts, Arts Cabinet
(Downey), and Craft Scotland (Bottomley). Our staff belong to 64 creative and professional
associations, including RIBA (Browne, Martinez-Sanchez), ARB (Jones), and IFLA (Moore).



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The output of our research has been shared through public exhibitions in university galleries, which
have enhanced the cultural life of the city. For instance, Grayson’s Enamel / Substrate doctoral
exhibition was on public view at the School of Jewellery’s Vittoria Street Gallery in 2018, a space
which also featured Bottomley’s FERROcity (co-curated by Visiting Professor Elizabeth Turrell)
and Space|Craft, both in 2019.
The exhibitions of the Staffordshire Hoard, which include Carey’s work have enjoyed extensive
exhibition and media profiles. Likewise, presentations of Moore’s ideas for a West Midlands
National Park have been influential and received noteworthy regional media coverage. Whipps’s
exhibition The Kipper and the Corpse has achieved significant regional resonance through its
connection with the iconic British Leyland Longbridge car factory, formerly one of the most
successful in the country and the last British-owned volume car manufacturer. Deepres has
presented screenings at LOIKKA International Film Festival, Helsinki; locally at the Birmingham
International Dance Festival and IKON Gallery; and in exhibitions at Parsons College of Design,
Paris, at the Manchester Science Festival, Flatpack Asia in Bangkok, and the National Institute of
Design, India. The Film version of his work ATOMOS was broadcast nationally by BBC. He also
co-produced The Brit Awards 2016 Opening Sequence with choreographer Wayne McGregor, and
has contributed Film Design for Canada National Ballet in collaboration with McGregor and
Margaret Atwood.




                                                                                            Page 18
