Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Staffordshire University
 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management
 Note: names of people whose outputs are submitted to this UOA are in bold
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   a. Overview

Business and Management research at Staffordshire is located in the Staffordshire Business
School (SBS). Our work is interdisciplinary and highly collaborative, reaching throughout the
University. Much of our research is co-designed with national and international collaborators and
stakeholders, including the World Health Organisation (WHO), the EU, Local Enterprise
Partnerships, and the Welsh Assembly. We focus on applied and high-quality research. As a result
impact is embedded into our research design from the outset.

This Unit comprises 9.1 FTE, an increase of 25% over REF2014, and includes ECRs, full-time, and
fractional staff. It combines researchers from cognate disciplines within the Business School with
colleagues across the University, benefitting from a commitment to interdisciplinary research.

The interdisciplinary nature of the work of the researchers in this UOA is demonstrated by research
collaborations with other UOAs. FAIRBURN is a member of the Centre for Health and
Development (UOA3) and the Centre for Ceramics, Creative Industries and Creative Communities
(UOA34). PUGH has worked with the Sports Exercise and Performance Psychology Research
Group with SLATER, S JONES and BARKER (UOA3). PUTTICK is a member of the Centre for
Crime, Justice and Security (UOA20).

During this REF period, the Unit’s research was supported by the Centre for Applied Business
Research (CABR). CABR has evolved into a revised and expanded Centre for Business,
Innovation, and Enterprise (CBIE). CBIE is designed to make SBS research a key part of regional
commerce and industry through our REF2014 themes emerging markets and inequalities,
employment, and welfare. We have developed our research capability in the complementary area
of innovation and leadership through strategic appointments and the development of existing
staff.

   b. Key Achievements

Emerging markets research led by ADNETT, HASHI and PUGH, the former two now Emeritus,
has resulted in research outputs and impact on public policy. ADNETT, HASHI, PUGH and other
colleagues have supervised emerging markets PhDs co-designed with Balkan stakeholders to
achieve impact inside government organisations (detailed in Section 2). Of the many journal
articles derived from this research (Section 2d), two have been included as outputs in this
submission: one co-authored by HASHI and PUGH with Lumir Abdixiku on business tax evasion in
transition economies (output identifier 2973); and another by ADNETT and PUGH with Selena
Begovic on currency board arrangements (2263).

PUGH and HASHI worked with international stakeholders to advance economic reconstruction in
the Balkans. PUGH’s work with the Kosovo Ministry of Finance in 2015 supported colleagues in
the Macroeconomics Research Department with new insights into modelling inflation and imports.

Research by ZHAO, a recent addition to the School, has addressed the digital divide and the
digital economy in emerging economies of the Pacific and the Middle East (6254).

Our thematic Inequalities, employment, and welfare research has grown since REF2014.
Research led by FAIRBURN on air quality, indicators and environmental justice has directly
influenced the WHO and provides the underpinning research for the impact case study Tackling
environmental inequality: reducing risk in deprived areas.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
JONES undertook comparative research on civil society organisational involvement in Local
Enterprise Partnerships, City Deals, Enterprise Zones and City Regions in England and Wales.
The research considered how governance restructuring shapes political, economic, social, and
cultural landscapes. It uncovered tensions and opportunities for local elites and civil society actors
within the context of devolution and austerity policies. The ESRC funded project ‘Spaces of New
Localism: Stakeholder Engagement and Economic Development in Wales and England’ work-
package Spaces of New Localism: Stakeholder Engagement and Economic Development in
Wales and England (GBP352,000, GBP88,000 to Staffordshire from University of Sheffield) was
part of a wider collaboration with the Wales Institute of Social & Economic Research, Data &
Methods (WISERD, total grant GBP7,538,922). This work-package has influenced international
debates on city-regions and particularly shaped research agendas on the links between institution-
building, democracy, and the reproduction of deep social divides that run through urban society at
large (6801, 4807, 4805), and underpins an impact case study Tackling Austerity, Welfare and
Work in Contemporary Britain.

PUTTICK’s (4583) research into labour market regulations and state support for wages
reconsiders the efficacy of existing mechanisms, and it identifies alternative approaches.
ETHERINGTON’s work with JONES (4715) similarly challenges neoliberal approaches to city-
region building. ADAM (6292) investigated employment policies in the UK, identifying limitations in
the existing supply-side strategies which have dominated the policy arena. Research by
GALLAGE (6158) challenges conventional wisdom that reciprocity in prosocial exchange systems
is the norm.

Thematic research into ‘innovation and leadership’ constitutes a major focus of the work of
ZHAO and NICHOLDS, who are recent appointments. ZHAO specialises in digital transformation
strategy. She works to help governments, industries, and businesses tackle challenges in the
digitisation process. Her research (6254) on e-government diffusion identifies how national culture
can have positive and negative effects on diffusion. NICHOLDS (4965, 4970) has examined aims
to bring critical discourse and reflexivity to life through organisations’ attempts to re-conceptualise
the leadership of successful organisations, places, and spaces.

Innovation research forms part of the work of FAIRBURN (2266) identifying the characteristics of
effective innovation support programmes for small and medium-sized businesses in traditional
manufacturing sectors across EU countries. PUGH’s meta-regression analysis of literature on R&D
subsidies (2250) reveals no substantial additionality from public subsidy.

JONES’s research has influenced the local industrial strategy for Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire.
As befits our mission as the ‘Connected University’ and given our importance to the local economy
(REF5a section 1), the University and this UOA have a strong relationship with the Stoke-on-Trent
and Staffordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (SSLEP). JONES (DVC as well as member of this
UOA) is Director of SSLEP and a core member of the Local Industrial Strategy (LIS) Steering
Group.

   c. Research and Impact Strategy

The development of research in the unit has been supported by the growing importance of
research within the University. Prior to 2018, research was seen as supporting teaching. Since
2018 research excellence is recognised as an important goal. The University’s 2018 Research,
Innovation and Impact Strategy states:

            Research excellence is at the heart of Staffordshire University, [and is] central to the
            vision and strategy of being the Connected and Digital University…our
            Strategic Plan…[is] underpinned by research excellence.

As outlined in REF5a (section 2), our research is monitored by the University’s Research and
Innovation Committee, which reports to the Academic Board chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. The
growing institutional importance of research is further seen by the creation in 2019 of the new role

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise (ADRE), with the appointment of ZHAO as ADRE
for the School.

During this REF period, we have implemented several measures to support research within the
Unit:

   •   Investment in Research Fellows to increase innovation and leadership research capacity.
   •   Timetabled Research Allowances (TRA) – 20% of contractual hours as ring-fenced
       research time – were allocated on a competitive basis within the School: six FTE staff
       benefitted in 2015-16, growing to eight FTE in 2016-17. TRAs were available to both ECRs
       and established academics and prioritised publication in high impact peer-reviewed
       journals. TRAs have since been mainstreamed and all staff submitted in this UOA have a
       minimum of 20% time for research in line with our Code of Practice.
   •   Research mentors for all staff who requested them, with mentoring time embedded into
       workload allocation.
   •   Induction for new staff members from the School’s research lead.
   •   Research seminars organised at the School level, which, because of their interdisciplinary
       nature, are open to all across the institution. These are led by NICHOLDS and focus on
       ECR development.

Under ZHAO’s leadership as ADRE, the School has enhanced its collaborative and high-
performing research culture and capacity. Initiatives include:

   •   The development and implementation of a School-level research strategy and action plan.
       This plan emphasises driving the research agenda, building research capacity, and further
       embedding impact as part of research.
   •   A conference fund scheme, which provides an open and transparent process for managing
       requests for staff attendance at research conferences.
   •   Enhancing the research environment by appointing international, highly regarded Visiting
       Professors, including Prof Teck Yong Eng, a leading researcher in digital marketing and big
       data analytics, and Prof Craig Standing, an expert in Business Information Technology. Our
       visiting titleholders mentor staff, develop collaborative research and co-supervise doctoral
       candidates.
   •   Strengthening research leadership and governance by introducing a School Research
       Committee.

Our two impact case studies exemplify our strategic approach to including impact processes and
concerns in our research design. This attention to stakeholder collaboration and applied research
underpins our role as a civic university. JONES and ETHERINGTON’s research with Sheffield
TUC and the Institute for Employment rights has highlighted the effect of national policies on
employment rights. FAIRBURN’s research with UK government agencies has led to the WHO
developing tools to address environmental inequalities worldwide.

We have generated sustainable, long-term research connections to key stakeholders throughout
Europe. From the early 2000s to date, Staffordshire researchers contributed to developments in
Western Balkan countries – particularly Albania, Bosnia, Kosovo, Macedonia, and Montenegro,
through curriculum development in business disciplines, joint research projects informing outcomes
as varied as higher education reforms, privatisation, and trade negotiations, and a Masters and
PhD scholarship programme in Applied Economics (section 2). The PG programme now sees
Staffordshire graduates in leading positions in the universities of each of these countries as well as
in ministries of finance, central banks (including three vice governors) and in government.
Government figures include, at various times, two ministers of finance, a deputy prime minister and
a prime minister.

Our research complies fully with the University’s Open Access mandate and policy (REF5a section
2). We support the University’s Statement on the Responsible Use of Metrics and have used it to
prepare our submission to REF2021.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   d. Future strategy

To drive the Unit’s future, we developed the Centre for Applied Business Research (CABR) into the
Centre for Business, Innovation and Enterprise (CBIE) at the end of this REF period. CBIE
combines SBS’s cross-disciplinary research with the University’s underpinning enterprise,
innovation, and knowledge exchange ecosystem. We established CBIE to focus on the research
underpinning innovation and economic challenges in the Staffordshire region. CBIE is a hub for
cultivating and embedding innovation in start-ups and SMEs throughout the innovation cycle. CBIE
research methods, resources, and projects are connected into the University’s Innovation
Enterprise Zone, and Catalyst building (section 3). This emphasis on linked-up work aligns with the
University’s Civic agenda, and CBIE supports collaborative research with colleagues in other units
e.g., GIDLOW’s work on health inequalities (UOA3) and GRATTON’s work on economic hardship
(UOA34).

We will use CBIE to drive transformational change by supporting innovation, entrepreneurship, and
impactful research through investment in researchers. CBIE’s future research strategy
encompasses:

   •   Doubling capacity from 9FTE to ca 20FTE through targeted recruitment at early-career and
       senior levels, capability acceleration of existing staff, and external mentoring for
       researchers.
   •   Providing further time, space and facilities for all staff to consider, collaborate and execute
       world-leading impactful research.
   •   Use our growing knowledge exchange infrastructure to provide UK businesses with access
       to our leading knowledge and capability, cementing our position as a champion of applied
       business research.
   •   Enhance our interdisciplinary research culture by developing the themes of Business,
       Innovation and Entrepreneurship to support Regional Resilience in the context of the
       government’s ‘levelling-up’ and ‘building back better’ priorities for Staffordshire.
   •   Growing PGR recruitment by 10% annually. We will achieve this goal by focusing on
       regional and international collaboration to develop a pipeline of future researchers, and by
       maximising the learning opportunities for distance learning PhDs and professional
       doctorates.

To achieve these aims, we are co-locating Staffordshire Business School with the University’s
Employer Partnerships service within the new Catalyst building, due to open in 2021 (section 3).
This connection will enhance our current Innovation Enterprise Zone facilities by providing a new
high quality, digitally enabled collision space for learning, research, and knowledge exchange.


 2. People

   a. Staffing Strategy

The support for researchers at all stages in their career and the importance given to research in
business and management is reflected in the 25% growth to 9.1FTEs submitted since REF2014.

Five of those submitted in 2014 have been promoted, which underlines our commitment to staff
development. Three were promoted to Professor: FAIRBURN internally; and two took chairs
internationally (McMANUS 2018; BY 2019). We have used staff development strategically to propel
a sustainable growth, and the number of ECRs submitted has increased from one to three
(GALLAGE, ADAMS, OLAREWAJU). Two of those submitted in REF2014 continue to contribute
to our research environment through their Emeritus status (DENT and HASHI).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition to the recruitment of ZHAO as ADRE, we have supported research growth by recruiting
ETHERINGTON (0.2FTE), a longstanding collaborator of JONES. ETHERINGTON provides senior
support to the inequalities, employment, and welfare theme.

   b. Staff development and support

In line with the principles of the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers, all
researchers have an annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) with their manager to
set objectives, review progress and identify appropriate training and development needs. The
ADRE, ZHAO, supports staff and managers to develop individual plans and development
requirements that support individuals’ research careers and the Unit’s broader research direction.

In line with our REF5a and Code of Practice, all staff returned to this UOA are supported by:

   1. A minimum of 20% allocation of contracted hours for research.
   2. Appropriate annual research objectives, which include research grant targets, and the
      production of high-quality research outputs.

Research, Innovation and Impact Services (RIIS) offers all staff and PGRs a centralised
programme of researcher training. This training has been designed with input from the ADREs.
Senior staff from this unit have led sessions on the institutional research training programme,
available to both staff and PGRs within the unit:

       •   ‘Building your academic online profile’, FAIRBURN.
       •   ‘Qualitative Analysis with NVivo’ and ‘Research networking and collaborative
           opportunities’, MAHESHWARI.
       •   ‘Producing 4* outputs in social sciences’ and ‘Top Ten Tips: For (doctoral) researchers’,
           JONES.

Within SBS, an Action Plan for the UOA has been developed and implemented to address the key
areas for improvement identified in our Culture, Employment and Development in Academic
Research Survey (CEDARS) 2020. Coaching and mentoring are available for staff, facilitated by
senior staff in the UOA, and the Professoriate. Time for mentoring/coaching is factored into
workload planning to ensure mentors and mentees have adequate time to participate.

The UOA’s research seminar series (led by NICHOLDS), which all university researchers may
attend, is a key part of our research culture. It supports the creation of interdisciplinary research
networks and the dissemination of research findings, and it allows ECRs to receive supportive
academic critique. Staff are encouraged to attend and present at the annual University Research
Conference, which provides an opportunity for all staff and PGRs to share findings and develop
trans-university research.

The UOA is supported by an institutional Research Impact Manager, who provides training and
guidance on research impact strategy and activities. In this REF period we have benefitted from a
strong, diverse network of 21 visiting Professors and Fellows, who facilitate collaboration and
provide mentoring and support for ECRs and PGRs. The visiting titleholders include academics
from the UK, Brazil, Malaysia, Australia, USA, Czech Republic, and Croatia, and senior leaders
from industry, government, and NGOs.

To support our research, the University inaugurated an Entrepreneur in Residence (EiR) scheme in
2018. There are currently four EiRs, coming from a range of industry backgrounds. In addition, four
Emeritus Professors are aligned to the Unit and support the research environment by co-authoring
research outputs (WILLIAMSON) and co-supervising PGRs (HASHI, ADNETT). Together, our
EiRs and emeriti ensure continuity between our established and emerging research themes, and
help our researchers to forge connections to academic and industry networks.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In 2020, SBS established a Conference Fund to enable staff to present papers at high-quality peer-
reviewed conferences. The fund is open to all staff members. We have used it strategically by
encouraging our ECRs (e.g., OLAREWAJU) to access the funding to present their research
findings and develop external networks.

Promotion to Associate Professor and Professor is through an annual Professorial Call (see
REF5a, section 3). All staff seeking promotion are encouraged to attend preparatory workshops.
Senior members of the unit (ZHAO, PUGH) deliver these workshops and mentor prospective
applicants.

As part of their induction, new academic staff receive mandatory training in key areas including
Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion and Prevent. Current staff undertake regular updates in these
areas. New academic staff receive a 24-month probationary period. During this period, they are
provided with additional support to set and achieve research and teaching objectives, including
regular review meetings with their manager.

   c. ECR support

In addition to their protected research time, ECRs engage with training in grant writing and
publishing by the ADRE (ZHAO) and RIIS. Regularly scheduled interdisciplinary research meetings
across the University support growth in peer-to-peer networks of ECRs to enhance the research
environment.

   d. Supporting PGRs

As reported in REF4a, there were 16 doctoral completions in the REF cycle (>60% female). Our
success in supporting PGR students is seen in their contribution to outputs, including 23% of REF
outputs (2263, 2973, 4733, 2260, 2266), prestigious awards (see p. 8 below) and high-quality
employment (section 4).

There were an additional 18 completions on our blended learning PhD and seven offshore DBA
completions, which are not in the REF4a data. Total completions in the REF period are 41, or
0.64 completions per FTE pa, more than double the sector’s REF2014 UOA average of 0.29.

                          2013-     2014-      2015-     2016-     2017-    2018-    2019-
                           14        15         16        17        18       19       20      Total
 REF4a
 Completions                7          1         4          2        1         1        0       16
 PhD                        7          1         4          2        1                          15
 ProfDoc                                                                       1                 1
 Completions not in
 REF4a                      2          2         5          3        2         8        3       25
 PhD                        2          2         5          3        1         5                18
 ProfDoc                                                             1         3        3        7
 Total completions          9          3         9          5        3         9        3       41

68% of completions (28/41) were achieved through our prestigious PhD Programme in Applied
Economics. The Programme has notably recruited from the Western Balkans. In the assessment
period the Programme secured GBP484,130 funding for fees and scholarships from the Open
Society Foundations (OSF) for 26 Western Balkan individuals. The OSF PGRs studied under a
‘blended learning’ mode with one semester each year full-time at Staffordshire University and the
remainder part-time in their home countries.

In 2019/20, there were 34 doctoral researchers in the Unit, comprising 19 PhDs and 15 ProfDoc.
The Unit’s strengths in offering flexibility via distance learning PhDs have continued. Four of our
current PhD students study via distance learning. 76% of current doctorate students (26/34) are

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
international, demonstrating our strong international reputation and networks. All ProfDoc students
are part-time, with an even split between full- and part-time PhDs.

Much of our PGR recruitment has been through our Applied Economics PhD programme.
Successful candidates are often employed in industry or academia and their research areas are
often directly relevant to their role. The prestige of the PhD programme meant that recruitment
was competitive with local promotion in the Balkans region for the OSF positions to support the
selection of talented researchers, and action to ensure gender balance.

We recruit students in cohorts to ensure peer support throughout the PhD. “Mini conferences” with
leading external participants commenting on students’ papers were held each semester, with
annual conferences in the Balkans allowing OSF students to share research and network with
current and former students. Since 2000 to date, generations of leading Western Balkans applied
economists have met, established collaborative networks, and participated in research projects
across country and ethnic lines through our PhD programme.

In addition to accessing training through the centralised university training programme and the
Graduate School, additional (individual or group) sessions to address the specific needs of
research students with further practical support has been put in place (e.g., sessions on specific
research methods such as econometrics delivered by PUGH). One-to-one and drop-in sessions for
PGRs provide additional support. English language support is provided as required to ensure
competence for publishing in anglophone peer-reviewed journals.

Postgraduate researchers are encouraged to present their work at SBS research seminars and at
the University-wide Staffordshire University Postgraduate Research Conference (until 2019) and
Staffordshire University Research Conference (from 2020). These events offer important
developmental opportunities for our ECRs and PGRs, enabling them to gain presentation skills and
to receive supportive disciplinary and interdisciplinary feedback on their work. Furthermore, to
support their development of public engagement and communications skills, we invite PGRs to
contribute to the Staffordshire Business School Blog, which FAIRBURN coordinates.

SBS PGRs are represented on the School’s Research Committee. They participate in University-
wide research governance via membership of the Graduate School Steering Group and the
University’s Research and Innovation Committee (RIC). RIC is chaired by the Deputy Vice-
Chancellor (JONES) and has oversight of all research at the University. The Committee’s
membership includes two PGR representatives, one who is supervised in this Unit (TALAM), and
an ECR representative, also from this UOA (ADAM).

SBS PGRs have access to centralised resources available to all postgraduate researchers across
the University (e.g., library services) and have access to research training programmes organised
by the Graduate School/RIIS. The University’s PhD students have a Doctoral students’ space
adjacent to RIIS. SBS PhD students also have a dedicated PhD room within the School.

The quality of the work produced by the PhD students and graduates is demonstrated by outputs
within Regional Studies, Science and Public Policy, Small Business Economics, Applied
Economics, International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Small Business, International Business
Review, Economic Systems and Research Policy; and published books derived from PhD
research. 33 peer-reviewed publications of the PhD students and graduates have been co-
authored with SBS staff.

The quality of the research has been recognised by international awards, fellowships, and
postdoctoral scholarships in the current REF period:

   •   In 2016 and 2017 two students (respectively from Croatia and Kosovo) joined five previous
       Staffordshire winners of the Austrian Central Bank’s Olga Radzyner Award (for the best
       papers by young economists from Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe).


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   three Staffordshire PhD graduates joined four previous Staffordshire recipients of Fulbright
       scholarships (all from Kosovo – respectively, in 2014, 2018 and 2019).
   •   a combined PhD fellowship at the World Trade Organisation and Fulbright scholarship for
       postdoctoral studies (from Montenego, 2019).
   •   British Academy of Management 2018 Best Paper Award in ‘Marketing and Retail’ (part-
       time home DBA student).

   e. Equality and diversity

Although we are a small unit we maintain a diverse and inclusive research community. Of the 11
staff entered in this UOA, 7 were appointed from 2018 onwards to support the growth and
development of research. 44% FTE of the staff entered are BAME, 33% FTE are female, and 33%
FTE are ECRs.

During the REF period two members of staff have benefitted from flexible working arrangements.
We now have 3 staff on part-time contracts, supporting their circumstances as under our Code of
Practice.

The Unit composition is notably more diverse than in REF2014 in all these aspects: the FTE of
female staff (33%) is a marked increase compared to 14% in REF2014, while the FTE of BAME
staff (44%) is a significant improvement on the 7% of FTE in REF2014. The proportion of ECRs
has increased from 14% to 33%

Another indicator of commitment in practice to equality and diversity is the PhD scholarship
programme for students from the Western Balkan region, jointly financed by the OSF and the
University. Of the 28 students on this programme in the current REF period, the majority were
women, which is especially notable for a region still characterised by traditional attitudes towards
gender roles. Diversity is at the heart of this programme, which was designed not only to remedy a
deficiency of trained economists in these countries but also to bring together young scholars and
future leaders across national and ethnic lines. As is well known, in this region ethnicity is almost
synonymous with religious heritage. Our graduates reflect that mix by identifying as Muslim,
Orthodox Christian, Roman Catholic, and one self-identified as ‘Mixed’.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   a. Infrastructure and facilities

During the assessment period the Unit has benefited from internal HEFCE/Research England
recurrent grant allocations to support core infrastructure, provide Research Assistant support,
foster international research collaborations, pump prime new research initiatives, and provide
impact acceleration funding. Within the period staff have benefited from investment in developing
Official Development Assistance-related research through three GBP4,000 Quality Related Global
Challenges Research Fund (QR GCRF) grants (i.e., ZHAO and GALLAGE, 2020; MAHESHWARI,
2018).

The School has developed its research capacity in conjunction with the University’s commitment to
collaborative research, which has intensified throughout the REF period (see REF5a). The
appointment of the ADRE, ZHAO, was a significant institutional investment in our research
capability. Her appointment has provided senior strategic support for research, mentorship, and a
focal point for further interdisciplinary collaboration.

As detailed in REF5a, the permanent appointment of an institutional Research Impact Manager
within RIIS has provided training and guidance on research impact strategy, planning, and
evidencing. Colleagues and PGRs within the Unit can now access training on utilising the
institutional repository to store research impact evidence.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We receive academic support from the central Library Services and RIIS provides further research
support. RIIS’s staff work closely with our researchers to provide guidance concerning pre- and
post-award actions, research policy and governance, ethics, research impact, civic engagement,
researcher development, and supporting PGRs with the Graduate School.

Since 2017, the University has secured funding of GBP4,075,904 towards establishing the
University Innovation Enterprise Zone (IEZ) [REF5A]. This funding has supported knowledge
exchange with SMEs around advanced manufacturing, advanced materials, digital innovation, and
intelligent mobility. This portfolio of facilities secured University Enterprise Zone status and
includes Research England funding (GBP779,500) in 2019, providing collaborative research and
knowledge exchange opportunities for UOA staff. JONES is the Executive lead for the IEZ. His
research on the institutional and governance failures of local and regional economic development
over the past two decades in post-industrial regions has been informing strategies for the Stoke-
on-Trent and Staffordshire Local Enterprise Partnership area. As noted in Section 1, the IEZ will
provide increased opportunities for CBIE to enhance our thematic ‘inequalities, employment and
welfare’ and ‘innovation and leadership’ research expertise, in turn boosting our contribution to the
University’s civic agenda.

   b. Future Facilities Development

In 2017, the University secured GBP8,000,000 funding from HEFCE towards a total investment of
GBP43,000,000 for the ‘Catalyst’ building, which will provide the new home for Staffordshire
Business School as part of the Centre for Business Innovation and Enterprise. This building will
open in 2021. With the IEZ, the Catalyst will facilitate learning, research, and knowledge exchange
for all Unit staff and industry stakeholders by providing leading, digital resources for business
engagement and innovation and leadership research.


The Catalyst’s development supports CBIE’s enhanced thematic focus on Innovation and
complements the appointment of ZHAO, who is an expert in entrepreneurship and digital
technologies. FAIRBURN also supports this thematic outreach work through his collaborations with
the Centre for Ceramics, Creative Industries and Creative Communities (section 4).

   c. Research income

    13/14       14/15        15/16       16/17         17/18       18/19       19/20        Total
   35,569       23,240       43,304      94,606       203,441      89,905      50,216      539,881

15 research projects worth GBP539,881 over the period were supported by further knowledge
exchange and consultancy projects to support impact activities (38 projects worth GBP1,000,000)
and GBP454,130 from the Open Society Foundation to fund scholarships for students from the
Western Balkan for the Applied Economics PhD Programme. RIIS supports our research income
generation by providing guidance and resources for bid production and project management
delivery.

Our research income includes funding from the European Commission, Innovate UK, ESRC and
the Swiss Development Corporation. These awards from major partners have supported our
national and international collaborative research. Notable projects include:

   •   2014-2016 PUGH – Swiss Development Corporation funding (EUR36,000) for an
       institutional research partnership to mentor the Regional Research Promotion Programme
       (RRPP) project KS_205, ‘Mapping Clientelism and its Causes: Rents, Rent-seeking and
       Democracy in Kosovo and Albania’. This project generated two papers published in Post-
       Communist Economies (2019) exploring political business cycle effects in microeconomic
       datasets.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   2014-2019 JONES – ESRC part of Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research and
       Data (WISERD)/Civil Society (total grant GBP7,538,992), work-package ‘Spaces of New
       Localism: Stakeholder Engagement and Economic Development in Wales and England’
       (GBP352,000 of which GBP88,000 came to Staffordshire University from University of
       Sheffield).
   •   2015-2018 PUGH – Innovate UK project with Amey Plc, to streamline highway works
       through planning information from utility providers and telecommunications companies on a
       ‘smart city’ platform (GBP82,000).
   •   2017-2019 FAIRBURN – EU ERASMUS Strategic Partnership project ‘Adoption of
       Sustainable Accounting Practices for Reporting’ (ReportAsap), which delivered research for
       knowledge exchange into sustainable accounting practices (EUR293,650).
   •   2017-2018 PUGH and WILLIAMSON – Stoke-on-Trent & Staffordshire Enterprise
       Partnership research: Evaluating (i) the impact of different modes of implementing food
       hygiene regulations on business compliance and (ii) the effect of that compliance on
       business survival (GBP26,000).
   •   2018-2019 MAHESHWARI – Newton Mobility Grant project ‘Sustaining country brand
       equity: improving Brazil’s strength in international markets’; with the University of Sao
       Paulo, Brazil.
   •   2019–2024 JONES – ESRC part of the Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research
       and Data (WISERD) Civil Society: Changing Perspective on Civic Stratification and Civil
       Repair (total grant GBP7,927,419) work-package, ‘Civil Society, and Placed-
       based Strategies for Sustainable Development’, in partnership with Manchester
       Metropolitan University, University of Turin, University of Salento, Blaenau Gwent County
       Borough Council, United Welsh, and the Cardiff Capital Region (GBP100,000 grant
       secured from 2021).
   •   2020-2021 OLAREWAJU and ZHAO – British Academy Special Research Grant –
       COVID 19 project, ‘The impact of COVID-19 on BAME owned businesses in the UK’.
   d. Income Strategy

Our future funding strategy recognises the need to diversify income sources. The UOA will focus
on transnational funding opportunities, to retain our international research collaborations (beyond
Europe) [section 4].

In line with our strategic priorities around supporting innovation within the local economy, we will
continue to prioritise the sustainable growth of knowledge exchange activities. These opportunities
will supply us with a pathway to impact for our research outputs in SME digital transformation,
circular economy, and regional recovery and resilience.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   a. Research Collaborations and Networks

Staffordshire Business School has taken a strategic approach to local, national, and international
partnerships and collaboration, working with RIIS and other internal departments during the REF
period to maximise academic links with national and overseas partners. The researchers in the
Unit have attracted a wide range of funding streams including research, knowledge transfer, EU
capacity building, and EU exchange schemes, and they have supported national and international
projects throughout the REF period. The School protects and sustains key international strategic
partnerships beyond individual projects by supporting regular dialogue, mobility periods (Erasmus
KA1 mobility funds) and targeted institutional support for academic endeavours.

Our researchers have created a wide network of international and national collaborators and have
published almost 100 outputs in the REF period (as indexed by Scopus). 45% of these outputs are
the result of international collaborations, and a further 29% are the result of national collaborations
(source: SciVal). Our staff have collaborators in this REF period from 69 institutions spanning 22
countries. The majority of these are academic collaborators, including mature collaborations with
universities in Australia (ZHAO), Brazil, (MAHESHWARI), the United Arab Emirates and Serbia
(HASHI), and Bosnia, Albania and Kosovo (PUGH). Our range of collaborative work includes
outputs with significant non-academic institutions, most notably the World Health Organisation
(FAIRBURN) and Helmholtz Zentrum München – the German Research Centre for Environmental
Health (FAIRBURN).

These relationships have supported a diverse range of communities. Our partnerships have
focused on employment and training discrimination due to age (50+) (with the SILVER WORKERS
initiative), and on solutions to poverty alleviation in specific ethnic minorities groups in China (with
funding from GCRF, and ZHAO as PI).

Due to our well-established PhD programme, we have forged connections and delivered
collaborative research with alumni at a range of prestigious organisations. These collaborations
include:
UK: University of Sheffield; Sussex University; Bournemouth University; University of Lincoln;
Nottingham Trent University; and Manchester Metropolitan University.
EU: Trinity College University, Dublin; University of Split, Croatia; Tampere University, Finland;
Munich University of Applied Sciences, Germany; University of Zagreb, Croatia; Università
Politecnica delle Marche, Italy; University of Granada, Spain; PAR University, Croatia; Dortmund
Technical University, Germany; University of Twente, Netherlands; Lappeenranta University of
Technology, Finland; Mainz University, Germany; University of Helsinki, Finland; University of
Turin, Italy; University of Salento, Italy; Oulu University, Finland; Oslo Metropolitan University.
Balkans: University of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina; South East European University, North
Macedonia; Ss. Cyril and Methodius University, North Macedonia; University of Prelip, North
Macedonia; University of Tirana, Albana; and, in Kosovo: University of Prishtina, University for
Business and Technology, Dukagjini College, University Kadri Zeka, University ‘Haxhi Zeka’ NË
PEJË; and University of Gjakova.
Other: Guangxi University, China; Sau Paulo University, Brazil; National University Singapore.
Research Institutes: Riinvest Institute for Development Research, Kosovo; Center for
Development Evaluation and Social Science Research, Bosnia; Center for Interdisciplinary Social
Applied Research, Bosnia; Centre for Economic Research and Graduate Education, Economics
Institute (CERGE-EI), Czech Republic.

Examples of collaboration:
   • JONES undertakes collaborative research with the Wales Institute of Social and Economic
      Research and Data (Founding Co-Director in 2009) through collaborative papers and grant
      funded projects around civil society, regional policy, and devolution (section 3).


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Staffordshire Business School is part of the ‘Leading to Grow’ project sponsored by BEIS
       and led by the Small Business Charter. This project includes 16 other Business Schools
       providing support for micro and SME businesses. FAIRBURN leads the SBS contribution.
   •   PUGH, 2015. Two linked projects managed by the European Union Office in Kosovo arose
       from long-standing collaboration and joint publication with Staffordshire PhD graduate
       Professor Petrit GASHI, University of Pristina, and gave rise to an influential report for the
       Kosovo Foundation for Open Society (2015), which helped to build the negotiating position
       for Kosovo’s side in the negotiations leading to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement
       with the EU (April 2016). This Report highlighted the supply-side constraints on Kosovo’s
       export sector and the corresponding need for gradual rather than sudden opening of the
       economy. These arguments helped persuade Kosovo’s government to identify
       differentiated support needs for particular industries and to negotiate industry-specific
       concessions. The underpinning research paper was subsequently revised for publication in
       Applied Economics (2016): https://doi.org/10.1080/00036846.2016.1245836.
   •   During Gashi’s term as Chair of the Privatisation Agency of Kosovo (2016-19), he
       collaborated with HASHI and PUGH to publish a paper in Eastern European Economics on
       privatisation in Kosovo (2020).
   •   HASHI co-ordinated EUFORIA (2015-18) a network between 16 international collaborators
       in 5 countries, including HE, Public, and Private sector participants. EUFORIA was funded
       through the EU Erasmus+ Capacity Building Programme. Through this project, the
       ‘Entrepreneurial Universities for Industry Alliances’ achieved 398 Memorandums of
       Understanding signed with companies, over 1000 students placed in companies,
       publication of the edited collection From Theory to Practice: Case Studies of Kosovar
       Companies (2018), and the revision of economics and business curricula in six partner
       universities in Kosovo.
   •   MAHESHWARI was awarded (2018) a ConFap Researcher Mobility Newton Fund grant to
       undertake the research project ‘Sustaining country brand equity: improving Brazil’s strength
       in international markets’ with the University of Sao Paulo.

   b. Relations with users, beneficiaries and society:

Links are retained with PhD graduates who are holding senior international industry and
governmental positions:

   •   Central Banks in the Western Balkan region. Graduates include current Vice Governors
       (the Republic of Kosovo and Montenegro) and Chief Economists (Bosnia and Herzegovina
       and the Republic of Kosovo).
   •   World Bank. Graduates include Erjon LUCI (World Bank, based in Tirana); Hilda SHIJAKU
       (World Bank, based in Tirana); Jane BOGOEV (World Bank, based in Washington, DC);
       Sandra HLIVNJAK (World Bank, based in Sarajevo); and Zorica KALEZIC (World Bank,
       2014-17, and the International Monetary Fund, 2017-19, both Washington, DC).
   •   Government ministers, senior advisors, and heads of other official bodies. In the current
       REF period, these include: Deputy Minister of Finance (Albania); Minister of Finance
       (Kosovo); Minister of Infrastructure (Kosovo); and, most recently, Dr Avdullah HOTI (PhD,
       2007) was elected as Prime Minister of Kosovo (03-06-2020). Other Staffordshire PhD
       graduates have served as advisors to Prime Ministers (Kosovo) and Ministers of Finance
       (Macedonia and Kosovo) and as the Chairman of the Board of the Privatisation
       Commission, (Kosovo, 2016-19). Pre-2014, a Staffordshire PhD graduate served as
       Minister of the Economy, Minister of European Integration, and then Deputy Prime Minister
       (all Macedonia).

Throughout the REF period the Unit has secured funding to work with national and international
research partners generating impact and support for the regional economy:

   •   FAIRBURN co-ordinated the EU Erasmus KA2 Strategic Partnership project SMARTOUR
       ‘Sustainable Manages in the Tourism Sector’ (2015-17). Five partners from three EU
       countries, including HE and industry, created an online training tool to support tourism

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       organisations in the partner countries. This work facilitated transnational research and
       development and provided all partners intelligence to support their local economic tourism
       strategy.
   •   FAIRBURN co-ordinated the EU ERASMUS KA2 Strategic Partnership project ‘Adoption of
       Sustainable Accounting Practices for Reporting’ (ReportAsap) (2017-2019), which involved
       5 transnational partners from the EU. The research focused on rationalising the number of
       frameworks, standards and protocols to assist companies in adopting and implementing the
       sustainable accountability practices.
   •   FAIRBURN was a partner in Silver Workers, an Erasmus KA2 VET funding project (2015)
       co-ordinated by VISES ONG Onlus in Italy, alongside 6 other collaborators from five
       countries. This work led to recommendations for future policy for employment and training
       needs for the over 50s.
   •   FISEROVA and PUGH collaborated with the national HR Director for DFS Furniture PLC (a
       FTSE 100 Company) to investigate the determinants and sales effects of the newly
       introduced Net Promotor Score (NPS). Findings were presented at the 2017 and 2018
       British Academy of Management Conferences, the latter winning a ‘Best Paper’ Award.
       According to a testimonial from the then-HR Director: ‘The research undertaken with the
       Staffordshire academics informed continued Boardroom and Executive Committee debate
       and decision making’.
   •   Staffordshire University is ranked 42nd in the 2020 Entrepreneurial Impact Rankings of
       Universities. The Unit contributes to the Be Inspired project (BISU), a flagship business
       start-up programme targeting students and graduates. Since 2013 BISU has created 288
       businesses and 342 jobs with a business sustainability rate (surviving three years or more)
       of 70%. BISU is funded from HEIF and the European Regional Development Fund.
       Through CABR and, now, CBIE, Staffordshire Business School supports innovation and
       entrepreneurship across the Staffordshire region through partnerships with the local
       Chamber of Commerce and business support NGOs.

   c. Contribution to research base, economy and society

Professional Networks, Committees and Working Groups

   •   FAIRBURN chaired expert and stakeholder groups for the World Health Organisation
       (WHO) which have resulted in major WHO reports and collaborations on peer reviewed
       papers (2014-2020). FAIRBURN chaired the expert group for the first WHO
       (2012) Environmental Health Inequalities in Europe Assessment Report. In the assessment
       period, FAIRBURN led a formal systematic review on air quality and social inequalities in
       the WHO region. The systematic review used PRISMA reporting standards (Preferred
       Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses), including a review of the
       studies of the exposure to multiple environmental risks in the home and residential context.
       FAIRBURN and the WHO technical officer summarised the development of environmental
       indicators and reviewed the incorporation of environmental data into indices (especially into
       the English IMD), as well as progress across Europe in this study area.
   •   As outlined in FAIRBURN’S case study, his collaboration with the Environment Agency and
       other stakeholders has shaped the Living Environment component of the 2015 and 2019
       Index of Deprivation (England) releases.
   •   JONES has served as Research Advisor to the United Nations, Economic and Social
       Commission for Western Asia, Economic Governance and Planning Section, contributing to
       political and policy debates in the links between region institutional-building, Sustainable
       Development Goals, and democracy in the Arab region (2019). Throughout the REF period,
       he has served as an assessor of promotion cases to Professor at National University
       Singapore, Oulu University (Finland), Trinity University (Dublin), Helsinki University, and
       Oslo Metropolitan University; Research Advisor Group Member, Royal Society of Arts, for
       the Inclusive Growth Commission (2016-2017); as a member of the ESRC’s Impact
       Accelerator Account Commissioning Panel; and as a Visiting Professor at Oulu University.
   •   MAHESHWARI has been Visiting Professor at the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil since
       2015.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   PUGH – External Expert for the EU’s “European Foundation for the Improvement of Living
       and Working Conditions” (April 2018).

Conferences, Keynotes and Invited Lectures

   •   SBS hosts The Global Business Directions conference as a regular one-day annual
       event. It was first held in 2014 and last hosted in February 2020. Key audience participants
       include students, local, and national attendees. Key speakers in 2020 included Tony Evans,
       the Head of Financial Services, UK Amazon Web Services, and Luke Bracegirdle, the
       Director of Virtual Health SHED Ltd.
   •   JONES: European Triple Helix Congress on Responsible Innovation and Entrepreneurship,
       Thessaloniki, Greece, keynote speaker; Morgan Academy/WISERD event, Delivering City
       Deals on Wales, in September 2019; two Westminster Forum events in 2020 (‘City and
       Growth Deals in Wales’ and ‘Next Steps for Improving Social Mobility’). JONES chaired the
       Inside Government event ‘The Next Steps for Devolution and the Northern Powerhouse’,
       held 27th September 2017, which influenced policymaker debate on the Northern
       Powerhouse.

Public engagement

   •   From May to July 2020 FAIRBURN organised a series of 10 webinars to support Micro and
       SME businesses during the COVID pandemic. The webinars were attended by over 150
       attendees and delivered by SBS researchers and three Entrepreneurs in Residence.
   •   The Business School Blog averages over 1000 views per month. The blog has been in the
       Top 20 Business Education blogs since 2018. It is a regular channel for both staff and
       students to publicise research and other activity. Publications in The Conversation media
       outlet have achieved 135,000 reads in the REF period.

Grants Committees

   •   FAIRBURN has been an evaluator for the Newton Grants since 2017.
   •   JONES was a Research Assessment Panel Member, Social Sciences and Natural
       Sciences, University of Helsinki, Research Assessment Exercise, coordinated alongside
       the Academy of Finland, 2018-19. This Exercise is equivalent to the Research Excellence
       Framework, but undertaken on an individual HEI base, on a 5-year cycle, and linked to
       Academy of Finland funding.
   •   PUGH was peer reviewer for the German Ministry of Education and Research (2016) and
       the Economic and Social Research Council (UK) (2017).

Awards and Prizes

   •   HASHI (was awarded the Presidential Medal of Merit by the President of Kosovo for his
       contribution to higher education in Kosovo (2015).
   •   In 2017 and in 2020, Staffordshire Business School was awarded the Small Business
       Charter.
   •   PUGH, FISEROVA, DIMOS and STEPHENSON (DBA student) won a Best Full Paper
       award at the British Academy of Management Conference in 2018.
   •   ZHAO collaborated with DENG from RMIT University Australia on the paper ‘A
       multidimensional and integrative approach to study global digital divide and e-government
       development’ (2014), which won a Highly Commended Paper Award in 2015 through
       Emerald Group Publishing.
   •   ZHAO won Elsevier’s ‘Outstanding Reviewer Award’ in 2018.
   •   ZHAO, MAPUKU, and WAXIN, ‘A cast study of collaborative management approach to
       common-pool resources management’ – awarded the ‘Highly Recommended Conference
       Paper Award’ by EuroMed Academy of Business in 2018.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Regional contribution

As part of our Connected University strategy, Staffordshire University has a strong relationship with
the Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (SSLEP). Our Deputy Vice
Chancellor JONES is Director of SSLEP and a core member of the Local Industrial Strategy (LIS)
Steering Group. JONES’s research has influenced the local industrial strategy for Stoke-on-Trent
and Staffordshire.

JONES is a member of the Stoke-on-Trent Hardship Commission, which aims to minimise poverty
and its impact and to strengthen support for those who suffer it. GRATTON supports this work via
UOA34, with public engagement and community links to local stakeholders. FAIRBURN has led
the Small Business Leadership Programme at Staffordshire University (part of a GBP20,000,000
national scheme). This programme provides a free 10-week course to small and medium
businesses to help them through the pandemic and is funded by BEIS.

FAIRBURN collaborates with BOEHM to lead the Arts Council England (ACE) placemaking and
co-creation leadership programme, ‘CREATE PLACE’. The programme involves 17 partner
organisations from North Staffordshire and Cheshire East. It draws upon the region’s rich creative
heritage to foster a learning environment for experienced and emerging cultural and business
leaders.

Editorial Activities

    •   PUGH sits on the editorial boards of the Journal of Central Banking Theory and Practice
        (ISSN: 1800-9581), published by the Central Bank of Montenegro (from May 2012), the
        South East European Journal of Economics and Business (ISSN: 1840118X) (from April
        2017), and Economic Systems (ISSN: 09393625) (from December 2017).
    •   MAHESHWARI is Deputy Editor of the Journal of Global Responsibility (ISSN: 2041-2568)
        and a Board member of the International Journal of Organizational Analysis (ISSN: 1934-
        8835).
    •   ZHAO is currently Associate Editor of the International Journal of E-Entrepreneurship and
        Innovation (ISSN: 1947-8585) and an Editorial Board member of the Journal of General
        Management (ISSN: 03063070).
    •   ZHAO was Associate Editor of the 27th European Conference on Information Systems –
        ECIS 2019 Information System for a Sharing Society - June 8-14, 2019 Stockholm,
        Sweden.
    •   JONES is founder and co-editor of the journal Territory, Politics, Governance (ISSN: 2162-
        2671), published by Routledge/Taylor & Francis in partnership with the Regional Studies
        Association. This is an international interdisciplinary social science journal, launched in
        2013 but already listed in the Scopus citations indices, where it is in the Q1 impact quartile.
    •   JONES sits on the editorial board of the journal Local Economy (ISSN: 0269-0942).

Books

    •   JONES, M (2019). Cities and Regions in Crisis: The Political Economy of Sub-National
        Economic Development, Cambridge: Edward Elgar.
    •   JONES, M., Orford, S. and Macfarlane, V. (2015). People. Places and Policy: Knowing
        Contemporary Wales Through New Localities. This title was the first Open Access book
        for Routledge/Taylor & Francis in Social Science.
    •   PUTTICK, K (2019). The Welfare State, Wages and Work: Disintegration or Renewal?
        Liverpool: Institute of Employment Rights.
    •   Lowitzsch, J., Dunsch, S. and HASHI, I (2017). Spanish Sociedades Laborales – Activating
        the Unemployed, London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   JONES has co-edited two books in this REF-cycle whilst at Staffordshire, underlining the
       Unit’s international influence on business research:
       a) Paasi, A., Harrison, J. and JONES, M. (eds) (2018). Handbook on the Geographies of
           Regions and Territories, Cambridge: Edward Elgar.
       b) Riding, J. and JONES, M. (eds) (2017). Reanimating Regions: Culture, Politics, and
           Performance, London: Routledge.




                                                                                        Page 16
