Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.0 Overview

 This unit is based in the interdisciplinary School of the Arts (SoTA) at the University of Hull,
 established in 2016 as part of the University’s strategic preparation to be Principal Partner to Hull
 City of Culture, 2017 (HCoC). During the current REF cycle we have achieved the ambitions set
 out in our 2014 submission whilst also creating new ways of working across disciplines. Notably,
 we have:

    •   Increased grant capture by more than 100% (Section 3.1);
    •   Developed multiple new external networks and partnerships (Section 4);
    •   Used our research as a means of participating in a cultural mega event (this section);
    •   Accelerated the development of research staff (Sections 2.1.2 and 2).

 In 2014, our UoA submission was drawn together from the work of largely discrete subject areas
 (creative music technology, drama, film studies, media studies, music, and theatre and
 performance studies). Research outputs were at that time primarily disciplinary in nature, and
 wider Faculty and University research infrastructure was used predominantly to assist lone
 researchers, operating within individual subject domains.

 The present REF submission articulates a remarkably different picture, with the transformation
 centring on our participation in HCoC. Our role in delivering HCoC was pivotal, providing over
 20% of the city’s cultural offer in the first half of that year. The ‘Once Contemporary, Always
 Contemporary’ concert series was awarded £50,000 by the City of Culture company, and brought
 artists and groups such as The London Sinfonietta and BBC Singers to perform in Hull, as well as
 showcasing work by staff members. Over its whole season, the programme drew audiences
 totalling 4,300 people onto the University campus. Skinner worked with our graduate theatre
 company The Roaring Girls to produce Weathered Estates (a Guardian ‘pick of the week’); staff
 also curated seasons of film screenings (notably of our former staff member, Anthony Minghella),
 delivered public lectures, and interviewed stage, film and television directors. In April 2017, SoTA
 hosted the National Student Drama Festival (Drábek, Billing, and Mackay), as well as several
 major conferences, including Musical Cultures (E King), and Sound and the Environment
 (Mackay). SoTA’s involvement in the year’s events was of central importance to its success, and
 meta evaluation of HCoC (Bianchini) has demonstrated that the cultural programme led to
 significantly increased participation with the arts across the City: over 90% of residents engaged
 with cultural activity; 60% of ticket sales were from new bookers; 2/3 of residents claimed
 increased knowledge of the City’s culture and heritage; 3/4 of visitors to the City claimed their
 perceptions of the City had changed for the better (Cultural Transformations: The Impacts of Hull
 UK City of Culture 2017, Culture, Place and Policy Institute, University of Hull, 2018, p. 8-9).


 1.1 Research Development Strategy

 The focus and intensity of the processes of research, curation and interdisciplinary artistic
 collaboration required for a year-long, international arts festival such as HCoC led to a
 transformational shift in research culture, methods, and infrastructure within our unit. We moved
 away from longstanding discipline-specific attitudes and research groupings towards the
 development of three School-wide, outward-facing, interdisciplinary Research Centres:



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        1. The Centre for Applied Research in the Arts;
        2. The Centre for Performance, Technology and Aesthetics; and
        3. The Centre for Textual and Cultural Analysis.

 As part of this refinement of focus, researchers within SoTA were invited to align themselves with
 and produce research for at least one of these three interdisciplinary Centres - which are each
 managed by a Steering Group of four established and ECR colleagues from the three disciplinary
 areas of the School (Drama, Music and Screen). The design of this new infrastructure was
 intended not merely to facilitate creative research dialogue between Arts researchers, but to foster
 and support outward-facing, inter-Faculty collaborations - including those with the University’s
 six new Research Institutes (in particular, the Energy and Environment Institute, the Institute
 for Clinical and Applied Health and the Culture, Place and Policy Institute).

 The central two aims for the UoA since 2015 have been to become: 1. more outward-facing; and
 2. more interdisciplinary. This we have achieved by producing artistic and cultural work,
 theoretical modelling, and academic criticism that is now embedded within research projects
 originating outside as well as within individual disciplinary areas - including projects held within
 other Faculties and Research Institutes. We have used our world-class facilities in Theatre, Music
 and Media Production to develop a collaborative approach to Arts research, whilst also exploring
 alternative platforms and venues for innovative types of research outcomes. In doing this, we have
 attempted to engage audiences and communities beyond the institution or region. With enhanced
 global reach, we now recognise and harness the importance of the Arts as a driver for social
 engagement, enhanced wellbeing and the development of local and national legislation and
 policy. As our Impact Case Studies (ICS) demonstrate, we have effected significant change
 during the current REF cycle - from the level of artistic and cultural regeneration in the region
 (HCoC ICS), to the implementation of national policies and strategies for digital learning, and mass
 engagement with the arts (Connect: Resound ICS).

 As the work of our three research centres develops, the artefacts and impact we produce are
 broad ranging. Practice-as-Research (PaR) outputs include work across digital media,
 performance, theatre, film, and sonic arts, while aspects of applied arts performance deal with the
 benefits of the arts in therapeutic and recuperative contexts. A majority of SoTA staff are active
 practitioners in their fields of specialism, engaging routinely with industry professionals and
 thereby regularly presenting PaR work to non-academic audiences. Staff also take a leading role
 in promoting the Arts - from the local City of Hull (HCoC is a paragon example), to projects in other
 countries and continents (e.g. the Czech Republic, Norway, The Netherlands, Mexico, Canada,
 and the USA).

 Our ongoing strategic ambition is to create a responsive and flexible culture capable of fostering
 inter- and intra-institutional project-based, multi-disciplinary work - whilst also strengthening our
 demonstrable history of discipline-specific research specialisms. We recognise the fundamental
 importance of the individual scholar, but we now place this alongside the urgent need to work in
 new partnerships. Our approach already yields dividends in terms of refined methods and new
 insights within our three new Research Centres.


 1.2 New Research Centres in the Arts

 1.2.1 The Centre for Applied Research in the Arts

 Projects within this Centre have explored the benefits of the School’s research for Health,
 Wellbeing, the Environment, and Education, building on work undertaken in previous REF
 cycles. In the field of Music Psychology and Music Education, collaborative projects such as A
 King’s Connect: Resound, E King and Prior’s STROKESTRA™, and A King’s evaluation of the

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New Music Biennial (part of HCoC) explore the contributions made to education and care through
 the use of music and the deployment of new technologies. The projects complement two edited
 volumes by A King and further work exploring the use of digital technologies in enhancing patient
 care (Hayhurst, Mundy, Lilford). In applied performance, Dickenson and Conroy’s The Not
 Knowns project has worked with social groups often excluded from arts provision, to explore
 themes of memory and identity; partners have included local councils and theatre groups. Other
 projects include Edinborough and Billing’s work on sexual violence, The Lavinia Project,
 developed during a funded residency at New York University, and Edinborough’s work on spaces
 of social care and interactivity. Hayhurst’s research examines how Virtual Reality and Augmented
 Reality can been used as cognitive aids to maintain independent living for people with early-stage
 dementia, while Mundy’s work similarly exemplifies the scholarly convergence of technology and
 wellbeing through the utilisation of e-health in patient empowerment. These projects all
 demonstrate the way in which research within the Centre is directly engaging with broader social
 concerns, and the practical applications of such research.

 A second strand of work in the Centre relates to Eco- and Environmental Arts. Part of the
 University’s current mission is to work for two essential Global Sustainability Targets: 1. a Carbon
 Neutral Future, and 2. a Circular Plastics Economy. These themes are interrogated by researchers
 thinking about the way in which artistic practice is implicated in environmental impact. The Getting
 the Plastics Circular Economy Message Out project (Billing, Edinborough, Mackay) was funded
 through the UKRI £1.1M Plastics Research Innovation Fund (PRIF). The project uses practice-as-
 research methodologies in the Arts to create performances that speak to the scientific and
 economic research of the EPSRC. Other emerging projects in this area include: collaboration with
 the theatre company Silent Uproar, resulting in a new PaR piece on environmental responsibility;
 a partnership with Forestry England (Dalby Forest); and a collaboration with the University’s
 Energy and Environment Institute on the AHRC-funded Risky Cities project (Skinner,
 Fergusson). Mackay’s work in eco-acoustics has included working with international partners in
 poetic writing and film documentary making to raise ecological awareness through the medium of
 sonic arts, as well as employing streaming technologies as a means of monitoring migratory
 patterns of endangered butterfly species. Meanwhile, curricular enhancements are also
 responding to this area, allowing for alignment of staff research with UG and PGT teaching


 1.2.2 The Centre for Performance, Technology and Aesthetics

 This Centre uses critical approaches in Music Technology, Composition, Performance, Film,
 Television, Theatre Aesthetics, and Scenography to develop projects relating to new or historic
 technologies and their implications for current practices and aesthetics. Within the Centre, there
 are a range of scholarly and PaR approaches; these include music composition (acoustic,
 binaural, sonic arts and studio-based). Slater’s work as a practitioner on commercially released
 collaborative recording projects is part of broader dialogue between practice and theory.
 Desbruslais’s recordings for Signum Classics form part of an ongoing project to commission new
 repertoire for the trumpet from contemporary composers. Work in the sonic arts by Barnard and
 Mackay has drawn on a range of collaborations with places and artists, including in Mackay’s
 case work with poet John-Wedgwood Clarke. Studies of scenography (including digital
 virtualisation) have included the 5-year Czech and Slovak Scenography for Shakespeare project
 (Billing, Drábek, Fergusson), which involved 3 international conferences, a touring Art exhibition,
 publications and partnerships with Ohio State University, and Czech and Slovak National Galleries
 and Theatre Research Institutes.

 Alongside these areas, we are developing significant research culture in areas of Digital Media (a
 rapidly growing field within the unit). The Centre is already involved in a HEFCE interdisciplinary
 project focusing on Gothic Literature and Game theory, and a Digital Tourism project. Hayhurst
 is leading a project that exploits the University’s six-year partner status with the British Olympic
 Association’s Team GB™ (to include Tokyo 2021, Paris 2024 and Beijing 2022 Games) to create

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 immersive 3D environments that model spaces athletes will experience when attending the
 Olympics. There are also new partnerships with University of York, British Film Institute, and
 Screen Yorkshire as part of the AHRC investment through the Creative Industry Cluster and
 Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund into augmented reality and immersive storytelling. These areas
 have clear synergies with SoTA’s existing research themes, and our plan is to begin to capitalise
 on the synergies that exist around the theme of technology, and to develop projects that look to
 the dialogues across disciplines.


 1.2.3 The Centre for Textual and Cultural Analysis

 This Centre has been developed as the more interdisciplinary home for our long-established work
 in performance histories, performance cultures and the critical examination of individual artists,
 artistic schools, artworks, and artefacts. Areas of specialism span Music Psychology; Musicology;
 Theatre and Screen Performance; Performance Affect and Immersive Arts; Shakespeare (music,
 text and performance); Popular Music; Animation (including Manga, Anime and Disney) and Film,
 Television and Theatre History. Much of the work of the Centre can be described as practice-
 informed, and long-established dialogues between research and practice are central to our way
 of working. During this cycle the Centre has produced a range of work that consolidates and
 develops areas identified as excellent in 2014. In the field of music psychology, both E King and
 Prior have completed major edited collections, as well as creating related research networks and
 partnerships. In the areas of popular music and jazz studies, Elsdon has produced an edited
 volume and a series of book chapters, Oliver has published in the area of groove and DJ-ing, and
 Haworth on Italian popular music. Work on film music (Binns), and Shakespeare Music (Wilson)
 has brought to fruition a range of dialogues between different practices and traditions and
 developed international networks.

 In the area of theatre history, works such as Skinner’s monograph on Meyerhold, and Billing and
 Drábek’s work in early modern performance have developed new critical approaches, while
 Peacock’s monograph has been a seminal publication in the area of comic performance. In
 theatre and performance, work on improved and enhanced methodologies has been important,
 with publications on translation theory (Skinner, Billing), scenography (Billing, Drábek,
 Fergusson), site-specific performance (Edinborough), and computer visualisation (Fergusson).
 In the area of Film and Television, monographs by Aston, Kleinecke-Bates and Zborowski, have
 developed critical frameworks for areas such as Horror, Television Adaptation, and Hollywood
 Cinema. Edited collections by Davis, Ornella, Mayne, and Eldridge have drawn together
 research in areas such as Disney, bodies and technologies, British Cinema, and abandoned film
 projects. Other notable strengths include work in animation (Davis, Hernandez-Perez), the
 remake (Mazdon), and European Cinema (Ward).


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 2.1.1 Staff Changes since 2014

 This REF cycle has presented the opportunity to make new appointments to support emerging
 areas of strength, as well as to reinforce existing specialisms. In Music, Desbruslais and Prior
 (0.4) have been appointed to strengthen the areas of classical performance, musicology, and
 psychology of music. In Screen Lilford, Mayne, and Westby-Nunn have been appointed to bring
 expertise in Game Design, British Cinema, and Film Making respectively. Mazdon joined the
 institution from the University of Southampton as Professor of Film Studies and Dean of the
 Faculty of Arts, Cultures and Education (FACE). Across the School, the Specialist Academic
 Support (SAS) team have been refreshed with new appointments to cover areas of technical

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support, studio management, and production expertise (with a particular emphasis on digital
 media).

 Several colleagues have moved from Hull to other HEIs, a number of whom were early career
 appointments on their arrival, reflecting our track record in nurturing young researchers. These
 include Bailes (Leeds), Chatzichristodoulou (LSBU), Conroy (Cumbria), Desler (Edinburgh),
 Edinborough (Leeds), Peacock (UCLA) and Tsang (Liverpool). The broad restructuring that has
 taken place within the institution has also resulted in a number of colleagues leaving: Wilson
 retired in 2020 and assumed the post of Emeritus Professor, Borthwick moved to a post at
 Canterbury Christchurch, Mackay moved to Newcastle University, while Crispin, McKean, Head,
 and Wilde left HE and returned to professional practice.

 Several staff have moved into positions of seniority within the institution: Dickenson is now Head
 of English, Creative Writing and American Studies, Mundy is Faculty Academic Manager, while A
 King is Head of SoTA. Within the School, several colleagues have taken on roles of responsibility
 in managing day-to-day operations: Billing is Director of Research, Elsdon is REF lead, Oliver
 is Director of Music, Hayhurst is Director of Screen and Digital Media, while Fergusson is Director
 of Drama.


 2.1.2 Equality and Diversity

 SoTA is committed to inclusivity as a core value of the institution. We aim to create a supportive
 environment for research, that respects individuals and is underpinned by a commitment to
 equality and diversity.. All staff benefit from flexible working arrangements, consideration of caring
 and childcare responsibilities in the scheduling of meetings and allocation of out-of-hours roles
 (recruitment, schools liaison, Open and Applicant days). All staff have completed mandatory online
 training in Diversity in the Workplace, and Diversity in Learning and Teaching. The University
 published an Equality Scheme in 2017, and there is also an active LGBTQ+ staff network. Women
 are well-represented in senior School roles, including Director of Learning and Teaching, Director
 of Drama, and sitting on all three Research Centre Steering Groups (as both established scholars
 and ECRs); SoTA has a representative (Davis) on the Faculty Athena Swan Committee.


 2.1.3 Staff Development

 The University has signed the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers - commonly known as the Researcher Development Concordat - joining 30 other
 organisations and institutions across the UK, illustrating the institution’s commitment playing a vital
 role in engaging with systemic challenges. All staff have access to Vitae materials, which includes
 the Researcher Development Framework (RDF), providing a self-reflective tool for career
 development. Staff are also supported through the University’s Learning and Development
 programmes for researchers. These include courses in research engagement, research
 governance, research outputs, and research funding. The Brynmor Jones Library also employs a
 Research Support Librarian who can provide face-to-face and online training on topics such as
 open access publishing, copyright, and data management. The University has also been awarded
 the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award.

 The University’s Academic Career Framework (ACF) provides clear expectations for staff within
 the research domain, focussed on generating research outputs, collaborations, and grant capture.
 Staff in the research domain have a 40% workload allocation for research. Within the School,
 annual appraisals (with six-monthly updates) are the central mechanism through which individuals
 reflect on their research and discuss its future direction. Appraisals are conducted by trained senior
 members of staff in each area (SL or above). Support is provided to some staff who may wish to
 work towards a move into the research domain of ACF, in the form of a research mentor, an

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experienced colleague who can advise on routes to publication and grant capture. Additionally,
 SoTA has a Grant Capture Group (comprising DoR and all Subject Directors) which meets once
 per Trimester to map out relevant opportunities, and identifies and assists staff in accessing
 relevant institutional support for preparation and submission of grant bids.

 The Faculty operates a research mentoring scheme, where all research staff nominate a
 colleague, often from a different area, with whom to discuss their work. The mentoring scheme is
 designed to operate outside of normal appraisal models and stimulate interdisciplinary discussions
 between staff.

 All research-active staff are entitled to apply for one trimester-length period of research leave in
 every nine trimesters (i.e. three years); allocated research time is formally timetabled, and grant
 submission and success is recognised through formal Workload Allocation. During this REF cycle,
 research leave has been used to support major projects such as: A King’s Connect: Resound;
 Billing’s Czech and Slovak Scenography for Shakespeare; Edinborough’s Theatrical Realities
 (monograph); and Conroy and Dickenson’s The Not Knowns.

 Our approach to supporting staff research over this cycle is borne out through the number of
 colleagues who have been promoted on the strength of their work. Similarly, researchers who
 were already well-established have been recognised internally for their research. Billing, E King,
 A King and MacKay have been promoted to the post of Reader, with others promoted to Senior
 Lecturer (Aston, Mitchell, Skinner, Slater and Zborowski). In addition, a number of staff have
 completed doctorates with the University since 2014, including Oliver, Fergusson, and Head, in
 all cases supervised by staff from within the School.

 Early career researchers are supported through the appraisal process and the allocation of a
 mentor who meets with them regularly during their one-year probationary period; subsequent
 mentoring takes place through developmental programmes within each Research Centre. The
 Faculty has introduced an inclusive model to support staff during the first five years of their
 academic careers. An Early Career Academic Coordinator has been appointed, who works with
 the Faculty’s Research Office Team to identify any skills gaps and training during regular one to
 one conversations, as well using these as supportive environments to explore any research plans.
 In the School, there is now a very strong track record of ECRs being promoted to Senior Lecturer,
 including a number who were submitted in 2014: Aston, Skinner, and Slater.

 2.2 Research Students

 Over this REF cycle we have more than doubled our PGR student cohort (a 125% increase on
 REF 2014), with 36 PhD students completing their studies. Similarly, our taught Masters
 programmes have expanded significantly, providing a firm pathway for students to move from
 undergraduate to doctoral study.

 We have worked to extend and support the PGR base by establishing a range of opportunities.
 Three PhD scholarship clusters have been established via competitive internal and regional
 funding: Musical Cultures (three University PhD Scholarships, 2016-19); Chinese Whispers (three
 University PhD Scholarships with co-supervision in Music, Modern Languages and Psychology,
 2018-21); and the North East Consortium for Arts and Humanities (NECAH) cluster (three PhD
 scholarships, 2015-18). These clusters have allowed us to develop new kinds of collaborative and
 interdisciplinary work. The NECAH cluster has recruited students working on practice-based
 research in areas such as jazz performance, free improvisation, and composition, who have been
 co-supervised with the University of Huddersfield. The Chinese Whispers project, which has
 attracted funding from the Higher Education Academy, has focussed on developing intercultural
 awareness and citizenship, alongside promoting the learning of language through singing. These
 clusters have also fostered collaboration amongst PhD students across a range of areas, including
 practice as research. In addition, students have been funded through the University’s PhD

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarship programme, the Sino-British Fellowship Trust, and the Higher Committee for the
 Development of Education in Iraq to help support individual areas of specialism.

 A Graduate Research Director (Binns) is responsible for overseeing all research students and
 aligning School procedures with Faculty policy. The Graduate Research Director sits on a Faculty
 committee chaired by the Associate Dean for Research. Throughout the School PGR students are
 encouraged to become part of a research community, sharing ideas and work, and forming
 collaborations. Within FACE, this is facilitated through a PGR Community Seminar series; in SoTA
 by the three Research Centres (including Centre-specific research fora run by postgraduate
 students each trimester, and the Newland lecture series in Music). Additional ad hoc SoTA lecture
 and seminar series offer students the opportunity to host and introduce guest speakers. These
 seminars have continued during the COVID period. In addition, staff throughout the School work
 on opportunities to collaborate with research students to provide them with experience in
 publication, conference organisation, and book editing. Examples include E King’s volume Music
 and Empathy, publications by A King, Davis and Zborowski, and recording projects by Slater
 that initiate collaborations with research students. Funded projects such as Connect: Resound
 and STROKESTRA™ have provided postdoctoral opportunities for research students. The Czech
 and Slovak Scenography for Shakespeare project facilitated PGR participation in a set of 3
 international conferences and led to the curation of an international exhibition of Central European
 Scenography by a PhD student (Slovak National Gallery) prior to graduation. Similarly, PhD
 students are offered teaching opportunities wherever possible, allowing them to be mentored by
 experienced members of staff.

 PGR students are supported via regular contact with supervisors and through formal completion
 of the PGCert (60 credits) or PGDip (120 credits) as part of the University’s Postgraduate Training
 Scheme, including the core module ‘The Modern Researcher: Essential Skills, Knowledge and
 Training’. This module provides core research training, and for every PGR student, the
 Postgraduate Training Scheme complements supervisions, and allows students to tailor the
 modules they take to their own specific needs. An intensive week-long course allows students to
 complete key modules through intensive study. During the COVID pandemic this training scheme
 continued online. In addition, a Research Support Librarian based in the Brynmor Jones Library
 offers face-to-face and online training for research students on topics including copyright, data
 management, and open access publishing.

 PhD students across SoTA have achieved competitive awards, including the Gladys Krieble
 Delmas Visiting Scholar Program Award (Cleveland, Ohio, 2015), Emerging Scholar Award
 (Venice, 2017), and the Hull Choreographic Prize (2017), and have progressed successfully into
 academic appointments, including full- and part-time lectureships (Hull, York, Winchester, Derby,
 Roehampton, Lahore, Sheffield Hallam, Nottingham Trent), research fellowships and
 assistantships (Leeds, Hull). Others have excelled in professional fields after graduating, (Curator
 of Applied Arts at the Slovak National Gallery in Bratislava).

 PhD students have been actively involved in joining editorial boards, such as the Journal for Metal
 Music Studies, guest-editing Special Issues, such as Music and Empathy for Empirical Musicology
 Review. They have also worked on hosting the following national and international conferences at
 Hull:

    •   Metal (&) Musicology, 2016;
    •   British Shakespeare Association Conference, 2016;
    •   Piano Accompaniment Symposium, 2016;
    •   Musical Cultures, 2017;
    •   Sound & Environment, 2017;
    •   NECAH conference 2017.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Presentations at conferences include:

    •   International Festival for Artistic Innovation in Music Production and Composition, Leeds
        College of Music 2014;
    •   Slingshot Festival, Georgia 2014;
    •   Root Signals Electronic Music Festival, Jacksonville 2014;
    •   Royal Musical Association Research Conference 2014, 2015, 2018;
    •   Shakespeare Association of America, Vancouver 2015, New Orleans 2016;
    •   European Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music, Royal Northern College of Music
        2015;
    •   International Computer Music Association, Texas 2015;
    •   European Platform for Artistic Research in Music, Graz 2015;
    •   Renaissance Society of America, Boston 2016;
    •   Art of Record Production, Stockholm, 2017;
    •   International Federation for Theatre Research Belgrade 2018, Shanghai 2019.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Grant Capture

 During this REF cycle we have taken a strategic approach to identifying projects with the potential
 for grant capture. The School has formed a Grant Capture Group (comprising DoR and the three
 Subject Directors), which meets once each trimester to identify staff whose research aligns with
 current funding calls, followed by targeted support. Additionally, all colleagues are asked to identify
 potential grant applications and to reflect on their progress towards making applications via
 mentoring and annual appraisal. Staff have access to training on identifying appropriate sources
 of research funding, via the University’s subscription to Grantfinder software. In addition, the
 University’s Research Funding Office and Faculty-specific Research Managers provide help and
 support in developing grant applications. During the COVID period, staff have continued to work
 on funding applications, with central institutional support.

 During this cycle, we have significantly increased grant capture from the previous cycle to £310k.
 This is an increase of more than 100% on the figures reported in REF 2014, providing evidence
 that the strategic approach adopted within the unit is beginning to bear fruit. Our target for REF
 2027+ is a further increase of 200%. The funding secured includes awards that focus either on
 practice-based research or building new networks and collaborations. Major awards include:

    •   “Using Online Technology to support Music Education”, NESTA award to A King, £44k;
    •   “New Music Biennial Evaluation”, Paul Hamlyn Foundation award to A King, £29k;
    •   “Sinfonia UK Collective”, Arts Council Award to Tsang, £15k;
    •   “Shakespeare and Embodied Practices”, New York University award to Billing, £9.8k;
    •   “The Remote Music Education Network”, Arts Council award to A King, £22k;
    •   “STROKESTRA™”, Royal Philharmonic Orchestra award to E King, £17k;
    •   “Rivers of Sound”, Arts Council Award to Mackay, £14.5k;
    •   “Getting the Circular Plastics Economy Message Out”, EPSRC award as part of the
        Circular Plastics project led by Billing, £16k.

 University funding is available to support both the development of impact (through the Impact
 Acceleration Fund) and grant capture (through ‘pump priming’ schemes), and staff have made use
 of these schemes in developing grant applications. Mackay’s Flight of the Monarchs project is
 one example: funding allowed Mackay to work with partners in Mexico and beyond to create a
 network of ‘streamboxes’ that would help raise awareness of the migratory pattern of the
 endangered Monarch species. This is part of the School’s strategy to develop new research

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 clusters and individual projects with a view to enhancing the potential for impact and future grant
 capture.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 SoTA sits within the Faculty of Arts, Cultures, and Education (FACE), one of six
 Schools/Departments. The Faculty Research committee (on which Billing sits) brings together
 Directors of Research from each School/Department, along with staff from the Research Office,
 who provide advice on funding opportunities. The Associate Dean for Research co-ordinates and
 supports large-scale funding applications, which are reviewed by a Faculty Peer Review College.
 In the light of recent changes within the institution, a new Faculty research strategy has been
 produced, which identifies the key themes of Creativity, Social Justice and Education. School
 staff presented their work to the University community as part of the launch of this strategy. The
 School’s own current research strategy is a response to these key themes, and uses the Research
 Centres described in section 1 as a means to draw together staff work in a range of key areas,
 aligned with Faculty and University missions.

 Within SoTA, the Head of School (A King) takes a strategic role, in order to enable new
 collaborative approaches, and create a dynamic research environment responding to University
 vision for the unit. The Director of Research (Billing) is responsible for overall research strategy,
 co-ordinating a strategic approach to grant applications through the Grant Capture Group (Billing,
 Fergusson, Hayhurst and Oliver). The Director of Research also oversees the School’s three
 Research Centres (each directed by a Steering Group of four established and one ECR
 academics) and forges links to the University-level Institutes. The School REF lead (Elsdon)
 liaises with the Director of Research to ensure that REF planning is embedded in the research
 culture of the School. In addition, three Deputy REF leads (Aston, E King, Skinner) help co-
 ordinate this work in the three subject areas of the School. Three subject Directors (Fergusson,
 Hayhurst, Oliver) co-ordinate activity in each area. Within each Research Centre, regular
 research events are held each trimester; these include: theoretical reading groups, conferences
 and colloquia, seminar series, and peer reading and discussion groups allowing colleagues to
 meet in individual research groups (where applicable) or in project teams. Research is also a
 standing item in each subject group’s bi-weekly staff meeting. At School plenary meetings (held
 three times a year), research is a standing item on the agenda, and staff are updated on new and
 emerging projects with the unit. SoTA has now developed a Peer Reading and Evaluation
 Group which reads and provides written feedback to all members of staff on draft publications or
 PaR projects, to facilitate improvements prior to the work entering the public domain.

 3.3 Facilities

 The School’s facilities are critical in supporting a culture of PaR. In this REF cycle, the School’s
 performance venues have been particularly important as venues for public events during HCoC.

 Drama’s Donald Roy Theatre, in the Grade 2 listed Gulbenkian Centre, is the main space
 licensed for public performance in the area, holding 250 people. The Peter Morro-designed
 building celebrated its 50th birthday in 2019 and continues to be an outstanding centre for Theatre
 and Performance. As well as the central performance space, which includes trapped flooring (to
 a sub-stage basement), a counterweight flying system, and lighting and sound rigs, the Anthony
 Minghella Studio provides an additional rehearsal and performance space. Other areas allow for
 work in visualisation (a new area of specialism for the subject since 2014, particularly in the work
 of Fergusson), sound editing, and script writing. Taken together these facilities remain vital in
 supporting the development of new work in Drama and fostering a culture in which students work
 alongside staff in creating new practice. The building played a particularly important role during
 HCoC. The Donald Roy Theatre hosted Skinner’s Weathered Estates, a collaboration with
 theatre company The Roaring Girls and playwright Zodwa Nyoni, which played to an audience of
 300 people across multiple performances. It also housed Trent Falls to Spurn Point (a project by

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sound artist Chris Watson, in collaboration with Barnard, Mackay, and Skelly), which received
 wide media attention, and attracted some 373 people during its run. The building also played host
 to the National Student Drama Festival in 2016/17.

 The University’s Middleton Hall (400 seats) underwent a significant £9.6 million refurbishment in
 2015-16, with an entirely remodelled interior, and new lighting and sound facilities with links to
 recording studios. The venue was the centre of the School’s Once Contemporary, Always
 Contemporary concert series, part of HCoC, and included performances such as a collaboration
 between the London Sinfonietta and Oscar-nominated composer Mica Levi. The projection
 facilities installed during the refurbishment allowed for a range of screenings within City of Culture
 year, and external events such as the film season as part of Hull Independent Cinema’s
 programme.

 The hall’s refurbishment included a range of recording and composition studios and live rooms
 surrounding the auditorium, that are crucial for teaching but also play a central role in
 disseminating staff work and supporting the creation of new practice. The purpose-built multi-
 channel ambisonic studio with a 4-8-4 speaker array has been central in developing Barnard’s
 practice-based work, which has been internationally disseminated. The live diffusion setup that
 accompanies these facilities has allowed for the presentation of Barnard and Mackay’s work, and
 a range of educational projects. Slater’s work on his Nightports project (released on the Leaf
 Label) has made use of the main studio, which is equipped with an SSL Duality mixing console. A
 number of Desbruslais’s recording projects, including The Art of Dancing (a disc of contemporary
 trumpet concertos on Signum classics) have utilised the Middleton Hall as a recording venue,
 making use of the engineering expertise of the School’s technical staff. The studios have also
 served as the venue for BBC radio broadcasts, which have showcased the practice-based work
 of staff whilst also affording industry experience to undergraduates.

 New resources in Digital Media are helping to support the development of new areas of research.
 A new Media Centre, due to open in 2021, contains two floors of PC and Mac computers with a
 range of digital media tools and software. The ground floor has a dedicated immersive room with
 a range of XR (Extended Reality) technology including a VR (Virtual Reality) Omni treadmill. The
 ground floor includes two crime scene areas shared with Criminology, and we hope to expand on
 synergies between Digital Media and Criminology in the future. These new technological tools
 were used as part of the collaborative project with Team GB™ (section 1.2.2).

 The School also benefits from the Brynmor Jones library on campus, refurbished in 2014 at a
 cost of £28 million. The library houses over a million books, and in 2019 spent £1.75 million on
 journal subscriptions and full text data bases. It provides dedicated, COVID-secure spaces for
 PGR students. Extensive archive collections are available through the Hull History Centre, a
 purpose-built, city-centre archive collection and education centre managed as a shared
 partnership between the University and Hull City Council. The Brynmor Jones library also
 provides important support for research activities. Library staff validate the output records
 created by staff to ensure research outputs are discoverable. The library is also home to an
 extensive art collection and played host to several major events as part of HCoC, including an
 exhibition of Michelangelo’s sketches.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 During this REF cycle, in the light of the broad themes outlined in section 1, our connections to a
 range of external partners and organisations have come into particular focus. We have been able
 to capitalise on existing partnerships and create new ones, with a view to fostering research with
 a strong public-facing aspect. The different partnerships and networks that have proved
 particularly important during the cycle have emerged from existing links forged by individual staff
 members as well as broad new strategic initiatives.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.1 Partnerships with Arts Organisations

 During HCoC, the University worked with the City of Culture Company as a principal partner. For
 SoTA, Borthwick served on the University’s steering group. Borthwick drew together research
 strands from within the School to create a broad programme of events, initiating major
 collaborations with artists and external partners. The programme included the Once
 Contemporary, Always Contemporary concert series, involving collaborations with London
 Sinfonietta and BBC Radio 3 (whose Big Chamber Weekend was hosted in the Middleton Hall
 and broadcast internationally). We also maintained relationships with a range of external venues
 and organisations throughout the year, including J-Night/Hull Jazz Festival, Bowhead Maritime
 Museum, and Ferens Art Gallery. Mazdon sits on the board of trustees for Absolutely Cultured,
 the legacy organisation for HCoC, and is also a member of the Culture and Space Strategic
 Advisory Group, which is developing a strategic plan for the arts in Hull.

 During 2017, we continued important relationships with theatre companies formed by Drama
 graduates, including The Roaring Girls, Middle Child (now an Arts Council England NPO
 organisation), Silent Uproar, RashDash, and Just Club. Through our role in setting up the Hull
 Independent Producer Initiative (HIPI), we were able to support emerging theatre companies and
 provide them with professional mentoring. Skinner is Chair of the Board of Directors for Concrete
 Youth Theatre, also a graduate company. We also maintained a range of links to other arts
 organisations, including Hull Dance, Hull Truck Theatre, AssembleFest, and New Diorama, who
 provide mentoring opportunities for students. The Risky Cities research project, a multi-disciplinary
 collaboration between different subject areas, will draw on partnerships with Absolutely Cultured
 and the National Youth Theatre.

 Zborowski leads a partnership with Screen Yorkshire through the Connected Campus scheme,
 which provides connections to industry, and we are also a member of SIGN (The Screen Industries
 Growth Network). Screen’s involvement with XR Stories, a Creative Industry Cluster investment
 by AHRC and other partners, is also helping to develop areas of digital and immersive
 technologies in the area. Screen also are educational partners for Game Republic, a games
 industry network that provides students with links to industry. The project with Team GB™ led by
 Hayhurst (see 1.2.2) is also developing new collaborative opportunities.



 4.2 Public Performance

 Staff in the unit working as practitioners have been active in bringing work to the public through
 performance, productions, and other practice-based work. These activities are central to
 disseminating our work to wider audiences, but also serve as a way of initiating new collaborations.
 Performance and productions in the broad area of theatre include:

    •   Southside Fringe, Glasgow (McKean);
    •   Hull Truck Theatre; Soho Theatre; Riley Theatre, Leeds (Edinborough);
    •   Indigo Moon Theatre and Compagnie Via Cane tour of France and Britain (Crispin);
    •   Big Malarkey, and Freedom Festival (Skinner).

 New compositional work has been performed at venues such as:


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   San Francisco Tape Music Festival; Sound Thought, Centre for Contemporary Arts,
        Glasgow (Barnard);
    •   Janacek Academy of Music, Brno; King’s Place, London; Julliard School, New York
        (Slater);
    •   New York Library of Performing Arts; Abron Arts Centre, New York; Little Carriage
        Theatre, London (Mackay);
    •   Duke University Chapel, North Carolina; London Festival of Contemporary Church Music
        (Borthwick).

 Staff active as music performers have appeared at venues and festivals such as:

    •   Holywell Music Room, Oxford; BBC Radio 3; Wigmore Hall; Royal Academy of Music
        (Desbruslais);
    •   British Science Festival; (Slater/Desbruslais)
    •   Hulljazz Festival, and Coastival Festival (Elsdon).

 Screen staff have also undertaken important roles in curating film seasons while a range of Drama
 staff (Drábek, Fergusson and Skinner) have played a leading role in the Prague Quadrennial
 (2015, 2019), involving debates, talks, and workshops.



 4.3 Education/Wellbeing Partnerships

 Given the range of research projects emerging within the unit that focus on education, health and
 wellbeing, we are involved in a number of partnerships that are shaping these research themes
 for the future. The Not Knowns project (Dickenson and Conroy) involved engagement with the
 Wellcome Trust (the main funder), as well as a local theatre company and a range of local
 authorities. As part of a recent partnership with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra (RPO), a
 research project (STROKESTRA™) led by E King has begun to investigate how a programme of
 group therapeutic music-making for stroke patients and carers is implemented, experienced and
 facilitated. The project involves collaboration with the RPO and Community Stroke Service (City
 Health Care Partnership, Hull) and the research team includes Prior and researchers in health
 sciences. A King’s evaluation of the New Music Biennial included working with the Performing
 Rights Society Foundation and Sound for Music.

 The Connect: Resound project (A King) involves a partnership with NESTA and North Yorkshire
 Music Action Zone and has implemented new approaches to online pedagogy for music lessons.
 The project’s outcomes have emerged as particularly relevant in the light of Covid-19 pandemic
 in 2020, and the subsequent effects on music education. Mackay’s work in ecoacoustics has built
 connections with researchers in Mexico, the US, and the UNESCO Biosphere project. Mackay
 has also been involved in a collaboration with researchers from the University’s Hull York Medical
 School on an exhibition about the effects of breathlessness.



 4.4 Connections with other HEIs

 Staff in the School are active in a range of research networks that bring them into partnership with
 colleagues at other institutions both nationally and internationally. These connections include


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Erasmus links with Iceland Academy of the Arts and Janáĉek Academy of Music, Czech Republic
 (Desbruslais, Slater), Masaryk University, Brno Czech Republic and VŠMU (Academy of
 Performing Arts), Bratislava, (Billing, Drábek). Staff are also involved in a range of other networks
 including Music in Print Research Network with University of Tokyo (Binns), Centre for Black
 Music Research, Chicago (Oliver), Northern Network for Empirical Music Research (E King,
 Prior), Shakespeare Association of America (Billing, Wilson), British Association for American
 Studies (Eldridge), and the AHRC Network “Producing the Post-National Popular: The Expanding
 Imagination of Mainstream French Films and Television Series” (Mazdon).



 4.5 Contribution to the Research Base

 During the REF cycle, staff in the School have been active in organising a range of conferences.
 These include events that were designed to sit alongside the HCoC programme.

 An Anthony Minghella retrospective was organised by Zborowski, supported by BFI Film Hub
 North, including screenings of Minghella’s work along with talks and discussions. Zborowski was
 also involved in Hull: City of Cinema, an event bringing eminent producers to Hull for discussions,
 alongside film screenings. The Rethinking Film Genres: East Asian Cinema and Beyond
 conference, organised by Feng, Aston, and Hernandez-Perez brought together scholars from
 across the world, alongside film screenings in the Middleton Hall. Eldridge has been involved in
 curating the film festival as part of Hull Pride, which included panel discussions.

 Musical Cultures, in 2017 (organised by E King and Prior) was a major conference sponsored by
 the Society of Education, Music and Psychology Research, bringing together scholars for a range
 of dialogues on the overarching theme of cultures. Sound and Environment, also 2017 (organised
 by Mackay) was designed to promote dialogues between artists and scientists especially in the
 field of ecoacoustics. It was hosted in collaboration with three University institutes: the Energy and
 Environment Institute, the Institute of Estuarine and Coastal Studies, and the Culture, Place and
 Policy Institute. Other conferences organised at Hull include:

    •   Russian Theatre Research Network Inaugural Conference (Skinner, 2014);
    •   Music, Education and Technology Series (2014, 2016, 2018, 2020) (A King);
    •   Czech and Slovak Scenography for Shakespeare (Billing, 2015);
    •   British Shakespeare Association Conference (Wilson and Drábek; 2016);
    •   Piano Accompaniment Symposium (E King; 2016);
    •   Synchronic and Diachronic Transnationalities in the Theatres of Early Modern Europe
        (Billing, 2018).

 Membership of conference organising committees include:

    •   Transnational Networks and Systems in Early Modern Theatre, University of Oxford, 2014
        (Billing);
    •   European Society of the Cognitive Science of Music, Royal Northern College of Music,
        2015 (A King);
    •   Research in Music Education, University of Exeter, 2015, 2017, 2019 (A King);
    •   Miles Davis and John Coltrane at 90, University of Surrey, 2016 (Elsdon);
    •   Theater without Borders, University of Cologne, 2017 (Drábek);
    •   Performativity and Creativity in Modern Cultures, Charles University, Prague, 2019
        (Drábek);

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Tracking the Creative Process in Music 2019, Lisbon (Elsdon).



 4.6 PhD examining

 Staff have examined PhDs at a wide range of national and international institutions, including:

    •   University of Wollongong, New South Wales (Davis);
    •   University of Leeds (Aston, Binns);
    •   University of Cambridge (E King);
    •   University of Western Australia (E King);
    •   Malmö Academy (E King);
    •   University of Sheffield (E King);
    •   University of Edinburgh (E King);
    •   University of Birmingham (Billing);
    •   Royal Holloway (Binns, Skinner);
    •   University of Newcastle (Elsdon);
    •   Sydney Conservatoire (Elsdon);
    •   University of Huddersfield (A King, Mackay, Slater);
    •   Calgary University, Canada (A King);
    •   University of Birmingham (Mackay);
    •   University of Manchester (Mackay);
    •   Monash, Australia (Wilson);
    •   University of Reading (Zborowski);
    •   University College London (A King);
    •   Guildhall School of Music and Drama (Desbruslais).



 4.7 Peer Review

 Staff from within the School are well-represented on the boards of journals. These include:

    •   Animation: An Interdisciplinary Journal (Davis);
    •   Journal of the Royal Musical Association (E King);
    •   Music and Science (E King);
    •   Jazz Research Journal (Elsdon);
    •   Music, Education, Research (A King);
    •   Interference Journal of Audio Cultures (Mackay);
    •   Journal of American Studies of Turkey (Eldridge).

 In addition, staff have experience in editorship, these include:

    •   Associate Editor for Psychology of Music (E King);
    •   Reviews Editor for Jazz Research Journal (Elsdon);
    •   Editor for Journal of Music, Technology and Education (A King);
    •   Editor for Interference (Mackay);
    •   Reviews editor for Frontiers in Performance Research (E King);
    •   Editor for Research in Drama Education (Conroy).

 Staff have also undertaken peer review for a range of funding bodies. Reviews for funding bodies
 include:

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   AHRC (Billing, Elsdon, Mazdon);
    •   Arts, Humanities and Social Science Research Council, Canada (Billing, Drábek);
    •   UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships (Billing, Mazdon);
    •   Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Slater);
    •   British Council (Skinner);
    •   International Federation for Theatre Research Scenography Working Group (Skinner);
    •   EU Operational Programme Research, Czech Ministry of Education (Drábek);
    •   German Research Society (Drábek);
    •   Slovak Research and Development Agency (Drábek);
    •   The Standing Conference of University Drama Departments Glynne Wickham PGR
        Scholarship and David Bradby ECR Award (Skinner);
    •   AHRC Peer Review College (Mazdon);
    •   Irish Research Council Inner Assessment Board Member (Mazdon).

 Staff have peer reviewed for a range of journals and publishers:

    •   Skenè: Journal of Theatre and Drama Studies, Shakespeare en devenir (Drábek);
    •   Manchester University Press, Routledge, Critical Studies in Television, Journal of Popular
        Television (Zborowski);
    •   Film Quarterly, Feminist Media Studies, Animation (Davis);
    •   Music and Science, Psychology of Music, Frontiers, Journal of the Royal Musical
        Association (E King);
    •   Cambridge University Press (A King);
    •   Oxford University Press (Davis, Elsdon, E King, A King);
    •   University of Edinburgh Press (Aston, Zborowski);
    •   University of Texas Press (Davis),
    •   Palgrave Macmillan (Billing, Davis);
    •   Bloomsbury Methuen (Fergusson, Edinborough, Skinner);
    •   Intellect (Edinborough);
    •   Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (Edinborough, Skinner);
    •   Brazilian Journal of Presence Studies (Edinborough);
    •   Research in Drama Education, Shakespeare Bulletin (Billing, Edinborough);
    •   Theatralia (Billing, Edinborough, Skinner);
    •   Journal of American Studies, Film History (Eldridge);
    •   Research in Drama Education (Billing, Skinner);
    •   Music Analysis (Desbruslais);
    •   Etnomusikologian vuosikirja (Slater).



 4.8 Distinguished academic activity

 Staff have undertaken invited keynotes, plenary lectures, and conference chair roles, including:

 Keynote addresses:

    •   Smyfrozium, UEA, 2015 (Davis);
    •   Performance in Early English Theatre History Research, McMaster University, Canada,
        2015 (Billing);
    •   Theatralia Annual Conference, Masaryk University, Czech Republic, 2016 (Billing);



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Barbican International Symposium on Shakespeare and Modernism, Barbican Centre,
        London, 2016 (Billing);
    •   Canterbury AniFEST, Canterbury Christchurch University, 2017 (Davis);
    •   Music Production Education Conference, York St John University, 2017 (A King);
    •   Shakespeare in Prague, Ohio State University, 2017 (Drábek);
    •   Perspectivy teatrologie, Palacký University, Czech Republic, 2018 (Drábek);
    •   Teaching Music Online in HE, Melbourne 2020 (A King).

 Invited Lectures:

    •   New York University (Billing);
    •   Ohio State University (Billing, Drábek);
    •   Boston University and Harvard University (Billing, Drábek);
    •   Academy of Performing Arts, Bratislava (Billing);
    •   University of Bern (Crispin);
    •   Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh (Drábek);
    •   University of Cologne (A King);
    •   Berlin University of the Arts (A King);
    •   University of Virginia (Mackay);
    •   BFI Film Academy (Zborowski);
    •   Berlin, Gothenburg (Wilson).

 Appearances on radio and television:

    •   BBC Radio Leicester; BBC Radio Berkshire; Sky News; BBC Radio 5Live (Davis);
    •   BBC Radio 4 (Crispin, Drábek, Wilson);
    •   BBC Radio 3 (Wilson, Mackay);
    •   Australian Broadcasting Corporation (Mackay);
    •   Český rozhlas, Vltava (Drábek);
    •   Resonance FM (Edinborough).




                                                                                   Page 16
