Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University
 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law
     1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context & Structure
 Birmingham City University (BCU) has a 175-year heritage rooted in preparing students for
 professional practice, including legal practice. The School of Law (“the Law School”) supports 40+
 academics, 1500+ UG and PG taught students, and 14+ doctoral researchers, and sits within
 BCU’s Faculty for Business, Law and Social Sciences (BLSS). The Law School is characterised
 by its international outlook, collaborative and interdisciplinary ethos, and commitment to producing
 research that makes constructive impact.

 Research is mobilised through faculty and school structures. A Faculty Executive Team, which
 includes an Associate Dean responsible for BLSS’ research portfolio, and who chairs a faculty-
 wide research governance system, comprising committees on ethics, doctoral research and
 training, and operations, leads BLSS. Representatives from each school in the faculty and relevant
 professional services (ICT, RIEE, finance etc) populate committees. The Law School’s research
 portfolio is overseen by its Director of Research (DoR). The DoR is guided by the Head of School,
 and supported by a wider group of staff with targeted research leadership/support roles, most of
 which have been established post-2014 to accommodate the Law School’s growing research
 profile.

 Research in the Law School is organised around 3 research centres — Centre for American Legal
 Studies (CALS), Centre for Human Rights (CHR), and Centre for Law, Science and Policy
 (CFLSP) — established in 2010, 2014, and 2017, respectively. Centres reflect the Law School’s
 expertise in the legal and political infrastructures of the United States (US), international and
 domestic human rights, and interdisciplinary problem-solving. These topics and approaches
 dominate our outputs submission, alongside our emerging expertise in international business law.
 Centre Directors are senior researchers who, supported by Associate Centre Directors, determine
 strategy and operations within research centres. Populated by staff, students, and partners,
 centres are collaborative hubs of intellectual and community outreach that generate impact, as
 demonstrated by our impact case studies, Influencing US Legal Practice and Reform (ICSA) and
 Promoting Human Dignity Worldwide (ICSB). The Director of Doctoral Research (DDR) has the
 same oversight of the Law School’s doctoral research community, including our co-leadership of
 the West Midlands Legal Doctoral Network, and supporting the DoR to undertake Site Directorship
 for the Midlands 4 Cities Doctoral Training Partnership (M4C, previously M3C) supported by the
 Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC). Doctoral researchers map to research centre
 expertise, with most holding studentship awards, including from M4C. In 2019, the Law School
 established its first Research Committee, which comprises the DoR (Chair), Centre Directors,
 DDR, and representatives from all levels of research experience in the Law School (including
 doctoral researchers) and supporting professional services. A broader group of colleagues
 champion specific research initiatives, including the Law School’s staff-student research
 collaborations portfolio, research seminar series, research newsletter, and bulletins focused on
 funding calls and pedagogical research updates.

 These structures have catalysed a seismic shift in research culture in and around the Law School.
 Compared to REF2014, its first such submission, the Law School has increased its staff return by
 83% (11), PhD completions by 50% (6), and research income from £1K to £139K. This has
 supported BLSS to grow its staff return, research income, and doctoral awards emphatically. The
 REF2014 panel commented the Law School had “impressive future ambitions…” We have now
 delivered on these and are charting an even more ambitious path.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 The Law School set 5 Future Goals in REF2014. These have been actioned through the Law
 School Research and Scholarship Strategy 2014-2021 and the BLSS Research Strategy, resulting
 in the following achievements:


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Goal 1: To increase the percentage of staff producing REF-rateable outputs from […] 30%
 to 50% by 2020.
 The Law School has increased its staff return by 83%. We have achieved this through strategic
 recruitment and development strategies, including investment funding and the implementation of
 a Workload Allocation Model (WAM). The WAM guarantees all staff workload for scholarly pursuits
 and includes 4 additional research-specific workload categories, of which ~50%+ of Law School
 staff receive.

 Goal 2: To make the current research clusters […] more inclusive and integrated.
 Through establishing the CHR and CFLSP alongside the CALS, integrating Centre Directors within
 the Law School’s senior leadership team, and establishing a Research Committee, we have
 restructured to enhance inclusivity and integration. Our centres generate development
 opportunities, profile, impact and funding, and — going forward — provide models for us to scaffold
 our emerging expertise in international business law.

 Goal 3: To attract external research funds.
 Through harnessing research centre expertise, the Law School has increased its research income
 from £1K (in REF2014) to £139K, including awards from the UK Foreign and Commonwealth
 Office, Community University Partnership Initiative, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust. We
 have marshalled these awards to make impact, with our funded projects to study US
 compassionate release procedures and to promote human rights in the Sudan respectively
 featuring in ICSA and ICSB.

 Goal 4: To increase the number of PGR researchers in the School.
 Through harnessing research centre expertise and attracting ~£850K in studentship awards, the
 Law School has increased its doctoral awards by 50%. By implementing both professional and
 personal development strategies and community leadership in the form of DDR, we have laid
 foundations for future growth, now supporting a community of around 30 doctoral researchers and
 supervisors.

 Goal 5: To increase the profile of research in the School of Law both nationally and
 internationally.
 Through the work-streams of our research centres and beyond, Law School staff are engaged in
 a broad range of collaborations (including as expert visitors/advisors, practitioners, leaders, and
 public servants), reaching a variety of audiences and sectors across local, national and
 international communities.

 Future Goals
 Building on the above, and in line with the BLSS 2025 Strategy, the Law School’s future strategic
 aims are to:
 1. Have at least 50% of its staff qualified to doctoral level and engaged in research activity
     commensurate with significant responsibility for research (SRR).
 2. Grow its doctoral research community, including completion and funding awards.
 3. Increase and diversify external research income awards.
 4. Increase interdisciplinary and collaborative opportunities.
 5. Evolve its research infrastructures to accommodate the needs of its research community and
     strategic priorities, including equality, diversity and inclusivity.

 2. People
 The Law School supports a collaborative community of staff, doctoral researchers and students.
 Staff Profile & Development Strategy
 Tables A-D report ~percentage splits across two groups: the whole school (40+) and staff with
 SRR (11), who make up over 25% of the school.
 Tables A and B respectively show the percentages of staff identifying as male or female and as
 white or as an ethnic minority. Females form the majority of both groups, which is notable when


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compared to the gender split across BLSS (~48% identify as female). Females also dominate the
 Law School’s PhD-holders (~65%), staff studying for doctorates (~55%), and conferred titleholders
 (~60%). Our school ethnicity split generally aligns with that across BLSS (~30% identifying as
 ethnic minority); however to place EDI matters at the centre of the Law School's strategic priorities
 going forward, including in the context of research, a Director of EDI was appointed in 2020 to
 work alongside the School’s Director of Professional and Educational Development and Athena
 Swan Lead.
 Table A Gender                                          Table B Ethnicity
  Gender        School %          SRR %                   Ethnicity        School %          SRR %
  Male             38             27                       White               72            82
                                                           Ethnic              26            18
  Female           62             73                       minorities

 Table C shows the ~percentages of staff holding a doctorate and presently undertaking doctoral
 study. Table D shows the ~percentages of staff at each stage of academic progression. Both
 strongly suggest the Law School is on course to, for the first time, have the majority of its staff hold
 doctorates, and to increase conferment and the size of its SRR group.
 Table C Doctorates                                       Table D Academic Progression
  Doctorates            School % SRR %                    Position              School %      SRR %
  Holds a               40       100                      Research              2             0
  Doctorate                                               Assistant
  Studying for a        21             0                  Research Fellow       2             0
  doctorate                                               Lecturer              47            45
                                                          Senior Lecturer       30            10
                                                          Associate             7             0
                                                          Professor
                                                          Reader                7             27
                                                          (conferred)
                                                          Professor             5             18
                                                          (conferred )
 The Law School has implemented various strategies to develop the research capacities of its staff
 base.
 Recruitment
 The Law School has engaged in strategic recruitment practices. It has harnessed its doctoral
 research community as a talent pipeline, welcoming, for example, Dr Amna Nazir and Dr Alice
 Storey as Lecturers in 2018, who both completed their M3C-funded PhDs in the CHR with
 Professor Jon Yorke. Both experts in international human rights and the United Nations’ Universal
 Periodic Review (UPR), Nazir and Storey have been instrumental in operationalising The UPR
 Project at BCU (“UPR Project”) within the CHR, which brings together staff, students and partners
 to submit research-informed stakeholder reports to the UPR. The UPR Project features in ICSA
 and ICSB. The Law School has strengthened its interdisciplinary ethos through recruitment too,
 for example welcoming, alongside Islamic and legal scholar Dr Nazir, socio-legal studies expert,
 Dr Friso Jansen, and political scientist and Diplomat, Dr Ilaria Di Gioia (also a Law School PhD
 graduate). The Law School has also furthered its ambitions to grow research in international
 business law, welcoming, for example, experts in labour law (Professor Luke Mason), insolvency
 (Dr Emilie Ghio), consumer law (Dr Nwanneka Ezechukwu), and international trade (Dr I-Ju Chen).

 Research Workload Allocations (WAM) and Objectives
 The BCU WAM automatically provides all staff with an allocation (10%) for scholarly activity. It
 then recognises additional workload allowances to support staff as: (1) doctoral/further study
 students (+10%); (2) post-docs/emerging researchers (+10%); or (3) staff with significant


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 responsibility for research (SRR) (+15% - 40%). The BCU Personal Research Review (PRR)
 process, coordinated by the DoR in the Law School, determines WAM allocations. The PRR invites
 staff to detail their existing and planned research portfolio, and allocations are made following peer
 review and moderation. Individuals then work with their line managers to set objectives
 commensurate with their allocation, which are managed via the BCU Individual Performance
 Review process. To foster transparency and parity, the Law School has a Research and
 Scholarship Expectations Protocol, which outlines indicative graduated expectations across all
 levels of allocations.

 The Law School has grown research capacities through implementing this process. In REF2014,
 the Law School reported 30% of its staff as research-active. Now, all staff are guaranteed workload
 for scholarly activities and ~50%+ receive an additional allocation to support their research, with
 over 25% receiving allocations commensurate with SRR.

 Doctorates & Sabbaticals
 The BLSS Staff Development Committee (SDC) oversees support for doctorates and sabbaticals.
 In the Law School, ~21% of staff are enrolled on doctoral courses. The BCU WAM expressly
 supports doctoral study and all staff can apply to SDC for funding support, which covers 100% of
 tuition fees. SDC approved over £75K for Law School staff in the assessment period. SDC has
 also approved, following open competition, sabbaticals for Dr Sarah Cooper, Dr Ozlem Ulgen,
 Professor Yorke and Dr Di Gioia, supporting them to develop publications and undertake visiting
 positions, including at the Arizona Justice Project (Dr Cooper), Lauterpacht Centre for International
 Law at Cambridge University (Dr Ulgen), and Centre for Criminology at Oxford University
 (Professor Yorke).

 Investment Funding
 Over £50K has been invested via development budgets to support staff to participate in research
 activities worldwide. This investment has delivered important outcomes. For example, it has
 resulted in the Law School’s first Law and Society Association-approved International Research
 Collaboration — New Challenges and Commercial Law in the Wake of the Covid-19 Pandemic —
 which aims to inform policy and develop academic networks and scholarship. Dr Ghio and Ricardo
 Perlingeiro, a Visiting Professor in the CALS, spearhead this project. Funding has also delivered
 impact. For instance, Dr Ulgen’s participation in the meetings and committees of the UN Group of
 Governmental Experts on Lethal Autonomous Weapons Systems in Geneva, and Dr Cooper’s
 residency at Arizona State University, respectively supported impacts described in ICSB and
 ICSA. Investment has also pump-primed future priority projects, for example, the CHR’s planned
 collaboration with The University of the Gambia and Gambian Human Right Commission, which
 emerged from meetings between Professor Yorke and Lamin Daffeh and the Gambian Minister of
 Justice and Solicitor General in Geneva.

 Law School projects have been supported through 12 BLSS Small Development Grants (SDGs)
 with a combined value of £10K+. SDGs have funded consumables and/or student researchers to
 support research-focused pilot studies, interdisciplinary collaborations, teaching resources and
 events.

 For instance, students supported Dr Richardson Oakes and Dr Nkem Adeleye’s now published
 study - California’s Civil Grand Juries and Prison Conditions 2007-17 (2020); Dr Storey’s study of
 access to antiretroviral medication in states with the highest prevalence of HIV as part of The UPR
 Project’s Namibia Report; and Dr Cooper’s pilot study of US compassionate release procedures,
 which underpinned a successful funding application to the Leverhulme Trust and British Academy.
 They also worked with Dr Cooper, Jill Molloy and psychologist, Dr Paraic Scanlon, to co-design
 mock juror studies that statistically analyse juror decision-making, with results including Juror
 Assessment of Certainty about Firearms Identification Evidence (2017) — and multiple
 presentations to the European Association of Psychology and Law. Students have also
 participated in Dr Jansen’s collaboration with the Faculty of Health, Education and Life Sciences
 (HELS), which develops the professional practice skills of law and allied healthcare profession
 students through simulated tribunals. Students also produced materials for ‘Research Matters’, a

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration between Library Services, Laura Smillie, Lauren Haddock, and Dr Cooper to build
 an online resource that develops law students’ information literacy skills. They also supported Dr
 Scarlett McArdle to co-host ‘Spaces and Places of the Journey to the UK: Assessing the Legal
 Framework for People Fleeing Conflict’ with Lincoln Law School; and Dr Jansen and Laura Smillie
 to deliver ‘Building Community & Well-being’, a workshop for the West Midlands Legal Doctoral
 Network.

 BCU strategic investment initiatives have also mobilised research in the Law School. In 2017, the
 Law School received a £3.9K STEAM Project Development Award for ‘On the Record’, a
 collaboration between the Law School, School of Nursing and Midwifery, and School of Art and
 Design, which was ranked No. 1 in the open competition. The award funded the team to co-
 produce a simulated Nursing and Midwifery Council Fitness to Practice Hearing, which highlights
 the impact of poor record keeping by nurses. The project won ‘Best Team Performance’ at the
 BLSS Dean’s Awards, and its files are now being prepared as a resource for training providers. In
 2018, the Law School was awarded £10K+ as part of BCU’s Strategic Research Investment
 Initiative, which marshalled funds to support engagement with non-academic stakeholders. This
 enabled Dr Cooper and Dr Scanlon to present their juror decision-making research to lawyers at
 the Arizona Public Defenders Association, and Dr Cooper to share her US compassionate release
 study at events with New York’s Correctional Association, Legal Aid Society, and State Bar’s
 Criminal Justice Section. The Law School has also been awarded Erasmus Mobility Awards to
 facilitate research expertise exchange, and BCU Education Development Service (EDS) Awards
 to support projects focused on improving student progression (Jill Molloy and Pamela Thomas);
 enhancing the experience and achievement of BAME students (Safina Din and Dr Ezechukwu);
 and developing student focused textbooks (Dr Cooper and Dr McArdle).

 Student Research Assistant Collaborations
 Beyond SDGs, the Law School has pioneered a portfolio of staff-student research collaborations
 that foster staff and student development through research assistantships. Led by Dr Storey and
 Laura Smillie, since 2018, the Law School has provided 125+ assistantships across 50+ projects
 involving tens of staff, and has established a journal – Forward Thinking - to report and celebrate
 success.

 Our largest scheme, the Voluntary Research Assistantship Scheme (VRAS) allocates projects on
 a grade-based merit system. Projects have ranged from building literature reviews and data-sets
 to argument mapping and editing. The VRAS has been particularly successful in supporting The
 UPR Project, with VRAs undertaking research for numerous reports, including for Myanmar and
 Namibia. The BLSS Scholar Scheme offers an additional, funded research assistantship to VRAS
 students holding the highest average grade in their year. Scholar projects have included citation
 tracking, co-creating textbook materials, and research for commissioned reports. For example, a
 BLSS Scholar supported Professor Mason’s report, ‘Vers une « constitution sociale » européenne
 ? La constitutionnalisation du droit du travail et le droit de l'Union européenne’, which was
 commissioned by the academic panel of the French Constitutional Council on the European Social
 Constitution, and published in the Council’s official journal. This work led to further publications
 and formed the basis of a policy collaboration between Professor Mason and the Social Affairs
 Committee member of the European Parliament, Brando Benifei.

 The Future Legal Scholars Scheme involves students in projects laying groundwork for external
 outreach. This scheme has been instrumental in supporting the Law School to achieve impacts
 described in ICSA. For instance, students catalogued information to support a cross-centre amicus
 brief submission to the US Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Floyd v Flison (2020), a Nevada capital
 case. They also reviewed UPR records to support The UPR Project’s stakeholder report to the US
 2020 UPR that attracted citations from the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, and tracked
 legislation for Dr Cooper’s report - Exploring Legislative Activity and Compassionate Release in
 Arizona - which informed her model medical parole procedure that is now a Arizona Senate Bill.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Seminar Series
 Led by Dr Ghio, the Law School’s Research Seminar Series scaffolds opportunities for research
 dissemination, peer review, networking, and skills development. Between October 2017 and July
 2020, the series hosted 55+ seminars, including a Publishing Strategies sub-series, and seminars
 led by external scholars and practitioners, interdisciplinary research teams, and our doctoral
 researchers and student research assistants.

 Leadership and Mentoring
 Through offering a series of leadership roles, the Law School supports staff to gain experience in
 research management and governance to support their progression. In addition to directorate
 roles and committee memberships, leadership opportunities are available in relation to the Law
 School’s Research Seminar Series, staff-student research collaborations, research newsletters
 and bulletins. Research centres also appoint Associate Directors and project leads. Notably,
 colleagues pursuing doctorates or who are recently post-doc dominate these roles. Mentoring
 occurs through both line management and opportunities to collaborate with experienced
 researchers. The DoR and Centre Directors all serve on the Law School’s senior management
 team and as line managers. The centres also provide a series of collaboration opportunities. For
 example, staff can co-create reports for The UPR Project in the CHR; attend Shut-up-and-Write
 sessions coordinated via the CFLSP’s collaboration with STEAMHouse; and participate in CALS’
 Global Constitutional Dialogue Series, which has included lectures, seminars and roundtables.
 CALS also offers publication and editorial opportunities through its in-house law journal, the British
 Journal of American Legal Studies, and its Controversies in American Constitutional Law Series.

 Doctoral Research Community Profile & Development Strategy
 In REF2014, we reported 4 PhD awards and aimed to “increase…PGR researchers.” Historically
 within the DoR’s oversight, we recognised that — at the right time — this goal would require
 dedicated strategic and operational oversight. Consequently, we first introduced a supporting role
 - PGR Lead - in 2017, before establishing the DDR in 2020.

 We have delivered on our goal to increase PGR researchers and laid foundations for continued
 growth. In the assessment period, we delivered 6 award completions (including 1 by published
 works), a 50% increase on REF2014. By the census date, however, our doctoral community
 already comprised around 30 doctoral researchers and supervisors. Females form the majority of
 our award completions (83%), and doctoral researchers (~57%) and supervisors (~59%) recorded
 on the census date. Our diversity is expanding, with ~36% of our doctoral researchers on the
 census date being an ethnic minority, compared to 17% of our award completions.

 In addition to establishing leadership, we have achieved the above through a series of
 development strategies.

 Strategic Recruitment
 We have implemented strategic recruitment practices, starting with robust vetting processes for
 applicants. The Law School’s general application sequence involves a written application and
 references, shortlisting, and an interview with 2-4 academics, where applicants must present on
 their proposal and a time management task. The M4C recruitment process involves the same,
 plus vetting by BCU Site Directors and a M4C-wide Subject Area Panel and Selection Panel. To
 maximise the student and supervisor experience, potential supervisors are closely involved in
 recruitment processes, and supervision teams are composed with mentoring in mind, with less
 experienced supervisors always placed with those more experienced. All supervisors receive
 workload support in the BCU WAM.

 In addition, we have harnessed the expertise of our centres to innovate projects and target funding.
 All awards and live projects (on the census date) map to our centres, with dominant themes being
 the United Nations and international human rights; intergovernmental relations between the
 federal government and US states; and legal responses to scientific uncertainty. These projects
 have supported centres to expand their work-stream capacities. The CALS and CHR primarily
 supported the majority of award holders (83%) and now support most live projects (~79%). The

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CFLSP is emerging as a supervisory force, primarily supporting 17% of our awards and ~21% of
 live projects. We have also attracted ~£850K in studentships. All of our completions were funded,
 50% by BCU studentships or staff development support, and 50% by M3C. Live projects are
 supported by various funding streams, including BCU studentships and staff development funds,
 M4C, government funds, and self-funding. We have also used our staff-student research
 collaborations as a talent pipeline, recruiting numerous of our award holders and live project
 researchers from our UG and PG programmes, with many completing research assistantships
 prior to commencing their doctoral studies.

 Structured Induction
 Law School doctoral researchers join the 500+ strong BCU doctoral research community, and –
 with their supervisors — can access a series of induction events coordinated by BCU’s Doctoral
 Research College. All doctoral researchers register on the PgCert (Research Practice), a centrally
 coordinated course supported by faculty and school representatives, which introduces
 researchers to research design, methods, analysis, and professional research practices.
 Successful completion is required to progress.

 Progression Monitoring
 Doctoral researchers’ progression is supported through regular supervision, and a BLSS-wide
 progression monitoring system. This typically includes (relative to mode of study) a review at
 months 6, 12, 24, and 30. Prior to each review, the doctoral researcher and supervisory team
 prepare a progress report through which supervisors can recommend to the reviewing panel
 (typically comprising 3 PhD supervisors from across BLSS) that the researcher proceed; proceed
 at risk; or does not proceed. A proceed at risk outcome triggers an interim review to provide further
 support. The monitoring system is developmental for both doctoral researchers and supervisors.
 The former have the opportunity to reflect on their progress and to discuss and present their
 research. The latter can diversify their knowledge of doctoral practices across BLSS and engage
 with senior supervisors, who typically serve as panel chairs.

 Research Investment Funding & Specialist Resources
 BLSS has invested ~£17.5K in Law School doctoral researchers, enabling them to participate in
 high quality development opportunities worldwide. This has included supporting Dr Amelia Shooter
 and Rose Tempowski to further their research on US legal institutions and scientific evidence as
 Emerging Scholars in Residence at the US Law Library of Congress. Tempowski also received a
 £2K BCU Go Global Scholarship. Researchers have also been supported to present their
 research, including at the University of West Virginia (Matthew Davis - US firearms regulation);
 Birmingham Centre for Media and Cultural Research (Minh Thy Van Pham - fan-fiction and
 copyright); Society of Legal Scholars (Valentina Dotto - environmental protection); and Socio-
 Legal Studies Association (Oleksandra Vytiaganets - public health regulation).

 M3C/M4C doctoral researchers can also access consortium funds. Drs Storey and Nazir, for
 example, received (through individual and team applications) ~£17K from M3C. These funds
 supported them to present at conferences in New Orleans, Vancouver, and Toronto, and to
 participate in the UN UPR pre-sessions in Geneva, including those described in ICSB. Funds also
 supported them to co-convene conferences, including Human Rights Challenges in the 21st
 Century: An Interdisciplinary Postgraduate Research Conference hosted at BCU. Dr Nazir was
 also involved in the Inaugural TIMES Symposium (which she now chairs), and Human Rights in
 the 21st Century: Developing Rights in the Developing World, an interdisciplinary conference also
 supported by The Rights Lab at Nottingham.

 Specialist resources are also available for Law School doctoral researchers, with dedicated
 workspaces available across all university campuses, including hot-desks in Law School offices.
 The Law School has also invested in a specialist texts library exclusively for its doctoral research
 community.

 Professional & Personal Development Opportunities


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further to the PgCert (Research Practice), BCU’s Educational Development Service offers a
 SEDA Teaching Practice qualification, which can lead to HEA Associate Fellow status, and BLSS
 coordinates an Early Career Researcher Development Programme, with workshops ranging from
 research design and presentation to seed funding and finance. Doctoral researchers can also
 serve as cohort representatives on committees. The Law School provides paid teaching
 opportunities, with all our award holders undertaking UG teaching whilst studying. Law School
 supervisors regularly support those they supervise to publish (pre and post-doc) too, with
 examples including Dr Anne Richardson-Oakes co-authoring with Dr Di Gioia and Valentina Dotto;
 Professor Yorke with Dr Nazir and Dr Storey; and Dr Cooper with Dr Daniel Gough, Dr Shooter,
 and, alongside Jill Molloy and Professor Maxine Lintern, Rose Tempowski.

 Supervisors can also access specific development opportunities. The Doctoral Research College
 coordinates training on regulations, progression monitoring, internal examining, and chairing viva
 voces. BCU also runs a SEDA accredited Communities of Practice for supervisors, which involves
 participants in a series of interdisciplinary group conversations focused on different aspects of
 supervision, with a view to producing an action plan to develop their supervision practice.

 The Law School fosters personal and social development across its doctoral research community.
 The DDR provides doctoral researchers and supervisors with an additional layer of pastoral
 support beyond, respectively, supervisory teams and line managers. They also coordinate a series
 of community-building events, including Shut-up-and-Write sessions, Away Days, coffee
 mornings, and social mixers. The Law School is also a founding member of the West Midlands
 Legal Doctoral Network. The network, a collaboration between law schools at Aston, Coventry,
 Birmingham, Wolverhampton and BCU, fosters regional networking through shared events. BCU
 became co-lead of the WMLDN in 2020 and soon after held the network’s first online conference
 - Doctoral Research & COVID-19: Challenges and Opportunities.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In REF2014, we committed to make our research infrastructures “more inclusive and integrated”
 and to increase external funds through targeting “funding sources that correspond with our best-
 rated research.” Through establishing the CHR and CFLSP alongside the CALS, integrating
 Centre Directors within the Law School’s senior leadership team, and establishing a local
 Research Committee we have restructured to achieve this. Hubs of intellectual and social
 outreach, our centres generate development opportunities, profile, impact, and funding, growing
 our research income from £1K to £139K.

 Centre for American Legal Studies
 Established in 2010, the CALS, led by Dr Richardson Oakes (Director) and Dr Di Gioia (Associate
 Director), is dedicated to the study of US law and legal matters. The Law School has a long-
 standing interest in US legal systems, delivering UG modules in US law and coordinating a US
 internship programme since the 1990s. Just finding its feet in REF2014, the centre is now a
 growing hive of activity involving multiple research-streams, recognised publications, international
 partnerships, and a developing income stream.

 Originally focused on matters of criminal justice, the centre now supports additional research-
 streams in intergovernmental relations and political process, judicial process and global
 constitutionalism, and human rights in the Americas. Each stream is populated by teaching,
 practice, and research projects involving staff, doctoral researchers, students, and external
 partners. ICSA reports impacts across these work-streams. The centre’s next work-stream priority
 is to expand the scope of its interests in the Americas. Since 2015, the centre has built
 relationships with numerous Brazilian universities, including Estacio, NUPEJ, Federal Fluminense
 and Santa Cecilia, producing a series of joint publications, projects, events, and exchange visits,
 and welcoming Brazilian scholar and Judge, Ricardo Perlingeiro, as a Visiting Professor. In 2021,
 the centre will commence its first doctoral project on the Organisation of American States, and
 submit a stakeholder report to Brazil’s UPR as part of The UPR Project.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre publications are broadening in scope and attracting increased attention. In 2011, the centre
 launched its Controversies in American Constitutional Law Series with Routledge, which produces
 collections engaging with US constitutional law and practice. The series has published 6 volumes
 post-2014, covering innocence, equal protection, gun control, tax law, public policy, and the US
 Supreme Court, attracting citations from scholars, lawyers, and courts. In 2012, the centre
 launched the British Journal of American Legal Studies (BJALS), a peer review journal publishing
 articles of interest to the Anglo-American legal community. Led by Editor-in-Chief, Dr Richardson
 Oakes, and supported by a wider editorial team comprising Law School staff and BCU and US-
 based law student editors, BJALS is now in its 20th volume (16 published post-2014). BJALS has
 attracted thousands of downloads and views on SSRN and 100+ citations in scholarly and legal
 practice sources (motions, briefs, decisions etc).

 The centre has grown its outreach. Since 2017, it has worked with the US Law Library of Congress
 to facilitate research residences/internships at the library for staff and students, 4 post-2017. In
 2019, it launched its Global Constitutional Dialogue Series, coordinating two events with
 Birmingham Law Society. The first being the Judge Joseph A. Greenaway Lectures on Law and
 Justice Series (JJGS), which it established to celebrate 25 years of American legal studies at BCU.
 Judge Greenaway, commissioned by President Obama, delivered the inaugural lecture alongside
 Mr Justice Julian Knowles, Mark George QC, and the US Embassy. In 2021, the second JJGS will
 co-inside with our recent US Embassy and British Association for American Studies (BAAS) grant
 award to co-ordinate — ‘Proposing a Bill of Rights for the 21st Century’ — a simulated US
 Constitutional Convention organised as a competition for high school students. The second 2019
 event — a collaboration with the CHR — was a two-day series titled Judicial Challenges for the
 21st Century, which involved a delegation of Brazilian judges and the Honourable Michael Kirby,
 Co-Chair of the International Human Rights Institute, with proceedings published in BJALS. Also
 in 2019, the centre commenced a research exchange with the Sandra Day O’Connor College of
 Law at Arizona State University (ASU), which sees ASU law students (3 post-2019) join the Law
 School’s centres as Visiting Scholars. Visiting Scholars have undertaken research for The UPR
 Project and the CFLSP’s corpus linguistics collaboration with the School of English. The CALS
 (alongside the CHR) also continues its long-standing partnership with UK charity, Amicus, to train
 volunteers to intern in US death penalty offices and undertake casework.

 In REF2014, the CALS reported no research income, but now has a developing portfolio. In 2017,
 the centre received a Leverhulme Trust and British Academy grant to collaborate with the Arizona
 Justice Project and Arizona State University’s Post-conviction Clinic to study US compassionate
 release procedures, research that has catalysed law reform efforts in Arizona, as reported in ICSA.
 In 2018, the CALS — with Reading University’s Monroe Centre — received funding from the
 Political Studies Association to co-ordinate American Politics, History and Law: A Cross-
 Disciplinary Dialogue a workshop that produced a BJALS special edition. BJALS subscriptions
 also generate income and local businesses have sponsored centre events. The centre has already
 attracted awards from the US Embassy, BAAS and British Library for future projects.

 Centre for Human Rights
 The CHR, established in 2014 to reflect the Law School’s growing profile in the field of human
 rights, promotes human rights protection, access to justice, and the rule of law worldwide. Directed
 by Professor Yorke and organised around four work-streams overseen by Associate Directors, the
 CHR is a growing nerve-centre for work that informs regional human rights protections
 mechanisms, and helps to safeguard ground-level human rights, as showcased in ICSA and ICSB.

 Chipo Mwale, Director of the Law School’s LLM (International Human Rights), oversees the
 centre’s Education work-stream, which frames members’ work to foster understanding of human
 rights through published research and experiential learning. The UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth
 and Development Office (FCDO) trains civil servants, Chevening Scholars, and the FCDO Youth
 Inspiration Group through harnessing the centre’s expertise in Model United Nations (MUNs)
 simulations. BCU students studying United Nations: Law and Practice (LLB) and Human Rights in
 the Wider World (LLM) are also assessed via MUNs. Led by Lamin Daffeh, the centre has initiated


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 plans to extend its work to The Gambia through collaborating with The Gambian National Human
 Rights Commission and University of The Gambia School of Law.

 Dr Storey oversees the centre’s Clinic and Consultancy work-streams. Clinic involves research
 and drafting services for human rights litigation. This has included working with government
 departments (e.g., FCDO) and professional associations (e.g., E&W Bar Human Rights
 Committee and International Bar Association’s Human Rights Institute) to prepare amicus briefs
 in US capital cases, 4 post-2014, including to the US Supreme Court. Clinic also involves working
 with civil society organisations (CSOs). For example, in 2014, members advised the Sudanese
 Human Rights Institute (SHRI) on matters of international human rights law and Islamic law in the
 case of Meriam Ibrahim, a pregnant woman sentenced to death for sexual immorality and 100
 lashes for apostasy in Sudan. Their advice helped prevent both punishments, and the CHR
 subsequently hosted a panel event — Meriam Ibrahim: The Case that Gripped the World —
 bringing together experts, including Meriam’s lawyers and the Minister of State for the UK FCDO
 to discuss the case. Consultancy involves advising and reporting on human rights policy. The
 CHR has, for example, advised the Myanmar National Human Rights Commission and the
 European Commission on human rights policies relating to abolishing capital punishment. It has
 also submitted expert reports to the UN Human Rights Committee (re: the Right to Life) and
 Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief (re: eliminating intolerance and discrimination
 based on religion or belief and achieving Sustainable Development Goal 16). In 2018, the centre
 launched The UPR Project, which sees Law School research expertise marshalled to make policy
 recommendations to UN member states through submitting stakeholder reports to the UPR.
 Reports have been submitted concerning human rights in the US, Myanmar, and Namibia, with
 the former two attracting citations from the Human Rights Council’s Working Group on the
 Universal Periodic Review. With a pipeline of reports now in preparation, including for the UK,
 Papua New Guinea, Sudan, Pakistan, Syria, eSwantini and Brazil, the CHR is on course to grow
 this work. Activity across both these work-streams features in ICSA and ICSB.

 The centre’s partnerships stream, coordinated by Dr Nazir, focuses on forging synergistic
 networks to generate and exchange human rights best practices. For example, the UPR Project
 has generated best practice recommendations through collaborating with local stakeholders, for
 example the Pace Criminal Justice Institute in the US, Research Society of International Law in
 Pakistan, and Universidade Estáciode Sá in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The centre’s partnership with
 SHRI, which features in ICSB, has been awarded £244K+ through the FCDO’s Human Rights and
 Democracy Programme. This funding has supported projects to safeguard human rights and
 promote religious freedom and access to justice in the Sudan through coordinating multi-faith
 dialogues, stakeholder training, and legislative reform strategies. This work has grown human
 rights capacities across stakeholders, and supported the SHRI and African Centre for Justice and
 Peace Studies to have apostasy charges dropped against Sudanese adults and children. The
 CHR-SHRI partnership is now preparing a joint submission to Sudan’s next UPR.

 Centre for Law, Science, and Policy
 Established in 2017, the CFLSP provides a framework to increase interdisciplinary capacities. Led
 by Drs Cooper and Jansen, the centre is organised around its collaborations with faculties,
 students, and external partners.

 Faculty collaborations harness expertise across BCU. BLSS projects include partnering with the
 Department of Psychology to investigate legal issues through psychological research methods,
 including juror decision-making and public perceptions of EU harmonisation. These projects have
 attracted SDGs, and produced publications and conference presentations. Collaborations with the
 Faculty for Art, Design and Media (ADM) include co-Site Directorship of M4C, and two projects
 with the School of English. The most recent project — TRAC:COVID – Trust and Communication:
 A Coronavirus Online Visual Dashboard — is a £95K+ project to develop a visual dashboard to
 track online conversations surrounding COVID-19 — supported by the AHRC strand of the UKRI
 Ideas to Address COVID-19 Scheme. The CFLSP’s Director will sit on the project’s
 interdisciplinary Steering Committee. The other project is The First Ten Years of the UK Supreme
 Court: Understanding the Language of Equality, which uses corpus linguistics to interrogate UK

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supreme Court decision-making. This project has been pump-primed by the CALS’ collaboration
 with ASU, with a Visiting Scholar building a 300+ case law dataset to be linguistically interrogated.
 The CFLSP has also joined forces with departments across HELS to create simulated tribunals
 for healthcare and law students that equip both cohorts with cross-disciplinary competencies in
 context. This work includes the Law School’s STEAM Grant Project — On the Record — which
 also involved expertise in filming and production from ADM.

 The centre engages with students across various study levels and disciplinary experience. Since
 2017, it has supported the Nuffield Foundation’s Future Researcher’s Scheme, providing Post-16
 students with opportunities to co-create on projects involving STEM and the law, learn about HE,
 and progress towards Gold CREST Awards or the Big Bang Competition. BCU students engage
 with the centre through the School’s portfolio of staff-student collaborations, with projects including
 mapping anti-vaccination arguments, researching the development of scientific knowledge for
 amicus briefs, designing mock juror studies, and searching news media for stories reporting on
 legal regulation and science. The centre also supports — alongside the CALS and CHR — a
 growing number of doctoral researchers, including projects evaluating public health regulation and
 legal responses to vaccine science, neuroscience, agency science, and medical diagnoses.

 External partners come from a range of disciplines. In addition to the Nuffield Foundation, the
 centre partners with STEAMHouse — a business innovation space — to provide spaces for centre-
 based group-work. Funded by a scholarship, it has joined forces with Professor Lissa Griffin at the
 Elisabeth Haub School of Law at Pace University, to co-design and deliver ‘Law[yering] and
 Science.’ This course introduces US law students to the relationship between law and science
 through a series of case studies, which aim to cultivate students’ lawyering skills for effective use
 of science in legal practice. In 2017, the centre welcomed Visiting Professor, Hugh Koch, a clinical
 psychologist and pioneer in civil litigation. Professor Koch engages in teaching and research
 across the Law School and Psychology Department, and provides clinic placements for students
 so they can observe how expert testimony is developed. In 2018, alongside charities Youth Sport
 Trust and City Year UK, the centre received a grant from the Community-University Partnerships
 Initiative, funded by the Power to Change Trust Research Institute & AHRC, to host a cross-
 disciplinary workshop focused on research methodologies for assessing the value of the charities’
 youth social action work.

 Research Committee
 In late 2019, the Law School established its first Research Committee to distribute decision-
 making across its widening research community. Populated by the DoR (Chair), Centre Directors,
 DDR, and representatives from all levels of research experience (including doctoral researchers)
 in the Law School and professional services assigned to support the school, the committee meets
 regularly to report on and discuss research operations and strategies.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 In REF2014, we committed to “increase the profile of [our] research …nationally and
 internationally.” As part of and beyond the work-streams of our centres, Law School staff engage
 in a broad range of collaborations, reaching diverse audiences and sectors worldwide.

 Law School staff share their expertise with scholars and students worldwide as Visiting Fellows,
 Scholars and Professors. In Europe, for example, Professor Mason holds positions at the Max
 Planck Institute for International and Comparative Private Law, Centre for Comparative Labour
 and Social Security Law operated by Bordeaux University and French National Scientific Research
 Centre, Sorbonne Law School, and Institute Catholic de Paris. Dr Ulgen has given expert lectures
 at the Asser Institute Winter Academy on Artificial Intelligence and Keith Gompertz is a Visiting
 Professor at the University of Applied Sciences Schmalkalden. In the Americas, Dr Richardson
 Oakes is a Visiting Professor at Federal Fluminense University, and Dr Cooper has been a Visiting
 Scholar at the Sandra Day O’Connor College of Law at Arizona State University, Elisabeth Haub
 School of Law at Pace University, the Arizona Justice Project, and Law Library of the United States
 Congress.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We collaborate beyond academia. We engage with professional practice as trained solicitors,
 arbitrators, mediators and conveyancers, and work with ThinkTanks, charities, political regions
 and industry. For instance, Professor Mason spent time at the Max Planck Institute cataloguing
 connections between national constitutions and labour and employment law, which resulted in an
 extended contribution to the Oxford University Press publication, The Max Planck Encyclopedia
 of Comparative Constitutional Law. He has also been part of several large scale, funded art
 projects, working with internationally renowned artists who have developed works informed by his
 outputs. Most notably, he worked with artists to produce the film and London gallery show ‘A
 Modest Proposal’, focusing on the nature of equity finance, and ‘7Walks’, an international
 performance project, in which public figures and artists engage in public political philosophy in
 historical settings. Professor Yorke and Drs Storey, Cooper, and Di Gioia support frontline death
 penalty charity — Amicus — to deliver training for volunteers. The former three, plus Dr Nazir,
 have also engaged with a scholar network coordinated by the Death Penalty Project. Professor
 Yorke and Dr Nazir have worked with the UK FCDO to help deliver its Strategy on the Abolition of
 the Death Penalty, and Professor Yorke is a member of the FCDO’s Pro Bono Lawyer’s Panel,
 and has provided consultancy to the European External Action Service regarding the EU’s capital
 punishment policy. Also in Europe, Dr Ghio has been a researcher and advisory board member
 on Judicial Co-operation Supporting Economic Recovery in Europe, an EU Commission Project
 valued at €300k+. Her work has informed insolvency regulation in Europe, being cited in the
 course of the European Commission’s preparatory work on the now Directive of Preventive
 Restructuring 2019. In the UN, Dr Ulgen has been an Academic Legal Expert at the drafting
 committees and meetings of the UN Group of Governmental Experts on Lethal Autonomous
 Weapons Systems.

 We address diverse audiences. For example, Dr Richardson Oakes participated in Enemies of the
 People! Who Rules in a Democracy? as part of debates festival, The Battle of Ideas. Dr Alan Ma
 has delivered a series of lectures to the Hong Kong Law Society, and Dr Nazir has addressed the
 UK FCDO, the Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies Forum (TIMES), Al Mahdi Institute and
 Association of Palliative Care Social Works on human rights issues. Professor Mason has
 delivered keynotes to the Association of Law Teachers (ALT) and the Royal College of Arts, and
 presentations to French Parliamentarians and Courts about the legal status of workers in the gig
 economy and platform capitalism, a field that is the focus of numerous international funded
 projects, in which he is a key participant.

 Our contribution has been recognised through awards. Professor Mason won the 2014 Oxford
 University Press Law Teacher of the Year Award for his use of popular culture to make challenging
 concepts accessible. Drs Ghio, Nazir, and Chen have won awards from, respectively, Trinity
 College Dublin, University of Birmingham Graduate School, and the Taiwan Science Symposium,
 and, in 2018, M4C gave Drs Nazir and Storey Cultural Engagement Awards. Many Law School
 staff have been nominated for and/or won internal recognition awards too, with Professor Yorke
 and Dr Jansen winning Researcher of the Year Awards, and Law School projects funded by EDS
 (Connect Mentors) and STEAM (On the Record) winning Best Team Performance Awards.

 Law School staff are proactive participants in their intellectual communities. This includes as
 members of generalist societies — such as ALT, Society of Legal Scholars, Law and Society
 Association, Higher Education Authority, and Socio-Legal Studies Association — and as members
 of specialist associations and networks. These latter memberships include Academics for the
 Abolition of the Death Penalty (Professor Yorke), American Politics Association (Drs Richardson
 Oakes and Di Gioia), British Association of Islamic Studies (Dr Nazir), Chinese (Taiwan) Society
 of International Law (Dr Chen), International Association of Consumer Law (Dr Ezechukwu),
 International Network on Platform Capitalism and Work (Professor Mason), Midlands Anti-slavery
 Research Collaboration (Chipo Mwale), and the Cross-Border Corporate Insolvency and
 Commercial Law Research Group (Dr Ghio). Many staff are similarly engaged with professional
 practice as members of Law Societies, Inns of Court, Bar Associations, Chartered Institutes, and
 the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA).



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to producing BJALS, we engage in peer review and editing worldwide. Dr Richardson-
 Oakes holds editorial positions at the Judicial Science Research and Extension Program Centre
 at Federal Fluminese University and the International Journal of Interdisciplinary Social Sciences.
 Dr Nazir is Deputy Editor-in Chief of the Manchester Journal of Transnational Islamic Law and
 Practice, and holds a 3-year editorship at Harvard Law School’s Islamic Law Program, including
 a role with the Harvard Journal of Islamic Law. Dr Nazir has also been a peer reviewer for the
 Nordic Journal of Human Rights. Dr Ghio has peer reviewed for the New Zealand Yearbook of
 International Law and is an Editor for the INSOL Europe Academic Forum proceedings. Dr Cooper
 has served as a peer reviewer for the International Journal of Criminal Law and Evidence, British
 Academy, US National Science Foundation, and AHRC.

 Law School staff are leaders across sectors. For example, Professor Mason is Chair of the ALT
 and serves on Birmingham Law Society’s Board of Directors and the SRA’s SQE Reference
 Group. Dr Ulgen serves as Chair of the Accountability Expert Focus Group for the Institute of
 Electrical and Electronics Engineers Ethics Certification Programme for Autonomous and
 Intelligent Systems. Dr Nazir is Chair of TIMES. Dr Ghio is a Board Member of the Younger
 Academics Network of Insolvency Law, Dr Ezechukwu serves as Secretary to the Commercial
 Law Research Network Nigeria, and Dr Ma serves on committees coordinated by local branches
 of the Institute of Marine, Engineering, Science and Technology and British Computer Society.

 We also serve our immediate communities. Dr Di Gioia devotes her free time to public service in
 her capacity as Honorary Vice-Consul for Italy in Birmingham, serving Birmingham’s Italian
 residents. Lamin Daffeh is the Founder of The Alliance for International Development, Education
 and Research, a UK-based international consortium of specialists, providing consultancy services
 with a range of partners in West Africa. He is also the founder of The Fresh Start Foundation, a
 charity supporting vulnerable children to access education in his native Gambia. Director of the
 BCU Law Clinic, Samantha Gargaro, is a Trustee of the Midland Legal Support Trust and Support
 Through Court, charities that support the provision of legal services to those in need. In keeping
 with BCU’s professional practice heritage, the BCU Law Clinic collaborates with local partners,
 including the Central England Law Centre, Personal Support Unit and SOS!SEN, to provide pro
 bono legal services in Birmingham.

 Through pursuing its future strategic aims to grow the capacities of its staff-base and doctoral
 research community; increase its research income and collaborations; and evolve its structures
 based on the needs and priorities of its community, the Law School commits to enhancing its
 future contribution.




                                                                                            Page 13
