Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and Structure
Research in Business and Management at Coventry University (CU) has undergone a step change
since REF2014. The 78 staff included in this submission are more than four times higher than the
previous REF. Five times as many outputs were produced (167 to 832), with the proportion of those
in the submission published in 3* and 4* ranked journals increasing from 40% to 92%. PhD
completions have grown four-fold (22 to 88); while research income has more than doubled (£1.6 to
£4.2 million).
This growth was achieved through a carefully specified Research Strategy of focused excellence,
delivered through two innovative and interdisciplinary Research Centres that solve real-world
research problems relating to business-societal interactions. In line with CU’s Research Strategy
(2015-2021), Business and Management research is located in Centres that sit alongside the four
discipline-focused, teaching-led Schools in the Faculty of Business and Law. This strategic, targeted
approach fosters a concentration of resources and talent in a collegiate, supportive and sustainable
research environment. The two Research Centres are:
   •   The Centre for Business in Society (CBiS) seeks to understand the societal impact of
       organisations’ activities, behaviours and policies, and to promote responsibility to achieve
       better outcomes for economies, societies and the individual. Research foci include privacy
       and security of data; sustainability and the circular economy; policies and practices for
       inclusive economic development; and responsible personal finance and sector studies.
   •   The Centre for Financial and Corporate Integrity (CFCI) integrates insights from
       economics, finance, accounting and law to better understand transformative events facing
       global corporations, including corporate responsibility and accountability; corporate fraud;
       and financial crime.
Research Centres are managed by Executive Directors who report monthly to the Faculty Research
Leadership Team, quarterly to the Faculty Research Committee and annually on their performance
against business plans, to the University Leadership Team, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. On a
day-to-day basis, Executive Directors are managed by the Associate Dean for Research, who
focuses on delivering the Faculty’s Research Strategy and achieving KPIs within the University’s
corporate plan. The bridge between the Research Centres and the Schools, supporting aspiring staff
with their journey towards joining a Research Centre is provided by Associate Heads of School for
Research who themselves are members of either CBiS or CFCI (Section 2).

1.2 Research and Impact: Vision, Strategy and Achievements

1.2.1 Research Vision
We aspire to be world-leading, delivering excellent quality research that impacts on the economy,
business and society, creating better futures for all. Investment is focused on our Research Centres,
through which we aim to attract, develop and retain the best talent, secure funding from prestigious
funders, provide a stimulating and supportive research environment, and deliver a comprehensive
programme of training and development for all our researchers, from PGR to professor.


1.2.2 Research Strategy 2014-2020
Prior to 2014, CU focussed on applied research at a modest level. A new Research Strategy
launched in 2014, backed by significant investment, shifted the focus to one of ‘Research
Excellence with Impact’, recognising the need to improve research quality while maintaining real-
world relevance and application (REF5a).


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
At that time, Business and Management at CU was a small unit focused principally on applied
research in two clusters: ‘trust and wellbeing’ and ‘sustainable business and communities’. These
provided the foundations for ambitious plans in our REF2014 submission, supported by the new
Research Strategy, to double the research staff and PGR headcount by 2021. Recognising both the
base from which the strategy would build and the teaching-focused nature of the institution at that
time, excellence would be achieved through focusing resources into a limited number of Research
Centres, delivering high-quality original research focusing on real-world problems linked to global
challenges. In Business and Management, CBiS was launched in 2015 to build upon the
‘sustainable business and communities’ cluster from REF2014. Subsequent investment has built
critical mass in related areas of focused excellence. In 2017, CFCI was launched to provide a focus
for emerging research in corporate governance, fraud and financial crime.
Since REF2014, investment of around £20m in Business and Management research has developed
a vibrant and sustainable research environment (Section 3), through the following approaches:
      •   Adopt a team-focused approach and build a critical mass of researchers at all career stages
          within the areas of focused excellence.
      •   Recruit experienced research leaders and staff, carefully aligned with our core research
          themes, to develop existing staff and to help enrich the research environment.
      •   Support a sustainable research environment by establishing an Associate Membership
          scheme for research-active academic staff, which ringfences time for research; alongside an
          Academic Staff Development Programme in Research Excellence (ASPiRE), which
          develops early career staff to research independence (Section 2).
      •   Develop bespoke physical and technical infrastructure, supported by specialist professional
          services support within the Research Centres.
      •   Establish research drivers and a research DNA fundamental to all our activities and that
          characterises the type of research we undertake, the way that we operate and our research
          environment aspirations (Table 1).
Table 1: Our Research Drivers and Research DNA
          Achieve a globally recognised reputation for real-world research excellence with
  1       impact that is theoretically grounded, relevant and ethically robust.
          Sustain the intrinsically interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approach that
  2
          supports innovation, agility and adaptability in methods and engagement.
          Pursue focused excellence, establishing critical research mass in a small number of
  3
          thematic areas.
          Support staff through an expert-led, developmental environment, building a
  4       balanced research portfolio of publications, doctoral completions, grant income and
          impact activity.
  5       Create a vibrant, diverse and inclusive research environment.
          Collaborative to co-produce research and impact with partners locally, nationally
  6
          and internationally to increase research significance and reach.


1.2.3 Impact Strategy
Emphasis on real-world research excellence has been supported with an impact strategy focusing
on collaboration and co-production, leveraging extensive public and private sector networks, using
diverse platforms to generate wider and deeper impacts (Section 4). This is demonstrated by the
international breadth of the Impact Case Studies, with their cross-cutting nature in the public and
private sector. Because our research addresses real-world problems and is policy-focused, impact
is fundamental to all that we do. Our impact strategy is implemented as follows:

      •   Staff are mentored and trained to build pathways to impact in their research design,
          supported by professional expertise.
      •   Our bidding quality assurance (QA) process includes assessing ways to leverage research
          impact.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      •   Impact Leads within the Centres promote impact and share best practice informally when
          bidding and through staff training.
      •   An Accelerator Fund provides researchers with resources to support their impact generating
          activities.
      •   Staff have time allocated and are supported to facilitate the networks they need relating to
          impact.

Reflecting the different development stages of our two Centres, the Impact Case Studies in this
submission relate to CBiS research activity. However, impact activities extend across all our projects,
with future cases envisaged for both Centres (Section 1.4).

1.2.4 Ethics and Integrity
Our commitment to principles of research ethics and integrity shows excellence. These principles
including: culture, honesty, rigour, integrity, co-operation, accountability, transparency, training and
development and respect, underpin how our projects are designed, quality assured, managed and
delivered. Each Centre has an Ethics Lead, ensuring that researchers are trained in ethics and
integrity, and that projects are compliant with the highest standards of practice and behaviour
through our online approval system. This rigour is essential given the focus, especially in CBiS, on
qualitative research, paying particular attention to how we work with individuals, businesses and
communities; and was evident in how we adapted practices and behaviours in response to COVID-
19. Ethics Leads represent their Centres at the University Group Ethics Committee. Testament to
our rigorous approach to ethics and integrity, this Committee has been Chaired by the Faculty’s
Associate Dean for Research (Berkeley) since 2019.


1.2.5 Key Achievements
This focused excellence strategy has delivered notable achievements, significantly exceeding
the targets in REF2014: a four-fold increase in the number of staff submitted, delivering much
stronger outputs, the size of the PGR population, and in the number of PhDs awarded. Outputs are
high-quality, with just under 40% being published in the top 10% of journals (Source Normalised
Impact per Paper) and a field-weighted citation index of 1.55 (Table 2).


Table 2: Key Performance Indicators
                                                    RAE2008         REF2014       REF2021
    FTE returned                                       7.2             16.6           77
    PGRs enrolled                                       22              43           180
    PhDs awarded                                        6               22            88
    Research income                                  £0.03m           £1.6m         £4.2m
    Total research outputs published                     -             167           8321
    Total citations                                      -              -           7,5221
    Citations per FTE                                    -              -            96.41
    Field-weighted citation index                        -              -            1.551
    Publications in top 10% journals (SNIP)              -              -           38.1%1
    Publications co-authored internationally             -              -           54.6%1
1
Source: SciVal, Elsevier, accessed 08.01.21


1.3 Research Clusters and Drivers
In this vibrant and collegiate environment, seven challenge-led thematically focused research
clusters have evolved (Table 3).

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 3: Challenge-Led Research Clusters and Themes
                         Centre for Business in Society (CBiS)
 Cluster                      Key Themes
                              Maximising the benefits of big data and the digital
 Data, Organisations and
                              economy, with appropriate ethical, privacy and data
 Society
                              safeguards
                              Generating economic growth during global economic
 Economic Development
                              uncertainty, working towards more socially inclusive
 and Inclusive Economics
                              workplaces and society
 Sustainable Production and Addressing challenges in creating a more sustainable
 Consumption                  future
                              Addressing financial debt and assisting people to
 Sector Studies
                              responsible management of personal finances
                    Centre for Financial and Corporate Integrity (CFCI)
 Cluster                        Key Themes
                                Exploring the socio-political and socio-legal dynamics of
 Law, Risk and Compliance       financial crime for both private and public
                                institutions/governments
                                Exploring links between good corporate governance
 Finance and Governance         mechanisms and the promotion of integrity in modern
                                businesses
 Applied Economics              Investigating key public policy issues in terms of economic
 Analysis and Policy            sustainability

While each has its own unique research focus, clusters are linked through our common approach to
research excellence. Our research ‘DNA’ drives everything that our clusters do (Table 1).

Research professors and readers in both Centres manage the strategic development of the clusters,
focusing on the mentoring and career development of early and mid-career researchers (Section 2).
Our approach to delivering research excellence, reflected in our DNA, is evidenced in the research
contribution and achievement of the seven clusters:

1.3.1 Data, Organisations and Society
This cluster’s intrinsically interdisciplinary research focusses on three problem-based themes that
address the complex connections between ‘big data’ and organisational or societal actors. Nine FT
research staff, six Associates and a cohort of PGRs create capacity and foster a vibrant environment
for exploring these themes.

A key focus is on the use of personal data in the digital economy and its implications for
organisations. Big data in fields like marketing, sustainability and strategy are key topics. Recently
completed work includes Innovate UK (Dibb, Roby) and EU KIC projects on community energy and
remanufacturing (Dibb, Roby, Ferreira J), involving many stakeholder partnerships; e.g. Tech
Mahindra, Satellite Applications Catapult, local councils. Several projects highlight the importance of
managerial and societal impacts on cybersecurity management for organisations, individuals and
society (e.g. Garcia-Perez, Chinnaswamy, Iskoujina, Gharib). New insights have emerged into
privacy issues around routine collection and storage of personal data by businesses in the transport
sector (Garcia-Perez); in energy, low carbon and smart networks, future energy demand scenarios
(Roby) and automotive manufacturing, Industry 4.0 and new business models (Meadows, Garcia-
Perez). Our research has supported the European metals industries to securely adopt new
information operational technologies in the implementation of Industry 4.0 principles. Through
collaborations since 2014 with the Railway Safety and Standards Board and the UK railway industry,
our research has informed the digital transformation strategies of the sector and supported the use
of infrastructure data for improved safety and efficiency (Impact Case Study “Using new data models

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to deliver safer and more effective rail services”). The H2020 New Business Models for Intelligent
Transport Systems project (Garcia-Perez, Chinnaswamy) built on these lessons, leading to policy
recommendations on the development of Intelligent Transport Systems for the European Council.

Data and strategy concerns the use of big data and analytics as drivers of innovation, business
strategy development and new business models. This builds on influential research on data-driven
strategic decision-making and market segmentation (Dibb, Simkin, Quinn), customer relationship
management (Meadows, Dibb, Simkin), and knowledge management (Garcia-Perez, visiting prof.
Bedford). The cluster emphasises economically impactful real-world research with excellence,
focussing recently on tensions in the data environment. Projects reveal the impact of digitalisation
on governance and boardroom decision-making (Meadows, Dibb, Merendino, Quinn), and the role
and status of marketing within organisations (Dibb, Simkin, visiting prof. Maklan). Outcomes place
the cluster’s researchers at the centre of academic discourse and networks, including hosting cross-
disciplinary conferences attracting international audiences, like ECKM 2020 and the 2019 Data
Tensions Conference, linked to a special issue of Technological Forecasting and Social Change.
Innovative working practices include co-creation with private sector firms, like Fujitsu, Horiba Mira
and Echo Research, and business-focused symposia, involving business networks, policy
organisations and SMEs.

Data and society addresses challenges around data, including privacy and trust. Projects have
extended understanding of the perspective of the individual: life-logging and self-quantifying
(Meadows); generating new theoretical insights into the public acceptability of surveillance
technologies (Dibb, with visiting prof. Ball and visiting fellow Degli-Esposti); and digital and work-life
balance (Roby); with the findings published in highly-rated journals such as the British Journal of
Management, Work Employment and Society, and Tourism Management. Reflecting the inclusive,
expert-led environment, a newer stream of projects involving ECRs, supported by experienced
researchers, focuses at the community level: including on social media use in collective action
(Azer); online communities, knowledge sharing and trust (Cao, Gharib, Babu, Iskoujina); technology
adoption in developing countries (Babu); or at the societal level: data sharing between private firms
and Government (visiting professor Ball, Dibb, Meadows); air pollution and health (Chinnaswamy).
Demonstrating our commitment to developing innovative research methods among PGRs and
ECRs, the cluster is co-organising three Workshops on Data Science and Analytics, funded by the
Society for the Advancement of Management Studies (Meadows).

1.3.2 Economic Development and Inclusive Economies
This cluster brings interdisciplinary insights to four themes with important implications for real-world
research problems. Comprising seven research staff and six Associates, including a number of
ECRs, plus a cohort of PGRs, activities are characterised by close project team-working, mentoring
and researcher development.

Inclusive economies brings together researchers at different career stages studying employment
change, and new models and approaches to regional development. ESRC funded research on
Harnessing Growth Sectors for Poverty Reduction (Sissons) generated important new insights into
low-paid employment. With the results published in Human Resource Management Journal and
Work, Employment and Society, the findings informed the design of a new Health and Care Sector
Work Academy (Impact Case Study “Improving employment and skills policies to support sustainable
employment and in-work progression”). The focus on job quality extends to research on temporary
staffing (Ferreira J) and approaches to workplace health (Sawang, Ferreira J, Sissons). Research
has also critically assessed new approaches to regional development (Ferreria C, visiting prof
MacNeil, Ferreria J, Berkeley, Sissons, Broughton, Xia); including an international collaboration of
academics and policymakers, providing new solutions through the Regional Strategies for
Sustainable and Inclusive Territorial Development project (ESPON). The ESRC, the European
Union, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, and the Midlands Engine have contributed funding.

Low carbon mobility analyses the consumer-producer policy drivers of change in transport, the
transition to low carbon personal mobility and the impacts of future sustainable mobility practices.

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research was supported by innovative funding, partnerships and co-production of research and
impact; including collaborations with The Low Carbon Vehicles Partnership, the AA, HoribaMira,
Advanced Propulsion Centre, Motorsport Industry Association, Siemens, Silverstone Technology
Cluster and UKTI (Impact Case Study: “Transitions in the automotive sector: challenges in delivering
a low emission strategy”). Projects have identified new accessibility and mobility solutions for
peripheral areas in Europe (Begley, Berkeley, Jarvis, Jones); tested solutions for upgrading regional
technology and transport infrastructure to support low carbon and smart cities developments (Jarvis,
Henry, Jones), including interdisciplinary work with engineers in the Institute for Future Transport
and Cities; and worked to co-produce post-COVID transport planning scenarios (Jarvis, Jones).
Funders include the EU (ESPON) and National Government (BIS, Defra), Local Enterprise
Partnerships and Local Government. Research was published in journals including Transportation
Research Part A, and Transportation Research Part D.

A newer focus is on the role of the creative and cultural industries in economic development. Arts
Council England (ACE) funded research established evidence to support the recognition of rural
touring arts within the new 10-year ACE strategy (Henry, Broughton). Work on leadership in the
cultural sector (Henry, Broughton, Barker) is embedded within the delivery and legacy development
activities for Coventry’s 2021 City of Culture. New understandings of creative freelancer business
models are being developed through research funded by AHRC/NESTA. Co-production of research
was undertaken in partnership with policy and practice organisations.

Research on community finance generated important insights into relationships between finance,
data and community development. This includes research on understanding the social investment
market (Henry, Jarvis, Ferreira J) and assessing the Government’s voluntary framework for bank
lending data disclosure (Henry, Sissons, Ferreria J), funded by Big Society Capital, Citi Bank,
UnityTrust. Significant stakeholder interest included research recommendations being adopted by
the trade and industry body, UK Finance, and presentations made in HM Treasury and the Houses
of Parliament.

1.3.3 Sustainable Production and Consumption
Research is aligned to UN Sustainable Development Goal 12: ‘Ensure sustainable consumption and
production patterns’. Tackling sustainability challenges requires an inherently interdisciplinary and
holistic approach. The cluster brings together expertise from engineering, economic geography,
sociology, marketing, law, agricultural economics, strategy and management. Four FT research
staff, five Associates and a cohort of PGRs generate a dynamic environment for cutting-edge
research. The strong publication record includes many highly cited articles in journals like: the
International Journal of Operations and Production Management, Production Planning and Control,
International Journal of Production Economics, the International Journal of Production Research,
Journal of Cleaner Production and Environment and Planning A. The cluster has global reach with
partners in Indonesia, South Africa, Kenya, Canada, China and Holland.

The Circular Economy (CE) emphasises efficiency in the utilisation of finite resources in the
manufacture of products. The development of a circular, service-oriented business model (Tjahjono,
Lim) is a significant outcome, catalysing changes in the role of supply chain players, especially in
the areas of services, reverse logistics and remanufacturing, and recovery strategy management.
Shared expertise in this field enabled the creation of a joint research institute with China’s Chongqing
University (Lim), supporting early career researchers in international publications, guest editing
special issues (Cao, Hu). The FaçadeRelog project funded by EIT RawMaterials (European Institute
of Innovation and Technology) integrates reverse logistics into the development of circular business
models in the façade industry, supporting strategies for reusing materials and increasing their
recovery rate in the EU (Tjahjono, Bashiri). Through GCRF Academy of Medical Sciences funding,
a collaborative network with partners in South East Asia explored how to maximise agri-food
circulation from production to consumption using CE principles (Tjahjono, Bek, Lazell), resulting in
the integration of circularity indicators into future regulations and policies by Government agencies
in partner countries. Our team is applying a social innovation approach in an ESRC funded project



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(ES/T015195/1) to demonstrate how bio-based packaging innovations can be brought to market
(Tjahjono, Bek, Lazell).

Research in evaluating sustainability practices within horticultural supply chains takes a
whole supply chain approach, focusing upon commodities and sectors, including cut-flowers, fruit,
wine and coffee. Exposure to sustainability risks is a major topic, covering water footprints, carbon
footprints, climate change, waste management and the role of certification systems (Bek, Timms,
Ferreira J). Research on sustainable cut-flowers (Bek, Timms) has achieved high levels of global
engagement and impact, leading to increased market access for Kenyan Fairtrade flowers within UK
retailers, and the promotion of locally produced flowers with low carbon footprints (Impact Case
Study “Promoting sustainability within horticultural supply chains”). The research resulted in a step-
change in approaches to sustainability in the global wildflower harvesting industry, through
engagement with world leading cut-flower trading companies, including the Dutch Flower Group.
This included the development of an influential online E-learning course, ‘Sustainable practices
makes sustainable businesses’, with partners including Tesco and WWF-SA. Our research
promoting sustainability in horticulture won a Commendation at the national Green Gown Awards
(2019) as a leading example of Research with Impact. Research has thrived due to its deep multi-
stakeholder engagement with a wide range of internationally-based organisations, including MM-UK,
Fleurametz, Fairtrade Foundation, Women Working Worldwide, British Floristry Association,
Floriculture Sustainability Initiative, Cape Flora South Africa and the Sustainability Initiative South
Africa.

1.3.4 Sector Studies
Sector Studies is a transdisciplinary group of five full-time researchers, three Associates and a cohort
of PGRs. A balance between staff ensures a sustainable legacy of scholarship. The cluster focuses
on macroeconomics and finance; personal and community finance; and the sport, tourism and
hospitality sectors.

Macroeconomics and international finance has produced influential contributions in high-quality
journals on theoretically-charged and policy-relevant debates, like the public debt-economic growth
nexus (De Vita) and the role of exchange rates on economic variables ranging from growth and oil
price to tourism and FDI flows (De Vita). Trends in inward/outward FDI in/by developing economies
and their link to institutional differences and intellectual property rights were investigated (Appleyard,
De Vita), alongside aspects of the impacts of financial liberalisation/openness, financial crises and
the association of these macro phenomena to sectoral issues like bank productivity and efficiency
(De Vita).

Personal and community finance focuses on responsible lending and borrowing, subprime credit
markets and payday loans, financial capability, long-term financial planning, consumer engagement,
trust in financial services, and financial inclusion. With funding from AHRC, Barrow Cadbury and
Carnegie UK this research has provided novel insights into the lived experiences of individuals’
finances and helped clarify causes of financial vulnerability, and the role of responsible lending in
increasing financial resilience (Appleyard). Research led to a joint project with The Open University,
funded by the Money Advice Service (2017-2018) providing budgeting and savings tools supporting
the financial wellbeing of individuals in households ‘just about managing’ (Dibb, Appleyard). A key
spin-off from this research was development of the MoneySkills app (Section 4 and Impact Case
Study “Reducing the public’s financial vulnerability”). Financial services in retail banking are also
explored from a service marketing perspective, with a critical emphasis on the concepts of fairness,
trustworthiness and trust (Kharouf, Sekhon). Aided by a HEIF award, commercialisation is embodied
in an innovative spin-off platform (www.CreditU.co.uk) aimed at improving financial resilience,
introducing people to affordable loans and savings from their local Credit Union (Sekhon, Appleyard).

A third theme interrogates the economic and social impacts relating to the sport, tourism and
hospitality sectors. Disability sport is examined with a particular focus on the legacy of the
Paralympic Games (Brittain) and the role of sport in the lives of disabled people (Impact Case Study
“Paralympic history and development and its impact on the lives of disabled people in the wider

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
society”). Research projects have multi-partner international consortia in Brazil, Canada, Germany,
Japan, South Africa, Sweden and the USA, supporting staff exchanges, research fellowships and
PGR summer schools (Brittain, Biscaia). Projects have drawn on funding from the EU (FP7 Marie
Curie International Incoming Fellowship; H2020 Marie Curie IRSES, RISE) and UKRI (ESRC-AHRC
UK-Japan SSH Connections Grant). Research has involved co-creation with world-leading
organisations (e.g. the Invictus Games Foundation) and hosting international conferences (22nd
European Association for Sport Management Conference). The tourism and hospitality industry is
an important context in which to explore a variety of economic and social variables, relationships
and theoretical constructs, including exchange rates and the link between tourism specialisation,
absorptive capacity and growth (De Vita), and the nature of liminality as a conceptual tool to better
understand tourist experiences (Senaux). Outputs are published in top-rated journals in the field
(Annals of Tourism Research, Journal of Travel Research, Tourism Management).

1.3.5 Law, Risk and Compliance (LRC)
Researchers engage with, and produce multidisciplinary research for, a range of end-users,
including international organisations, like the EU, NATO and Council of Europe, and Law
Enforcement Agencies (LEAs), banks, Government agencies, the judiciary and legal practitioners.
The research agenda is inherently designed for societal impact, including:
        (i)    theoretical work on the causes of corporate and governmental corruption and its
               impact on societal welfare.
        (ii)   applied research, developing and proposing new methods for countering such
               behaviour at the organisational and governmental level.

Presently, it is the only academic unit in the world researching and co-creating (collaboratively with
its end-user stakeholders) practical solutions to counter tax crimes effectively. The EU H2020
project “PROTAX” focuses on designing collaboratively with several LEAs, ministries and other end-
user stakeholders, new policy guidelines and practical toolkits for the harmonisation of the
prosecution of tax crimes in the EU. This includes the development of new information-sharing
channels across European jurisdictions (Turksen, Grasso, with research assistants Abukari, Vossa).
Research also informs public policy via:
        (i)      the EU-funded project, VIRTEU, “VAT fraud: Interdisciplinary Research on Tax
                 crimes in the European Union” (Grasso, Pasculli, Turksen).
        (ii)     a series of research dissemination events for businesses on bribery, financial
                 corruption and anti-corruption law-making under the ESRC/UKRI’s Festival of Social
                 Sciences scheme (Pasculli).

Research on assessing the Government’s response to additional fraud risks arising during the
COVID-19 crisis was accepted as written evidence by the UK’s House of Commons’ Treasury
Committee (Pasculli).

LRC comprises four core researchers (including two ECRs), four Associates, three visiting
professors and PGRs collaborating on research in: corporate crime (Tilahun, Pasculli, visiting prof.
Ryder); financial regulation and insider trading (Lin, visiting prof. Adams); the role of Government in
tackling financial crime (Turksen, Grasso); the use of tax heavens in harbouring proceeds from
financial crime (MacLennan, visiting prof. Unger); the role of whistleblowers in countering financial
crime and the need for their protection (Grasso, Pasculli), and the use of artificial intelligence for
countering fraud (Turksen, Grasso, Pasculli). Since 2014, LRC members have published articles in
prestigious law journals like the Journal of Business Law (Lin, Grasso); British Tax Review
(McLennan); European Law Review (McLennan); International Energy Law Review (Turksen);
Journal of Financial Crime (Pasculli), Erasmus Law Review (Tilahun) and a series of monographs
with established publishing houses (Springer, Lexington Books US, Routledge). ECRs and PGRs
actively engage in research within the cluster involving the production and dissemination of research
outputs, joint research bidding activities and the organisation of international conferences and
workshops. Members of the cluster are also invited to deliver keynote speeches in prestigious
research institutions, like the Finnish Institute of International Affairs (Turksen).



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.6 Finance and Governance (FG)
This cluster delivers interdisciplinary research on the link between good corporate governance
mechanisms and financial integrity in corporations and governmental institutions. It comprises two
interrelated streams, Corporate Finance and Governance (CFG) and Financial Markets,
Intermediation and Ethical Finance (FMIEF). The cluster enjoys a vibrant research environment
consisting of six core members, ten Associates and a cohort of PGRs. 30% of its research output is
published in the top 10% of journals in the field, with 55.7% co-authored with international
collaborators (source: Scival-Scopus).

CFG researchers carry out theoretical and empirical research with a strong interdisciplinary focus on
corporate governance. Research addresses issues like identifying and tackling manipulation of
corporate earnings (Owusu, Wang), developing alternative corporate ownership structures to
enhance organisational governance (Alhababsah, Da Teng, Wang) and/or using financial derivatives
as an indirect form of a corporate monitoring mechanism (Joseph). Research makes an important
contribution in terms of governance in the energy sector, and the detrimental impact of its activities
for local communities (Ambituuni, Owusu). This research has received international media exposure
(BBC World News: Africa Eye). Research in the emerging area of crowdfunding (Nguyen, ECR) is
gaining a fast-growing reputation with outputs published in the Journal of Corporate Finance, British
Journal of Management and European Journal of Operations Research.

Financial Markets, Intermediation and Ethical Finance (FMIEF) investigates the efficiency of the
financial intermediation process and how this affects economic and financial sustainability. This
includes research on new approaches for assessing bankruptcy risk for SMEs (Andrikopoulos).
Research on improving internal financing mechanisms for sustainable credit lines (liquidity
management), easing the need for conventional bank lending (Guney) was published in the Journal
of Corporate Finance. FMIEF also delivers theoretical and empirical research on the impact of
psychology and cognitive biases in financial decision-making (Andrikopoulos, Santamaria), the role
of environmental conditions on the performance of mutual funds (El-Masry), financial contagion and
volatility spillovers (Joseph, Park, Santamaria, Tanna), and new pricing models for Islamic financial
assets (Kabir). An emerging, highly innovative research area is pricing of catastrophe risk fixed-
income securities (Shao), with findings published in prestigious mathematical journals (e.g. Applied
Mathematics and Computation).

The cluster has hosted cross-disciplinary conferences, attracting international audiences from
academic and professional backgrounds (Section 4).

1.3.7 Applied Economic Analysis and Policy (AEAP)
AEAP is a new cluster, incubating research on economic public policy. Staff collaborate with (and
some are returned under) different UoAs (Murshed, Lis, UoA19). The most promising research
investigates the link between human behaviour and cybersecurity (Cartwright), focusing on
improving cybersecurity for SMEs and Charities via the introduction of change behaviour
mechanisms (Cartwright, Andrikopoulos). Important insights were generated through two funded
projects:
        (i)    Connecting Delayed Pre-Commitment with Cyber Awareness to Address the
               Perception Gap and Present Bias funded by the UK Home Office (Cartwright,
               Andrikopoulos).
        (ii)   the EPSRC funded project, EconoMical, PsycHologicAl and Societal ImpactS of
               Ransomware – EMPHASIS (Cartwright).

Both projects explored the economic implications of ransomware for individuals and organisations,
receiving significant interest from UK Government departments and LEAs (UK Home Office, Kent
Police and the National Cyber Security Centre). Findings were published in reputable journals (e.g.
Journal of Cybersecurity).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Research and Impact Strategy for the Next Five Years
Our vision to be world-leading, delivering high-quality research that impacts on the economy,
business and society, creating better futures for all continues to guide our strategy. The step-
change since 2014 has firmly established the infrastructure and behaviours needed to sustain high-
quality research. The Centres are an attractive proposition for recruiting excellent researchers and
PGRs, as well as project collaborators. The COVID-19 pandemic brought into sharp focus the
relevance of our research and is yielding new opportunities in the research we undertake, in the
methods we use and in how we inform policy and practice. To deliver this exciting future requires
continued strategic focus, supporting our clusters in executing their plans, recognising the following
strategic priorities:

•   Increasing focus on high-quality outputs. Building on the transformational shift in the
    proportion of outputs in 3* and 4* ranked journals, further incentivise and support staff in
    publishing a higher proportion of outputs in 4* publications.
•   Scaling-up multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary working. Addressing the greater
    complexity of real-world problems requires novel insights and innovative approaches to combine
    different disciplinary perspectives. We will build on existing strengths by increasing opportunities
    for multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary working, leading to more collaborative bids and better
    networks with other institutions. From 2021 Research Centres will sit under a new umbrella,
    Research Coventry (REF5a), designed to foster collaborations across disciplines.
•   Strengthen further our emphasis on staff development, retention and enhancement.
    Ensuring sustainability, we continue to support staff professional development, finding new ways
    to empower them to undertake societally valuable research and become research leaders. The
    innovative Research Futures programme is designed to equip our researchers to undertake
    effective research during and beyond the pandemic. We will provide more opportunities for staff
    to join our Centres. Through our pioneering pre-Centre probationary programme (Section 2), we
    are committed to ensuring a pipeline of new talent, trained, developed and able to grow our
    Research Centres.
•   Enabling and supporting impact through all areas of our research. We prioritise research
    with impact and support staff in their impact activities (Section 2). Researchers have established
    themselves in impressive national and international networks (Section 4). By leveraging these
    networks and building on established practice in CBiS, we will extend our policy and practice
    impact reach through projects in both Centres; e.g. through the PROTAX and TRACE projects
    on financial fraud in CFCI.
•   Building on the success of our PGR programme. We will sustain our performance, recruiting
    new candidates as others graduate, and build on the initial success of our DBA (Section 2). An
    early initiative is to directly co-locate PGRs with Research Centres (Section 3). We aspire for
    Doctoral Training Centre status, building on our successful engagement in the Doctoral Training
    Alliance run by the University Alliance.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

2.1 Introduction
Essential in the step change in Business and Management research at CU was a team-focussed
approach to investment in people, aimed at promoting the vitality and sustainability of clusters,
developing and recruiting talent across multiple career stages.

A total of 25 academic staff in the submission were externally recruited into the Centres as core
researchers since 2014: 11 professors, one associate professor, five assistant professors, five
research fellows and three research assistants. Alongside core researchers retained from 2014 and
45 staff seconded as Associate Members (2.2), gives a total of 84; 78 of which are eligible to be
returned to REF2021 (Table 4).

Table 4: Research Population by Career Stage
                                %       % of REF
 Grade                No
                               Total   Submission
 Research
                       6         7          -
 assistants
 Research fellows      9        11         12
 Assistant
                      30        36         38
 professors
 Associate
                      20        24         26
 professors
 Professors           19        23         24

Professional services support infrastructure is essential for a quality research environment. CU
has invested in a Research Services team that provides our Centres with bespoke support, with a
combined resource of 14FTE posts, covering operations management; business development;
commercial partnerships; administration; legal services; pre- and post-award project costing and
delivery; research impact; and marketing and communications.
The significant growth in staffing, particularly in senior researcher and support staff, enabled
sustainable growth in the PGR programme, while maintaining quality (2.3).
Key features that holistically create the space for research to thrive are:
    • Discipline-targeted, expert-led strategy to recruit and retain full-time ‘core’ research staff,
        alongside Associate Members seconded on a fractional basis.
    • Vibrant research culture that is inclusive and diverse.
    • Targeting resources in specialist Research Centres, enabling researchers to maximise
        potential.
    • Investing in and developing leadership.
    • Innovative and embedded support for postgraduate and early career researchers.

2.2 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
The staff development strategy is driven by the Research Centres’ business plans, providing clear
objectives to create vibrant, interdisciplinary, inclusive and supportive research
environments. Staff are supported to establish critical mass targeted on core themes, delivering
leading edge, robust and impactful research, underpinned by innovative methodological approaches,
rooted in user engagement and co-creation. Our objectives are achieved in a number of ways:

A discipline-targeted, expert-led strategy to recruit and retain a team of full-time ‘core’
research staff, alongside Associates seconded on a fractional basis.
The development of this ‘core’ team underpins the success of the strategy. Typically, their time
allocation is research 80%; teaching and citizenship, 20%. Recruitment supports our focused
excellence strategy, seeking staff whose expertise complements and adds value to research themes.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff should be leaders, with evidenced commitment to supporting, mentoring and developing staff
and creating a team-based culture embracing diversity and interdisciplinarity.

A key focus was the recruitment of a team of research leaders to support the creation, management
and delivery of the strategy. Eleven professors were recruited externally: Simkin (Henley, 2015) De
Vita (Oxford Brookes, 2015), Dibb (OU, 2016), Meadows (OU, 2016), Lim (Derby, 2016), Tjahjono
(Cranfield), Quinn (Manchester, 2018), Turksen (Kingston), El-Masry (Plymouth, 2019), Guney (Hull,
2020), Joseph (Aston, 2020). These appointments are diverse and multidisciplinary: marketing,
consumer behaviour, supply chain, strategy, law, CFG; and international in scope, increasing the
reach of our research, generating new research collaborations and opportunities; e.g. in China (joint
Research Centres in Chongqing, Gaungzhou), Vietnam, Indonesia, Egypt, Spain and Australia
(Section 4).

Recruitment of professors was supported by a diverse and international team of well-regarded and
engaged visiting professors: Bailey (Birmingham), Ball (St Andrews), Cook (Open), Gordon
(Queensland), Jenkins and Maklan (Cranfield), Unger (Utrecht), Adams (Western Sydney), Ryder
and Tucker (UWE), Petmezas (Surrey). The approach was strategic and focused, to support the
growth and development of research clusters. Visiting professors have added considerable value;
e.g. in co-creating our clusters’ strategies; providing external benchmarking in recruitment of senior
posts and sense checking business plans; mentoring and supporting staff development; delivering
seminars; working collaboratively on projects and providing wider access to networks.

Our approach was replicated in the recruitment of 14 full-time early and middle career core
researchers since 2014, and 45 staff have joined our Research Centres as Associate Members on
a seconded fractional basis.

The Associate Membership scheme provides the opportunity for established researchers, based
in Schools on teaching-focused contracts, to be seconded to a Centre part-time through a formalised
application process, which confirms that they are independent researchers in their own right.
Applications, supported by the applicant’s line manager, Associate Head of School for Research and
Head of School, are considered formally by the Faculty’s Research Leadership team. Unsuccessful
applicants have feedback, and the opportunity to re-present their case, and/or are signposted to a
more relevant Centre for their research. This inclusive scheme adds to the critical mass of research,
as well as providing Associate Members with the time (40% of workload), space, resources and
responsibility to focus their research in the vibrant, supportive and diverse environment provided by
the Research Centres. The formal contract as Associate Members provide flexibility for staff for a
three-year term that is renewable, subject to meeting performance targets.

The recruitment strategy has two notable outcomes:
   (i)     The development of critical mass in clusters, with strong leadership, sustainability and
           succession. Resources are focused on the strongest areas, maximising opportunities for
           collaboration, research funding, journal publications, impact and PGR recruitment.
           Capacity and expertise enable every researcher to be allocated a senior researcher as
           their mentor, supporting individual development requirements facilitated by a
           comprehensive training, resourcing and support package.
   (ii)    The diverse team of researchers becomes self-reinforcing as applicants witness and want
           to join our inclusive, supportive environment. There is diversity in the make-up of
           recruitment and selection panels, provision of personal feedback to candidates from the
           Panel Chair, and for professorial posts, external professor and DVC research validation.
           As Figure 1 shows the proportion of REF eligible staff from BAME backgrounds, or with
           a disability, is higher than the sector average.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1: Diversity and Inclusion, Demographic Profile of Eligible Staff

                                 Demographic Profile of Eligible Staff:
                              Ethnicity, Age, Gender and Disability Status
    100%
                                           5%                       8%
    90%

                 34%
    80%                                                             27%
                                     47% 38%
           51%
    70%                                                                   56%
                                                 62%                                    White
                       70%
                                                                                        BAME
    60%
                                                              83%                       30 and under
                             94%                       96%          27%         96%
    50%                                                                                 31-40
                                                                                        41-50
                 45%                       29%
    40%                                                                                 51-60
                                                                                        61 and over
    30%
                                     53%                                                Male
           49%                                                      25%
                                                                          44%           Female
    20%                                    19% 38%
                       30%                                                              Not disabled
                 18%                                                                    Disabled
    10%
                                                              17%
                                                                    13%
                             6%            9%
                 3%                                    4%                       4%
     0%
                 UoA 17                     FBL                     Sector -
                                           Faculty                  Bus. &
                                                                     Mgmt.
                                                                    Studies

               Source: CU UoA17 data, Coventry University People Team, July 2020;
                              Sector data, Advance HE, 2017/18

Recruitment across multiple career stages gives diversity to staff by age, giving a younger age profile
to underpin our research sustainability.

Our researchers benefit from an innovative professional development strategy to nurture, grow
and advance their careers:

•    Creating a vibrant inclusive research culture enables the collegiate expert-led developmental
     environment for staff to thrive. A vibrant, unique and bespoke programme of development
     activities for the Centres’ researchers (Table 5) is available to all Centres’ researchers, core and
     Associate Members, and across all career stages. It draws upon the expertise of the senior
     researchers, provides career guidance and develops capabilities, facilitates the creation of
     projects or bids for research funding, enhances researchers’ ability to produce high-quality
     outputs, understands impact, and facilitates effective dissemination. An example is the Review,
     Revise and Resubmit Clinic, which began in 2017, following best practice support for writing
     with tailored development activities to improve the quality of outputs, and supporting the
     development of our researchers, particularly in responding to critical feedback in a positive way.
     The focus is on papers in near final draft state, helping polish papers to make them submission
     ready before they enter the journal review process. This rigorous approach to outputs is mirrored



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    in the multi-stage QA process developed to take bids from an initial concept to a highly polished
    proposal.


    Table 5: Programme of Development Activities
     Applying for Research Funding                   Dissemination, Profile and Marketing
     • Bid development processes                     • Dissemination training and support
     • Bid writing workshops and training            • Impact training, mapping and support
     • Provision of external peer bid reviewing      • Marketing and communications for
     • Rigorous multi-stage QA bid review               profile building and dissemination
       process                                       • Networking
     • Post-award project management                 • Social media training
     Output Writing Support                          Networking and Information Sharing
     • Paper writing workshops and training          • Reading groups
     • Access to databases and software              • Seminar programme
     • Review, Revise and Resubmit Clinic            • Milestone events and conferences
     • Writing buddying                                 hosted by the Faculty’s Centres
     • Writing retreats                              • International     mobilities     and
                                                        exchanges
     Career Planning and Mentoring
     • Bespoke, supported career development plans for every researcher
     • Leadership and mentoring training for research leaders
     • ECR, MCR training
     • PhD supervision training and ongoing mentoring
     • Internal teaming and sharing of best practices


•   The focused excellence Research Strategy ensures staff have access to an extensive package
    of targeted resources, supporting their research. This represents investment of over £20m,
    providing staff with the resources to deliver high-quality outputs, research bids and doctoral level
    supervision (Section 3). Financial resources include support for conference attendance;
    database subscriptions; competitive access to pump-priming funds, impact accelerator funds and
    equipment grants; and access to PhD studentships. Human resources include exclusive access
    to the professional Research Services team (2.1). Researchers benefit from supportive line
    managers and cluster leaders willing to share their advice and experience. Supportive HR and
    IT policies encourage flexible and remote working, including access to secure hardware and
    infrastructure. On campus, staff have access to shared, dedicated and flexible working spaces.
    Time resources are also critical. In addition to investment in full-time core research posts, our
    45 Associate Members are the equivalent of a further 18 full-time posts; overall a substantial time
    investment of 50 FTE posts.

•   Investing in leadership opportunities was a strategic priority to support promotion and retention,
    and time developing team capacity. The majority of full-time research staff in assistant/associate
    professor roles have taken on leadership roles, including PGR counselling, ECR support, ethics,
    representation on appropriate internal Committees, seminar programme management, editing of
    newsletters and web site content, and managing PGR reading groups. Staff have also stepped
    up to lead the PGR programme, research clusters or staff development framework. The success
    of this approach shows in the number of internal promotions among core staff, to professor (2),
    associate professor (4), assistant professor (1). Annual promotion opportunities are available to
    staff who meet the progression criteria of the University’s Academic Progression Framework
    (research, plus a combination of leadership, teaching and enterprise). To ensure fairness,
    transparency and inclusivity, recommendations on cases are reviewed and moderated at Centre,
    Faculty and University levels. Cases for promotion to professor are considered annually by the
    University’s Professorial Conferment Committee, subject to review and conferment by four
    external reviewers. The approach to investment in staff contributes to a stable research

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    environment, with a high staff retention rate. Just six core researchers have left since 2014
    (Carrigan, Berlan, Moraes, Perchard, Wong, Yekini). Many former staff maintain an ongoing
    relationship, working on joint research outputs, projects and supervising research students.

•   Specialist support for developing the next generation of independent researchers. In
    addition to the holistic support package for full-time and Associate researchers, the Academic
    Support Programme in Research Excellence (ASPiRE) invests in the research potential of
    early career academics, predominantly teaching focused and based in our Schools. This unique
    and highly innovative probationary programme is designed for staff who do not yet have
    research independence, can demonstrate significant promise and are undertaking research
    aligned with a Research Centre. After development in CBiS, it was adopted across the University.
    ASPiRE ensures the continued vitality and sustainability of research, providing Centres with a
    pipeline of home-grown talent. The cohort-based programme, provides ASPiRE fellows with a
    structured research development pathway towards achieving research independence, meeting
    the criteria for Associate Membership of a Research Centre upon completion (normally within
    two years):

     (i)    researcher development time ring-fenced at 40% of workload (Faculty norm is 20% for
            scholarly activity).
     (ii)   bespoke mentoring support, ensuring a tailored, funded programme of research and
            career development.
    (iii)   cross-cohort workshops, focussing on high-quality in outputs and funding proposals,
            delivered by professors and other senior researchers.
    (iv)    probationary access to the Research Centre environment.

    ASPiRE is competitive, with applications considered by the Faculty Research Leadership Team
    for annual cohorts of up to 30 starting each September.

2.3 Research Students

2.3.1 PhD Programme
During this REF period, enrolment on the PhD programme has increased by more than three-fold,
to a cohort of 160 in July 2020. Growth at this scale was made possible and sustainable by our
staffing investment. Candidates come from different backgrounds and ages, reflecting the cultural
diversity of our staff (Table 6).

Table 6: Diversity of Our Research Student Population
                                                           CU
                                                                   Sector2
                                                        UoA171
  Proportion of research students from BAME background    50%         30%
  Proportion aged under 35                                50%         61%
  Proportion aged 36 and over                             50%         39%
  Proportion female                                       46%         46%
  Proportion with disability                               5%          5%
1                                       2
 Data from CU Doctoral College (2020); Data from Advance HE 2017/18 (latest data)


Since 2013/14, 88 PGRs have successfully completed, a four-fold increase on REF2014 (Table
7).

Table 7: PhD Completions REF2014 and REF2021
 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13                     Total
    1          3         4        6        8                  22
 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18                    2018/19    2019/20       Total
    9          7        12        8       13                  18         21           88


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The success of the programme is underpinned by key features that ensure a high-quality and
sustainable doctoral training school experience can be delivered at scale:

Embedding and supporting PGRs in a vibrant inclusive research environment is essential in
sustaining a vibrant and multi-cultural research environment. PGRs benefit directly from participation
in the life of their Centre, and contribute fresh ideas, energy, enthusiasm and diversity. In this
supportive environment PGRs:
        (i)     are active members of clusters, participating in meetings, co-creating plans and
                projects, and delivering research seminars.
        (ii)    have access to £1,100 to present at conferences, access data, software or hardware;
                alongside up to £1,500 for fieldwork and data collection.
        (iii)   have opportunities to expand their cultural horizons, networking and learning. PGRs
                were supported to participate in summer schools run by relevant Associations (e.g.
                Academy of Marketing), co-created international summer schools linking with PGRs
                with their international counterparts (in South Africa and USA, funded by EU IRSES
                projects), multidisciplinary PhDs with other Research Centres (King, funded by
                Doctoral Training Alliance), and dual-award PhDs with international partners (e.g.
                Deakin and Cartagena).
        (iv)    co-author journal articles with supervisors.
        (v)     participate in projects as research assistants, or support the Faculty’s teaching.

Effective performance management and supervision. There is a rigorous approach to
performance management:
    (i)   A team-based, apprentice model approach to supervision, typically bringing together an
          experienced lead supervisor and method’s expert with an early career researcher.
    (ii)  Annual Progress Review Panels (PRPs), where PGRs’ quality of work and progress on
          their programme is assessed by an independent expert, and that they must pass in order
          to re-enrol. PRPs effectively run as a mini-Viva, preparing and training PGRs to defend
          their research.
    (iii) A mandatory modular programme of training undertaken before being authorised to
          supervise, alongside regular refresher training.
    (iv)  PGR leads and tutors in each Centre provide dedicated points of contact for independent
          advice and pastoral support outside their supervisory team.

A targeted recruitment strategy. PGRs are recruited to grow research in the Centres’ clusters.
Research themes are advertised on the Centres’ websites, enabling applicants to be matched with
staff expertise. To ensure transparency, PGR Leads and potential supervisors review applications,
and Centre Directors and the Associate Dean sign off the process. Shortlisted applicants are
interviewed by an expert panel. All unsuccessful applicants are provided feedback.

Expert-led skills development and training. Research training is a critical component of a culture
to develop skills and take PGRs forward in their chosen career, with a holistic programme of training
and development:
    (i)    research seminar series they co-create and deliver.
    (ii)   bespoke research methods training run through workshops and summer schools.
    (iii)  workshops, including writing skills, networking, dissemination and profile raising; and
           career planning.
    (iv)   thesis boot camps and writing retreats.
    (v)    Viva preparation workshops and mocks.
    (vi)   an annual cross-University PGR conference, Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition and
           PGR of the Year award.
    (vii)  an annual faculty poster competition.
PGRs are trained to participate in the Peer Review College for University Pump-Priming awards,
access teaching opportunities in the Schools, and represent their peers on relevant University
Committees.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Enhancing employability. The holistic doctoral programme increases the employability of our
graduates. They leave with skills for an academic career and transferable skills for an alternative
pathway. Many of our PhD graduates have academic positions at Coventry, elsewhere in the UK
(Loughborough, Durham, Southampton, Newcastle, Manchester), at overseas Universities
(Wellington, Luxembourg, Petra, Munster); or have research positions outside academia (KPMG,
Defra, BEIS).

2.3.2 DBA Programme
During the REF period we have added to our rich PGR community with a professional doctorate,
launched in May 2017. The DBA, with three cohorts of business leaders, managers and executives
by July 2020, delivers research with real-world impact, demonstrating our commitment to expanding
our research horizons. In addition to bespoke programme training and development, and peer
learning through the cohort delivery model, DBA candidates have access to the same Research
Centre environment, and take part in the same seminars, events and competitions as the PhDs,
providing a unique programme experience.




                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
External funding is a vital component of a successful research environment. Grant capture is
important to enhance culture and sustain impactful research, but is also vital in the career
development of staff. CU Research Services (3.2) provides Centres with bespoke support at pre-
/post-award stage. This includes Research Development Executives, signposting opportunities and
providing researchers with support on appropriate funders and preparing applications. Within
Centres, dedicated professorial-led QA teams ensure that principal investigators are subject to a
rigorous multi-stage peer review process, so bids are of the highest quality possible. This
environment has facilitated a high volume of research proposals. Between August 2018 and July
2020, 106 research proposals were submitted, of which 29 (27%) were funded.


3.1.1 External Funding
During this REF period, external research income totalled £4.2m (£1.6m in REF2014). The majority
came from the European Union (47%), UK Government (18%), UK Research Councils/British
Academy (12%) and UK based research Charities (9%) (Figure 2). CU is consistently placed in the
top 25% of Business Schools for total research income generated per year (Research Income for
Business and Management: Analysis of HESA data 2012/13 to 2018/19, CABS, 2020).

Figure 2: Research Income by Funder 2013/14 to 2019/20
                         Research Income by Funder 2013/14 to 2019/20
 100%
                                                        UK based Charities
  90%

  80%                                                   UK Other Sources

  70%
                                                        UK industry, commerce and public
  60%                                                   corporations

  50%                                                   UK Central Government

  40%                                                   Non EU
  30%
                                                        EU
  20%

  10%                                                   BEIS Research Councils, The Royal
                                                        Society, British Academy and The Royal
   0%                                                   Society of Edinburgh

                                       Source: HEFCE data

Large scale research projects were funded by the EU’s flagship programmes and Research
Councils, including the ESRC, EPSRC and AHRC; as well as from Charitable Trusts like the Joseph
Rowntree Foundation, the Barrow Cadbury Trust, the Oak Foundation, and the Money Advice
Service; and from industry partners like Network Rail. The funding profile illustrates the currency,
real-world value and quality of our research across all clusters. Researchers collaborate and co-
produce with academic, industry, public, third sector partners (Section 4), and employ traditional,
innovative and digital methods, generating high-quality outputs and impact (Section 1.2). Table 8
highlights those projects earning CU income of over £25,000 (26 projects, average £110,000).

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our research environment encourages a team culture, within and between clusters. An impressive
25 of our REF eligible staff were successful as PIs. This approach means that many more staff were
exposed to delivering multi-partner, multidisciplinary projects, supporting career development in
aspects like design, analysis, project leadership, as well as dissemination and impact through public
and policy engagement.

In addition to external grants, income from fee paying UK, EU and International PhD and DBA
researchers was substantial. During 2019/2020 fee income totalled £776,000.


Table 8: External Project Income in period by Funder (over £25,000 rounded)
                                                          Funding
 Funder         Project                                                   PI               Cluster
                                                         to CU (£)
                PROTAX: Tackling tax crimes across the
 EU H2020                                                 461,000      Turksen               LRC
                EU
 EU H2020       MSCA incoming fellowship: LONTOR          245,000      Brittain               SS
 EU H2020       MSCA incoming fellowship: LONRIO          245,000      Brittain               SS
                RESSI: Sustainable and inclusive
 EU ESPON                                                 222,000     Ferreira C             EDIE
                development
 EU ESPON       URRUC: Urban-rural connections            215,000      Begley                EDIE
                Resilience and robustness of dynamic
 EPSRC                                                    211,000      Petrovic              SPC
                manufacturing supply networks
                IRSES CARNIVAL – Impact of mega
 EU H2020                                                 202,000      Brittain               SS
                events
 Money Advice What Works: Managing my money for the
                                                          133,000        Dibb                 SS
 Service        just about managing
 CW LEP         iVMS – Smart technologies                 106,000       Henry                EDIE
 EU H2020       NEWBITS – Intelligent transport systems   102,000 Garcia-Perez               DOS
                MIRRIS – better exploitation of
 EU FP7                                                     89,000      Jarvis               EDIE
                participation in EU research programmes
 Oak
                Scaling affordable lending                  78,000      Henry                EDIE
 Foundation
                What Works: Reducing poverty through
 ESRC                                                       64,000     Sissons               EDIE
                sustainable employment
 British        UK India education and research: Post
                                                            56,000      Reddy                 SS
 Council        conflict tourism
 Network Rail   Railway data and safety                     50,000 Garcia-Perez              DOS
 Creative       PROSPER: Business support for creative
                                                            49,000      Henry                EDIE
 United         organisations
 Barrow
 Cadbury        Payday loans                                47,000    Appleyard              EDIE
 Trust
                Building Japanese research capacity
 ESRC-AHRC                                                  41,000     Brittain               SS
                around disability studies and sport
 Technology
 Strategy       KTP Telmar                                  38,000 Garcia-Perez              DOS
 Board
 Joseph
 Rowntree       Jobs, skills and poverty in UK cities       35,000     Sissons               EDIE
 Foundation
 EU KIC         REMANPATH                                   34,000      Roby                 DOS
                RISE EVENTS RIGHTS: Inequality and
 EU H2020                                                   33,000     Brittain               SS
                diversity in sporting mega events
 Rail Research
                Railway data and safety                     30,000 Garcia-Perez              DOS
 UK

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Home Office      Cyber awareness                                 27,000     Cartwright      AEAP
 AHRC             Lending and borrowing                           27,000     Appleyard       EDIE
 Carnegie UK
                  Payday futures: Scotland                        25,000     Appleyard       EDIE
 Trust

External funding enabled the sustainability of a vibrant research environment; through the
recruitment and development of a team of post-doctoral research assistants, including several from
Coventry PhD programmes (e.g. Luo, Tornari, Beech, Brewis), who have progressed their careers
within CU (e.g. Ferreira C to assistant professor) or beyond (e.g. Luo, Southampton). EU-funded
projects have recruited research assistants (e.g. Vozza, Abukari, PROTAX), PGRs (e.g. Carter,
CARNIVAL); supported the development of international researchers on fellowship programmes
(e.g. Le Clair, Canada); and enabled cohorts of PGRs and staff to participate in international
research exchange activities and doctoral summer schools (e.g. South Africa, USA and Japan).
Funding also supports conference attendance, software and databases; and visiting professors.
PGR fee income facilitates investment in postgraduate research, providing candidates with access
to funding for conferences, external training, summer schools, software, data collection and
transcription. It has also supported the match funding of new PhD scholarships.

3.1.2 Internal Funding
In addition to external resources, CU has invested over £20m in business and management
research, illustrating a clear commitment to longer term sustainability and growth (Table 9). Funding
for core research posts in both Centres, taken with the 40% workload allocation for Associates and
dedicated Research Services staff, represents a substantial investment in people of £15m over the
REF period. QR funding from REF2014 worth £384,000 supported research, providing ECRs with
funds for pump-priming their research (18 projects, average £8,000) and purchasing new research
equipment. It has also supported impact and policy shaping activities through the strategic priorities
fund (9 projects) and accelerating impact in two case studies, e.g. supporting the app development
in “Reducing the Public’s Financial Vulnerability” (Section 4). QR funding worth £2.3m has fully
funded 37 PhD studentships and 19 fee bursaries. In addition, £3m supported researchers in their
data collection, analysis and dissemination activities; £148,000 per year supported staff attending
national and international conferences; whilst £2 million ensures researchers have sustained access
to a range of accounting and financial research databases; e.g. Thomson’s Datastream, Thomson’s
Eikon, Bloomberg, Bureau van Dijk’s FAME, Fitch Bankscope, Fitch Connect and Bordex; and
software like STATA, Eviews, Oxmetrics, Diction and Matlab. Staff have the equipment for Clicker
research, citizens’ lab observations and interview capture, alongside software for online surveys
(JISC, Qualtrics) and data analysis (SPSS, NViVo).




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 9: Internal Funding 2014-2020 – Investing in the Business and Management Research
Environment
 Core staffing                             11,350,490
 Associates @ 40% workload
                                          c.1,500,000
 (18FTE)
 Research Services support staff
                                          c.2,300,000
 (14FTE)
 PhD studentships (QR funding)              2,363,508
 Pump-prime funding (QR funding)             139,033
 Impact accelerator funding (QR
                                               36,427
 funding)
 Research equipment (QR funding)               50,744
 Strategic priorities fund (QR funding)      158,325
 Conference attendance and travel           1,036,228
 Software and databases                     1,910,000
 Total                                    £20,844,755


3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
Researchers have bespoke infrastructure and embedded administrative support. Dedicated facilities
bring researchers, PGRs and professional services colleagues together in a flexible, open and
modern environment, covering 720m2.

Centres benefit from purposively configured space, creating an environment that facilities
collaborative research. CBiS is located in the Jaguar Building, alongside the School of Marketing
and Management, around the central atrium, which is ideal for informal meetings and hosting visitors.
Alongside is a dedicated, recently refurbished, open-plan suite for the Centre’s PGRs. CFCI is
located in the adjacent William Morris Building, with the School of Economics, Finance and
Accounting. Rooms contain the latest IT, communication and presentation equipment, with access
to databases and software. Staff have tablets, phones and a laptop or PC, utilising Microsoft 365,
enabling flexible, secure, paper-free collaborative working. PGRs have access to a dedicated laptop
loan scheme, alongside generic and discipline specific software, cloud storage and web facilities.
Staff and PGRs also have access to a secure data room.

Supporting both Centres, a Research Office is headed by an Operations Manager and a Research
Support Manager. The office administrates research ethics and integrity, PGR infrastructure and
support, while also providing administrative support to the Centres’ leadership team and researchers,
and managing seminars, conferences and other events. The Research Office team is managed by
CU Research Services with dotted line reporting to the Associate Dean Research.

The University’s commitment to business and management research is evidenced by the £660,000
investment in 2021 to bring both Research Centres, their staff and PGRs together, acquiring
additional space in the Jaguar atrium area (net +550m2). This will add to the vibrancy of the research
environment and promote further cross-Centre working.

CU Research Services provide each Research Centre with bespoke professional services to deliver
and sustain excellent research. This support includes: business development, pre- and post-award
project costing and delivery, research impact, and marketing and communications (2.1). These posts
are co-located with the Centres’ researchers and Research Office staff, enabling a uniquely holistic,
co-created approach to project creation and delivery. Significantly during this REF cycle, Research
Services have invested in a team of Impact Officers and Communications & Engagement Officers.


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This enabled researchers and Centres to have day-to-day access to professional support, shaping
their impact, communications and profile-raising activities.

Open Access. Working closely with CU Research Services, the CU Library supports our staff with
output repository (PURE) and open access. Making our research openly available shows our
commitment to academic and societal impact. Since 2016, CU has developed a comprehensive
open access strategy, with a minimum standard of green Open Access being a baseline for all our
outputs. Staff are required to deposit their outputs in PURE, benefiting from associated training.




                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our Research Strategy from 2014, ‘Excellence with Impact’, focused on high-quality research which
benefits society, business and policy makers. This has a strategic focus on research that is
challenge-led, informing and shaping agendas with governments, policy makers and industry.
Impactful research does not happen by chance, but is the result of careful planning, undertaking
research that is a collaborative, co-created effort, drawing on networks, partnerships and
relationships with users and beneficiaries. This is central to the way in which research in both Centres
is conducted, changing attitudes and behaviours and influencing policy, practice and debates.

Translating our research findings into a range of media, making them open and accessible to
different audiences is a key component. Researchers use videos, blogs, social media, white papers
and brochures to disseminate findings in plain language and visual format. Public engagement is
another key element of open research. Our social media and communication strategy seeks to
ensure that the public can readily access our research.

4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships


4.1.1 Academic Partnerships, Networks and Collaborations with Users
Researchers are engaged in extensive academic networks and partnerships, with international
reach. Partners are based in North and South America, Africa, Asia and Australasia, as well as
Europe. Partnerships are strategic and collaborative: co-creating and delivering large scale national
and international multidisciplinary research projects funded by the EU, UKRI and Charitable Trusts
(Section 3); delivering dual-award PGR programmes (Deakin and Cartagena), co-hosting
conferences and summer schools; providing mentoring and development; as well as co-authoring
publications, 55% of publications since 2014 were internationally co-authored.

Tjahjono leads CU’s membership of the Anglo-Indonesia Consortium for Interdisciplinary
Sciences, launched in 2020, also involving Nottingham and Warwick Universities alongside leading
Indonesian Universities ITB, IPB and Gadjah Mada. The alliance shares research and expertise to
build global resilience against environmental shocks, including pandemics, climate emergency and
natural hazards. Initial funding from the Indonesian Government is to look at sustainable supply
chains for EV batteries and electric motor propulsion.

Lim established CU2 in 2018, a joint international research institute linking Coventry and Chongqing
Universities, with the aim of exploiting shared strengths in supply chain management and the CE.
CU2 delivers researcher exchanges, joint PhD programmes, funding applications, projects, journal
articles and conferences. Visiting scholars to Coventry lead to joint publications, a 2020 special issue
of Resources, Conservation and Recycling on the ‘Sharing Economy’ (Hu, Lim), and co-created bids
in supply chain and CE.

In addition to formally conferred visiting professors supporting our research clusters, a number of
international academics have visited on an informal basis to engage with us. These arrangements
provide great benefit, enhancing our environment and culture. Examples include professors from
Japan (Tokyo University), China (Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics, Guangdong
University, Shanghai Lixin), Australia (Deakin University, Adelaide, Queensland UoT, Flinders
University of Australia), Indonesia (Tanjungpura University), South Korea (Yonsei University), USA
(North Carolina and Louisiana State Universities), South America (Centro Universitário De Maringá
– Unicesumar and Universidade Federal do Parana in Brazil), and Europe (Universities of Padua
and Cartagena in Spain; Della Campania Luigi Vanvitelli and Universita Degli Studi Di Milano-
Bicocca in Italy; and the MUS Alparslan University in Turkey).




                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1.2 Industry Collaborations
Extensive long-term advisory and research relationships with corporates show the challenge-led
nature of our research. Impactful research with corporates has influenced strategy and behaviours:
Network Rail for cyber and data security (Garcia-Perez), Woolworths SA and Tesco SA for supply
chain sustainability (Bek, Timms), Toyota and its supply chain (Lim), strategy creation and market
trends with Fujitsu and Horiba Mira (Simkin), Creative United (Henry), mapping supply chains with
Motorsport Innovation and Formula E (Henry), collaborations with many legal firms (Turksen) and
projects for PGRs with Unipart (Meadows).

CBiS is a founding member of the Emergent Alliance, a new industry-led (Rolls-Royce, Microsoft,
Google, IBM) response to COVID-19, seeking to drive a green socio-economic industrial recovery
through data-driven initiatives on key challenges, including the demand for goods and services, the
labour market, globalisation and localisation, sustainability and mobility (Garcia-Perez).
Researchers have established effective collaborations with policy-making bodies; for instance, with:
    (i)     Transparency International and other NGOs, producing NATO SPS research bid on
            corruption in NATO operations.
    (ii)    the Royal United Services Institute, defining a research agenda on economic crime,
            and funding bids to bridge academia and policy in financial crime prevention (Turksen;
            Pasculli)
    (iii)   Westminster-based Policy Connect, the cross-party think tank collaborating with
            Government and Parliament through its APPGs (Dibb).
CBiS is managing Britain’s Most Admired Companies with reputation experts Echo Research,
published annually in Management Today, shaping ethical and responsible business practices in the
FTSE 250 (Dibb, Meadows and Simkin).
CFCI has launched the Global Integrity Research Network providing a tool to:
   (i)     disseminate research findings.
   (ii)    share knowledge with fellow academics and Research Centres.
   (iii)   connect with business and legal practitioners across the globe.

CFCI’s research is informing real-world practice. For example, with the City of London Police
(Turksen, MacLennan), creating a bespoke training programme on fraud investigation enhancing
skills in London’s LEAs. Research on identifying and countering fraud within the financial sector has
underpinned a programme in Fraud and Financial Crime, in collaboration with Cifas, that provides
bespoke training for finance and legal professionals. (Grasso, Lin, Pasculli, MacLennan). The
PROTAX projects brings together researchers, LEAs and national tax authorities from UK, Austria,
Malta, Estonia and Portugal to generate policy and toolkits to harmonise the treatment of tax crime
and enhance information sharing across European jurisdictions.

4.2 Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

4.2.1 Informing Policy Nationally and Internationally
A key feature of our research is its real-world relevance to contemporary debates in Government,
nationally and internationally. Informing and influencing policy and debates are central to several of
our Impact Case Studies, including:
    (i)     “Improving employment and skills policies to support sustainable employment and in-
            work progression”.
    (ii)    “Transitions in the automotive sector: challenges in delivering a low emission strategy”.
    (iii)   “Promoting the value of sustainable practices in global cut-flower supply chains”.
This can be viewed in particular through presentation of evidence and contributions to Government
committees, agencies and think-tanks:




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Informing Policy Nationally
For example:
  (i)  National Assembly for Wales Equality, Local Government and Communities Committee
       ‘Making the economy work for people on low incomes’ inquiry (Sissons).
 (ii)  House of Lords Roundtables ‘Bank lending data disclosure: Three years on, what have we
       learnt?’ (Henry), the ‘EV and autonomous vehicles bill’ (Jarvis, Jones, Berkeley), ‘Business,
       human rights and modern slavery’ (Timms); House of Commons Treasury Committee
       COVID-19 and fraud risks (Pasculli); the Government’s review of the grocery code
       adjudicator (Bek/Timms); the House of Commons Committee stage of the Agriculture Bill
       (Bek/Timms); BEIS Select Committees ‘The future world of work and rights of workers’
       (Ferreira J), ‘Electric vehicles: driving the transition’ (Jarvis, Jones); All Party Parliamentary
       Groups on 'Whistleblowing; the personal cost of doing it right and the cost to society of
       ignoring it' (Pasculli, drafting its first report); and ‘the future of capitalism, corporate purpose
       and value-creation’ (Timms); Environmental Audit Committee ‘Coffee cups and plastic
       bottles - disposable packaging’ inquiry (Ferreira J); House of Lords Select Committee on
       ‘food, poverty, health and the environment’ (Smith).
The Managing My Money project (Dibb, Appleyard), funded by the Money Advice Service, provided
access to budgeting tools to improve the financial wellbeing of households that are ‘just about
managing’. Over 4,000 individuals took part, improving their capability to make good financial
decisions, while at a policy level, findings informed the priorities for the Money and Pensions
Service. A CU Impact Accelerator funded project (Section 3) created a free-to-use personal finance
app called MoneySkills, to help individuals manage their finances on the go (Impact Case Study:
“Reducing the Public’s Financial Vulnerability”).

Informing Policy Internationally
For example:
    (i)   NATO’s Centre of Excellence-Defence against Terrorism (Turksen).
    (ii)  Internal codes of conducts for the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement
          Training (CEPOL), where CFCI’s members act as international experts (Turksen,
          Grasso).
    (iii) roundtable on ‘Private Actors in the Frontline: Clashing Legal Landscapes of Security and
          Privacy’ with bank officials, EU Commission, Europol, European Data Protection
          Supervisor, and European Parliamentary Research Service (Tilahun).
    (iv)  Europol on policy gaps and risks in tax eco-systems (Turksen).
    (v)   long-term engagement with regulators and trade bodies in South Africa has resulted in
          more sustainable practices being implemented by cut-flower, fruit and wine producers
          who supply UK and global markets (Bek).
    (vi)  working with the Indonesian Government sustainable supply chain practices in the
          globally important Indonesian coffee industry were transformed. Attention has turned to
          that country’s plans for electric vehicles (Tjahjono).
    (vii) providing advice to the Government in Brazil for securing legacy and economic
          development post Olympics and Paralympic Games in Rio (Brittain).


4.2.2 Influential Roles
Because of our contemporary and high-quality research, our expertise is increasingly used on
boards/committees, in editorship roles in leading journals in the field, and editing special issues of
respected journals.

Researchers were appointed to prestigious bodies, including the advisory boards of the New
Economics Foundation (Duignan), Aluminium Association (Garcia-Perez); Associate of the
Work Foundation (Sissons); sitting on Community Investment and the Big Society Capital
Community Investment Steering Groups (Henry); executive committee member of the
International Association for Knowledge Management (Garcia-Perez); Heritage Advisor for the
International Wheelchair and Amputee Sports Federation (Brittain); Director of CreditU
(Appleyard).

                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Dibb was appointed as Deputy Panel Chair for Business and Management Studies REF2021,
served on the Economic-Administrative Panel for the Norwegian Research Council’s REF, was a
Trustee of Alcohol Research UK, is a member of the Research Committee for the National Trust,
and was the invited academic chair of the 2019 World Social Marketing Conference.

Meadows is Vice-Chair of the British Academy of Management.

Henry was invited by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport to become a member of the
Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games Evaluation Advisory Group.

Andrikopoulos was an advisory board member of the BAFA’s Financial Markets and Institutions
Group and is a fellow of the Global Labour Organisation.

Tjahjono holds the prestigious status of International Fellow of the Japan Society for the Promotion
of Science and the Ministry of Research and Higher Education Indonesia.

Grasso was an international expert in the area of corruption and good governance for the Council
of Europe’s Directorate General on Human Rights and Rule of Law, and anti-corruption international
expert for Transparency International.

Pasculli is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.

Turksen is a member of the Innovation Caucus, UK.

4.2.3 Journal Editing Roles and Prizes
Sissons is an editor of Work, Employment and Society; Henry is editor-in-chief of European Urban
and Regional Studies; Joseph is joint-editor of British Accounting Review; Lim is co-editor-in-
chief of International Journal of Logistics Research and Applications.

Many of our researchers are also Associate editors and sit on editorial boards. Our researchers were
invited to guest edit a number of special issues, including recently:

Table 10: Guest Editing Special Issues
 Technological
                      Tensions in the Data Environment: Can Organisations
 Forecasting and                                                                  Meadows
                      Meet the Challenge?
 Social Change
 Journal of
                      Sustainability Knowledge Management and
 Sustainable                                                                      Garcia-Perez
                      Organisational Learning
 Tourism
 Journal of
 Marketing            A Critical Social Marketing Research Agenda                 Dibb
 Management
 European Urban
                                                                                  Jarvis, Sissons,
 and Regional         Urban Europe, Precarious Futures
                                                                                  Ferreira J
 Studies
 Journal of
 Property,
                      Rethinking Property Approaches in Resources for the
 Planning and                                                                     Steenmans
                      Circular Economy
 Environmental
 Law
 European Urban
                      Europe and/or the UK: Post-Brexit Urban and Regional
 and Regional                                                                     Henry
                      Development Futures
 Studies



                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International
                     How Does Lean Six Sigma Improve Organisational
 Journal of Lean                                                                  Tjahjono
                     Resilience Post the COVID-19 Pandemic?
 Six Sigma
 Sustainability      Practice-Based Models of Circular Economy                    Bek, Tjahjono
 Resources,
                     The Sharing Economy and its Implications for
 Conservation                                                                     Lim, Hu
                     Sustainable Value Chains
 and Recycling

Environment and Planning A’s editors awarded an Ashby Prize for the ‘most innovative papers
published in the journal in 2015’ to Bek’s paper ‘Postcolonial perspectives on global production
networks: Insights from Flower Valley in South Africa’. Zarei’s ‘To greener pastures: An action
research study on the environmental sustainability of humanitarian supply chains’ in the
International Journal of Operations & Production Management led Emerald’s 2020 “Together
for Sustainable Supply” campaign.

4.2.4 Hosting and Delivering Events
Each cluster within our Centres has a programme of dissemination events, hosted either in Coventry
or in partnership with key academic and industry collaborators. These have attracted large numbers
of international academics, practitioners and beneficiaries, engaging with our researchers and
projects, and helping to drive profile, outputs and impact. They also provide important platforms for
developing the profiles and careers of our highly engaged ECRs and PGRs, e.g. as presenters,
session chairs, and as members of organising committees. Table 11 provides just a few examples,
including delivery of very successful online conferences during the pandemic. Conferences typically
are in conjunction with eminent organisations or leading journals. Our researchers have also hosted
several successful hackathons.

Table 11: Conferences Hosted in the Last Three Years
 Conferences
 •   International Conference on Tourism Crisis and Disasters: Responses, Recovery and
     Resilience (March, 2021)

 •   Urban Europe, Precarious Futures? online with European Urban and Regional Studies
     (December, 2020)

 •   21st European Conference on Knowledge Management (December, 2020)

 •   12th Chinese Economic Association European Conference (December, 2020)

 •   Cybersecurity in the Aluminium Sector, with the Future Aluminium Forum (February,
     2020)

 •   Education Pathways for Remanufacturing (February, 2020)

 •   Electric Vehicle Transition: A Watershed Moment? with Silverstone Technology Cluster
     (November, 2019)

 •   British Accounting and Finance Association North Area Group Annual Conference
     (September, 2019)

 •   International Symposium on Data, Information and Knowledge Management Research
     (June, 2019)

 •   Rethinking Property Approaches in Resources for the Circular Economy Conference
     (June, 2019)

                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   International Conference on Whistle-Blowers' Protection (May, 2019)

 •   28th Eurasian Business and Economics Society (EBES) Annual Conference (May, 2019)

 •   Driving Sustainability in the Global Cut-Flower Industry (April, 2019)

 •   Tensions in the Data Environment: Can Organisations Meet the Challenge? (November,
     2018)

 •   Disability Sport: Promoting Human Rights, Diversity and Inclusion (September, 2018)

 •   International Conference in Applied Economics (July, 2018)




                                                                                           Page 28
