Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Plymouth Marjon University

 Unit of Assessment: 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1   Marjon has a growing International reputation for research and knowledge exchange
       related to sport and exercise sciences, leisure and tourism. This submitting unit consists
       of 14.0 FTEs, comprising 17 members of staff who are employed to undertake teaching
       and research. While this is our first REF submission, unit members have strived
       collectively, to fulfil the institution’s vision of building an impactful, influential and
       sustainable research culture, placing our values of humanity, ambition, curiosity and
       independence at the centre of how we operate.

 1.2   Marjon research strategy (2015-2020) identified five key strategic drivers (see REF5a,
       paragraph 7). Significant and sustained achievement against these strategic drivers at
       unit level includes high quality research outputs, collaborations and networks as well as
       other indicators of International esteem, see paragraphs 1.5 to 1.9.

 1.3   Members of this unit are located within the School of Sport, Health and Wellbeing. Four
       interdisciplinary research clusters, formed in 2017, supported a deliberate step change in
       the research environment at Marjon (see paragraph 1.3a to 1.3d). The research clusters
       have supported a critical mass of research active staff to produce internationally excellent
       research around thematic topics, alongside a network of collaborations and partnerships
       that have grown our reputation regionally, nationally and internationally. Exemplar
       successes are summarised in relation to the research strategic objectives in paragraph 1.5
       to 1.9.

       a. The exercise medicine and wellbeing research cluster (EMpoWER) has focused on
          application of the sport, exercise and health sciences to wellbeing. Submitted staff in
          the cluster are Professors Bloxham, Dawson and Hyland and early career researchers
          (ECR, Downey, Jane).

       b. The experimental myology and integrative physiology research cluster (EM&I Phys) has
          focused on environmental physiology applied to occupational, health and performance
          contexts. Submitted staff in the cluster are emerging researcher Layden and ECR
          Westwood.

       c. The rehabilitation and performance research cluster (REAP) has focused on the
          application of the sport and exercise sciences to injury prevention and rehabilitation and
          to sports performance at all levels of participation/performance. Submitted staff in the
          cluster are Professor Shum and Jones, emerging researchers (McCormick, Walter-
          Symons) and ECRs (Choy, Coyle).

       d. The sustainable sport and leisure development (SSLD) has focused on application of
          social sciences to the development and sustainability of sport and leisure. Submitted
          staff in the cluster are experienced researcher Beacom, emerging researcher (Gibson)
          and ECRs (Brown, Stonebridge).

 1.4   Through the research clusters the unit has sought to proactively solve real-world problems
       in sport and exercise, leisure and tourism through collaboration, to develop impactful,
       applicable solutions. The strength of the unit has been utilising multi- and interdisciplinary
       research approaches, underpinned by the sport and exercise sciences, to seek solutions
       suitable for the applied context. To reinforce the value of this approach, our research has
       informed and facilitated improvements in national policy and practice at organisational
       level. Our unit members achieve this by developing, designing and evaluating innovative
       methodology and methods, and by applying and influencing theoretical frameworks.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Achievements Against the Research Strategic Aims

 1.5    Research strategy aim 1: To establish a reputation for research excellence. Since 2013
        the unit has focused on developing an inclusive and vibrant research environment in line
        with our values. This has been driven by the Research and Knowledge Exchange
        committee, with membership from the academic community, including unit members.
        Marjon have invested £1.29 million in centralised support through the Research and
        Knowledge Exchange Office, PhD studentships, staff, and facilities (see REF5a,
        paragraph 23). These activities and initiatives have supported the unit in maximising the
        International reach of research. Indicators of esteem in relation to research excellence
        include examples outlined in paragraph 1.5a to 1.5b.

       a.   Members of the unit have contributed to and collaborated with partners to influence
            policy and practice regionally, nationally, and internationally. For example, from SSLD,
            Beacom’s specialism within disability sport enabled engagement with commissioned
            research for the Invictus Games Foundation (2016) and informed his role as Member of
            the IOC review panel (2014/15 and 2016/17). Gibson co-authored the BASES Expert
            Statement on Mental Health Literacy in Elite Sport (2019) and his research informed the
            IOC consensus statement on Mental Health in Elite Athletes.

       b.   Members of the unit have contributed to editorial boards, delivered invited keynotes,
            and have actively contributed to learned organisations. For example, from REAP,
            Professor Shum has been on the editorial board of Journal of Spine, Archives of Sports
            Medicine and Physiotherapy and has delivered invited keynote lectures at The Hong
            Kong Polytechnic. Professor Shum is also Honorary Professor of the Royal Devon and
            Exeter NHS Foundation Trust. Emerging researcher McCormick has informed a
            network of researchers from universities across the UK and internationally as part of the
            RESIST working group with his applied sport psychology research (Research-evaluated
            Endurance Strategies Intending to Support Training).

 1.6    Research strategy aim 2: increase and continually improve research outputs in both
        number and quality. There are strong indicators of success in terms of number and quality
        of research outputs alongside the number of staff with research outputs over the
        assessment period, see paragraph 1.6a to 1.6c.

        a. The staff submitted to the unit have published 194 outputs in the open access Marjon
           Research Repository. This is an average of two outputs per year per FTE over the
           assessment period, which is productive in the context of a teaching led/research
           informed university. Outputs per annum increased threefold from the start to end of the
           assessment period, demonstrating the unit’s positive trajectory in research capacity
           building (e.g. 2013-2015, 11 outputs per annum versus 2016-2020, 32 outputs per
           annum).

        b. Unit preparations for the REF submission, following the processes in the code of
           practice, identified 80 research outputs which formed the UoA24 output pool. Each of
           these has been assessed against published criteria for rigour, originality and
           significance through an internal and independent external review process. Through this
           rigorous process over 90% of the outputs were judged to have qualities aligned to the
           criteria for ‘internationally recognised’ outputs, with nearly half demonstrating qualities
           aligned to the ‘internationally excellent’ criteria or above.

        c. Impact factors have not been analysed or reported since the unit has committed to the
           principles of the DORA. It is appropriate to note 96% of the output pool were published
           in established journals with rigorous peer review processes. Additionally, two thirds of
           the research outputs in the output pool were published in high-quality, often world
           leading, Q1 journals. For instance, from i) EMpoWER published outputs in Journal of
           Health and Social Behaviour (Dawson), European Journal of Applied Physiology

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          (Bloxham), Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports (Downey), HTA
          Journal Series (Jane) and European Respiratory Journal (Hyland); ii) EM&I Phys have
          published outputs in Physiology and Behaviour (McCormick) and Nutrients (Layden and
          Westwood); iii) REAP have published outputs in American Journal of Sports Medicine
          (Shum), British Journal of Sports Medicine (Jones), European Spine Journal (Choy)
          and European Journal of Sport Science (Walters-Symons); iv) SSLD have published
          outputs in Sport in Society (Gibson), Journal of Sport and Social Issues (Beacom)
          Physical Education and Sport Pedagogy (Stonebridge) and International Journal of
          Sport Policy (Brown).

 1.7   Research strategy aim 3: Achieve maximal societal impact for our research: Societal
       impact is an important strategic driver for the unit, aligning to our value of humanity. The
       approach to societal impact is built upon partnership, public and community engagement
       and our University civic commitments (see REF5a, paragraph 9). Collaboration with
       organisations regionally, nationally, and Internationally underpin much of this activity and
       is reported within the Knowledge Exchange Framework submission. The unit have
       embodied the philosophy of engaging with the whole of our community, including students,
       staff, alumni, public, key stakeholders, and peers to help us co-create knowledge, to
       question our knowledge and to ensure it is shared in meaningful ways. Some of the more
       sustained research activity of the unit were selected to feature in the submitted impact
       case studies (see paragraph 1.7a and 1.7b).

       a. A significant success of EMpoWER has been to inform and design new wellbeing
          services to deliver improvement in community settings and clinical practice. Marjon
          hosts over fifteen health and wellbeing clinics for patients with long-term conditions,
          which focus on person-centred care. The approach, involving collaboration with
          partners, has resulted in social, economic and health improvements for local and
          regional communities as featured in the impact case study ‘Marjon Health & Wellbeing:
          A new approach to enable the self-management and prevention of long-term conditions
          in the community’ (see REF3). Unit members continue to work with providers of health,
          wellbeing, and social care, e.g., the Devon Clinical Commissioning Group, Plymouth
          NHS Hospital Trust, Devon Doctors, Sentinel Health Care and charitable organisations,
          such as Macmillan Cancer (Bloxham, Dawson, Downey, Hyland, Jane).

       b. Supporting the performance, health, and mental wellbeing of athletes across a range of
          sports and enhancing enjoyment and resilience at all levels of participation has been a
          focus of REAP. The ‘Enjoyable and Injury-Free Running: Evidence-Based Support for
          Recreational Endurance Runners’ (see REF3) draws together psychology informed
          interventions for instance through delivery of mental preparation workshops and
          ‘Psyching Team’ support at 5k, 10k and half marathon events (McCormick, Coyle)
          alongside biomechanical support including gait retraining workshops and injury clinics
          (Shum, Choy).

 1.8   Research strategy aim 4: Develop an enviable network of external collaboration: There is
       good evidence of a strong network of external collaboration with practitioners, private and
       public-sector organisations, and other research institutions across the unit (see paragraph
       1.8a to 1.8c). External collaboration has been driven by the research clusters, knowledge
       exchange activity alongside individual researcher networks. Visiting professors have also
       contributed to the growing network and enrich the research environment (see paragraph
       2.4).

       a. Marjon secured a research grant from EU Research and Innovation programme,
          Horizon 2020 - Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research and Innovation Staff Exchange
          (Project title: Muscle stress relief: an integrated research program linking together basic
          research on secondary myopathies in stress states to innovative translation in applied
          myology). Marjon is part of a consortium consists of twenty partners, receiving a total
          contribution of €1,458,000 from European Union (Plymouth Marjon University:

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          £117,519.00). This research grant enabled us to host external researchers and to send
          our staff to undertake international research with our academic, industrial and
          commercial partners.

       b. Analysis of outputs of the unit in the repository reveals 165 repository outputs (88%)
          have been co-authored with academics from HEIs across the UK and Internationally
          (e.g., the University of Calgary, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, The University
          of Toronto, James Cook University, University of Western Sydney, Texas A&M
          University).

       c. Unit members collaborate with partners outside of academia to identify real world
          problems, draw on professional expertise and co-create new knowledge; 20% of the
          research outputs published by the unit during the assessment period have involved co-
          authored outputs with those outside academia. For example, collaborators have
          included: UKactive Research Institute (Jones); Mustard Tree Macmillan Cancer Support
          Centre, Plymouth Hospital Trust (Bloxham, Layden, Jane); Australian Institute of Sport
          (Edwards); Royal Cornwall and Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust (Edwards, Bloxham,
          Karatzaferi, Sakkas); Institute of Naval Medicine (Layden, Westwood), Moor
          Instruments (Layden, Bloxham) and Livewell Southwest (Shum, Choy).

 1.9    Research strategy aim 5: Become a supportive generator of and magnet for world-class
       researchers: We have strategically and deliberately invested significantly in the
       development of unit staff and recruitment of new team members to support the
       sustainability of a vibrant research environment. This support has achieved a fourfold
       increase in the number of staff with a significant responsibility for research from 3 FTE in
       2013 to 14.0 FTE in 2020. Unit members include experienced researchers submitted to
       previous research assessments (e.g., Beacom, Dawson, Hyland, Jones, Shum) alongside
       members who are being submitted to their first exercise.


 Research Integrity, Culture and Ethical Standards

 1.10 Marjon values sound learning, new discovery, and the pursuit of wisdom for the good of all.
      Unit members are guided by the need to conduct research and their behaviours to the
      highest ethical standards. This is expected at all levels of decision making, especially
      considering how these decisions might affect others and the natural world. The code of
      conduct for research and knowledge exchange outlines the expectations. As members of
      representative organisations, including Guild HE Research and Cathedrals Group
      Research and Enterprise Group, BASES, and CIMSPA we are supported to ensure we
      stay up to date with key policy agendas.

 1.11 The unit and its research are guided by the Marjon Research Ethics Panel’s policy and
      code of conduct. This panel is committed to supporting the development of research which
      is original and leads to the creation or gaining of new knowledge and understanding.
      Marjon’s ethical procedures align with the core values, ideas and five commitments set out
      in the Concordat for Research Integrity. The Chair of the panel (Gibson) is a member of
      the submitting unit and supports us to ensure our research environment and all aspects of
      research are ‘ethically, legally and professionally informed’. Gibson is also Vice-Chair for
      the Health Research Authority, National Research Ethics Service and NHS South West
      Research Ethics Committee.

 1.12 Marjon is committed to open access research demonstrating our dedication to
      collaboration and commitment to providing open access to improve knowledge-exchange.
      Outputs from the unit are deposited in Marjon Research Repository. Analysis identifies
      that outputs from unit members have been accessed over 1000 times during the
      assessment period from the repository e.g., McCormick 3312 downloads, Beacom 1377
      downloads, Jones 1170 downloads and Bloxham 1069 downloads.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.13 The submitting unit aims to meet the expectations of the Open Science Framework (see
      REF51, paragraph 12). We are working towards the ambitions in the concordat on open
      research data and are exploring open data repositories. In line with our values, we are
      committed to ensure all research is conducted with the highest standards of rigour and
      integrity. The unit has made progress towards this for instance pre-registering clinical
      trials (Choy, Jane, Shum) and systematic reviews (Downey, Jones).

 Aims for the next five years 2020-2025

 1.14 A revised research and knowledge exchange strategy, ‘Building Knowledge Together’
      (2020-25) was recently approved (see REF5a paragraph 8). This revised university level
      strategy builds upon the significant strengths and achievements at unit level where applied
      research, built through collaborative partnerships, has grown and led to impactful
      internationally excellent research. This revised strategy reinforces the priority for the unit
      to sustain growth in interdisciplinary research activities, knowledge exchange and impact.

 1.15 In line with the revised strategy, and informed by key stakeholders, the research clusters
      were reviewed and restructured during 2019-20. Two new research and knowledge
      exchange groups will sustain growth into the next research assessment aiming to enhance
      multi and interdisciplinary collaboration between unit members and to strengthen links with
      partners, to support impactful and high-quality research (see paragraph 1.15a to 1.5b).

       a. The Lifelong Health and Wellbeing research and knowledge exchange group, led by
          Professors Bloxham and Dawson, builds upon the successes of EMpoWER and is
          informed by collaborative partners as well as regional and National health needs. This
          group is thematically based around ageing well, self-management of long term mental
          and physical health conditions, physical activity for health promotion, patient safety and
          effective management of health and social care transitions.

       b. The Resilience and Human Performance group, led by Professors Jones and Shum,
          draws together expertise from EM&I Phys and SSLD. This group address themes
          pertaining to resilience and performance in occupational and sport settings and covers
          themes such as the acute and chronic physical and mental strain, interventions to
          enhance resilience and human performance and exploration of social and cultural
          contexts that impact on policy and practice.

 1.16 The strategic headlines applied to the unit priorities for the next five years are summarised
      in paragraph 1.16a to 1.16d (see REF5a paragraph 8).

       a. Humanity, building knowledge capacity inclusively across our community including
          students and the public, built on trust and integrity. The unit will continue to recruit,
          attract and develop ECRs and emerging researchers. We will continue to offer strong
          mentorship from research leaders aligned to the new research and knowledge
          exchange groups.

       b. Ambition, working in partnership to empower our community to be the best we can be,
          enhance decision making and promote our knowledge capacity. The unit will increase
          the quality of research outputs supporting colleagues through the research and
          knowledge exchange groups. We will continue to grow our PGR community and have
          demonstrable PhD completions supporting the university’s ambition for RDAP.

       c. Curiosity, stimulating debate and discussion to develop questions, establish new
          insights and encourage innovation. The unit will continue to adopt principles of open
          science improving the transparency and rigour of our research. Our research
          methodological expertise will continue to push boundaries in the field and will support
          academic engagement in policy and practice.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       d. Independence, exploring what we can contribute individually and in partnership,
          appreciating we can all make a difference in the world. Driven by our research and
          knowledge exchange groups the unit will continue to work in partnership through public
          and community engagement and knowledge exchange to meet our civic commitments
          and ensure societal impact from our research.

 2. People

 2.1   As outlined in paragraph 1.1 the unit comprises of 17 staff members; 12 are full-time and
       five part-time. This is 54% of REF eligible academic staff at the census date from the
       subject centre ‘Sport’. There are five professors (Bloxham, Dawson, Hyland, Jones,
       Shum), one associate professor (Gibson), seven senior lecturers (Beacom, Brown, Coyle,
       Jane, Layden, McCormick, Westwood) and four lecturers (Choy, Downey, Stonebridge,
       Walter-Symons). Some colleagues provided a meaningful contribution to the unit during
       the REF assessment period but were not employed at Marjon at the staff census point
       (e.g., Edwards, Karatzaferi, Sakkas).

 2.2    Professional development and support for staff has been a key commitment of the
       university and submitting unit (see paragraphs 2.7 to 2.10). The philosophy of the unit is
       that enabling knowledge exchange and strengthening research capabilities of all staff will
       escalate the vibrancy of the research environment. It is this commitment to developing a
       vibrant, inclusive, and forward-thinking research culture, incorporating PGR students,
       ECRs and emerging researchers alongside established research leaders which provides
       the foundations upon which the International reach of research has excelled, and which
       lay strong foundations for sustained vibrancy of the research environment.

 Staffing Strategy and People Management

 2.3 The overarching staffing strategy of the unit has been to focus on the recruitment of
      emerging researchers who have not yet submitted to a REF but have established post-
      doctoral research expertise (e.g., Gibson, McCormick, Walters-Symons) and early career
      researchers (e.g., Downey, Stonebridge) to increase the number of research active unit
      members aligned to the research clusters. The development of existing academic staff to
      become research active (e.g., Brown, Coyle, Jane, Westwood), through an inclusive and
      supportive research environment, has also been intentional. This strategy explains why 12
      members of the submitting unit have not been submitted to previous research
      assessments. Additionally, we have deliberately invested in experienced research leaders,
      many on a fractional basis, who support a vibrant research environment, provide
      intentional research leadership, and offer mentorship to unit members. This explains why
      some of the experienced professors in the unit are fractional (e.g., Dawson 0.2 fte, Hyland
      0.3fte, Jones 0.2 fte).

 2.4 The unit has also actively sought to expand the network of visiting professors to support the
      vibrancy of the research environment. For example, aligned to EM&I Phys, are visiting
      professors Cardinale (Aspire Academy, Doha), Delves (Institute of Naval Medicine),
      Fallowfield (Institute of Naval Medicine) and Smerdon (DDRC Health Care, Plymouth
      Science Park).

 2.5   The unit aim to recognise and develop the talents, skills and experience of academic staff
       and research objectives form a substantive aspect of the Performance and Development
       Review (PDR) discussions, which may involve dialogue with the UoA lead. Research is
       one of four academic career pathways that staff can demonstrate sustained and significant
       achievement within the academic promotion and career development procedure (see
       REF5a, paragraph 17). Unit members have been promoted during the assessment period,
       including recognition of their sustained and significant research contribution, including to


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       senior lecturer (Coyle, McCormick), to associate professor (Gibson) and to professor
       (Shum, Bloxham).

 2.6   Aligned to the PDR all academic staff members engage in a process to establish their
       academic contribution plan in line with the academic contribution framework (see REF5a,
       paragraph 17). All unit members make a substantive contribution to teaching and learning
       (being HESA-returned Teaching and Research), but also have time allocated aligned to
       their chosen academic career pathway, e.g., 25 days dedicated to research (pro rata) for
       the research pathway. Time is also allocated to research leadership for example for the
       PGR coordinator role for sport and health (Gibson), REF unit of assessment lead (Shum),
       co-convenors of the newly formed research and knowledge exchange groups (Bloxham,
       Dawson, Jones, Layden) and chair of the ethics committee (Gibson). Such adjustments
       are made to demonstrate our support for staff, their excellence in learning and teaching,
       but equally that we value their contribution to research and research leadership.

 Staff Development

 2.7   Marjon is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers
       (see REF5a, paragraph 17) and the unit supports this. For example, a mentoring system
       includes opportunities for ECRs to research, co-author and apply for grants/funding bids
       with emerging researchers and professors. As evidence of this, from EMpoWER, a
       recently successful funding bid for student led knowledge exchange was led by Professor
       Bloxham (and Professor Cotton from UoA23) and included ECR Downey.

 2.8   Marjon writing retreats, successfully launched in 2018, have also been implemented to
       support staff with productive writing time to generate REF outputs alongside developing a
       community of writing practice. Several unit members have been able to develop and
       finalise research outputs through the writing retreats (e.g., Bloxham, Coyle, Jane, Jones,
       Stonebridge, Walter-Symons, Westwood) and as identified in REF5a (see paragraph 16)
       these have been particularly well attended and valued by females and ECRs.

 2.9   To generate future prosperity and development of staff, Marjon proactively encourages all
       staff to become research trained to PhD level (see REF51, paragraph 15), for example,
       Brown was supported to successful completion during the assessment period.
       Additionally, unit members have been supported to present research findings to a wide
       range of international and national conferences, enabling them to build networks, discuss
       latest research trends and stimulate research collaboration with external research
       partners. For example, from SSLD members have been supported to present at; UK Sport
       Development Network (Brown), European Association for the Sociology of Sport
       Conference (Gibson) and International Conference on Qualitative Research in Sport and
       Exercise (Gibson).

 2.10 A programme of scheduled events provides a vibrant environment to enhance staff and
      PGR student research capabilities and support their professional development (see
      paragraph 2.10a to 2.10c).

       a. Researcher development series, aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development
          Framework, is delivered by internal staff or through external experts. For example,
          during 2019-20 there were twelve different workshops covering a range of themes
          including research methods/approaches, funding and bid-writing, research impact,
          publishing hints and tips, and research ethics.

       b. Academy lecture series, which consists of presentations led by established
          researchers/practitioners from a wide range of disciplines. For example aligned to
          REAP academy series lectures have included i) Dr Jon Rudd, Ireland National
          Performance Director, ‘Developing a high performance system’, ii) Professor Steve
          Lehman, UC Berkeley, ‘More to know in fatigue – sites and mechanisms’, iii) Dr

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Florentina Hettinga, University of Essex, ‘The impact of intellectual impairment and
          cognition on performance in sport’, iv) Professor Samuele Marcora, University of Kent,
          ‘Psychobiology of endurance performance’ and v) Dr Steve Ingham, English Institute of
          Sport, ‘Science vs reality: how to support a champion’.

       c. Brown-bag seminar series, which consists of staff and PGR student presentations of
          their research to their peers in a supportive setting. As an example, during 2019-20
          there were ten brown-bag seminars and 23 different presentations covering a range of
          subject areas/disciplines. From March 2020 these sessions were adapted to be
          delivered through MS Teams and this increased engagement, so will be sustained
          moving forwards.

 Postgraduate Research Community

 2.11 An identified priority of the unit has been to build on the teaching excellence in
      undergraduate and postgraduate courses and extend this to post-graduate research
      (PGR) provision. At a university level this was facilitated through a partnership agreement
      with the University of Chichester to offer PGR degrees from 2015 (see REF5a, paragraph
      3). The recency of this agreement means the considerable progress made by the unit is
      not yet reflected in doctoral completion data.

 2.12 The unit has ensured PGR students are embedded as part of the inclusive research
      environment and that unit staff are supported to be effective PGR supervisors. Each PGR
      student is typically supervised by at least two supervisors including a Director of Studies
      who has supervised at least one student to successful completion. The recruitment of
      emerging researchers (e.g., Gibson) and professors (e.g., Dawson, Jones), who have
      supported students to successful completion, has increased supervision capacity. The
      appointment of the PGR coordinator for sport and health (Gibson) with dedicated time for
      this role provides additional support to PGR students and supervisors.

 2.13 The unit has had significant successes in taught Masters of Research (MRes) over the
      assessment period which has proven to be successful preparation for and a pathway to
      PGR study. Several students, with appropriate support and guidance from their
      supervisory team, have produced a peer-reviewed research output. For example, from the
      SSLD, Beacom has co-authored outputs with MRes graduates (e.g. Beacom et al., 2016)
      as has Gibson (e.g. Paterson and Gibson, 2020).

 2.14 Marjon made a significant financial investment in Mayflower student PhD bursaries in 2017
      to support the ambition to establish PGR provision and work towards RDAP (see REF5A,
      paragraph 23). Members of the unit internally bid for and benefited from five full-time
      Mayflower PhD scholarships in 2017. This investment supported the aim of reaching a
      critical mass to nurture a positive research environment. Additionally, each of the new
      research and knowledge exchange groups were awarded a Marjon 180 PhD bursary and
      an additional two students commenced PhD studies in October 2020. In total, bursaries
      represent investment in the region of £390k by the university and unit research projects
      are summarised in paragraph 2.14a to 2.14d. It is disappointing that these did not result in
      completions within the REF assessment exercise (in part due to covid-19 disruption)
      however the first submission was made in October 2020.

       a. EMpoWER have supported a Mayflower bursary student on ‘behavioural
          thermoregulation in the elderly’ (supervisors Bloxham and Layden, external advisor
          Professor Pyne, University of Canberra). Aligned to the new lifelong health and
          wellbeing group in 2020 the Marjon 180 bursary was focused on: ‘evaluating innovative
          health and wellbeing interventions’ (supervisors Bloxham and Dawson).

       b. EM&I Phys have supported Mayflower bursary students on research projects
          ‘gastrointestinal permeability and heat stroke risk’ (supervisor Layden and visiting

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          professors Delve and Fallowfield, supported by Institute of Naval Medicine) and ‘non-
          pharmacological strategies for primary cardiovascular risk prevention’ (supervisors
          Shum and Jones and visiting professor Smerdon, supported by DDRC Healthcare).

       c. REAP have supported a Mayflower scholar on ‘ultrasound nerve mobilisation’
          (supervisor Shum). Aligned to the new resilience and human performance group in
          2020 the Marjon 180 bursary was focused around ‘An Intervention to Support New
          Runners Using Evidence-Based Psychology’ (supervisor McCormick).

       d. SSLD have supported a Mayflower scholar researching ‘the emerging role of the UK
          university sector in sport development: facilitating sustainable high-performance
          strategies (supervisors Beacom and Gibson).

 2.15 There are currently 13 PGR students enrolled, aligned to research interests within the unit,
      which demonstrates the successful growth since 2015. The research projects align to the
      research cluster themes and typically cross traditional disciplinary boundaries within sport
      and exercise sciences; for instance, mental health literacy in sport psychology practice
      (supervisors Gibson and McCormick), centralising children’s experience in PE, school
      sport and physical activity (supervisors Gibson and Jones) and an exploration of the active
      ingredients of group exercise referral interventions (supervisors Jones, Gibson and
      McCormick).

 2.16 There is good evidence of the vibrancy of the research environment and contribution made
      by PGR students. Several unit research outputs in 2020 included PGR students as lead
      or co-authors. For example, PGR students Ogden and Millyard from the EM&I Phys group
      related to exertional heat stress (Ogden et al., 2020a, Westwood et al., 2020),
      gastrointestinal tolerance and integrity (Ogden et al., 2020b, Ogden et al.,2020c) and
      impairments to thermoregulation in the elderly (Millyard et al., 2020).

 2.17 PGR students have a dedicated annual development budget to support their development
      (see REF5a, paragraph 18). For example, aligned to the EM&I Phys cluster, PGR student
      Millyard gave an oral presentation on the ‘Influence of age on perceptual responses to
      thermal stress at rest and following exercise’ and PGR student Ogden a poster
      presentation on ‘Reliability of gastrointestinal barrier integrity assessment techniques
      following exercise in the heat’ at the International Conference on Environmental
      Ergonomics in 2019 prior to publication of the outputs (see paragraph 2.16). Additionally,
      PGR students can bid for research consumables to support the rigour of their research
      while at the same time developing their bid writing skills.

 Equality and diversity

 2.18 Promoting equality and diversity aligns well to the values of Marjon and the inclusive
      research culture of the unit. The defined process in the approved code of practice resulted
      in 54% of REF eligible staff from the subject level with a significant responsibility for
      research (SRR). Of staff with SRR, 34% identified as female which is comparable to 37%
      female REF eligible staff at subject level. The subject level has a lower female academic
      staff base (37%) compared to the university level (64%), but this reflects the sector level
      for sports science (HESA 2018/19 data 36% female). With relatively small numbers other
      equality analysis at unit level is challenging but in summary; 12% were from an ethnic
      minority which is above 6% of REF eligible academics and 7% had a declared disability
      which is comparable to 8% declared disabilities of REF eligible academics. Overall, while
      numbers are low, this supports that processes were equitable and resulted in a unit level
      submission reflective of the subject level REF eligible academic community.

 2.19 In terms of selecting outputs for submission, in line with the code of practice, equality
      factors were considered to aid identification of 13 outputs from the output pool to finalise
      the submission (best of the rest, all equally judged as 2-3*). A lower proportion of outputs

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       submitted (31%) were attributed to females which reflects the consideration of special
       circumstances submitted by female members of the unit but also reinforces the importance
       of university level and unit level action to improve gender equality (see REF5A, paragraph
       20). Specific mentoring supporting for female academics will be implemented alongside
       consideration of further actions enabled through the women’s network.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 3.1    During the assessment period, data in REF4b for HESA cost centre code sports science
       and leisure studies shows the unit has generated £661 000 in competitively sourced
       research income, which is an average of £110 000 per annum. It is noteworthy that
       funding increased ten-fold from 2016-17 onwards in comparison to the earlier part of the
       assessment cycle, which relates to the launch of the research strategy. Competitive
       income has included funding from UKRI councils, UK based charities, UK industry and EU
       government bodies. In addition to the data in REF4b there is substantive income not
       included, for instance for knowledge exchange activity that aligns to our research
       excellence which supports the continual generation of new knowledge and its impact.
       Income and activities associated with each of the research clusters is summarised in
       paragraph 3.1a to 3.1d.

       a. The established research excellence and extensive collaborative partnership linked with
          EMpoWER has resulted in success in competitive research funding and knowledge
          exchange income. For example, during 2018-19, the Marjon Health and Wellbeing
          approach (Bloxham, Gibson, Jane) successfully bid for; i) back pain clinic (£15 000
          income funded by Sentinel health and wellbeing; PI: Bloxham), ii) leg ulcer clinic (£159
          000 income funded by Livewell Southwest for a three-year period, PI: Bloxham) and iii)
          workplace wellbeing interventions (£2430 income from the police and environment
          agency; PI: Bloxham). New initiatives for 2019-20 include’ i) a pilot community strength
          and stability programme for older people in South Devon (PI: Shum, Bloxham, Choy,
          Vaughan, funded by NHS Devon Clinical Commissioning Group, £24 500), ii) a pilot
          pre-surgery exercise programme for cancer patients (Jane, Bloxham, Shum, funded by
          University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust, £4992) iii) Long term Conditions Project with
          Livewell South West £20 000 iv) Shared medical appointments project, with Evalesco
          Consulting and Devon Doctors funded by the Health Foundation (£70,000), of which
          £10,000 was secured by Marjon. The Marjon health and wellbeing clinics underpinned
          a successful competitive grant award of £250,000, from the Office for Students and
          Research England, to enable the University to develop a model which other universities
          could follow. Early career researcher Jane was also a named co-investigator on a
          successful £900 000 NIHR research project ‘e-coachER: Investigation of a web-based
          behavioural support exercise referral scheme’ and while the research income to Marjon
          was small (£1167). This has enabled his exposure to a major funding council research
          project and involvement in the design and outputs of a large scale significant
          International project.

          In addition to Marjon body reprogramming clinic for fibromyalgia, that led to Professor
          Hyland’s significant association and subsequent employment within the unit, he is a
          named collaborative co-investigator on several research projects underpinned by his
          work on quality of life surveys including; i) body reprogramming as an adjunct to
          biological administration in patients with Severe Asthma (£11 802, funder GSK) and ii)
          a qualitative analysis of the experience of super-responders to biologic therapy in
          severe asthma (£9585, funder GSK). The reach of this research has extended into
          Europe and a further project on the burden of severe asthma on health-related quality
          of life in a European population is scheduled (starting 2021, funder SHARP) and this
          expertise has potential to be applied to ‘long-covid’ in the future. The addition of
          Professor Dawson to the unit extends the reach into areas more closely associated with

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          the University’s growing ambitions to grow research aligned to UoA3. Professor
          Dawson is a named co-investigator on a successful Dunhill grant, ‘Developing a co-
          designed systems-level response to safety issues for residents transitioning from
          hospital to care homes’ (2020-2022), that included support from Plymouth City Council
          and Devon Clinical Commissioning groups.

       b. EM&I Phys has received funding and/or in-kind support for a range of research
          projects. For instance, as noted in paragraph 1.8a, Karatzaferi, Sakkas and Shum
          were successful bidding for €1,458,000 from the EU Framework Programme (Plymouth
          Marjon University: £117,519.00) for a project titled ‘Muscle stress relief: an integrated
          research program linking together basic research on secondary myopathies in stress
          states to innovative translation in applied myology’ (H2020-MSCA-RISE-2014-645648).
          Additionally, group members have been successful at small grant income and/or in-kind
          contribution for example, i) physiological responses of self-heating gloves (Bloxham,
          Layden, Shum, Westwood, Astec In Nano Tech, £13,400) and ii) the Institute of Naval
          Medicine have provided, in kind, equipment and resources estimated at circa £17 000.

       c. REAP has successfully received several small grant awards linked to their research for
          example; i) The impact of pathomechanics leading to postoperative gait abnormalities
          following total hip arthroplasty (Shum, 2016, £729, funder Royal Devon & Exeter NHS
          Foundation Trust), ii) mental health literacy in elite sport (Gibson, £1000, 2017, funder
          British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences).

       d. SSLD has successfully received several small grant awards linked to their research for
          example a social research project related to the Invictus games funded by Marie
          Curie/International Invictus Games Foundation (Beacom, 2016, £2200).

 3.2   The income from external sources that have supported the development of a vibrant
       research environment with International reach, has been supported by internal strategic
       investment of £1.2 million by the University, despite the absence of mainstream QR
       funding. During the REF assessment period this has included PhD bursaries (see
       paragraph 2.14, circa £390,000), a vibrant programme of research events (see paragraph
       2.10), support for PhD completion and attendance at conferences (see paragraph 2.9).
       After this first REF submission, the unit expects to continue to be able to generate external
       grant income while also enabling more seed-corn funding and similar initiatives from the
       resultant QR funding.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.3   Since 2013 a total of £2.6 million has been invested to enable development of the sports
       science and research laboratories and sports centre facilities. This includes £1.79 million
       invested in refurbishing and updating the sports centre outdoor facilities (£1.25 million) and
       indoor facilities (£0.25 million). In 2016/17 these facilities were ranked as 4th best in the
       UK (Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey). Following a significant
       investment of £0.81 million, in sport and exercise science laboratories and equipment,
       Marjon celebrated laboratory accreditation in 2016 by the British Association of Sport and
       Exercise Sciences (BASES). The sport and exercise science and rehabilitation
       laboratories have a comprehensive range of physiology and biomechanics equipment,
       including an environmental chamber, force plate, cardiopulmonary exercise testing
       equipment, motion capture system with integrated force plates, duplex diagnostic
       ultrasound imaging, isokinetic dynamometers, antigravity treadmill, a wireless
       electromyography (EMG) system, portable three-dimensional motion sensors, laser
       doppler monitoring system and air displacement plethysmography equipment (BODPOD).
       The University also has wet lab facilities appropriate for bioscience related research,
       nutritional analysis and cell therapy studies. The specialist laboratory facilities have
       supported the unit to conduct high quality original research, for instance enabling the
       environmental physiology research exploring exertional heat illness, including biomarkers,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       by EM&I Phys (Layden, Westwood) and examining rehabilitation technique to optimise
       recovery (Choy, Shum) by REAP. Additionally, the specialist laboratories and
       rehabilitation facilities have also supported knowledge exchange for instance, hosting a
       public facing sports therapy and osteopathy clinic that enables students to gain
       professional practice experience while supporting clients, applying research which
       explores novel approaches to rehabilitation.

 3.4    All Marjon Sport and Health clinics and laboratories are the responsibility of the Director of
       School for Sport Health and Wellbeing. The Sport and Health Science laboratories have
       1.5 FTE technical staff comprised of 0.5FTE Sport and Health Science Officer and a 1.0
       FTE Sport and Health Science laboratory assistant. The Sport Therapy and Rehabilitation
       clinic have a 1.8FTE technical staff comprised of a 1.0 FTE Sport Therapy and
       Rehabilitation Supervisor and 0.8 Sport Therapist. Marjon Health and Wellbeing services
       are delivered by 1.5FTE Lifestyle Sport and Health Co-coordinators. A further 0.2FTE
       graduate intern each of these three teaching, research and specialist spaces was
       introduced in October 2020. All graduate interns also receive a bursary to complete a PMU
       Masters level qualification.

 3.5   There has been significant investment in the sport centre facilities, teaching and research,
       but also support for a wide range of local clubs and events (e.g., Devon Summer Ability
       Games, Devon Schools Hockey Finals), regular performance clubs and events (e.g.,
       Plymouth Raiders Basketball, Plymouth Argyle Football Club) and for high performance
       purposes (e.g., 2015 Rugby World Cup training camp, Rio Olympic games training
       camps). These partnerships support the research of SSLD for instance examining sports
       networks and disability sport.

 3.5   To support a suitable infrastructure for PGR students, a PGR Hub was established in
       2018 including a large purpose-built facility accommodating hot-desking facilities (for 18),
       PCs and storage space and a meeting room.

 3.6   Overall research of the unit is supported centrally by the research and knowledge
       exchange office including support for grant bids and funding, organisation of research
       events, administration processes for PGR students and administration of research ethics
       (see REF5A, paragraphs 24 and 28). Research leadership within the unit is supported
       through the release of staff time (see paragraph 2.6).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1   As outlined in paragraph 1.8 a strategic objective during the REF assessment period was
       to develop a network of external collaboration to support a developing but vibrant
       International research environment. There is good evidence of a strong network of
       external collaboration with practitioners, private and public-sector organisations and other
       research institutions across the unit as summarised in paragraph 1.8a to 1.8b.

 4.2   As outlined in paragraph 1.7 a further strategic objective during the REF assessment
       period was to demonstrate and ensure societal impact from our research. The overall
       approach to societal impact is one built upon partnership, public and community
       engagement and our University civic commitments. Collaboration with organisations
       regionally, nationally and Internationally underpin much of this activity and some of the
       more sustained research and knowledge exchange activity of the unit were selected to
       feature in the submitted impact case studies (paragraph 1.7a and 1.7b).

 4.3   Exemplar collaborations, the support for the unit research environment and impact on
       society are summarised for research clusters in paragraph 4.3a to 4.3d.

       a. EMpoWER: To support local communities and reduce the burden on the NHS, Bloxham
          and colleagues research has informed the design and delivery of the Marjon Health and

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Wellbeing Clinics (see paragraph 1.7a). These clinics have provided community
         services, in partnership with various health, wellbeing and Bloxham presented at the
         Houses of Parliament (2019) and informed the Physiological Society and Guild HE’s
         report, analysing the economic benefits of Sport and Exercise Science (SES) to the UK
         economy. The partnerships have gone from strength to strength demonstrating the
         sustainability of this research activity and for instance in 2019-20 led to a ground-
         breaking project which could prompt a fundamental rethink in how healthcare is
         delivered. Ernesettle Medical Centre, which is operated by Access Health Care, has
         received £75,000 from independent charity the Health Foundation to support the
         project, which centres on the provision of group sessions, in the company of a GP and
         other health & wellbeing professionals, for patients suffering from similar problems.

         Hyland also collaborates with researchers from The University of Exeter, Plymouth
         University, Birmingham university, Bristol University DUH and the RD&E in conjunction
         with the National Institute for Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in Applied
         Health Research and Care South West Peninsula to support patients with severe
         asthma. This group developed the Severe Asthma Questionnaire (SAQ), designed to
         measure the quality of life in patients living with severe asthma, considering the disease
         and treatment from the patient’s perspective.

      b. EM&I Phys: An example of long-term sustainable, collaborative research focuses on
         exertional heat illness and its mitigation. This research has informed the UK Ministry of
         Defence policy documents (JSP 539). Further work has informed the MoD Future
         Defence Deployed Nutrition task and will inform future Operational Ration Pack (ORP)
         design, and interventions to support pre-deployment nutritional preparation and
         deployed operational feed. Furthermore, our work informs and supports ongoing and
         future heat illness mitigation work being undertaken by both the INM and the United
         States Army Research Institute of Environmental Medicine.

      c. REAP: McCormick's networks through the RESIST group (see paragraph 1.5b) who
         share their expertise in psychology of endurance performance, disseminating research-
         derived knowledge to the public, through RESIST website pages and videos and public
         engagement events, are applicable to endurance athletes, competitive and recreational
         participants, in addition to their coaches and leaders. In addition, we are a partner
         organisation of the Thrive Plymouth 10-year strategy, Plymouth City Council’s policy
         promoting better health and wellbeing for all, reducing health inequalities across the
         city. The REAP group also hosted the 2017 British Association of Sport & Exercise
         Sciences (BASES) Student Conference based on a competitive process but the groups
         well established links with professional organisations.

      d. SSLD: Our partnership with Active Devon supported Beacom to chair the UK Sport
         Development Network (UKSDN) national conference ‘Creating a Sustainable Sporting
         Future: Issues, Pathways and Opportunities’. The conference drew national and
         international interest and involved SSLD members (Beacom, Brown) to work closely
         with UKSDN and the co-hosts Active Devon, our local County Active Partnership.
         Beacom, also participated in the international Symposium ‘Where Does Sport Fit in
         Global Diplomacy?’ (2018) and led to him twice fulfilling the role of Member of the IOC
         review panel and work informing the Invictus Games (see paragraph 1.5a). Research
         by Stonebridge on coaching behaviours and participation in high performance coaching
         networks supported Marjon becoming one of nine Football Association's Women's
         High-Performance Football Centre in 2017. Aligned to this, both the REAP and SSLD
         groups partner with local professional/semi-professional sports performance clubs,
         organisations including Plymouth Argyll Football Club, Plymouth Leander’s Swimming
         Club and Plymouth Raiders Basketball Club. For instance, Beacom and Brown are
         working with Plymouth Argyle Community Trust to assist the development of monitoring
         and evaluation frameworks, to help assess the efficacy of community sport
         interventions and the potential of event leverage.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 As outlined in paragraph 1.5 an additional strategic aim during the REF assessment period
 was to establish a reputation for research excellence, which directly links to influencing and
 contributing to the wider research base. These activities and initiatives have supported the unit
 in maximising the International reach of research and progress and indicators of esteem in
 relation to research excellence were summarised in paragraph 1.5a to 1.5b.




                                                                                           Page 14
