Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA26 Modern Languages

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit understands itself as a ‘glocal’ UoA within a civic university: its research and impact
 combine close collaboration with local community and cultural partners with a global outlook that
 takes seriously the need to interrogate and disrupt established paradigms, canons and modes of
 knowledge. All staff submitted (34.5 FTE) are based in the Department of Modern Languages, a
 constituent of the School of Languages, Cultures, Art History and Music (LCAHM) and, beyond,
 the College of Arts and Law (CAL).

 In REF 2014, six areas for strategic development were identified: building on existing research
 strengths; maintaining the breadth of research; supporting multi- and interdisciplinarity;
 contributing to and defining the research themes of CAL and the University; supporting
 individuals in meeting research expectations; and increasing grant capture. In 2016-2017, the
 UoA undertook a strategic review of its approach to achieving these aims. In a national context
 in which funding bodies and government policy place increasing emphasis on cross-disciplinary
 collaboration and inter-sectoral exchange, the review established that the core development
 goals identified in 2014 would be met best through refocusing the UoA’s research around
 methodological – rather than thematic – groupings.

 In addition to the key objectives carried over from 2014 (interdisciplinarity, grant capture,
 supporting staff ambition), the UoA’s revised strategy emphasises the development of new
 theoretical and methodological frameworks through cross-disciplinary and cross-sectoral work.
 The strategy is implemented by uniting activities across languages and linguistics around three
 research streams (Forging Links, Intersecting Identities, and (Trans)forming Knowledge),
 brought together under the umbrella theme of Interconnections. The Unit created a new
 research management body – Advanced Research Coordination Hub (ARCH) – to oversee
 research strategy, practice, and activities across the streams. ARCH comprises the
 professoriate and Head of Department and is chaired by the UoA Research Lead.

 The success of this strategy is evident in significant investment by the University in response to
 this strategic redesign in the form of staff recruitment; substantially increased grant capture;
 development of multiple cross-disciplinary and cross-sector collaborations; and sizeable upturn
 in PGR enrolments.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 The concept of Interconnections thematically exemplifies and programmatically draws together
 the research undertaken in the UoA. It moves research in the UoA beyond a traditional
 language/area studies focus and beyond ‘topics’/objects, towards interlingual, intermedial, and
 interdisciplinary work which is both local and international in its object and reach. The UoA
 strategy frames research around method and practice and places cross-disciplinary
 methodology at the core. The central benefit of this approach has been the generation of
 collaborations and synergies that might not otherwise come into view. Within the framework of
 Interconnections, our research is subdivided into the three research streams. All researchers
 within the UoA participate in the activities of one or more of the following streams.

    1. Forging Links

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This stream focuses on ways in which linkages are conceived and imagined. The link, which can
 be physical, ontological, disciplinary, artistic or epistemological, is an element that structures
 flows and exchanges. The stream examines this dynamic phenomenon within a range of
 interdisciplinary, linguistic and transregional contexts. Researchers consider what is involved
 methodologically in adopting cross-border or globalizing views of culture from outside of the
 modern Western canon (Daoudi, Gould, Hardwick, O’Sullivan, Santos, Sèbe). They examine
 theoretical questions of connections, translations, and transfers (Brown, Ginger, Gould,
 Hardwick, Jones, Malamatidou, Saldanha, Yuan). This is exemplified by the world-leading
 expertise within the UoA on translation theory and practice (for example, Saldanha’s co-
 editorship of the discipline-defining Routledge Encyclopaedia of Translation Studies (3d edn,
 2019)). Research in the stream reframes questions of exile (Jato, Klapper, Lough, Marcer,
 Rulyova), bringing a spatial perspective to how exile involves the conception and imagination of
 other locations (e.g., Jato and Klapper’s, Fractured Frontiers: Reconciling the Inner and Outer
 Exile Writing of Nazi Germany and Francoist Spain (2020)). Finally, researchers in the UoA
 undertake a renewal of approaches to linguistic structures that underpin multiple languages
 across divergent schools of linguistic thought, firstly through a refreshing of comparative, formal
 linguistic approaches (Corr, Schifano) and, secondly, via a critical re-assessment and renewal of
 models of language from a cognitive perspective (Divjak and Milin). The stream is equally
 focused on forging links across sectors to foster significant change in the world. One major
 example is Jones’s multiple co-operations with national Holocaust education providers,
 museums, galleries and artists which has transformed professional, cultural and pedagogical
 practice around the use of ‘mediated testimony’ (REF 2021 Impact Case Study).

     2. (Trans)forming Knowledge
 The stream develops methods for examining how knowledge is established, contested,
 appropriated, adapted and transformed across different types of text, media, and technology.
 The stream’s research examines and applies new and emerging ways of understanding,
 communicating, and disseminating knowledge from the medieval period (de Ventura, Harris,
 Ward), through the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, to the present day (Abbott, Ardrey,
 Jones, Palmer, Wagstaff, Watts). Researchers within the stream explore the interplay between
 present-day and historic ways of knowing. Abbott and Ardrey, in their work on the AHRC-
 funded Baudelaire Song Project, discovered how our knowledge of song is realised through the
 digital analysis of the interplay of patterns in language and music. Research on poetry which
 carries a dimension of political and public praxis is carried out within the stream; for example, by
 Wagstaff who looks at how the medium of poetry can constitute a political intervention through
 the concept of attention, resulting in her major monograph André du Bouchet: Poetic Forms of
 Attention (2020). Significant impact has emerged from the research carried out within this
 stream: examples include the work associated with the Estoria de Espanna Digital project, which
 has resulted in the restoration of key manuscripts, transformation of public understanding of
 medieval manuscript culture, and skills development through crowd-sourced transcription (REF
 2021 Impact Case Study).

      3. Intersecting Identities
 The stream brings together specialists in the study of multiple, intersecting identities and works
 to develop methods and praxis that are interdisciplinary and cross-cutting. Researchers examine
 the ways in which identity is understood in and through language, including sexual, gender,
 religious and national identity markers, and the intersections between them. For example, work
 on transnational sexologies (Downing, Ross) has produced significant outputs (Ross’s
 Eccentricity and Sameness: Discourses on Lesbianism and Desire between Women in Italy,
 1860s–1930s (2015); Downing’s Fuckology: Critical Essays on John Money’s Diagnostic

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Concepts (2015)). Examinations of embodied subjectivity in visual culture (Evans, Ince) have
 led to major monographs (e.g., Ince’s prize-winning book The Body and the Screen: Female
 Subjectivities in Contemporary Women’s Cinema (2017) and Evans’s The Body in French Queer
 Thought from Wittig to Preciado: Queer Permeability (2020)). Examinations of the concepts of
 gendered normality, normativity, exceptionality, and extremism (Downing, Evans, Karcher)
 have included Downing’s monograph on Selfish Women (2019) and Karcher’s work on militant
 feminism in the Federal Republic of Germany since 1968. The stream’s research has led to
 impact in a range of cultural and social contexts. One example is Downing’s co-creation of art
 exhibitions and the use of the methods developed in this co-creation to enhance psychiatrists’
 understanding of identity and unconscious bias. Daoudi’s engagement with politicians, NGOs
 and cultural practitioners in Algeria has effected a significant transformation in the public
 understanding of gender-based violence during the Algerian Civil War in political, social and
 cultural spheres (REF 2021 Impact Case Study).

 Impact
 The strategic review of research in 2016-2017 identified two key pathways to impact for the
 cross-disciplinary work carried out in the UoA: cross-sector collaboration and public engagement
 (especially through artistic practice). It was also recognized that large challenges can only be
 met by co-researching with non-humanities scholars. The UoA’s impact strategy focuses on
 building and enhancing these pathways. One aspect of this was the consolidation of impact
 strategy across the School of Languages, Cultures, Art History and Music. Embedding impact
 strategy at School level has allowed the Unit to foster a degree of cross-disciplinary and cross-
 sectoral practice that would not otherwise have been possible, and thereby lay the groundwork
 for significant impact. Colleagues in the UoA (especially Jones as School Impact Lead and
 Watts as Chair of the School-wide ‘Word Music Image’ research theme) played a key role in
 defining and nurturing the LCAHM impact strategy. In common with the streams, the approach
 has interdisciplinarity and a focus on methods at its core.

 The impact strategy centres around LCAHM’s cross-departmental research theme Word Music
 Image (WMI), which identifies and facilitates partnerships with internal and external partners.
 This is complemented by three impact clusters that are internally focused and aim to develop
 the skills required to create meaningful change in the world: Creative Societies, Languages in
 Practice, and Arts of Understanding. The clusters are centred on a method of delivering impact
 (e.g., through artistic partnerships, education, public engagement); these clusters have been
 developed strategically from the ‘ground up’, that is, by identifying and nurturing existing
 synergies between the praxis of researchers across the School. The clusters offer CPD
 workshops focused a) around a particular theme within a cluster (e.g., cultural repair, migration,
 conservation of artefacts) and b) skills and knowledge germane to that particular method (e.g.,
 creating and developing partnerships in the creative economies, using public engagement for
 impact).

 The success of this strategy for the UoA is seen in the meaningful and diverse impact produced
 in the streams: each stream has contributed one of the UoA’s Impact Case Studies
 submitted to REF 2021 (see above). Since February 2019, WMI and cluster events have
 attracted more than 80 participants from across disciplines and sectors (27 from the UoA),
 including 20 different non-HEI partners. Collaborative projects led by researchers in the UoA and
 with the potential for significant impact are now emerging directly from these events. These
 include Roca Lizarazu’s ongoing partnership with Salt Road artist group and her work around
 alternative citizenships (the subject of a UKRI Leadership Fellowship application); and Jones’s


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with local community organisations (Centrala, Creative Black Country) on a project
 combining memory and migration studies.

 Future strategy
 The UoA aims to build on the foundational work undertaken in this REF period and to progress
 the methodological innovation, cross-disciplinary and cross-sectoral approach that have become
 central to its practice. Two concepts have emerged as central areas of concern within the UoA
 and these will underpin the UoA’s research and impact strategies in the medium- to long-term:
 diversifying and refreshing.

 Questions of diversifying Modern Languages research have been a focal point of discussions
 within the UoA in this REF period. Diversifying is very broadly understood and includes a
 rethinking of Western epistemologies (within (Trans)forming Knowledge), a questioning of binary
 thinking (within Intersecting Identities) and a reconceptualization of Europe as a periphery in
 dialogue with other parts of the world (within Forging Links). Events planned for 2020 had the
 aim of disseminating these new perspectives at national level. Santos co-organised a major
 conference on the theme of Decolonising Modern Languages with the IMLR in London (planned
 for March 2020; moved online in September 2020). Santos, Jones and Corr were due to present
 a panel on impact, interdisciplinarity and decoloniality at the conference ‘Where are we now?’ in
 Durham in April 2020 (cancelled due to COVID-19).

 The UoA’s future strategy picks up these threads and embeds them within its research and
 impact practice. This will include asking difficult questions about how current research structures
 may work to exclude knowledge constructed outside of Europe or reinforce the use of language
 as a form of power. The UoA will explore how its impact and research practices can be further
 diversified by emphasising collaboration, exchange and focused listening, rather than a
 unidirectional knowledge transfer from academic to non-HEI. EDI considerations are
 embedded at the heart of this rethinking; structures that work to exclude research conducted
 on and in non-European languages and cultures, also work to exclude researchers and research
 subjects from outside of Europe.

 A central part of this strategy will be to interrogate the balance of language specialisms within
 the UoA and, in particular, the role of non-European languages (currently Mandarin and Arabic
 are represented in research within the UoA). It is here that the UoA will seek to refresh existing
 practice, renewing its research and impact agendas to bring work focusing on different parts of
 the world into dialogue. An important part of this agenda is ensuring that colleagues at all career
 stages and with diverse backgrounds have an opportunity to contribute to deciding the UoA’s
 future direction.

 Diversifying and refreshing will be embedded within the existing research streams, and the UoA
 will continue to identify cutting-edge research questions and devise projects on the basis of
 them. Projects are characterized by (a) setting out large methodological positions in relation to
 the streams; (b) doing so in a cross-disciplinary way; and/or (c) involving practice at their core.
 Several funded projects will start in the next REF period: for example, Harris’s Leverhulme-
 funded project on dissemination of knowledge between sixteenth-century Protestant reformers
 (awarded, £137k). Diversifying and refreshing will mean a strategic focus on non-European
 languages in terms of both recruitment to new posts and support for grant applications.
 The UoA has already begun to emphasise the latter, for example: Gould recently has submitted
 an application for a project on Islamic concepts of freedom (under review); Yuan has been
 supported in the development of an AHRC Research, Development and Engagement Fellowship

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for a project generating a new theoretical framework for understanding interpreter identities with
 a focus on Mandarin-English interpreting (under review).

 The UoA will continue the focus on developing larger-scale collaborative projects and intensify
 and further increase external research grant capture to underpin them. This will combine a
 number of large bids (in excess of £500k) with support for ECRs in building their profile through
 applications for smaller ‘first’ grants, as well as ensuring they are included as CIs and
 collaborators on larger grants where appropriate.

 Open data and digital research
 The emphasis on digital technologies that plays a major part in the work of the streams also
 provides the basis for the UoA’s approach to Open Access. An explicitly OA policy for data and
 code was written into Divjak and Milin’s project Out of Our Minds, and the first OA publications
 from the project are now coming out. Ward’s publicly editable Estoria de Espanna Digital and
 Abbott’s Baudelaire Song Project database are both underpinned by OA principles. Both are
 registered on GitHub with a DOI and OA license, making data and metadata accessible public
 resources. The Unit’s OA strategy capitalizes on the procedures that the University of
 Birmingham makes available; UoB provides and encourages the use of electronic research data
 archives (The University of Birmingham Research Archive - UBIRA), which can be combined
 with an online repository for code such as GitHub or OSF. PURE provides open access to
 research, and academics publish where possible in open-access journals (REF 5a 2.2, 4.5).
 Researchers in the UoA showcase their research via the College’s ‘two-minute reads’ feature,
 which offers short, layperson-oriented accounts of significant published research with links to the
 articles themselves (Divjak, Jones and Saldanha contributed ‘two-minute reads’ in the REF
 period). Staff also regularly produce research-informed articles for open-access publications with
 a wide reach such as The Conversation, The Guardian or the Huffington Post.

 The UoA’s commitment to the digital has enabled it to respond to some of the challenges posed
 by the COVID-19 crisis especially well, and this learning will be taken forward into the next cycle
 as the UoA explores ways to sustain and enhance its collaborative and cross-sector approach to
 research and impact. Abbott’s Language Coaching masterclasses for early-career performers
 from leading UK Conservatoires (RNCM, RCS, RCM, RAM, Guildhall) resulted in a Social
 DistanSong Spring Festival, brought online because of COVID-19. Divjak was closely involved
 with the organisation and delivery of the ‘UK Cognitive Linguistics’ conference, hosted by UoB
 and moved online-only in July 2020. During lockdown, Daoudi conducted a series of Facebook
 interviews with Algerian cultural practitioners whose work deals with the Civil War of the 1990s,
 attracting almost 12,000 combined views. The School impact clusters ran a number of
 brainstorming impact workshops exploring experiences of and best practice for moving impact
 and engagement work into the online environment (Ward, Abbott and Ardrey presented at these
 events). The UoA put robust plans in place – including the creation of a Research Resilience
 Lead – to ensure that research activities and events in the 2020-21 academic year are held
 digitally, enabling maximum staff engagement and addressing potential EDI barriers to
 participation.

 Research integrity
 The UoA’s research environment has been designed to support staff and PG research in
 following University-wide ethics committee standards and ensuring that research practices are in
 line with UUK’s Concordat on Research Integrity (REF5a 2.2). Training on ethics standards and
 review procedures is built into researcher support at all levels. It forms part of the annual
 Developmental Needs Analysis and training for all PGR students and probationary training for

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECR staff, while regular updates are provided to all staff via online CPD. Reflections on best
 practice are shared at informal research lunches and in-person CPD sessions.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 The University has made a substantial investment in the UoA in response to the revised
 research and impact strategy, with appointments made to consolidate and build on identified
 areas of excellence. The UoA made 4 new professorial appointments (Abbott, Ginger, Gould,
 Divjak) and 10 early-career appointments (Ardrey, Corr, Evans, Karcher, Palmer, Santos,
 Schifano, O’Sullivan, Yuan, Zaramella). Daoudi moved from a teaching and scholarship to a
 teaching and research post in this REF period. New appointments include 2 staff members
 appointed via the Birmingham Professorial Fellowship scheme (Divjak, Gould). These schemes
 are designed to attract high-performing researchers to the University, who are given
 concentrated time for research activities in the first five years of their contract (REF5a 3.4.1).
 Divjak has additionally brought the Leverhulme-funded project Out of Our Minds, which includes
 the appointment of an SL colleague, Milin. The majority of Category A staff in the UoA have
 been appointed to open-ended posts (34 out of 35). Roca Lizarazu was appointed to a 3-year
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship in 2018 and is now being supported by the University in an
 application for a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. If successful, this would include the
 appointment to a permanent position.

 In line with the aims of Interconnections, the UoA recruited new staff on the basis of a targeted
 effort to develop and build a concentration of expertise in comparative studies and to enhance
 the focus on interdisciplinarity across languages, linguistics, culture, and theory. The UoA has
 made significant investment in linguistics, growing capacity from 0 to 4 permanent specialists in
 this area (Divjak, Milin, Corr, Schifano). Abbott and Ardrey were recruited to add to growing
 strengths in the digital humanities, complementing the work already carried out by Ward in this
 area. Evans and Karcher have enhanced and expanded the research already carried out by
 Downing, Ross, Ince, and others in the area of Modern Languages-led sexuality studies. The
 appointments of Ginger and Gould at professorial level, and of Santos, O’Sullivan and Yuan at
 lecturer level, have lent critical mass to, and expanded areas of excellence within, the Forging
 Links stream. The emergence of a significant mass of mid-career researchers, focusing on a
 broader range of geographical, methodological, and linguistic areas, is driving the strategic
 review and programme of diversifying and refreshing outlined above.

 The UoA has a vibrant community of non-Category A postdoctoral research fellows (PDRF)
 within the UoA, most attached to projects led by senior researchers. Jato and Klapper’s
 Leverhulme project Fractured Frontiers allowed the recruitment of two PDRFs (Windsor and
 Arnold); Windsor returned to the UoA as PDRF on Jones’s Knowing the Secret Police project
 (AHRC); Divjak and Milin’s Out of our Minds provided Leverhulme Trust funding for 3 PDRFs
 (Ez-zizi, Romain and Sun); Abbott’s AHRC-funded Baudelaire Song Project brought PDRF
 Rolland to the UoA; Karcher’s major ERC grant on Urban Terrorism in Europe allowed the
 appointment of a PDRF Geerts; Gould’s ERC Starting Grant on Global Literary Theory has
 brought with it four PDRFs working on Turkic (D’hulster), Persian (Quay, Askari) and Arabic
 (Rashwan) literature. The UoA carefully nurtures the careers of Research Fellows and ECRs
 and these colleagues are central players in innovating and implementing the research strategy
 (with plans to increase their strategy-making power as described above). Roca Lizarazu has
 helped co-ordinate and lead day-long multi-partner, multi-sector impact events within Word


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Music Image; Ardrey, who joined UoB as a researcher on Abbott’s AHRC Baudelaire Project
 grant, was later appointed to a full lectureship and is innovating in research and practice on
 digital humanities.

 Staff development
 Staff development is supported at all career stages through an environment that fosters
 collaboration, creativity and impact. The UoA has inaugurated and holds regular Research
 Lunches (approximately twice per term), at which researchers at all career stages engage in a
 range of research-supporting activities, including reading key texts of cross-stream interest,
 debating key and emerging concepts in the discipline, sharing best practice in research, and
 carrying out work-in-progress peer-review of outputs and grant applications. The aims are, firstly,
 to strengthen outputs in progress; secondly, to explore key concepts and original research
 questions collectively; and, thirdly, to provide mutual peer support in an informal and collegial
 atmosphere. Discussion of in-progress drafts of chapters of monographs that have appeared in
 the REF cycle has been especially important.

 Instead of a standard seminar/lecture series, the streams additionally organize regular, full-
 afternoon, major research events that resemble mini conferences featuring invited world-
 leading scholars. A talk by the guest scholar is followed by activities across a number of formats
 including work-in-progress presentations by UoB researchers (staff and PGRs) leading to
 feedback and a broader discussion with the visitor and the community; ‘master classes’ in which
 the visitor engages with PGR students; and round-table debate events. World-leading scholars
 invited have included leaders in interdisciplinary Modern Languages studies (e.g., Emeritus
 Professor of French, Terence Cave, Oxford; Professor Emma Wilson, French, Cambridge) and
 scholars from other fields whose work opens the way to interdisciplinary thinking and practice for
 Modern Languages research (e.g., sexologist Prof. Alain Giami (INSERM, Paris); comparative
 historian of ideas Prof. Vicente Rafael (University of Washington in Seattle)).

 School structures (especially Word Music Image) support the development of colleagues’
 impact work and facilitate exchanges with, in particular, cultural and third sector bodies. The
 School Impact Lead provides tailored mentoring to support colleagues working on Impact
 Case Studies. ICS leads are given additional teaching relief to carry out impact, and impact
 achievements are recognized in the promotion process. The College Impact and Research Fund
 provides financial support for established and emerging impact (it supported Jones’s theatre
 road trips, Downing’s travel to co-create/participate in exhibitions in different European cities,
 and Ward’s crowdsourcing work).

 In line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the College
 Staff Development policy, a rigorous development programme combines centrally-provided
 training with departmental support. This is achieved through ring-fencing of research time,
 mentoring, and targeted one-to-one meetings with CAL Research and Knowledge Transfer
 Office staff for researchers at all levels who are planning research grants and projects.

 All staff in the UoA benefit from individual research mentoring and discipline-specific CPD
 sessions on promotion. Since 2013, an enhanced scheme of study leave has been in operation,
 with all staff entitled to apply every 6 semesters for up to 2 semesters’ study leave (and,
 exceptionally, 12 months, subject to agreed objectives). Several colleagues have written major
 monographs in the period as a result of enhanced leave (e.g. Jato, El éxodo español de 1939;
 Rulyova, Joseph Brodsky and Collaborative Self-Translation; Watts: A History of French
 Literature on Film). This is supported by an annual personal research allowance (PRA) of

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £1000 in non-pandemic times. Career progression is supported via a transparent workload
 allocation model (WAM), which ensures equitable distribution of teaching, administration, and
 research across the UoA. New appointees at lecturer level are assigned a formal personal
 mentor as part of the University probation support and monitoring policy (REF5a 3.4.3). The
 School has a specific grants mentoring scheme led by the School Research Lead. This
 assigns two mentors with grant-related experience to each project from an early verbal pitch
 stage to final submission.

 Within the UoA, the Research Lead advises on research plans, outputs and career progression.
 Colleagues are regularly updated on research developments and opportunities via weekly
 Research Newsletters and at regular departmental meetings. The annual Personal
 Development Review monitors performance and maps out research goals. The promotions
 and rewards strategy encourages excellence in research and impact (REF5a 3.4.6). Staff can
 apply for promotion in any annual review cycle, and research performance is a central criterion.
 Exceptional research performance may also be rewarded with a one-off payment or award of an
 additional salary increment.

 Excellent performance on the part of existing staff has resulted in 4 promotions to Professor in
 the REF period (Forcer, Hardwick, Jones, Ward). Forcer has since taken up a Chair and
 Headship of School at the University of Glasgow, following his term as Head of Department at
 UoB. Jato, Jones, and Ward have been invited to participate in the University’s Research
 Leaders’ Programme, which enables them to develop their skills of leadership in collaboration
 with colleagues from across the whole range of disciplines of the University and via international
 visits. Other colleagues have completed the Early Career Leadership (Ardrey, Palmer, Santos),
 Emerging Leaders (Sèbe, Forcer – Griffiths and Wagstaff to complete in 2020/21) and Senior
 Leadership (Abbott, Ginger) programmes (REF5a 3.4.4).

 Research students

 As a direct result of strategic appointments linked to the streams, especially in Colonial and
 Postcolonial and Middle Eastern Studies, Translation Studies, and Sexuality and Gender
 Studies, the UoA is building a growing PGR community. In 2016, the UoA had a registered
 PGR population of 62. In 2020, numbers had risen to 93, despite a challenging national climate
 in Modern Languages recruitment. The School has a strong appeal amongst international
 students, often contributing to the development of a new generation of researchers in the Global
 South; for instance, Sèbe’s current and former PhD students include researchers from Algeria,
 India, Iraq, Nigeria, and Pakistan, and most of them receive scholarships from their countries of
 origin. The University’s cross-institution Interdisciplinary Sexuality and Gender Studies network
 is convened by Downing, and the UoA owns the PGR programmes linked to them, placing the
 activities and concerns of Intersecting Identities at the heart of cross-University collaboration.

 The UoA’s cross-disciplinary approach to research is reflected in its PGR community and many
 postgraduate students in the Unit are working on interdisciplinary projects. Cross-disciplinary
 co-supervisions take place across the School and University. Downing currently co-supervises
 three PhD students with colleagues from the College of Social Sciences (CoSS); Jones has co-
 supervised four PhD students with colleagues in Political Science and International Studies and
 one with a colleague in History; Corr supervises a PhD student with Social Policy; Sèbe with
 colleagues in History, Theology and Creative Writing; and Rulyova with Creative Writing.

 PGR funding comes from two principal sources (i) concrete research projects with students
 attached (e.g. ERC, Karcher; AHRC, Ward; Leverhulme, Klapper and Jato, Divjak and Milin) and

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ii) competitive funding schemes, of which the AHRC Midlands 4 Cities consortium (M4C; M3C
 to 2018) is the most significant. Applications for the latter are targeted at the research
 specialisms of the UoA, with particular emphasis placed on cross-disciplinary and cross-
 institutional supervision. The applicants are guided through proposal development by means of
 mentoring and application workshops run by the College. Additionally, all applicants are
 interviewed by a panel of experts in the UoA and only the highest quality projects are put forward
 for selection. 10 students in UoA have been the recipients of M3C/M4C funding in the period
 2014/2015 to 2019/2020.

 Successful and timely completion of PGR theses is supported by a rigorous programme of
 monitoring and support mechanisms. PGRs receive monthly supervision (or part-time
 equivalent) and have a team of at least two supervisors and a mentor. Supervisors work with
 students to carry out a Developmental Needs Analysis at the beginning of every academic year
 and review these with students regularly. The UoA offers online and in-person skills training via
 the College Graduate School. Postgraduate students are guided through their supportive annual
 progress reviews by supervisors. The School organises progress panels in a way which
 guarantees that an ECR is a member of each panel. In this way, the School aims to (i) integrate
 ECRs more fully into the life of the School, and (ii) guarantee a wider knowledge and experience
 base in the School itself, thereby future-proofing its own capabilities.

 Students in the UoA also benefit from structures created at School level in 2017-18 to foster
 cross-disciplinary engagement with other PGR researchers. This includes informal, student-
 led fortnightly seminars at which students present a short outline of their research to their peers
 who offer informal feedback. These seminars, which have necessarily become virtual in 2020-
 21, allow for the incorporation of the UoA’s burgeoning community of Distance Learning
 students, and also serve to combat the sense of isolation frequently reported by postgraduate
 students nationally. The School additionally has established twice-yearly formal research
 seminars, in which members of staff across the School are paired with PGRs. Thus, researchers
 from different departments, but with thematic interests in common, are encouraged to meet in
 advance of the formal presentation and discuss their thematic commonalities before each
 speaks about their own research in the seminar, which is open to all members of the School. As
 of 2018/19, there is an annual School Graduate Conference, shaped and led by postgraduate
 researchers. PGR students have also developed their own community activities and initiatives.
 For example, ROLES, a self-starting Sexuality and Gender Studies PGR network, established in
 2010, holds research seminars, reading groups, and a major annual conference which attracts
 national and international attendance.

 In order to enhance skills development and preparation for careers both in and outside of
 academia, PGR students are encouraged to participate in the activities of the streams and to
 undertake impact work/ co-authoring with their supervisors wherever practical. For example,
 Downing and Rees-Hales are co-authoring an article based on a series of previously unknown
 lithographs of female criminals unearthed by the student during her archival research. Students
 co-supervised within the UoA (Rees-Hales, Hedger, Tatlow, Wimbush) have taken advantage of
 placement opportunities (e.g., those provided through the M3C/M4C consortium) to enable them
 to further their understanding of the sectors related to their research (respectively, galleries,
 music performance, puppetry, and education). PGR students have been able to take advantage
 of the ‘Reading X for Researchers’ courses, whereby X = a language offered by the UoA. This is
 an asset to many of the UoA’s interdisciplinary students, in particular those who come from non-
 languages backgrounds but need to access and understand documents in a foreign language in
 the course of their research.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity
 Recruitment and promotion policies within the UoA have had the effect of improving gender
 balance at professorial level. Of seven professorial colleagues returned to REF 2014, six were
 men; as of July 2020, that ratio is now six female professorial (Category A) staff to two male
 (with one further female colleague promoted to Professor in 2020/2021). This better reflects the
 overall gender distribution in the UoA (77.1% female) and of the discipline as a whole. All
 colleagues sitting on appointment panels attend unconscious bias training and a gender balance
 is ensured on appointment and promotion panels. Of recent appointments to the UoA at early
 career stage, eight members of appointed staff are female, one male, and one non-binary. The
 ratio for newly recruited professors is three female/one male and, of those promoted internally to
 professor, two are female and two are male.

 The UoA’s research strategy, in particular Intersecting Identities and the focus on post- and
 decoloniality within Forging Links places EDI concerns at the core of the Unit’s activities.
 This has fostered cross-sector collaborations around questions of sexuality and race that in turn
 feed back into internal policy and process. Examples include Ross’s work with LGBTQ activist
 groups in Vercelli and Naples to share strategies and perspectives on LGBTQ rights, and a new
 initiative led by Downing and Evans in collaboration with partner institution UVA, the
 Netherlands, on international #metoo movements and new developments in EDI. Intra-
 departmental discussions around decoloniality have prompted a rethinking of the UoA’s research
 structures and how these might work to exclude non-European perspectives. Three colleagues
 identifying as BAME were recruited or transferred to roles including responsibility for research in
 this REF cycle. Nonetheless, the UoA recognises that its staffing base is overwhelmingly white
 (88.6%), and exclusively so at professorial level, and aims to address this through its recruitment
 and promotion strategies now and in the future.

 The UoA encourages applications for flexible or part-time working for staff with caring
 responsibilities or disabilities: 40% of staff within the UoA have such an agreement in place. All
 staff are eligible to apply for study leave on the basis outlined above and colleagues on part-time
 contracts are supported equally in achieving their research and impact objectives. The UoA has
 a very limited number of Category A staff on fixed-term contracts; colleagues in this group are
 given tailored mentoring and support for progressing their careers (seen, e.g., in the
 appointment of Ardrey from PDRF to Lecturer and the nomination of Roca Lizarazu for a UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship). There is dedicated space within promotion applications for staff to
 outline the impact of career breaks, disability or part-time working to ensure that EDI
 considerations are fully taken into account in the evaluation process. Staff are also supported by
 the University’s Workplace Wellbeing team, which provides employee advice and listening
 services (REF5a 3.4.5).

 The organization of UoA research events embeds a concern with EDI at every level in a way that
 supports participation by all research-active colleagues and students. All weekly events at
 School and Departmental level are within the School’s single schedule of events, which ensures
 that these take place at family- and carer-friendly times. The emphasis on workshop-style major
 events, instead of traditional seminars, ensures staff at different career stages, and PGRs, can
 participate with their own papers/share work-in-progress, alongside leading external speakers,
 and engage in discussion with them (e.g., ECR Palmer presented work at the (Trans)forming
 Knowledge event with Prof. Deirdre Wilson; PGR student Mouna Lekkal offered a research-
 based response to Prof. Chandrika Kaul). Questions of gender and ethnic equality and diversity
 are central to the choice of speakers and representation of a variety of groups (as well as of
 viewpoints) is sought and achieved.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Colleagues in the UoA are able to benefit from the College’s policy of offering one term of
 remission from either teaching or administration following return to work after an extended
 period of parental leave (min. 6 months). Seven members of the UoA (20% of total staff
 returned) have taken advantage of this policy in the REF cycle and have thereby been able to
 regain the momentum of their research and impact work: these colleagues have contributed a
 mean of 2.0 outputs and one has led an Impact Case Study. Other forms of remission or tailored
 adjustment have been offered to (and taken up by) colleagues returning to work following long-
 term sick leave or other forms of parental leave.

 The UoA sought to achieve a gender balance in internal REF reading and selection groups
 and members of the latter received unconscious bias training. The output selection process
 reviewed EDI data with a view to achieving a fair representation of staff with protected
 characteristics within the UoA, in line with the University Code of Practice. An emerging pattern
 in the underrepresentation of BAME staff in terms of number of outputs submitted fed into
 discussions around the ways in which research structures may unintentionally exclude work
 done within non-European languages and the revision of the UoA’s research strategy
 accordingly.

 The School has prepared a submission for an Athena SWAN Bronze award (submission date:
 November 2020), led by Rulyova of UoA 26 and supported by an extended 4-year Action Plan.
 As part of the application process, the School conducted an EDI self-assessment of its three
 departments, including two staff EDI surveys followed by focus groups to explore and address
 the issues raised. The EDI Lead reports to the Head of School monthly, and is a member of
 School Executive Committee; there is a designative EDI budget within the School. Recent EDI
 initiatives have included events designed to focus on visible role models, and School-wide
 discussions around the University’s COVID-19 Framework for Educational Resilience and the
 Black Lives Matter movement.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research grants
 The UoA’s success in grant capture has improved year-on-year and, in particular, since the
 strategic changes to its research structures and new appointments since 2016. Average yearly
 grant income in 2013/2014 and 2014/2015 was £294k. In the academic years 2015/16 to
 2019/20, the average figure was £484k – an increase of 65%. The UoA has won external
 awards to a value of £3.01 million during the current REF period; this represents a threefold
 increase per FTE staff member from the previous cycle. As described below, the grants won in
 this REF cycle show the benefit of the methods-focused and cross-disciplinary structures
 created by the UoA’s research strategy. They have resulted in high-quality outputs and impact:
 notably, all three of the ICSs submitted to REF 2021 were underpinned by competitive grant
 funding.

 Drawing on the expertise on cultures outside of the Western canon, memory, testimony and
 creative collaboration emphasised in the Forging Links stream, two researchers in the UoA have
 secured major ERC Starting Grants (ca. £1.5 million each), enabling transformative research.
 Gould’s project Global Literary Theory marks a significant departure from the Western bias and
 basis of the canonical institution of literary criticism; while Karcher’s Urban Terrorism in Europe
 uses a multidisciplinary theoretical framework to offer the first in-depth comparative analysis of


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 memory discourses and responses to recent acts of urban terrorism in the UK, Germany, France
 and Spain. Karcher’s project involves collaborations with scholars, artists, and NGOs across
 Europe and will incorporate artistic outputs that challenge public perceptions of the relationship
 between memory, security and the city. The Out of Our Minds project (Divjak and Milin) has
 attracted £935k over 5 years from the Leverhulme Trust for genuinely discipline-transforming
 and interdisciplinary (linguistics, language studies, cognitive psychology) work. Hardwick’s
 AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship (£168k) has resulted in a landmark monograph on
 the author Joseph Zobel and, more widely, challenged current perceptions of the Négritude
 movement by drawing attention to Zobel’s Négritude-influenced prose fiction and its
 groundbreaking exploration of social class. Jones’s AHRC Networking Grant (£44k), Culture
 and its Uses as Testimony, has enabled the development of a new methodology for analysing
 and understanding ‘mediated testimony’ leading to transformative work with national Holocaust
 education providers. The impact of Jones’s research is reflected in her success at acquiring
 AHRC follow-on funding (£101k), which allowed her to co-produce with an international team
 of artists an innovative documentary theatre production (A Land Full of Heroes, 2019) and a
 multimedia art installation (Testimony in Practice, 2019).

 Within the (Trans)forming Knowledge stream, three AHRC Standard Grants have resulted in
 innovative digital outputs and impact work, alongside traditional academic publications. Abbott’s
 Baudelaire Song Project (£594k) has enabled the construction of a database containing all song
 settings of Baudelaire poems and led to a major research monograph and work with performers,
 conservatoires and schools to enhance skills in the performance of French song. Ward’s Estoria
 de Espanna Digital (also supported by follow-on funding, in total £797k) has enabled the
 production of the first digital edition of a large-scale work of medieval Iberian prose and a range
 of impacts as described above. The fact that the two digital resources are hosted by the UoA
 and accessible via the UoA’s website ensures the wide dissemination and use of the Estoria de
 Espanna Digital and the Baudelaire Song Project database, and signals the significant
 innovation in digital humanities research being carried out in the UoA. The AHRC Standard
 Grant Knowing the Secret Police (£988k), for which Jones is Co-I, explores how knowledge
 about the Stasi was acquired and disseminated in different networks and media in the context of
 an authoritarian regime, and in previously unimagined ways. It will enable the co-production of a
 photography exhibition with the internationally-renowned artist, Arwed Messmer, alongside a
 suite of articles and a monograph, bringing together history, literary analysis and anthropology.

 Work in Intersecting Identities has attracted a series of smaller grants, which have resulted in
 considerable impact work and/or international network-building. Daoudi’s Leverhulme-funded
 (£27k) work with NGOs, artists and survivors of gender-based violence in Algeria has been
 transformative in its impact on public discourse about the Civil War of the 1990s and has
 fostered the production of a number of new works of literature and art. Ross’s and Ince’s AHRC
 Networking Grants (on, respectively, Queer Italia (£42k) and Serge Daney and Queer
 Cinephilia (£38k)) have cemented the unit’s reputation as a UK centre of excellence in
 European/ non-Anglophone queer studies. The workshops carried out for both projects have had
 international reach, with Ince’s workshops taking place in France, Germany, and Birmingham,
 and Ross’s in Italy, USA, and UK. Follow-on funding for Ross’s project, in the form of a
 BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant (ca. £10k) developing the project beyond the Italian
 focus, towards a comparison with French and British contexts, expanded and ensured continuity
 of research.

 Alongside the significant investment in staffing outlined above, research carried out within the
 UoA has been recognized and rewarded at institutional level, by funding from the Institute for

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Global Innovation (IGI) and/or Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) (se REF5a 2.3). A
 combined IGI/IAS ‘High-risk, High-reward’ award was granted to Divjak and Milin’s team to begin
 research on the project Optimizing Reading in a Foreign Language (£9,150). The project
 demonstrates how interdisciplinary research can address intractable problems that have their
 roots and solutions in the humanities and pose serious challenges for knowledge exchange and
 economic development in a multilingual world. Karcher has been awarded funding by the IAS
 (£10k) to initiate a collaboration between UoB academics and artists with an interest in the
 complex and multifaceted theme of '(in)security'. Five artists will work closely with UoB scholars
 to produce works that will be exhibited/performed in 2021 at the local art space Eastside Gallery
 (and/or in a virtual exhibition). Forcer received funding from the IGI to support his cross-
 disciplinary exploration of the potential of humour in post-conflict reconciliation.

 Grant capture within the UoA is supported by several measures put in place at Department,
 School and College level. Within the UoA, individual colleagues’ agreed income targets are set
 in PDRs in line with career-stage and Department and School strategic planning. A key aim is to
 increase the size and scale of applications made, beyond smaller single researcher awards
 towards large collaborative projects; an important part of this is supporting ECRs to build a
 grant-capture trajectory through both smaller-scale applications and collaboration with senior
 scholars on larger projects. The creation of the streams has fostered a climate in which
 collaborative projects can be designed and large grants may be planned; School-level thematic
 events hosted under the Word Music Image heading are key facilitators of grant capture activity.

 At College level, guidance and advice are provided by the CAL RKT Office as well as the
 University’s European and International Research Support Office; these have been crucial to the
 UoA’s success, and underpin future plans to expand income. Research Office staff provide
 advice on individual applications and forthcoming opportunities, as well as workshops on, e.g.,
 research grant writing or writing for specific funding bodies.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Colleagues in the UoA work in interdisciplinary ways across the School under the umbrella of
 Word Music Image, engage culturally with artistic and music practitioners and institutions, and
 co-supervise PhD students across the School and College. Given strengths in intermedial
 research, including literature and sound and visual cultures, researchers in the UoA benefit from
 the wider facilities of the School, including the Barber Institute of Fine Art and the Bramall
 Music facilities. Of particular relevance to research within the UoA, the Barber holds examples
 of European art from the Renaissance to the twentieth century, including Spanish art (Murillo,
 Goya, Picasso). It also houses a Fine Art reference library with ca. 60,000 volumes, funded by
 the Institute Trustees, and incorporates 2.7 million items, over 50,000 scholarly journals
 (electronic and print), and access to 275,000 e-books.

 Researchers in the UoA use these spaces and facilities to develop and showcase their work and
 engage with non-HEI communities. For example, the final event of Abbott’s Baudelaire Song
 Project, including a workshop, a masterclass and a recital, was held in the Barber Concert Hall
 in November 2019, and the University’s artistic partnership with Oxford Lieder, which Abbott
 leads, was inaugurated in the same facility. WMI events have also benefitted from the
 University’s estate. For example, the staged reading of Catalina Florescu’s Suicidal Dog and
 Laika, held at the end of a cluster workshop on migration (which was led and attended by
 several UoA researchers), took place in the Bramall.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA makes use of University-wide facilities, many of which are newly built or improved
 since 2014, to develop its research. The major new University Library, opened in 2016,
 houses the Cadbury Research Library with extensive collections and archives of historic
 material. It has outstanding Arabic and Islamic manuscript collections, including the famous
 Birmingham Qu’ran, relevant to the work of Gould’s research team (REF5a 4.3). Similarly,
 Hardwick leads work on Ecocriticism with the world-leading University of Birmingham Institute
 of Forest Research, and collaborated on the development of a successful Leverhulme DTP
 grant held by the School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences.

 A number of researchers in the UoA are integral to the University’s digital infrastructure, both
 as users and developers. Colleagues undertaking work with corpus and/or digital resources
 include Abbott, Ardrey, Corr, Divjak, Jones, Malamatidou, Milin, Schifano, and Ward. For the Out
 of Our Minds project, Divjak and Milin have access to a lab that belongs to the research group.
 Their lab has equipment for behavioural and physiological data collection (two desktops and two
 laptops with ultra-responsive monitors for reaction time studies, two tablets for survey data
 collection, two sets of noise-cancelling headphones, several button boxes, and physiological
 measurement equipment). They also have their own High Performance computing nodes that
 are integrated into the UoB BEAR network and access to the two ELAL labs with eye-tracking
 equipment (REF5a 4.5).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 International collaborations
 The UoA’s strategy includes the ambition to raise further the international profile of Modern
 Languages at Birmingham via leadership on collaborative international projects and
 dissemination of activities by means of research outputs, outreach events and impact
 formations. In this regard, the UoA has benefitted significantly from the structures created by
 UoB’s strategic partnerships. This includes the new collaboration with partner institution UVA
 on international #metoo movements and new developments in EDI. Ward and Abbott are
 developing a major strategic institution-level collaboration with Trinity College Dublin and other
 Irish HEIs to carry out Authority in the Digital Age (ADA). The project deals with the fundamental
 question of trust and authority in the contemporary world, through an interrogation of editing
 practices and security in digital contexts. Through partnership agreements brokered by Yuan,
 Sèbe and Ginger delivered an invited research-lecture tour of partner institutions in China, with
 Sèbe speaking from the perspective of colonial/postcolonial studies, and Ginger from that of the
 theory of comparison. HEIs visited included Renmin, Fudan, China University of Mining and
 Technology, and South China Medical University.

 The work of the streams has also fostered the development of international networks led by
 researchers within the UoA. They have organized major international conferences and acted as
 host for events of major international and national associations. Within Forging Links, two major
 events built on the stream’s and UoA’s discussions around issues of post- and de-coloniality. In
 the first, Gould and Santos delivered a British Academy writing workshop with the title ‘Global
 Epistemologies’. The workshop was delivered in collaboration with the School of Literary Studies
 in the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) in Hyderabad, India. It supported ECRs
 from the Global South to develop strategies for publication, grant capture and networking. In the
 second, Sèbe hosted the Society for Francophone Postcolonial Studies’s study day on
 ‘negotiating borders in the Francophone world’, as well as the international conference ‘The End
 of Empire’, sponsored partly by the Past & Present Society. Alongside the two major AHRC-
 funded international networks within Intersecting Identities (see above), the stream – led by Ince

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 – hosted the annual BAFTSS (British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies)
 conference at UoB in April 2019. Within the (Trans)forming Knowledge stream, Griffths co-
 organised an international conference at the University of Calgary on 'The Drama of Obedience,
 1700-1900' in early April, funded by the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research
 Council (ca. £7k), which was cancelled due to COVID-19. The collaboration will now take place
 in the form of an edited volume of Oxford German Studies (April 2021) entitled The Drama of
 Obedience, featuring scholars from Canada, the USA, Germany, Switzerland and Austria.

 Relationships with key beneficiaries and audiences
 The formation of cross-sector partnerships has been central to enhancing the social and cultural
 impact of our work across the streams. The development of World Music Image and the
 embedding of the UoA within it has supported us significantly in achieving this goal. The UoA’s
 partnerships with non-HEI organizations are highly diverse, but can be grouped loosely into
 three core areas: arts and cultural organizations and individual artists; policymakers and NGOs;
 and educational organizations and practitioners. Reflecting UoB’s identity as a civic university,
 there is an emphasis on regional partnerships; and, as Modern Linguists, there is equally a
 focus on co-operations with international organizations and institutions. This work has
 supported the impact case studies submitted to REF 2021 and fostered wider activities and
 impact not captured in those submissions, including engagement with diverse communities
 and publics. The detail below outlines some key examples of these co-operations and the
 impact emerging from them.

 1. Arts and cultural organizations and individual artists. The major impacts to emerge
    through collaborations in this area are the co-production of unique cultural artefacts and
    transforming public understanding of topics of urgent concern. This includes Jones’s co-
    productions with the theatre company La Conquesta del pol sud and Centrala Space, which
    created new cultural artefacts and engaged multiple audiences in the UK and France. The
    cultural impact of Ward’s Estoria de Espanna Digital project was assured through
    partnerships with the Biblioteca Nacional and Instituto del Patrimonio Cultural Español. The
    project has brought the research to diverse audiences using digital tools, including
    crowdsourcing. Abbott’s innovative and cross-disciplinary work on French song and
    performance has led to a close co-operation with Oxford Lieder, resulting in the production
    of new creative forms – most recently, the premiere of a new song by British composer
    Cheryl Frances-Hoad and the publication of a new score (Chester Music, 2019). Karcher
    contributed to the co-production of a new creative works through her collaboration with the
    film collective Las Otras, which resulted in the documentary Frauen bildet Banden - eine
    Spurensuche zur Geschichte der Roten Zora.

 2. Policymakers and NGOs. The impacts emerging from collaborations with policymakers
    and NGOs focus on addressing and finding innovative solutions to key social challenges.
    For example, Daoudi’s research-led activism with survivors of gender-based violence in
    North Africa is enhanced by her partnerships with the Algerian NGO, Djazairouna, who work
    with victims of terrorism during and after the Civil War. Daoudi’s research and impact is
    made possible by relationships with local artist and activist communities and she has
    engaged diverse audiences (survivors, readers, visitors to exhibitions) through these
    partnerships. Sèbe brought his expertise on the impact of arid environments on strategies of
    imperial conquest and administration to collaborations with world-leading international think
    tanks (the Cato Institute, USA – among the top 15 most influential think-tanks worldwide), as
    well as military organisations (Sandhurst Military Academy). Forcer co-operated with
    representatives of Save the Children, MSF, Clowns Without Borders UK, and the European

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Federation of Healthcare Clown Organisations to explore the potential of humour in post-
     conflict cultural repair.

 3. Educational organisations and practitioners. Researchers from across the UoA
    collaborate with individual schools nationally and internationally, as well as with
    organisations responsible for education in particular topics. They thereby engage teachers
    and students and influence and inform pedagogical practice. To give just a few examples,
    Jones’s impact work included the co-production of resources with three national Holocaust
    education providers and transformed the use of mediated testimony in this field. The Estoria
    de Espanna project engaged school students in Spain and the UK with new perspectives on
    medieval manuscript culture. Hardwick’s Zobel research, which refreshed public
    understanding of négritude also within schools, was conceived as a collaborative venture
    with key Martinican partners, including the Médiathèque de Rivière-Salée, the Town Council
    of Rivière-Salée and the Lycée Joseph Zobel.

 Contributions to the discipline
 Researchers in the UoA work internationally and in cross-disciplinary ways to explore new
 agendas and assert the urgency of the work they undertake. To this end, for example, Ginger
 founded and co-leads the International Network of Nineteenth-Century Hispanists, which brings
 together an international network of more than 200 scholars and hosts annual international
 conferences in different countries. Outputs emerging from this network within the REF period
 include the international edited collection Spain in the Nineteenth Century, which sets out a new
 agenda in the field. In recognition of the groundbreaking research facilitated by her AHRC
 Fellowship, Hardwick was invited to be an inaugural member of the steering committee of the
 Joseph Zobel group, hosted by leading French Research institutions ITEM/CNRS. Marcer has
 recently been elected President of the prestigious Anglo-Catalan Society. Ince currently serves
 as Treasurer of BAFTSS. Sèbe has been elected a member of the executive board of the
 French charity Les Sahariens and this has led him to work with the musée saharien near
 Montpellier, with which they have a partnership agreement.

 The work completed by the UoA on linguistics responds in a direct way to the sustainability of
 the discipline by addressing the key challenge of effective Modern Languages education and
 recruitment in secondary schools. This is exemplified by the project Linguistics in Modern
 Foreign Languages (MFL). This is a joint venture between researchers in the UoA (Corr,
 Shifano) and 4 UK universities which aims at assessing the potential for the integration of
 linguistics into the MFL curriculum in schools. The ultimate aim of this project is to drive stronger
 uptake and results in MFL study, and to enthuse and better prepare candidates for entry into
 MFL at university by bringing about a change in the curriculum. The work is supported by a grant
 from the OWRI-funded 'Language Acts' flagship project (£8k, with Corr and Schifano as Co-Is).

 Members of the UoA occupy leading positions on the editorial boards of some of the most
 significant publications in the disciplines of which they are part. For example, Divjak is Editor-in-
 Chief of the discipline-leading journal Cognitive Linguistics; Ince is a General Editor of French
 Screen Studies; Jones is Subject Editor for German for Forum for Modern Language Studies;
 Marcer is an invited editor of the new journal Bulletin of Contemporary Hispanic Studies; and
 Watts co-edits one of the leading journals in nineteenth-century literary studies (Dix-Neuf).

 Many of the UoA’s researchers define the benchmarks of excellence in the field via high-level
 peer assessment appointments. For example, Downing is nominated assessor for the
 UNESCO Chair in Gender Studies; Gould has peer-reviewed for the Shota Rustaveli National

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science Foundation, Georgia and for Fullbright US scholarships; Griffiths has reviewed for the
 American Academy in Berlin; Hardwick has peer-reviewed for the National Science Foundation
 of South Africa; Jones has reviewed for the Humboldt Foundation, the Dutch Research Council,
 the Estonian Research Council and the Marie Sklodowska-Curie COFUND; Karcher has
 reviewed for the Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship scheme; and Wagstaff for the Research
 Foundation, Flanders. Five colleagues are members of the AHRC Peer Review College (Abbott,
 Gould, Hardwick, Jones, and Sèbe).

 Members of the UoA have been invited to international professorships and fellowships. For
 instance, Sèbe was a visiting professor at the Sorbonne (2015), the University of Montpellier
 (2017) and Sciences-Po Aix-en-Provence (2019); Hardwick held a visiting fellowship at Emory
 University in 2015; and Brown spent 9 months at the Herzog August Bibliothek in Wolfenbuettel
 as a Humboldt Fellow.

 Colleagues disseminate research via invitations to deliver plenary or keynote lectures and
 talks at international institutions. As a small exemplary sample of the international range of
 these activities: Gould’s leading research on de-westernizing literary criticism prompted an
 invitation to speak as keynote on “What is Islamic Literary Theory?” at the American University
 of Beirut’s Center for Arts and Humanities; Hardwick gave an invited keynote lecture on Zobel at
 the Society for Francophone Postcolonial Studies annual conference; and Jones was a speaker
 at the Leamington Spa chapter of the ‘Creative Mornings’ programme (live-streamed
 internationally). ECRs and mid-career researchers in the UoA have also been invited to act as
 keynotes, including Brown’s invitation to give the opening keynote lecture at a conference on the
 history of women writers and translators at University of Lausanne, Switzerland, and
 Malamatidou’s invitations to be plenary speaker at conferences at University of Athens, Greece
 and São Paulo State University, Brazil. Sèbe was a guest speaker at French Cultural Institutes
 in Shanghai, Algiers, Constantine, Tlemcen and Brazzaville. This demonstrates that at all career
 stages researchers in the UoA are recognised as leading figures in the field, and involved at all
 levels in shaping its future agenda.




                                                                                           Page 17
