Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview
 The School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences focuses on research at the interface
 between fundamental and applied questions, in areas including child and adolescent anxiety and
 depression, autism, diet–brain interactions and motivation, so that we can influence policy and
 practice in a number of areas. We work closely with the NHS, hosting several research clinics on
 campus, and collaborate with a wide range of industrial partners.

 We are an outward-facing School in the way that we interact with the public, government,
 industry and most notably with patients. For example, there are approximately 2,200 clinical and
 research visits by patients per year to our research clinics. Our NHS Anxiety and Depression in
 Young People Research clinic (AnDY) assesses and treats anxiety and depressive disorders in
 7- to 17-year-olds and provides a platform through which we develop, test and disseminate
 evidence-based interventions. Our Centre for Autism is a regional hub for clinical services and
 informs and draws on research in the School to develop and assess treatments for autism. The
 Speech and Language Therapy clinic, which runs both NHS and independent services open to
 adult and paediatric client groups with a wide range of speech, language and communication
 difficulties, allows new ideas and therapies to be tested in clinical populations as well as
 providing research-led treatment. We are a major provider of clinical training for therapists on the
 Department of Health's Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) programme
 through the Charlie Waller Institute. Training draws on our research findings to ensure
 practitioners have state-of-the art knowledge and tools to support their work.

 There are three dominant strands to our research: Psychopathology and Affective Neuroscience
 (PAN), Cognitive Science (CS), and Personalised Nutrition and Applied Research (PNAR).
 These reflect the natural groupings, collaborations and regular research meetings within the
 School and across the University (see Section 1.2). Since all three strands address underpinning
 neural mechanisms, we substantially enhanced our infrastructure in the Centre for Integrative
 Neuroscience and Neurodynamics (CINN) over the assessment period, with a £1.75m MRI
 scanner upgrade in addition to personnel and operating costs (see Section 3.3.1).

 Our annual research spend has grown substantially (see Figure 2 in Section 3), doubling from
 2014 to 2020. Importantly, this trajectory is sustainable given the awards include seven large
 early-career fellowships and new-investigator grants to recently appointed academics. Our
 research is now supported by a wider range of funders including UKRI, UK charities (particularly
 Leverhulme), UK Government and the EU. Our outputs are influential, evidenced by citation
 rates that benchmark favourably against our peers (Figure 1 below) and we continue to have a
 strong international reputation: over this REF period, high-profile academics including Ellen
 Bialystok, Noam Chomsky, Daniel Dennett, Elizabeth Loftus, and Steven Pinker joined us as
 Albert Wolters Visiting Professors to the School.

 1.2 Structures
 As described in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES, Section 1), since 2014 research
 activity at the University has been structured around 35 Research Divisions, which fall under four
 interdisciplinary research themes, each led by a Research Dean. Staff returned to UOA4
 constitute one of the six Research Divisions – Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences –
 within the Agriculture, Food & Health research theme. UOA4 is almost perfectly coextensive with
 the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences; henceforth, ‘School’ and ‘UOA’ will
 be used interchangeably. Research in the School is led by two Research Division Leaders
 (RDLs) who job-share, plus an Impact Lead, supported by the Dean and Head of School.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are a medium-sized research community, returning 44.9 FTE of Category-A staff (27.5
 female), supported by 28.2 FTE of contract research staff and supervising approximately 110
 doctoral students. Among the Category-A staff, 33.7 FTE are permanent; the average contract
 duration of fixed-term staff is 5.3 years (minimum 3). The School occupies a single large
 building, which strongly supports collegiality and research collaboration.

 Interdisciplinary research is supported through the University’s ten Interdisciplinary Research
 Centres (IDRCs, see IES, Section 2.1.1), two of which are hosted in the School – the Centre for
 Integrative Neuroscience & Neurodynamics (CINN) and the Centre for Literacy & Multilingualism
 (CeLM). We are also a key partner in the Centre for Cognition Research (CCR, led by
 Philosophy) and the Institute for Food, Nutrition & Health (in collaboration with Agriculture, Policy
 & Development and Food & Nutritional Sciences).

 1.3 Unit research groupings
 Our work is organised into three interlinked research strands:

 1.3.1 Psychopathology and Affective Neuroscience (PAN, 26 staff)
 PAN’s research spans the interface between fundamental research on mechanisms of emotion
 and psychopathology, and the development of evidence-based treatments. PAN researchers
 have been increasingly successful in winning funding during the assessment period; substantial
 awards to ECRs and emerging leaders in their fields ensures the sustainability of the group.
 Examples include: Dodd’s UKRI Future Leaders award for research on how adventurous play
 protects children against anxiety; Tavassoli’s Marie-Curie Fellowship on sensory reactivity in
 autism and its relationship with anxiety; Waite’s NIHR Fellowship on adapting a cognitive
 therapy for the treatment of panic disorder in adolescents; Morriss’s ESRC Future Leaders
 award for research on intolerance of uncertainty and anxiety. Since 2014, PAN members have
 won £9.56m largely from NIHR and MRC, including Creswell’s £1.3m NIHR Professorship
 (‘Treatments for childhood anxiety disorders: Improving patient access and clinical
 effectiveness’), and Chakrabarti’s £3.65m GCRF (MRC) award (£840,000 to Reading: ‘GCRF:
 Scalable Transdiagnostic Early Assessment of Mental Health (STREAM)’). The appointment of
 J.Hill brought substantial MRC funds to Reading, especially through his role as PI on the Wirral
 Child Health and Development Study (WCHADS) since 2004. Our strength in this area has been
 recognised nationally and internationally, with Chakrabarti winning the Philip Leverhulme Prize
 and being nominated to the Young Academy of Europe, Creswell receiving the British Medical
 Association President’s Award, and Cooper appointed as Fellow of the British Academy. PAN
 researchers publish in top international journals such as the American Journal of Psychiatry,
 Clinical Psychology Review, JAMA Neurology, JAMA Psychiatry, The Lancet Psychiatry,
 Molecular Psychiatry, Nature Human Behaviour, PLoS Medicine.

 1.3.2 Cognitive Science (CS, 29 staff)
 This group is inherently interdisciplinary, integrating research in language, learning, memory and
 forgetting, perception and – especially in recent years – motivation. Many of the basic cognitive
 processes studied by CS are complementary to the clinical and translational work of PAN
 members, notably work on cognition in anxiety, intolerance of uncertainty, and the role of reward
 in pain perception.

 Language is an established strength, with key areas of research including impairment, typical
 and atypical development, and psycholinguistics. Psycholinguistics research is carried out
 through interdisciplinary collaborations with the Department of English Literature and Applied
 Linguistics (thus two staff are returned to UOA26 – Cunnings and Serratrice). Much collaboration
 focuses on bilingualism and multilingualism, where Serratrice provides leadership of the Centre
 for Literacy & Multilingualism (IES, Sections 3.4 and 2.1). CS researchers collaborate with
 philosophers through the Centre for Cognition Research; Glennerster and Christakou are
 key contributors to the CCR Summer Seminar Series, funded by AHRC, Leverhulme and the
 Templeton Fund since 2014.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research funding won by CS colleagues since 2014 totals £6.02m. Larger awards include
 Murayama’s Leverhulme Research Leadership award (£1m) for ‘An integrative theory of
 interest: How can we motivate ourselves without extrinsic incentives?’; Liu’s ERC Starting Grant
 worth €1.5m, ‘Cracking the pitch code in music and language: Insights from congenital amusia
 and autism spectrum disorders’; Glennerster’s £740,000 from EPSRC and DSTL,
 ‘Understanding scenes and events through joint parsing, Cognitive reasoning and lifelong
 learning’; a £4.5m ERC grant (£250,000 to Reading) ‘Advancing the European multilingual
 experience’ awarded jointly to Saddy and international colleagues, which led to a subsequent
 £3.1m ERC European Training Network (£420,000 to Reading), ‘The multilingual mind’. As with
 all groups, ECR’s have secured significant awards, notably Hedger, with a Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellowship on spatial aspects of social attention.

 The international reputation of this research strand is evidenced by a Leverhulme Visiting Chair
 (Bishop) and seven personal awards and prizes to Murayama, including the Jacobs Foundation
 Advanced Research Fellowship (£400,000), and the FJ McGuigan (American Psychological
 Foundation) Early Career Investigator Prize. CS researchers have published in leading journals
 such as Brain, the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Nature Neuroscience, PNAS,
 Psychological Bulletin, Psychological Methods.

 1.3.3 Personalised Nutrition and Applied Research (PNAR, 14 staff)
 This interdisciplinary grouping works at the interface between basic and applied research.
 Collaboration with the School of Pharmacy on the utility of cannabis-derived compounds has
 focused on two areas: stimulation of appetite to prevent malnutrition, for example in
 chemotherapy patients, and reduction of epileptic seizures. This resulted in a new medicine,
 Epidiolex, which was the first cannabinoid-derived medicine to be approved in the USA and EU
 for clinical use in epilepsy. In 2019 Williams was awarded the British Pharmacological Society’s
 Sir James Black Award for Contributions to Drug Discovery and was runner-up in the 2020
 Guardian University Awards Research Impact Category in recognition of this work. Other PNAR
 research investigates the interplay of dietary intake with measures of cognitive performance,
 mood, visual function and wellbeing. The role of the gut-brain-axis in this is being investigated
 within a major ERC Consolidator grant (€2m) to Chakrabarti to map the role of gut microbiota
 on brain and behaviour.

 A further focus is to understand how social, cognitive, sensory and economic factors interact to
 influence food choice across the lifespan. Research and translation of food-related research is
 facilitated through Reading’s leading position in the €450m European Institution of Innovation
 and Technology (EIT) Food Consortium. EIT Food, which seeks to transform the way in which
 we produce, distribute and consume food throughout Europe to improve consumer confidence
 and health, is a partnership of over 100 leading companies (e.g. Bosch, Pepsico, Siemens,
 Waitrose), universities, and scientific partners covering the entire food chain. Six PNAR projects
 have been funded by EIT Food to date, including Houston-Price’s €999,000 award for ‘SEE &
 EAT: Communicating the benefits of visual familiarity as a strategy for introducing healthy foods
 into children’s diets’.

 We also develop technological aids, e.g. for people with dementia and Alzheimer’s disease, and
 contribute to building design (e.g. in relation to reducing distracting background noise). New
 work in this area by Roesch, with collaborators in Bristol, Greenwich, QMUL and UCL on how
 humans interact with emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence and the internet of
 things has won total funding from ESRC of £2.75m (£700,000 to Reading). Chakrabarti has two
 MRC awards to translate lab-based assessments of adult mental health and developmental
 neuropsychiatric disorders to apps that can be used by non-specialists in low-resource settings;
 the apps are currently being trialled in India and Malawi. The appointment of Weinstein in
 summer 2020 has opened up several exciting new avenues of applied research; she brings with
 her a €1.5m ERC starter grant is to develop interventions that increase resilience to loneliness in
 older adults (with clear societal relevance during COVID-19 lockdowns); and she also works to
 improve unconscious bias training for the police force.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Funding under this theme totalled £3.16m, including a growth in funding from industrial partners
 (particularly GWPharma, Naturex-DBS, Polyphenolics Incorporated, Wild Blueberry Association
 of North America). Work in this area has been published in top journals including American
 Journal of Clinical Nutrition, American Journal of Psychiatry, Psychological Science.

 ________

 Across all three research strands, research income has been translated into high-quality outputs.
 Figure 1 shows that the quality of our publications compares favourably with the Russell Group
 average in UOA4.

 Figure 1. Publications compared according to citation percentiles




 Data are for UOA4 at Reading, UOA4 in comparable universities (Russell Group), and world average. Self-citations
 were excluded. Methodology: in May 2020 we searched Scival to locate publications in the three ASJC areas
 relevant to UOA4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Mental Health, and Neuroscience. For Reading this retrieved 622
 unique articles and reviews in peer-reviewed journals. Publications by former staff were included if they appeared
 before their leaving date. Repeating the comparison without filtering by subject area reveals an advantage for the
 Russell Group, indicating that UOA4 is an area of relative strength within Reading.

 1.4 REF2014 objectives
 We have been successful in delivering our REF2014 strategic objectives, as follows. First, our
 commitment to expand and enhance clinical infrastructure, and strengthen links with clinicians to
 facilitate our research and translation into clinical practice, has been delivered through three
 major projects:

     •   In 2016 we established an independent Anxiety and Depression in Young People
         Research Clinic (AnDY). This superseded the NHS unit previously located in the School
         and now employs 10.8 clinical staff funded by the NHS and Health Education England,
         2.6 NIHR research staff, and a full-time Clinic Director, funded by the School. As a
         clinical service, AnDY is critical to delivering the NHS IAPT integrated stepped care
         model in Berkshire, providing assessment and treatment for 7- to 17-year-olds requiring
         more than low-intensity intervention, but not qualifying for NHS CAMHS services. AnDY
         has a number of NHS contracts (>£1.25m to date) to deliver this service until 2023. Of
         more than 800 patient referrals to AnDY since 2016, over 500 have taken part in
         research studies. This is a powerful clinic-research synergy: 11 of our Category-A staff
         have published papers reporting AnDY studies.
     •   We established the Centre for Autism (CFA), a unique research clinic and autism
         diagnosis service for the south of England. It has performed 392 diagnostic
         assessments, 157 psychological interventions and 16 specialist language therapy

                                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        interventions. Many patients volunteer to participate in CFA research, which has won
        over £3m in grants. Research activity is directed by Chakrabarti, supported by two
        academic appointments since 2014 (Liu, Tavassoli), while clinical activity is led by
        Loucas.
    •   The Thames Valley Clinical Trials Unit (TVCTU) was established as a tripartite
        partnership between the University, Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust (RBFT) and
        the local community and mental health NHS Trust (Berkshire Healthcare Foundation
        Trust) and housed in our School. Reflecting the strong clinical research within our UOA,
        the TVCTU has supported or run trials for researchers including Creswell, Cooper,
        J.Hill, Steel, Stojanovik, Waite. Reflecting the growing partnership between the
        University and RBFT, we plan to develop the TVCTU into a joint research support
        structure to facilitate major grant proposals.

 Fulfilling our commitment to strengthen research in key areas, we made five new appointments
 in PAN (J.Hill, Jenkins, Orchard, Tavassoli, Waite); four appointments were made in CS to
 support language research (Pagnamenta, Pliatsikas, along with Cunnings and Serratrice); and
 one in PNAR to support lifespan/ageing (Astell). See Table 1 (in Section 2).

 In line with our plan to diversify and increase our research income, our industrial funding has
 increased throughout the REF period (total £1.56m; see Figure 3 in Section 3). Total spending
 from external awards more than doubled during the assessment period (Figure 2), and grant
 capture has met or exceeded our targets each year (Section 3.1).

 As planned, we have been successful in promoting translation of our research. Section 4.3
 describes 12 projects maturing towards future impact cases. For example, meeting a specific
 REF2014 aim, Williams’ work on animal models of epilepsy was central to the development,
 approval, commercialisation and clinical use of cannabidiol as an effective treatment for
 epilepsy.

 Our aim to continue to develop our infrastructure has been supported by major investments in
 both in hardware and personnel for neuroscience research with £1.75m to upgrade our MRI
 scanner and other equipment, combined with £275,000 per annum investment in staffing and
 running costs (see 3.3.1, also 3.3.4).

 1.5 Future strategy and vision
 Our guiding principle is to continue contributing to society by undertaking rigorous research at
 the boundary between fundamental and applied science. Below, we describe plans which flow
 from this vision: new appointments in the key area of child and adolescent mental health, to
 ensure sustainability following recent departures; institutional and governance changes to
 promote clinical work; and further investment in our existing strengths in nutrition and language
 research.

 Child and adolescent anxiety and depression research, and mental health research more
 broadly, will be strengthened by three new academic appointments in late 2020. Professor Stella
 Chan has been appointed to the Charlie Waller Chair in Evidence-Based Psychological
 Treatment, a post co-funded with the charitable Charlie Waller Trust. Chan brings several large
 grants in the area of adolescent depression, and extensive experience of engaging with public
 and professional stakeholders. She will enhance coordination of clinical activities across the
 School to build on the opportunities provided by the AnDY clinic and Charlie Waller Institute. Her
 appointment is complemented by two recent lectureships in Clinical and Health Psychology:
 Katherine Finlay works with NHS collaborators on the psychological management of chronic
 pain, and Samrah Ahmed brings NIHR funding to study dementia.

 We will continue to build autism research and further exploit the clinic-research synergy in the
 Centre for Autism. In 2021, Catherine Manning, who has a Wellcome Fellowship to study
 perceptual processing in autism, will join the existing group including Chakrabarti, Liu, Loucas,
 Tavassoli. In Speech and Language Therapy, two new Lecturers specialising in Adult and

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Acquired Disorders of Language/Communication will take up posts early in 2021. One of these
 has already been appointed: Fatemeh Mollaei has expertise in speech disorders within
 Parkinson’s disease, supporting the work of Ho.

 Both new and existing staff will benefit from further expansion of the Joint Academic Board,
 formed between the University and Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust and supported by
 £1.15m of joint funding over 3 years (IES 2.1.2). Four staff (J.Hill, Honisch, Van Reekum,
 Williams) have received pilot study funding and this seed-funding scheme will expand to include
 larger proof-of-concept studies for trials and full research proposals, alongside a new initiative to
 embed University researchers within the hospital. With our mental health focus we are well
 positioned to benefit from a deeper relationship with Berkshire Healthcare Foundation Trust,
 facilitated by a recent relocation of their Child and Adolescent Mental Health service to a building
 adjacent to our School on campus. Within the School, we have improved coordination of
 clinically focused activities by appointing a Director of Clinical Governance and Partnerships
 (Barbara Evetts, part of our Charlie Waller Institute) to join the School Management Board. The
 Director will strengthen relationships with external partners who support, and use, our clinical
 training and clinical service provision; such partners are critical to the continuing success of our
 clinical research.

 To accelerate development of nutrition research, we will expand our wet-lab facilities
 substantially so that blood and tissue samples can be processed on-site. This facility will further
 expand our interdisciplinary collaboration with Reading’s gut microbiome and food and nutrition
 researchers and expand the range of research questions that can be addressed by our brain-
 imaging researchers since neural measures and concurrent blood and tissue samples can be
 analysed together.

 1.6 Impact strategy
 The fact that our research spans the interface between basic and applied domains leads
 naturally to translational benefits for society. At School level, our appointed Impact Lead
 supports and raises the profile of impact activities, and is the interface with the Impact Team,
 Contracts Team and Knowledge Transfer Centre. We have benefitted from the University’s
 Impact Support Programme (BOISP, IES, Section 2.3), which has provided c.£150,000 to
 support two of our returned cases as well as 6 other projects developing a range of
 interventions. BOISP supports an extensive pipeline of work, providing planning advice and
 seed-funding for early-phase projects through to commercialisation advice for projects nearing
 completion. Individuals’ impactful research is highlighted in Annual Personal Research Plans
 from which requests for resource or support are collated.

 School and University support for our applied research has resulted in 12 maturing impact
 projects in addition to our returned case studies, all involving partnerships with external
 organisations (see Table 3). Access to national and international networks supports impact
 development, exemplified by University membership of the EIT Food Consortium, and EIT Food
 for Health Initiative, which provide funding for translating research into practice and/or
 commercial activity.

 1.7 Open research, reproducibility and integrity
 The School is a discipline leader in this area, manifested most recently in our proposing and now
 leading the South East of England Replication in Psychology Syndicate (SERPS). This
 collaboration between Essex, Royal Holloway, Surrey, Sussex, and Reading means that
 replications of studies can happen more quickly and reliably than they do through the larger-
 scale international replication initiatives, for example with lab visits between nearby sites to
 ensure methodological comparability. We have invested significant School resources in GDPR-
 compliant online data collection, to facilitate larger sample sizes (see 3.3.3). The SERPS
 initiative arose from our long-standing and growing engagement with open and reproducible
 science: our ECRs and PhD students run an active local chapter of the ReproducibiliTea journal
 club initiative, holding fortnightly meetings; CINN holds monthly Reproducible Imaging seminars;
 and in 2019 we launched an Open Science Summer School with external speakers and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participants. Reflecting these efforts, 17 of our staff have either published a registered report or
 published pre-registered studies (e.g., OSF). Feredoes, Roesch and Van Reekum have each
 contributed internationally to the reproducibility agenda (e.g., Van Reekum as Editor-in-Chief
 introduced Registered Reports to Cognition and Emotion).

 Open and reproducible science is strongly encouraged at an institutional level (IES Section 2.2)
 The University has a pioneering approach to open research and was the first UK university to
 publish a Statement on Open Research. School staff make a major contribution to these
 activities. Roesch (Reproducible Neuroimaging INCF Fellow) and Beaman are members of the
 University’s Committee for Open Research and Research Integrity (CORRI), determining
 strategy and policy in this area; Van Reekum and Roesch were speakers at the 2019 Open in
 Practice conference, and Beaman’s group was recipient of the University’s inaugural Open
 Research Award for its work on crowd-sourcing in research.

 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Ethical scrutiny
 procedures, in which simpler cases are delegated to our local ethics committee, are described in
 the Institutional Environment Statement (Section 2.2). Compliance with data protection and
 GDPR by software used in data collection is ensured by the University Design Authority Group
 (DAG).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 We have invested significantly in order to enhance our areas of strength. A key strategy has
 been to recruit talented ECRs, with the potential to become future research leaders, within
 groupings that have critical mass. Thus, we maintained or expanded our three research
 groupings during the assessment period through 22 Category-A appointments, including four
 independent research fellows, summarised in Table 1. We are returning 12% more FTE to
 REF2021 than REF2014 and we employ 7.0 FTE Teaching-Intensive academics and
 approximately 11.5 FTE Teaching Fellows which has allowed us to make new appointments
 based on strategic research priorities rather than teaching needs. Following a number of
 retirements, the age profile of our staff is reduced and hence we face no succession planning
 issues in the next REF cycle.


 Table 1. Category-A appointments since 2014
  Name                         Research interests                     Strategic value
                           Psychopathology and Affective Neuroscience
  Professor Jonathan Hill      Prenatal and postnatal origins of      Strengthen core topic;
  (plus two PDRAs for one      psychopathology. PI of Wirral Child helped launch clinical trials unit
  year)                        Health and Development Study
  Paul Jenkins                 Eating disorders                       Broaden coverage of
                                                                      psychopathology
  Fang Liu                     Speech and music processing in         Building and bridging autism
                               autism and amusia                      and language groups
                                                                      (PAN/CS)
  Faith Orchard                Sleep disturbance in depression        Broaden depression research
  Teresa Tavassoli             Sensory aspects of autism              Build critical mass in autism
                                                                      with Chakrabarti and Loucas
  Polly Waite                  Child and adolescent anxiety           Strengthen core topic
                                         Cognitive Science
  Professor Ingo Bojak         Computational modelling of local       Build computational modelling
                               field potentials and multi-unit neural expertise in CINN
                               recordings
  Ian Cunnings (submitted to   Multilingualism and                    Critical mass in multilingualism
  UOA26)                       psycholinguistics
  Katie Gray                   Face perception and                    Broaden coverage of
                               prosopagnosia                          perception; clinical angle links
                                                                      to PAN

                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Julianne Honisch             Synchronisation of movement           Broaden CS research
                               between actors in dance
  Emma Pagnamenta              Treatment of language disorders in   Expertise in clinical research,
                               children                             capacity building to increase
                                                                    research output of Speech and
                                                                    Language Therapy clinics
  Christos Pliatsikas           Neural basis of language and        Brings language research in
                                multilingualism                     CS into the MRI scanner
  Peter Scarfe                  Depth perception and Virtual        Build critical mass in virtual
                                Reality                             reality with Glennerster
  Professor Ludovica            Multilingualism and                 Leadership of CeLM,
  Serratrice (submitted to      psycholinguistics                   promoting interdisciplinary
  UOA26)                                                            language research
                           Personalised Nutrition and Applied Psychology
  Professor Arlene Astell       Technological aids for age-related  Translation of PNAR research
                                impairment
  Daniel Lamport                Nutrition and the brain             Translation of ‘neutra-
                                                                    ceuticals’ to market; Critical
                                                                    mass in nutrition research with
                                                                    Williams and Field
  Etienne Roesch                Human/technology interactions       Broaden PNAR research;
                                such as AI and internet of things   Translation to market
  Netta Weinstein               Solitude versus loneliness,         Broaden PNAR research.
                                especially in older adults;         Clear opportunities for
                                unconscious bias                    translation
                                         Independent Fellows
  Wiebke Gandhi                 Neural basis of pain perception     Basic questions with potential
                                                                    translation (PAN, CS)
  Nicholas Hedger               Spatial aspects of social attention Links between existing CS
                                                                    researcher topics
  Claire Hill                   Online interventions for mental     Translation of PAN research
                                health disorders
  Jayne Morriss                 Relationship between intolerance of Broaden anxiety research in
                                uncertainty and anxiety             PAN; links with cognitive
                                                                    processes in CS

 2.2 Staff development
 Successful staff development is reflected by the 40 promotions achieved since 2014: 24 to
 Grade 8 and 16 to Grade 9. Another indicator of successful staff development is the seven
 ECRs who have established independent labs by winning large early-career fellowships or new-
 investigator grants (Dodd, Hedger, Liu, Morriss, Salomons, Tavassoli, Waite).

 Our strategy is critically dependent on support for the development of staff research careers.
 This includes providing a vibrant, collegiate research environment to promote and support
 research—and on direct support for individuals. These two aspects are addressed below.

 2.2.1 Supportive environment
 We ensure that teaching and research staff have time for research by employing and valuing
 teaching-intensive academics and teaching fellows. This policy permits:
     • ringfencing one day per week for research and professional development (in addition to
         time allocated to funded projects/PhD supervision)
     • substantially reducing teaching and administration loads for new appointments
         (generally ECRs) for their first two years in post
     • giving staff one-year sabbaticals when they step down from substantial leadership roles;
         supporting teaching buy-out to enable writing of key papers via University Research
         Fellowships
     • a formal sabbatical scheme to which staff, including part-time and fixed-term, may apply
         for a substantial period of leave for research purposes. This was formalised in 2020,
         replacing an informal system of allocating research leave to support grant-writing.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research staff development is supported by the provision of funded studentships. Since 2016,
 the School has invested annually in up to three fully funded PhD studentships, to work with
 ECRs and staff re-establishing labs after career breaks (11 studentships to date). Details of
 internal and external PhD funding schemes, and the School’s success in these, is given in
 Section 2.3.

 Financial support for staff, projects, and equipment comes from both University and School
 funds:
    • The University’s Research Endowment Trust Fund (RETF) has provided over £15m in
        targeted support during the assessment period (IES, Section 4.3). The School has been
        a major beneficiary of this through the £1.75m investment in CINN and the MRI, and
        through £641,000 of pump-priming to 20 of our staff.
    • All Category-A staff have Staff Development Accounts to fund research travel and
        equipment needs that are added to from grant overheads and are topped up annually
        from School funds. New staff receive £5,000.
    • All staff, including ECRs, can apply to the School Research Committee fund (up to £50k
        per annum), which is used to provide, for example, equipment for pump-priming projects.

 Regular research events and meetings encourage collaboration and networking:
    • Thursday Seminars feature national and international speakers (more commonly
       international since the COVID-19 lockdowns)
    • Tuesday Seminars are for PDRAs and PhD students to share research
    • Our Research Division Leaders (RDLs) organise a monthly multi-format series including
       brief research updates, ‘data blitzes’, sessions on methodological and statistical
       innovation, sessions on funding opportunities, grant proposal pitches, etc.
    • Regular informal lab meetings and methods-focused meetings (e.g. Coding Club)
    • Since 2015, we have invested £20,000 p.a. in the Albert Wolters Distinguished Visiting
       Professor scheme (named after our first Head of Psychology and Honorary Fellow of the
       British Psychological Society). International professors give high-profile public lectures
       and participate in seminars and social events providing networking opportunities for staff
       and doctoral students. Awardees have been Daniel Dennett (2019), Elizabeth Loftus
       (2018), Noam Chomsky (2017), Steven Pinker (2016), Ellen Bialystok (2015). In 2021
       alumnus Max Coltheart will join us to celebrate 100 years of Psychology at Reading.

 To provide transparent and representative governance, and celebrate success:
    • The School’s Research Committee includes the Head of School, RDLs, REF lead, ECR
        mentor, ECR representative, Impact Lead, MRI scanner representative and Director of
        Postgraduate Research. RDLs are also members of School Management Board and
        connect School governance to that of the University. Staff contribute to the annual
        Research Division Operational Plan via Personal Research Plans discussions
    • Individual successes are celebrated through School circulars and monthly newsletter,
        Celebrating Success awards, the University’s Spotlight on Success feature, and the
        monthly research newsletter.

 Staff benefit from strong technical and administrative support:
    • IT and technical support for research is provided centrally (IES 3.5); the School
         supplements this with a 1.0 FTE Research Technician to support student research
    • Laboratory refurbishments and equipment builds are supported centrally, including from
         RETF for special requests
    • We employ 9.9 FTE of Executive Support to reduce the administrative load on
         academics, of which 1.3 FTE is dedicated to the RDLs/REF Lead.

 Funding applications and impact activities are supported by specialist teams within Research
 and Enterprise Services, which has been expanded by 23 FTE (c.50%) since 2015 (IES 4.2 and
 2.3). A Research Development Manager (RDM) is dedicated to the School, supported by an

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assistant RDM, a dedicated EU applications unit, GCRF manager, due diligence personnel, a
 Research Contracts Manager who checks funder terms and conditions before grant submission,
 a Research Data Manager, and the Impact Team. The Knowledge Transfer Centre and KIC
 Partnerships Team support work with commercial partners and IP matters.

 2.2.2 Supporting individuals
 In 2016, the University introduced more transparent probation and promotion criteria (IES 3.4)
 and the School has further expanded on this. We have introduced senior academic line
 managers for Category-A staff: professorial line managers are each responsible for 8 to 10
 academic staff. Managers hold regular mentoring meetings and conduct annual Performance
 and Development Reviews, focused on development, achieving probation and promotion, and
 training needs.

 The Research Division Leaders assign mentors to all staff who are writing grants, including
 ECRs. Staff use the annual Personal Research Plan process to request infrastructure and other
 support. Research staff also benefit from the University’s commitment to broaden access to –
 and training for – leadership roles. Key roles to which colleagues have been appointed include:
 Directorship of two IDRCs (CINN, Christakou and CeLM, Serratrice); Dean of Diversity &
 Inclusion (Laville, an active member of the Charlie Waller Institute alongside this role); and
 membership of the University Committee for Open Research and Research Integrity (Beaman,
 Roesch).

 2.2.3 Researcher Development Concordat
 In 2019 we implemented an ECR programme, appointing a mentor for all ECRs, PDRAs or
 Research Fellows independent of their PIs (Pliatsikas). This has led to ECRs reporting higher
 levels of satisfaction, reflected in the results of a survey carried out annually by one of our
 PDRAs. The Mentor discusses the Concordat with research staff and represents their interests
 in the departmental Research Committee. Recruitment and promotion of researchers is merit-
 based and follows standard HR procedures, based on the twin criteria of independence and
 achievements. PIs who line manage researchers undergo training, including on conduct of
 constructive performance and development reviews. Researchers may request flexible working
 arrangements on an identical basis to other staff.

 2.3 Postgraduate research students
 Through our PGR Admissions Tutor, we find tailored solutions for a diverse body of doctoral
 students, including those with protected characteristics (Table 2). The number of our doctoral
 students grew by ~30% during the assessment period from 84 in 2013/14 to 107 in 2019/20 (2.4
 per FTE). Students benefit from strong support within the School; all students have two
 supervisors, and we train junior academics in PhD supervision by pairing them with an
 experienced supervisor.

 We continue to succeed in winning doctoral funding from major external bodies – over the
 assessment period we have 14 students funded by ESRC, 6 by EPSRC, 6 by MRC, 2 by ERC, 2
 by the Leverhulme Trust, and 5 by the Felix Foundation. We are part of two DTPs: SenSS ESRC
 DTP and the Reading-based BBSRC FoodBioScience DTP, held jointly with Department of Food
 & Nutritional Sciences.

 Our students receive extensive institutional support, training, and networking opportunities (IES,
 Section 3.7). In their first month, all doctoral researchers carry out a Learning Needs Analysis,
 which is reviewed yearly. Progress is monitored by two independent academics who receive
 written reports from the student and supervisors and carry out a face-to-face interview each
 year. In their second year, all students undergo a confirmation of registration interview with their
 monitors. This careful process has supported 122 completions during the assessment period.
 Our students have won the University’s PhD Researcher of the Year prize twice since 2014
 (Orchard, Pilkington), and have twice been invited to give the University’s annual Fairbrother
 public lecture (Peres, Voits). The indicators of success given in the IES (Section 3.7) are

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mirrored in the School, with one exception: our percentage of publications involving PGR
 authors is even higher, at 21%.

 The School supplements the broad range of courses in study skills, communications and
 research methods that are offered by the Graduate School with discipline-specific training from
 our MSc programmes. This includes statistics (refresher, advanced, and modelling using R);
 qualitative methods; systematic review; fMRI data analysis; and MATLAB programming. To
 encourage engagement with the wider academic field and practise presentation and networking
 skills, all students attend national and international conferences. PGRs are an integral part of our
 academic community, joining in with and organising social events, and we continue the tradition
 of paying for them to join post-seminar dinners with visiting speakers.

 Table 2. Demographic profile of research students (2019/20)
  Gender   %     Disability     %    Age        %    Nationality          %    White %   BAME %
  Male     25    Declared       15   21 to 24   22   UK                   47   90        10
  Female   75    Not declared   85   25 to 34   53   International*       53   46        54
                                     35+        25   *from 30 countries

 2.4 Diversity and inclusion
 The University’s commitment to supporting and promoting D&I is described in the IES (Section
 3.2). We actively engage with institutional initiatives; the current University Dean for Diversity
 (Laville) is from the School, and many staff are active in diversity networks. To widen access to
 leadership roles we promote flexible working and both the Head of School and RDL roles have
 been job-shared. We achieved an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2017 and, having made good
 progress on our action plan following the institution of a Wellbeing, Inclusion, Diversity and
 Equality (WIDE) committee in 2019, we have every expectation of a positive outcome to our
 recent submission for a Silver award.

 Changes in the Unit’s demographics since 2014 are a positive reflection of the actions we have
 taken. The proportion of BAME staff is 17.2% by FTE, exceeding the University’s 14% target.
 Recent appointments have been more representative of national demographic than previously.
 Since 2014 the proportion of all female staff by FTE has grown from 56% to 63%. Promotions
 reflect the gender balance of the School: 63% promoted were female, and a higher proportion of
 Grade 9 is now female (13/23) than in 2014 (6/13).

 Other advances since REF2014 include better support for staff with caring responsibilities,
 including meetings being scheduled during core hours (10.00 to 16.00) wherever possible, a
 large increase in the number of staff with flexible working arrangements (e.g. compressed hours)
 to allow them to manage their work and family commitments more easily, and new baby-
 changing and breast-feeding facilities. The School also has dedicated space for prayer. The
 University is monitoring the impact of COVID-19 on research productivity of staff in different
 groups and is committed to this being taken into account in applications for probation, promotion,
 research leave and other similar decisions.

 Training in D&I and unconscious bias is available to all researchers from PhD students to
 professors, and is required for all staff in leadership positions and members of appointment
 panels. In preparation for our submission, all decision-makers undertook this training. A UOA
 Lead was appointed through open competition and worked with the School Research
 Committee to ensure open review of outputs, which were read and ranked independently by a
 panel of 7 individuals (4 women, 3 men) following the process established in the University’s
 Code of Practice. We reflected on the outcomes of the University’s interim Equality Impact
 Assessment carried out at main panel level (2020) and bias analysis on the final pool (2021). No
 statistically significant differences for protected characteristics were identified through these
 processes. In the spirit of openness and transparency, all members of the UOA were given
 opportunity to comment on an early and a late draft of this environment statement.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Research spend has more than doubled over the assessment period (Figure 2), driven by the
 staff appointment and development strategies described in Section 2. Because our performance
 was stronger in the second half of the cycle, the total value of grants captured was higher than
 total spend. Total grant capture since January 2014 was £18.75m versus £13.85m spend since
 August 2013, and per Category-A FTE was £436,000. This is based on average FTE during the
 assessment period (42.96); we excluded staff returned to other UOAs and their income. We
 have been particularly successful in winning large grants with 12 awards of £500,000 or more,
 totalling £12.42m. These were from a broad range of funders – EIT Food, EPSRC, ERC, Jacobs
 Foundation. Leverhulme, MRC, NIHR, and UKRI Future Leaders.

 Figure 2. Annual research spend over the REF period




 Figure 3. Annual research spend from industry over the REF period (sum of the 3 industry-
 related HESA source categories in the standard data analysis)




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Outcomes from funding
 Our research funding results in high-quality scientific outputs, evidenced by Figure 1, and drives
 our successful translation of basic research into impact. Noteworthy examples of scientific
 outputs include:
     • Leverhulme grants to Murayama to study motivation and curiosity, resulted in high-
        profile papers reporting novel observations such as shared neural mechanisms between
        curiosity and hunger (Nature Human Behaviour), and the novel finding that people are
        willing to incur a cost to peek at counterfactual outcomes that have little utility and even
        have a negative emotional impact (Psychological Science).
     • NIHR funding to Reynolds for the IMPACT trial showed that brief psychosocial
        intervention is as effective as CBT for depression, and saves money (Lancet Psychiatry).
     • Two NIHR grants (Creswell, Cooper) contributed to the International Genes for
        Treatment Study; one paper established which forms of paediatric anxiety are associated
        with better or worse outcomes from CBT (Journal of the American Academy of Child &
        Adolescent Psychiatry).

 A trend towards delivering more of our translational work through industrial collaboration and
 funding is evident in our early-stage impact work (Section 4.3). Grants also fund activities that
 have direct societal benefit (Houston-Price’s EU-funded intervention to increase vegetable
 consumption in children has resulted in the European Platform for See and Eat). Van Reekum’s
 EPSRC grant demonstrated the health and cognitive benefits for older people of riding both e-
 bikes and traditional bikes.

 Our impact case studies were funded by a combination of external grants, School funds and
 University BOISP funding (see 1.5 and IES, Section 2.3). Externally funded were Creswell’s
 childhood anxiety case study (MRC/NIHR) and Williams’ cannabis-based drug treatment for
 epilepsy (GWPharma). Both Cooper’s case study on book-sharing to support mother–child
 interactions in South Africa, and Reynolds’ Brief Behavioural Activation for adolescent
 depression were funded through BOISP and the School; this enabled the Cooper case to
 leverage funding from charity (Mikhulu Child Development Trust).

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 The School hosts large research facilities that are used by members of the whole University and
 benefits from strong investment in this infrastructure. In addition to the facilities described below,
 research clinics are central to our activities. For details of AnDY, Centre for Autism, and TVCTU
 see Section 1.3; the Speech and Language Therapy clinic, which also recruits patients to studies
 and contains specialist facilities is described in 4.2.

 3.3.1 CINN and Reading Functional Imaging Facility (RFIF)
 The Centre for Integrative Neuroscience and Neurodynamics (CINN) provides an
 interdisciplinary platform for neuroscience across the University, for which it receives dedicated
 funding as an IDRC (IES 2.2.1). This has led to successful collaborations between seven
 researchers within the School and fourteen researchers outside the School during the
 assessment period (e.g. with Philosophy on pain, with Pharmacy on dementia, and with Food &
 Nutritional Sciences on diet). The Reading Functional Imaging Facility (RFIF) is the physical
 infrastructure for neuroscience research, located in the School and used by the CINN
 community. RFIF was established in 2008 by a major University investment. Recognising that
 brain-imaging is a fast-moving and important field, the University invested in a £1.75m upgrade
 in 2016 and a 1.0 FTE MRI technician. Additionally, the School invests £275,000 p.a. (0.6 FTE
 of senior academic leadership, two support staff, MRI maintenance costs, and data storage).
 During the upgrade, the MRI scanner was modified to the latest version of the Siemens 3T
 Prisma Fit configuration and we support the necessary computing power required via three
 shared clusters: a dedicated VM platform with 70 CPUs, 630GB RAM, 60TB storage; a compute
 cluster with 2472 CPUs, 9TB RAM, 6 GPUs; an 11-node bespoke cluster with 23CPUs, 470GB
 RAM, 40TB storage, 8 GPUs.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The upgrade increased the potential for multimodal imaging and included MRI-compatible EEG
 and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), and transcranial direct current stimulation
 equipment. This investment was instrumental in Feredoes winning a Leverhulme Trust Senior
 Fellowship for methodological development work on joint TMS-fMRI. Similarly, Roesch has won
 EPSRC funding to use joint EEG-fMRI and is developing novel analytical techniques for
 multimodal imaging.

 CINN employs specialist staff to support researchers: a facilities manager, an MRI scanner
 technician, and a technician to assist with computing and data analysis. These staff are
 managed by the Director of CINN (Christakou, previously Saddy). To provide a Community of
 Practice for the complex data acquisition and analysis methods used in CINN, weekly
 Neuromethods meetings are held; these also oversee a study approval process.

 This ongoing investment and support has elevated both our research culture and income
 streams. RFIF facilities are core to the research activities of a high proportion of our staff (19 of
 the 54 staff for whom we returned an output) with 21% (19/91) of our returned outputs involving
 MRI or other neuroscience methods. Usage of the MRI scanner is increasing, and total spend
 from grants on MRI scanning between 2016 and March 2020 (COVID-19 lockdown) was
 £533,000 (approx. 1300 hours). CINN grant capture has grown over this period, reaching
 £875,000 in 2019/20. CINN also makes a major contribution to our PhD programme, and
 students can conduct MRI studies in return for assisting other projects with data collection. This
 helps train researchers and pump-prime the next wave of funded projects. Seventeen doctorates
 were awarded for CINN research in the assessment period.

 To increase our ability to study brain-body interactions and support collaborations with clinicians
 and other academic disciplines, we expanded our imaging capabilities to organs including the
 heart and liver, and muscle. Likewise, we added a Biolab with facilities to carry out basic medical
 examinations, phlebotomy, centrifugation and freezing of blood samples to -80°C; samples are
 analysed through collaborations with both Pharmacy and Food & Nutritional Sciences. This
 investment benefits PNAR researchers studying nutrition-brain interactions (Chakrabarti, Field,
 Lamport, Williams), and supported Chakrabarti’s recent large ERC award to combine brain
 Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy with gut and hormone measures. The School also supported
 set-up costs of a pain stimulation lab for use by Salomons and Gandhi in 2014 and this has
 recently been expanded for use in a 3-year commercially funded project (GENESIS, funded by
 Varian, >£500k) for pre-surgical pain assessments, in collaboration with RBFT.

 3.3.2 Nutrition Unit
 Used to facilitate our industrial collaborations, the Nutrition Unit contains a food preparation area
 (with strict health and safety procedures in place), extensive dedicated freezer space for storing
 foods and supplements, assessment facilities (blood-glucose levels, blood pressure, body mass
 index), eight cognitive-testing cubicles, and standardised cognitive and mental health test
 batteries. These facilities, and the methodological advantage of testing multiple participants in
 parallel at the same time of day, are also accessed by our industrial collaborators.

 Specialist staff are available in the Nutrition Unit where research staff and PGRs are trained in
 phlebotomy. These staff are instrumental in integrating and training PhD, MSc and
 undergraduate students in nutrition research. The Unit provides an exceptional environment for
 PGR students, with 10 PhD graduates since 2014. The Unit, managed by Lamport, is used by
 five PIs in the School and facilitates interdisciplinary collaborations with Food & Nutritional
 Sciences, and externally with Birmingham, KCL, Leeds and Tufts University.

 3.3.3 Software and online resources
 We maintain several large databases of participants to support our research interests: children
 (from birth to school age); ageing (participants aged 60 plus); autism; aphasia; and
 undergraduate students. The University recently acquired REDCap to support in-clinic and
 online experiments; it stores sensitive participant data in accord with GDPR and acts as a hub to

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allow experimenters to use a variety of other online platforms for experiments. With their prior
 experience, Chakrabarti and Tavassoli sit on the REDCap University management group.

 To facilitate the larger sample sizes required by replicable research, we invested in online data
 collection tools from 2018, using the token-based Gorilla system as our main online experiment-
 building platform. Following lockdown in March 2020, support for online data collection became
 a priority, and we doubled our annual investment in Gorilla tokens, greatly expanding the
 number of online participants we could work with. At the same time, we established a £6,000
 annual School Prolific fund to support PGR and Masters’ online studies requiring specific
 demographic participation.

 The University invests in specialist software licences to support research. MATLAB (with all
 Toolboxes) is used heavily across 17 labs and supports many grants and funded studentships.
 Scarfe teaches our MATLAB-based MSc module, and contributes to the research base with
 popular online tutorials for MATLAB and Psychtoolbox (one of the most widely used systems for
 generating experimental stimuli). This resource averages c.2500 active users per month and is
 used worldwide in research and teaching (e.g. Auckland, Cambridge, Cardiff, Essex, Michigan,
 Pennsylvania, St Andrews, Victoria and Vanderbilt University).

 E-journal access expanded significantly since 2014 through University investments which
 secured eight major journal deals and aggregator packages.

 3.3.4 Laboratories
 Supporting collaboration, individual researchers maintain a diverse range of specialist
 laboratories which all staff can access, including: EEG/Psychophysiology for use with infants
 and young children (£60,000 investment); two large Virtual-Reality labs including full-body
 tracking; haptic virtual-reality; multiple eye-trackers including specialist eye-tracking for children
 and accommodation/vergence measurement; motion tracking; psychophysiology; a sound-proof
 room; perception labs; two preferential looking laboratories; clinical observation rooms with
 audio-visual recording; and 24 bookable testing cubicles with PCs. A University-funded mobile
 behavioural testing laboratory (BESS Lab, see IES, Section 4.4) is co-led by McSorley.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 NHS partnership and training
 Clinical training and clinical service provision are key elements of School activity, operating both
 in partnership with the NHS and independently, via the AnDY research clinic, the Centre for
 Autism and Speech and Language Therapy (SLT) clinics. The Charlie Waller Institute (CWI) is
 the largest of these, operating between the University, the Charlie Waller Trust, and Berkshire
 Healthcare Foundation Trust and exemplifies how research in our School influences evidence-
 based practice and generates societal benefits. CWI is a flagship Health Education England
 commissioned training provider and employs 45 staff (9 clinical psychologists, 3 cognitive
 behavioural therapists and 33 other staff including project managers, clinical educators,
 assistant psychologists and sessional clinical supervisors) to support the delivery of professional
 training in evidence-based psychological treatments. These include adult IAPT (Improving
 Access to Psychological Therapies) and Education Mental Health Practitioner programmes.
 Academic leadership has been provided by Reynolds; research leadership is now provided by
 the newly appointed Charlie Waller Chair in Evidence-Based Psychological Treatment (Chan),
 with Dr Hannah Vickery as Director of Training. During the assessment period, CWI has trained
 1400 students on credit-bearing courses and more than twice this number via CPD workshops.
 This includes over 200 therapists trained to deliver the Brief Behavioural Activation intervention
 for adolescent depression developed by Reynolds and submitted as an impact case study.

 The three clinics provide a valuable service to the community as well as underpinning our
 fundamental-to-applied research agenda. The AnDY research clinic supports the training of NHS
 Children’s Wellbeing Practitioners (13 in total, 9 have graduated) and provides placements for
 postgraduate students. Since 2014, as well as performing over 300 diagnostic assessments and

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 160 interventions, CFA has run 79 autism training workshops for professionals, employers and
 parents involving 1645 participants, many of whom have opted into research. The SLT clinics
 host both NHS and independent services for paediatric disorders of fluency (c.300 therapy
 sessions per annum) and provide NHS community clinics for adults with acquired
 communication disorders or voice problems (approx. 65 sessions per-annum). This clinical
 activity supports approximately 55 Health Education England (HEE) funded training placements
 per annum.

 4.2 National and international sharing of expertise
 Our clinical researchers influence national policy: Creswell, as academic adviser for NICE
 evidence standards; Ho as an external expert providing consultancy on Huntington’s disease;
 and Reynolds on Brief Behavioural Activation treatment for adolescent depression. Staff advise
 the NHS or mental health charities on treatments (Dodd, Jenkins, Stojanovik, Waite); for
 example, Jenkins helped implement a guided self-help evidence-based treatment with the
 Berkshire Adult Eating Disorders service.

 Our researchers also work with health and education services in other countries: Chakrabarti is
 Principal Research Advisor for a new £20m autism residential community in India while, in South
 Africa, the Western Cape Department of Health has adopted Cooper and Murray’s book-
 sharing programme, distributing one of their picture books to all new mothers together with
 guidelines for use.

 Researchers in the School also advise the UK Government. McCabe is active in the pressure
 group DrugScience; her research on cannabinoids with Cowen (Oxford) has been used as
 evidence by the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) in their advice to Government
 on changing the scheduling of cannabinoids to make it easier for scientists to study their effects,
 and to give clinicians the option to prescribe them for some medical conditions. McCloy works
 with the Food Standards Agency on the application of behavioural economics to food choice,
 and with DFID and Reading’s Meteorology Department on climate change. Creswell was invited
 to produce a paper for the Cabinet Office on supporting parents of children and young people in
 CAMHS, and has an honorary contract with Public Health England. Ellis was a member of the
 Home Office Science Advisory Committee, representing Psychology/Behavioural Sciences.
 Other researchers take part in groups that aim to influence policy: for example, Dodd is Chair of
 the Oxford and Reading branch of the Association for Mental Health (ACAMH); Pagnamenta is
 active in a pressure group ‘Bercow, 10 Years On Advisory Group’, which lobbies government to
 improve Speech and Language Therapy Services.

 4.3 Translation through partnerships
 Our submitted impact cases are a subset of ongoing work to deliver societal benefits though
 collaboration with external partners. Table 3 outlines some of the projects within our impact
 pipeline.


 Table 3. Impact case studies under development
  Lead            Focus                                              Partners
  researcher
  Chakrabarti     Developing apps for neurodevelopmental             Therapy Box UK (a health
                  assessment in the home and low-resource            technology company and winner
                  settings. The START app for assessing autism       of the Queen’s award)
                  received the jury prize across all categories in
                  the international eHealth awards competition
                  held in France (2018) and the best technical
                  presentation award at the 11th International
                  conference on Measuring Behaviour
                  (Manchester, 2018). The group is currently
                  trialling both START, and the STREAM app that
                  assesses a wide range of neuro-developmental
                  conditions, in India and Malawi


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Dodd            Developing an intervention to increase                Association of Play Industries;
                  opportunities for adventurous play in schools,        Play England, Play Wales and
                  which Dodd has linked to reduced risk of              PlayBoard NI, HAGS; Learning
                  developing mental health problems                     through Landscapes, Outdoor
                                                                        Play and Learning
  Glennerster     Understanding spatial representations underlying      Government Defence Science
                  human navigation. This work could influence           and Technology Laboratory
                  navigation systems used in autonomous vehicles        (DSTL), US Department of
                  in future (e.g. through the Oxford spin-out           Defence, Oxford University
                  company FiveAI)                                       Department of Engineering
  Houston-Price   Bringing to market online and physical resources,     British Nutrition Foundation,
                  including a library of e-books, to support parents    Colruyt Retail Group, European
                  in increasing children's vegetable consumption        Food Information Council,
                  Resources are currently available in 6 languages      Universities of Helsinki, Turin,
                  (www.seeandeat.org)                                   Warsaw
  McCabe          Developing an alcohol-like drink that is less toxic   Alcarelle
                  and harmful                                           (https://alcarelle.com/);
                                                                        Professor David Nutt
  Robson          Bringing to market a novel language and motor         Evolv (https://evolvrehab.com/)
                  therapy product for stroke patients
  Scarfe          Supporting remote operators to perform                RACE (Remote Applications in
                  maintenance in radioactive environments,              Challenging Environments),
                  optimising remote visual-haptic telepresence          RAIN (Robotics and AI in
                  systems                                               Nuclear), UK Atomic Energy
                                                                        Authority
  Scarfe          Modifying consumer VR-headsets to make the            Oculus Research (part of
                  experience more comfortable and immersive             Facebook Reality Labs), Essex
                                                                        University
  Stojanovik      Developing an intervention and accompanying           Berkshire and Oxfordshire
                  parent manual to improve early communication          Healthcare Foundation Trusts (to
                  skills in Down Syndrome                               be delivered through NHS
                                                                        Language Therapy Services)
  Ward            Aiding language fluency therapy, via                  Respira Ltd (Innovate UK grant)
                  development of new device and software
  Waite           Developing a virtual-reality program for anxious      Oxford VR (Innovate UK grant)
                  adolescents
  Williams        Testing health claims for food items and              British Summer Fruits
                  nutritional interventions containing high levels of   Association, California Walnut
                  particular plant bioactives (e.g. flavonoids,         Commission, Mushroom Council,
                  ginsengosides) that aim to boost cognitive/brain      Naturex, Polyphenolics Inc,
                  function and mood (e.g. ThinkBlue™,                   Haskapa, Wild Blueberry
                  Cereboost™, MegaNatural®)                             Association of North America

 4.4 Outreach, public understanding and citizen science
 Much of our research is directed at benefitting end-users and this is reflected in our interactions
 with the public. For example, following the Personal and Public Involvement of Stakeholders
 model, the AnDY clinic involves young patients and parents in all stages of the research design
 process. During the COVID-19 pandemic, staff used their expertise to support the public:
 Orchard and teaching colleagues produced a MOOC on supporting young people with low
 mood and depression (20,000 sign-ups since May 2020), while Dodd and Waite co-wrote a
 guide translated into 16 languages for parents on dealing with children’s worries in relation to
 COVID-19. Our main focus reflects our specialist knowledge of child and adolescent mental
 health, with numerous new articles and comments by Dodd on the anxiety-reducing importance
 of play during lockdown, featured widely in The Guardian, Sunday Times front page, BBC Radio
 4, international media and the professional press.

 A notable development in recent years is that, increasingly, members of the School share
 expertise through authorship of popular science and self-help books. Creswell’s book for
 parents of children with anxiety disorders has been translated into Chinese, Farsi and
 Norwegian. She has also published an influential book for professionals on how to train parents

                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to use CBT with children. Astell published two books about care for people living with advanced
 dementia (one of which has been translated into German as a recommended text for nursing
 students), while Waite has published a guide to anxiety for family, friends, and professionals and
 is co-editing a self-help series for parents of children with common problems (four titles
 published, four in preparation). Reynolds has published a self-help book for depressed
 adolescents, and a guidebook for parents. As part of the See & Eat project Houston-Price has
 published a library of e-books for parents to encourage children to eat vegetables (with 24 titles
 to date, all translated into Danish, Dutch, Finnish, French, Italian, Polish). Harvey is writing a
 series of guides for people living with chronic health conditions; the first title, ‘Living well with the
 menopause’, was published in February 2021.

 Staff regularly organise or feature in public-facing activities:
    • Houston-Price’s See & Eat project team organised a series of webinars in 2019/20, with
         more than 600 early years educators, health professionals and parents taking part.
    • Liu organised a special event to celebrate musical talent in autism, bringing together 150
         families/individuals with ASD, practitioners and researchers.
    • The Centre for Autism runs biannual special interest groups with speakers drawn from
         NHS, charities, the University, and local schools (581 participants).
    • Each year, the AnDY clinic organises an event for Mental Health Awareness week
         attracting c.200 parents and teachers.
    • Scarfe worked with the European Space Agency’s Rosetta Mission team to visualise
         data from Comet 67P in immersive virtual reality. This was presented at the 2016 Royal
         Society Summer Exhibition, where the public could ‘walk’ on the surface of the comet
         and interact with the Rosetta spacecraft.
    • Staff have contributed to open online courses via the University’s partnership with
         FutureLearn: Superfoods: Myths and truth (Field, EIT Food), Understanding Low Mood
         and Depression in Young People (Orchard and Lamport), COVID-19: Helping Young
         People Manage Low Mood and Depression (Orchard).
    • McCabe, McCloy, Pliatsikas, Riddell, Vogt, make regular appearances in the media,
         and School staff gave 22 large or medium-sized lectures to the public, nationally and
         internationally.
    • Many staff feature in popular YouTube videos, e.g. The Psychology of Babies (Murray,
         12,623 views); a 3-minute PhD thesis competition winner about aphasia (Doedens,
         ~36,000 views).

 4.5 Academic collaborations
 We have a wide network of peers and partners and the number of international collaborations
 has grown since REF2014. 53% of the publications we report in Figure 1 have international co-
 authors compared to 32% in REF2014 (equivalent field-weighted comparison: 1.31 in this
 assessment period versus 1.05 previously). In addition to the Albert Wolters Visiting Professor
 programme (Section 2.2.1), we welcomed 57 academic visitors from other institutions (counting
 only those holding PhDs, and excluding Emeritus and former staff who maintained active links
 with the School). Many visitors were externally funded, for example, from the International British
 Academy Fellowship, China Scholarship Council, a Marie-Curie Fellowship and Erasmus. We
 have a mix of national and international speakers at our Thursday research seminars. Some
 collaborations are formalised as consortia, e.g. Creswell and Waite are members of the
 international Genes for Treatment consortium, and Chakrabarti is a member the world’s largest
 autism research consortium (EU AIMS).

 4.6 Contributions to the sustainability of the research base
 Staff in the School sit on 26 national or international committees. Saddy is Chair of ERC Starter
 grants SH4, ‘The Human Mind and its complexity’, while Bojak (2), Chakrabarti, Ellis, and
 J.Hill have been on national or European research council grant review panels during the
 assessment period, including ERC, HFSP, and Wellcome Trust. Members of the Unit have held
 senior editor/associate editor positions on 33 journals and 5 special issues during the
 assessment period.


                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the Unit are respected and influential in the field and have been recipients of many
 awards and invitations. Chakrabarti won the Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2015 (£100,000), and in
 2019 was nominated to the Young Academy of Europe; Murayama has won 7 prestigious prizes
 including the FJ McGuigan (American Psychological Foundation) Early Career Investigator Prize
 in 2016 ($25,000), and is a Distinguished Guest Professor at the University of Tübingen;
 Creswell has won several awards, including the British Medical Association (BMA) President’s
 award; in 2016, Cooper was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy; Ellis is a Fellow of the
 BPS, and of the Academy of Social Science; McCabe won the British Association for
 Psychopharmacology In Vivo Award in 2014 and 2015, and was invited to the Japan Frontiers in
 Science meeting in Tokyo in 2019, funded by The Royal Society; in 2019, as mentioned above,
 the British Pharmacological Society awarded Williams the 2019 Sir James Black Award for
 Contributions to Drug Discovery for her work with cannabinoids, which and was runner-up in the
 2020 Guardian University Awards Research Impact Category.

 Members of staff have given 76 keynotes and prominent invited talks (excluding departmental
 seminars, minor meetings, etc.), and we have organised the following conferences and annual
 meetings at Reading and elsewhere:
    • Reading Emotions is a yearly flagship conference for PAN (founded in 2014 by
       Chakrabarti, Christakou, Johnstone and Van Reekum). It attracts high-profile
       international speakers such as BJ Casey, Richie Davidson, Karl Friston, Russ Poldrack,
       Essi Viding and is now considered a key event in the field. A positive outcome of moving
       online in 2020 was much-increased attendance (500+) and international reach (34
       countries).
    • Conference on Multilingualism (COM2020) organised through CeLM, moved online in
       2020 and experienced boosted attendance (614 delegates from 64 countries).
    • Gray and Riddell organised the Experimental Psychology Society summer meeting at
       Reading in 2017, with Chakrabarti contributing the symposium ‘Social Perception and its
       Atypicalities’.
    • Chakrabarti and Tavassoli chaired the 2019 meeting of the Autistica Discover
       conference at Reading, the largest UK autism conference, with 400 delegates.
    • In 2017, Creswell and Waite hosted the ‘Evidence Based Mental Health in Schools’
       Conference (400 delegates), co-sponsored by the Charlie Waller Memorial Trust.
    • In 2016, Bojak organised the largest international neuroinformatics conference of the
       year (300 attendees, INCF Congress).
    • CINN funds and organises three annual neuroscience workshops and symposia at
       Reading for national and international participants.
    • Smaller events, such as the ‘Meeting of Motivation Researchers in the UK’ organised by
       Vogt, are common in the School.

 4.7 Responsiveness to national and international priorities
 Our research is aligned with many national and international priorities, most clearly evidenced by
 our work in childhood and adolescent mental health (WHO Comprehensive Mental Health Action
 Plan 2013-2020). We have contributed to national priorities, in both planned and responsive
 work, as illustrated by Dodd’s work to prevent anxiety and depression in children through
 promoting a more adventurous style of play, and work across the School during the COVID-19
 pandemic to support the mental health of children and young people (Dodd, Orchard, Waite).
 At an international level, Chakrabarti's work on developing scalable digital neurodevelopmental
 assessments in India and Malawi, and Murray and Cooper’s work on improving children’s
 learning and development through book-sharing in Africa illustrate our response to challenges in
 low-resource settings. More recently, in response to UKRI calls our nutrition researchers are
 focusing on the challenge of improving mental health and wellbeing through diet in the UK.




                                                                                           Page 19
