Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: EaStCHEM – University of Edinburgh (UoE)/University of St Andrews (UStA)
 Unit of Assessment: UoA 8: Chemistry
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1a. EaStCHEM overview and vision
 For 15 years, EaStCHEM has united the Chemistry
 research schools of the Universities of Edinburgh
 (UoE) and St Andrews (UStA). Together, we form one
 of the largest Chemistry UoAs in the UK, comprising 89
 academic staff at census date. Since 2014, we have
 published >3400 outputs with >45000 citations, awarded
 526 PhD degrees, and secured >£113M in research
 income by spend, including >£9M from industry.
 EaStCHEM’s vision is to provide a collegial, diverse, and
 stimulating environment in which to perform world-
 leading chemistry research that advances fundamental
 knowledge and solves global problems (Fig. 1). The
 excellence of our staff and the environment in which they
 work is indicated by 22 promotions (Section 2b) and
 external recognition from 40 national or international
 prizes/awards, the election of 9 staff as fellows to            Fig. 1. EaStCHEM at a glance.
 prestigious UK learned societies (Section 4f), and 13
 ERC grants (Section 3a).
 The following new initiatives, leveraged by our critical mass, have successfully reinforced our
 partnership.
  Creation of the Christina Miller and Ettie Steele Fellowships, which have provided the
     opportunity for five talented female postdoctoral researchers to establish themselves as
     independent group leaders, and improve our gender balance.
  Expansion of our world-leading research facilities, including the establishment of the Electron
     Microscopy and Light Element Analysis Centre (Irvine, EPSRC/UStA, £7.9M) and the Scottish
     High Field NMR Centre (Uhrin/Ashbrook, EPSRC, £1.4M).
  Delivery of major doctoral training programmes that combine high-quality research with skills
     development, including OPTIMA (Optical Medical Imaging, Bradley/Colin Campbell,
     EPSRC/MRC, £4.5M), CRITICAT (Critical Resource Catalysis, Smith/Love, EPSRC, £4.5M),
     and EaSICAT (East of Scotland Industrial Catalysis, Smith/Thomas, Industry/UStA/UoE,
     £2.5M).
 EaStCHEM’s longevity and sustainability attest to our shared values of collegiality, equality, and
 inclusivity that provide a firm foundation for our continuing partnership, and allow the exchange of
 best practice. Coordinated recruitment has built strength and complementarity, resulting in wide-
 ranging expertise across our joint research themes. Targeted investment has expanded the range
 of specialist pooled facilities accessible to all EaStCHEM researchers. Our synergy delivers
 collaborative research, training programmes, and joint funding opportunities. Integration across
 EaStCHEM has been reinforced through a staff exchange seminar programme (65 lectures since
 2014, with staff from UStA visiting UoE and vice versa), staff away days (focusing upon research
 themes, interdisciplinarity, and funding), and the EaStCHEM PhD Studentships Scheme (£900k
 investment) involving PI co-supervision and research time at both UStA and UoE. Since 2016, the
 annual EaStCHEM Conference for Early Career Researchers has provided opportunities for
 collaboration and networking to post-doctoral research assistants (PDRAs) and early career
 researchers (ECRs).
 1b. EaStCHEM research strategy
 The development and implementation of research strategy is the responsibility of the EaStCHEM
 Board, composed of Heads of School (Pulham, Morris), Directors of Research (Michel, Smith),
 and Directors of Impact (Uhrin, Zysman-Colman), supported by UStA/UoE Research Theme
 Leaders. During this REF period, we targeted the implementation of three interdependent strategic

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 goals: (1) to appoint and nurture talented staff/ECRs, particularly those from under-represented
 groups; (2) to stimulate and maximise opportunities for collaboration with industry and other
 research end-users; and (3) to focus and strengthen our unifying research themes.
 Goal (1) To appoint and nurture talented researchers across EaStCHEM
 Recruitment of 29 academic staff (13 ECR Fellows, 9 Lecturers, 4 Readers and 3 Chairs) has
 strengthened the EaStCHEM research themes, established leadership in key areas, improved
 diversity, and increased staff numbers to 88.3 FTE (from 80.6 submitted to REF2014).
 Recruitment is aligned across EaStCHEM, ensuring that appointments have strategic value, with
 all panels having UoE/UStA representation. In response to an analysis of the diversity profile of
 recruitment during the REF2014 period, we created the Christina Miller (CMF) and Ettie Steele
 (ESF) Fellowships to support talented PDRAs from under-represented groups in the transition to
 independence. These schemes have resulted in five outstanding female appointments (Garden,
 Jarvis, Hobday, Mey and Payne), four of whom have subsequently obtained UKRI Future
 Leaders or Chancellor’s Fellowships to establish themselves as independent group leaders
 (Section 2). Other ECR fellows (4 female and 4 male) contribute towards EaStCHEM’s long-term
 sustainability (Bell, NERC Soil Security Fellow; Erastova, Chancellor’s Fellow; Gibbs, UKRI Early
 Career Fellowship (ECF); Ewen Campbell and Johnston, Royal Society (RS) URF; Yue, UKRI
 Innovation Fellowship; Kumar and Lancefield, Leverhulme Trust ECF).
 Goal (2) To stimulate and maximise opportunities for collaboration with research end-users
 Our refreshed impact strategy (Section 1d) has raised the profile of impact-driven research,
 supported our staff to secure the time, funding, and skills to pursue impact goals, and provided
 increased opportunities for interaction with research users. This has generated a step-change in
 the level of end-user engagement by EaStCHEM researchers, and >£9M of industrial funding.
 Highlights include major partnerships with BP, Infineum, Lubrizol, GSK, Sunamp and Eastman;
 the creation of spin-outs ZEMFuels, Invizius, and DESTINA; and on-site hosting of companies
 including Red-T/Invinity Energy Systems, The Falcon Project, LERC, MOFGen and Drochaid.
 Staff interactions with industry have been strengthened by RS Industrial Fellowships with Johnson
 Matthey (Wright) and Dr Reddy’s (Clarke), and the appointments of Webb (RS Industrial Fellow,
 former Chief Scientist at Sasol) and Kirk (industrial inorganic materials). UK and Scottish
 Government funding (>£30M) has secured the establishment of GENESIS (GENEration Storage
 Innovation and Sustainability Centre), a new business-facing facility for research and development
 focused upon batteries, hydrogen, fuel cells, and bioenergy.
 Goal (3) To focus and strengthen EaStCHEM research themes
 In 2015, after a consultation process with staff,
 we created five research themes (Fig. 2) that
 build on our excellence in fundamental
 chemistry, promote interdisciplinary research,
 and demonstrate our combined capability and
 strengths. These themes provide a coherent
 framework for collaborative research and
 impact, with each led by staff members from
 UoE and UStA. Three themes (Catalysis and
 Synthesis, Chemistry-Biology Interface, and
 Functional Materials) continue from REF2014,
 with a renewed focus to demonstrate their
 relevance to societal problems through impact.
 Of the new themes, Structural Chemistry and
 Chemical Dynamics encompasses recognized
 strengths in these areas, and Energy,
 Environmental and Sustainable Chemistry
 addresses the major global challenges of
 renewable energy, sustainable feedstocks, and         Fig. 2. The EaStCHEM research themes.
 environmental protection.


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1c. Evidence of the success of EaStCHEM’s research strategy across our themes
 Theme – Catalysis and Synthesis (T-CS)
 Leaders: Cowley/Watson (21.3 PIs)
 Research strengths: main-group chemistry, biocatalysis, enantioselective catalysis, natural
 product synthesis, organometallics and metal-based/earth-abundant catalysis, reaction
 mechanism elucidation, fabrication of nanoparticles, and supramolecular chemistry.
 Investment in people: Ingleson (Professor, main-group synthesis and catalysis); Johnston
 (URF, enantioselective catalysis); Kay (Lecturer from RSE Fellowship, nanomaterials); Kumar
 (Leverhulme Trust ECF, earth-abundant catalysis); Stasch (Reader, main-group synthesis);
 Watson (Reader, homogeneous catalysis); Webb (Reader, industrial catalysis).
 Vitality and sustainability: ERC Advanced Grants (Arnold, Lloyd-Jones), Consolidator Grant
 (Ingleson), and Starting Grants (Cockroft, Cowley, Lawrence). Our strength in catalysis
 underpinned the CRITICAT CDT, which has trained over 80 PhD students (Smith/Love).
 Highlights
    The Janus face all-syn-1,2,3,4,5,6-hexafluorocyclohexane was shown to be the most polar
     aliphatic compound (O’Hagan/Philp/Slawin, Nature Chem. 2015).
    A detailed experimental, EPR, and computational study of the bicarbonate radical illustrates
     its extreme acidity and unique reactivity with lipids (Buehl/Walton, JACS 2015).
    Detailed reinvestigations of protodeboronation reactions have overturned prior dogma, and led
     to mitigation of troublesome side reactions in key industrial processes (Lloyd-Jones, JACS
     2016/2017; Nature Chem. 2016).
    A novel activation method provides a generic platform for the discovery of non-precious metal
     catalysis (Thomas, Nature Chem. 2017).
    The demonstration that chalcogen bonding interactions are dominated by n-* orbital
     delocalization (Cockroft, JACS 2017) resulted in the enhanced reactivity of catalysts
     (Smith/Slawin/Cockroft, ACIE 2020).
    A supramolecular Pd2L4 capsule performed as an efficient “artificial Diels-Alderase”
     (Lusby/Lawrence, JACS, 2018).
    Sodium amide proved an excellent catalyst for allylic C(sp3)-H bond activation of alkenes
     (Schneider, JACS, 2019).
    The total synthesis of the alkaloid brevianamide A, an elusive target for over five decades due
     to its molecular complexity, was achieved in only seven steps using a bioinspired cascade
     reaction (Lawrence, Nature Chem. 2020).
 Collaborations and impact: major research partners include
 AstraZeneca, GSK, Novartis, Syngenta, Lubrizol, Eastman
 and TgK Scientific, who have provided >£2.5M in industrial
 support. Collaboration with TgK Scientific and Bruker
 commercialised the InsightXpress stopped-flow technologies
 for the analysis of fast reactions using in-situ IR and NMR
 spectroscopy (Fig. 3, Lloyd-Jones). Investment from
 Eastman Chemicals (£1.5M, Clarke/Lloyd-Jones/Woollins)
 led to catalyst development that solved an industrial problem Fig. 3. InsightXpress reaction
 now proven at pilot plant scale. The isothiourea HyperBTM monitoring technology (Lloyd-
 catalyst is used on multi-kilogram scale by Syngenta (Smith). Jones/Bruker/TgK Scientific).
 Theme – Functional Materials (T-FM)
 Leaders: Ashbrook/Morrison (14 PIs)
 Research strengths: magnetic and multiferroic materials, porous materials, energetic materials,
 optoelectronic materials, polymers, and synthesis using extreme conditions. By its nature,
 research in T-FM is applications-driven, with target materials employed for energy conversion and
 storage, gas separation, sensors, information storage, and cryogenic refrigeration.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investment in people: Cumby (Lecturer, inorganic materials); Gibbs (UKRI Early Career Fellow,
 diffraction of materials); Hobday (Chancellor’s Fellow from CMF, barocaloric materials);
 McKeown (Professor, organic porous materials); Zysman-Colman (Professor from EaStCHEM
 Fellowship, optoelectronic materials).
 Evidence of vitality and sustainability: ERC Advanced Grants (Attfield, Morris) and
 Consolidator Grant (Ashbrook); EPSRC Senior Fellowship (Morris); EPSRC Platform Grant
 (Attfield, £1M); a grant to establish the Charles University Centre of Advanced Materials (Morris,
 €8M); and a US Defense Threat Reduction Agency grant (McKeown, $1.5M).
 Highlights
    A new family of structurally complex zeolites, with embedded isoreticular properties, adsorb
     carbon dioxide selectively (Wright, Nature, 2015), and ‘unfeasible’ synthetic zeolites were
     prepared using a new mechanism (Morris, Nature Chem. 2016).
    Photoluminescent thin films of bismuth-based metal-organic hybrid materials are potential
     third-generation photovoltaics (Payne/Irvine, Nature Commun. 2017).
    Membranes of polymers of intrinsic microporosity (PIMs) demonstrated exceptional
     performance as membranes for gas separations (McKeown, Nature Mater. 2017) and redox-
     flow batteries (McKeown, Nature Mater. 2019).
    The first pressure-induced transformation of a 2D precursor into a crystalline 3D zeolite,
     achieved at 1 GPa/200 °C, exemplified a powerful new technique for zeolite discovery
     (Ashbrook/Attfield/Morris, J. Mat. Chem. A 2018).
    A general and practical method to obtain super-tetragonality and giant polarization using
     interphase strain in thin films was demonstrated (Scott, Science, 2018).
 Collaborations and impact: key partners range from SMEs
 (5D, MOFGen) to multinational companies (Johnson Matthey,
 PQ Silicas, Teleflex, BP, Chevron). Low-cost microfabrication
 enabled commercialisation of nanoelectrodes with ultra-high
 sensitivity and rapid response (Mount with Nanoflex; Fig. 4).
 Explosives that are safer to manufacture, transport and store
 have resulted from computational predictions of the intrinsic
 sensitivities of explosives to initiation by shock Fig. 4. The Nanoflex electrode.
 (Morrison/Pulham with UK MoD/US DoD). An impact case
 study (ICS) showcases how porous materials expertise (Morris/Slawin) led to commercialisation
 (MOFGen, PanaceaNano), and implementation of innovation policy in Sweden.
 Theme – Chemistry-Biology Interface (T-CBI)
 Leaders: Goss/Colin Campbell (20 PIs)
 Research strengths: medicinal chemistry, biological/medical imaging, natural product and
 analogue synthesis, the molecular understanding of protein structure and function, the
 investigation of enzymes and metabolic pathways, the chemistry of diseases including those that
 disproportionately afflict the world’s poorest nations (microbial, parasitic, and genetic).
 Investment in people: Bode (Lecturer from EaStCHEM Hirst Fellowship, biological EPR); Clarke
 (Chancellor’s Fellow now Senior Lecturer, mass spectrometry); Horrocks (Lecturer, biophysical
 chemistry); Jarvis (UKRI Future Leaders Fellow from CMF, chemical biology); Lilienkampf
 (Lecturer, chemical biology); Mey (Chancellor’s Fellow from CMF, modelling of protein structure).
 Vitality and sustainability: ERC Advanced Grants
 (Naismith, Bradley), Consolidator Grant (Goss), and
 Starter Grant (Michel); EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
 Training OPTIMA (Bradley, £4.5M), EPSRC IRC Proteus
 (Bradley, £3.9M), and ARREST-TB (Bradley, EU, £4M)
 are developing revolutionary technologies for the optical
 detection of lung disease (Fig. 5); St Andrews
 Multidisciplinary Anti-infective Research and Therapeutics Fig. 5. Imaging system to diagnose
                                                            lung disease from Proteus.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (SMART) Centre (Goss, RS/UStA, £750k); a GCRF award to provide antibiotic therapies in Africa
 (Florence, £900k).
 Highlights
    A coiled-coil domain acts as a molecular ruler, with genetic manipulation allowing regulation
     of chain length in lipopolysaccharide production (Liu/Naismith, Nature Struct. Mol. Biol. 2015).
    Ligand-based NMR was used to screen glycans for binding to blood protein factor H,
     suggesting sialic acid has a critical role in human renal complement homeostasis (Uhrin,
     Nature Chem. Biol. 2015).
    The biosynthesis of high-value fatty-acid thioesters was achieved through site-directed
     mutagenesis of bacterial pimeloyl-CoA synthetase (Naismith/Campopiano, Nature Chem.
     Biol. 2017).
    Super-resolution microscopy of single macromolecules is illuminating the role of protein
     aggregation in the development of Parkinson’s disease. (Horrocks, Nature Commun. 2018).
    Unnatural polymers have been prepared in cells via biocompatible free radical
     photopolymerisation, providing the ability to alter cellular motility, and to label cells by
     generating fluorescent polymers (Bradley/Lilienkampf, Nature Chem. 2019).
    The first halogenase from a virus was discovered allowing characterization of a flavin-
     dependent halogenase with a preference for iodination (Goss, Nature Chem. 2019).
    Stimulated Raman scattering microscopy is being utilised to study intracellular distribution of
     label-free ponatinib in live cells (Hulme, J. Med. Chem. 2020).
 Collaborations and impact: key partners include AstraZeneca, Novartis, Invizius, Cresset,
 Ingenza, and Lucite. Edinburgh Molecular Imaging is developing targeted fluorescent optical
 imaging agents as a diagnostic tool for colon cancer (Bradley). With Scottish Enterprise High
 Growth Spin Out Funding, Goss has established XGenix, a company focussed on providing
 bespoke halogenation solutions. AstraZeneca is using new MS methods for 3D imaging for
 screening of the distribution of drugs in cells (MS Facility Manager Mackay, Section 3b). Cresset
 has integrated new drug binding modelling methods into their pharmaceutical/biotech software for
 research customers (Michel/Mey). ICS highlights: (1) spin-out success providing direct detection
 of microRNA disease biomarkers (Bradley, DESTINA); (2) expert witness testimony leading to
 enhanced protection for biopharmaceutical patents (Naismith, Amgen); and (3) new companies
 generating therapies that control immune system response through factor H (Barlow/Uhrin,
 Gemini and Invizius).
 Theme – Structural Chemistry & Chemical Dynamics (T-SCCD)
 Leaders: Baddeley/Alexander (19 PIs)
 Research strengths: diffraction techniques (particularly at elevated pressures), crystallisation,
 electron microscopy, surface and interface characterisation at single molecule resolution, theory
 and computation, ultrafast imaging and spectroscopy, and reaction dynamics.
 Investment in people: Ewen Campbell (RS URF, astrochemistry); Erastova (Chancellor’s
 Fellow, modelling of surfaces and materials); Johansson (Lecturer from RSE/BP Fellow, photo-
 induced molecular magnetism); Payne (ESF, structure of energy materials); Seery (Professor,
 chemical education); Szabla (Lecturer, computational organic chemistry).
 Vitality and sustainability: EPSRC New Investigator Award (Johansson); BBSRC 17ALERT
 Award (Clarke); EPSRC Scottish High Field NMR Centre (Uhrin/Ashbrook, £1.4M); EPSRC
 Strategic Equipment Award (Parsons, £600k) to fund an X-ray diffractometer for extreme
 conditions; EPSRC Prosperity Partnership (Camp/Pulham with BP, £2.6M).
 Highlights
    Remarkable enhancement of magnetic ordering temperatures for rhenium complexes was
     achieved by using pressure (Brechin/Parsons, Nature Commun. 2016).
    High levels of cation disorder significantly improve quantum efficiency, stability and emission
     lifetimes for europium-doped nitridosilicate for use in white-light-emitting diodes
     (Attfield/Zhou, JACS 2017).
    A novel organocatalytic methodology generated enantioenriched surfaces with functionalities

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     that are not accessible by other methods (Haehner/Smith, ACIE 2018).
    Unprecedented insights into photochemical
     reactions were obtained from ultrafast X-ray
     scattering, using an X-ray free electron laser
     (Kirrander, Nature Chem. 2019). This research on
     “making the first molecular movies in quadrillionths-
     of-a-second frames to reveal the intricate structural
     dances of molecules as they undergo chemical
     reactions” was selected by the US DOE as one of
                                                            Fig. 6. Determination of the structure of
     their research highlights from the last 50 years (Fig.
                                                            the excited state of N-methyl morpholine
     6).
                                                            from ultrafast X-ray scattering.
    A multi-state molecular switch based on the
     endohedral fullerene Li@C60 has been demonstrated (Eleanor Campbell/Schaub, Nature
     Commun. 2019).
    Quantum chemical calculations elucidate the photochemical mechanism of the formation of
     prebiotic nucleosides necessary for the RNA/DNA-mediated origins of life (Szabla, Nature
     2020).
 Collaborations and impact: characterisation of the role of additives at low concentrations during
 PVC manufacture resulted in a new formulation that has been produced globally on a tonne scale
 by INEOS (Uhrin/NMR Facility Manager Bella). Schaub’s work with Integrated Graphene
 provides a disruptive manufacturing process for high-quality 3D graphene foam electrodes. An
 ICS highlights how molecular simulation and high-pressure experimentation have transformed
 product development for major lubricant additive producers (Camp/Pulham).
 Theme – Energy, Environment and Sustainability (T-EES)
 Leaders: Irvine/Kirk (14 PIs)
 Research strengths: new materials for photovoltaic technologies, energy storage (phase-change
 materials, lithium and sodium batteries, fuel cells, supercapacitors, membranes for redox flow
 batteries); processing of synthetic fuels (separation of gases and utilisation of CO 2, electrolysis,
 green ammonia, efficient hydrogen production); critical raw materials (valuable metal recovery via
 urban mining and sustainable polymers); and environmental analysis (air quality and peatlands).
 Investment in people: Bell (NERC Soil Security Fellow, environmental chemistry); Garden
 (UKRI Future Leaders Fellow from CMF/Ramsay Memorial Fellowship, sustainable polymers);
 Kirk (Lecturer now Senior Lecturer, industrial inorganic materials); Lancefield (Leverhulme Trust
 ECF, renewable feedstocks); Yue (EPSRC UKRI Innovation Fellow, energy materials).
 Vitality and sustainability: NEXGENNA Faraday Challenge Award (Irvine/Armstrong/Morris,
 £12M) to accelerate the development of high-performance sodium ion batteries; two EPSRC
 funded centres for Energy Materials “Multiscale tuning of interfaces” and “Surfaces for energy
 applications” (Irvine, £2.1M); EPSRC Critical Mass Funding for Emergent Nanomaterials (Irvine,
 £1.5M); EPSRC-JSPS Core-to-Core Programme (Zysman-Colman; £1M) based upon materials
 exhibiting highly efficient thermally activated delayed fluorescence; a GCRF grant “Chemical
 recycling of electronic waste for sustainable material consumption in India” (Love/Morrison,
 £400k).
 Highlights
    Functionalised high-value phenols are obtained from an organo-solvated lignin through a two-
     step depolymerization (Westwood/Lancefield, ACIE 2015), with aromatic monomers
     available in an acid-catalysed process (Westwood, JACS 2015).
    Urban mining through selective extraction of gold from a mixture of metals was achieved by a
     simple ligand (Morrison/Love, ACIE 2016).
    Electrolysis and fuel cells can be unified in a single, easily manufactured, device by preparing
     a solid oxide cell with an electrode coated with finely dispersed metal nanoparticles (Irvine,
     Nature, 2016).
    Macrocycles containing three metal cations were shown to be efficient catalysts for ring-
     opening polymerisation to make sustainable polyesters (Garden, Chem. Sci. 2020).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    A linear B,N-doped heptacene demonstrates multi-resonant thermally activated delayed
     fluorescence (Buck/Slawin/Zysman-Colman, JACS 2020).
    High proton and oxide-ion conductivities of hexagonal perovskites provide promising new
     materials for energy-related applications (Savaniu/Irvine, Nature Mater. 2020).
 Collaborations and impact: Irvine’s work has attracted
 inward investment to establish the Scottish Centre for
 Clean Energy Storage and Conversion and Enterprise Hub
 (Fig. 7) with £30M of funding from the Tay Cities Deal. Heal
 provides expert advice to DEFRA’s Air Quality Expert
 Group and the Department of Health’s Committee on the
 Medical Effects of Air Pollutants. ICS highlights: (1) new
 phase-change       materials      that    have      enabled
 commercialisation       of    domestic     heat     storage
 (Pulham/Sunamp); (2) Irvine’s major role in the
                                                              Fig. 7. Site of the Scottish Centre for
 development of hydrogen as a fuel for public transport
                                                              Clean      Energy     Storage      and
 through policy and project implementation, culminating in
                                                              Conversion on the UStA Eden
 the launch of the Scottish Government’s Hydrogen
                                                              Campus.
 Accelerator.
 1d. Interdisciplinary research (see Section 4)
 EaStCHEM’s recognition of the importance of interdisciplinary research has: (1) guided strategic
 appointments; (2) led to new infrastructure initiatives; and (3) enhanced collaboration across our
 research themes, and with other disciplines, through PhD studentship funding. Our commitment
 mirrors that of both institutions regarding the importance of interdisciplinarity (see Institutional
 Environment Statements (IES), UStA/UoE, Section 2).
 As examples of EaStCHEM’s strategic appointments: (1) McKeown drives collaboration with
 Chemical Engineering on the development of highly permeable and selective polymer
 membranes for CO2 capture; (2) Zysman-Colman and Gibbs broaden links with Physics on
 optoelectronic and inorganic materials; and (3) Jarvis brings additional expertise in biocatalysis
 at the Chemistry/Biology interface. Infrastructure initiatives such as the Scottish High Field NMR
 Centre (Uhrin/Ashbrook) provide Scottish researchers, across physical and biological sciences,
 access to cutting-edge liquid and solid-state NMR instrumentation. Support of interdisciplinary
 research extends to co-supervision of PhD students between disciplines (including Geoscience,
 Earth Science, Biology, Physics, and Engineering), with both UStA and UoE having dedicated
 university-led interdisciplinary PhD schemes. Institutional drive to promote interdisciplinarity has
 resulted in Goss leading an Engineering Institute at UStA, to focus on applied interdisciplinary
 research in the absence of an established School of Engineering.
 1e. EaStCHEM impact strategy
 EaStCHEM’s refreshed impact strategy aligns with those of our institutions (UStA/UoE IES,
 Section 2) and has resulted in a clear step-change in staff involvement in, and achievement of,
 impact generation. We have built leadership and support through the establishment of an
 EaStCHEM Impact Team, with dedicated Directors of Impact (Uhrin/Zysman-Colman) and
 Impact Coordinator (Fay Campbell). The team promotes best practice and works closely with
 business development executives, public engagement and institutional impact support. In 2015,
 we established the EaStCHEM Industry Advisory Board (IAB), comprising senior executives from
 a range of sectors and including representation from large multinationals, SMEs and the public
 sector (BP, Johnson Matthey, Bayer, Synthomer, West Brewery, Knowledge Transfer Network,
 ScotCHEM). The IAB provides guidance on enhancing engagement with research users, feedback
 on proposed initiatives, and market intelligence about future trends and opportunities across a
 range of industries.
 EaStCHEM impact strategy has focussed on the following three key objectives.
 Objective (1) Raising the profile of impact
 Increasing recognition of the fundamental importance of applying our research for wider benefit,
 and celebration of the research challenges that this can present, have resulted in a significant

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 culture change. This has been achieved through the following initiatives.
    Championing of impact by senior leaders from EaStCHEM at away days, symposia, and staff
     meetings.
    Incorporation of impact plans into annual performance reviews, resulting in workload
     adjustments to allow colleagues to dedicate time to impact.
    Inclusion of potential to generate impact as an important criterion for new appointments and
     career progression.
    Initiation (2018) of an industry speaker series to forge stronger links with industry. This has
     also directly resulted in successful collaborations (AstraZeneca, PhD studentship, Zysman-
     Colman/Smith; Concept Life Sciences, PhD studentship, Goss).
 Objective (2) Supporting staff to develop impact
 We have helped staff secure the time, funding, resources, and skills to pursue impact goals.
    EPSRC IAA funding of over £810k has supported 40 impact-based projects with links to 22
     industrial collaborators, and involved 26 academic staff. Strategic use of these awards has led
     to ongoing collaborations and significant matched and follow-on industrial funding: £8.5k from
     SST Sensing Ltd. (Baker); £350k from Eastman (Clarke); £34k from UCB Celltech (Michel);
     £145k from Sunamp (Pulham); £62k from Integrated Graphene (Schaub) resulting in further
     funding of £124k from SFC and Innovate UK/£2.3M to Integrated Graphene from the Faraday
     Battery Challenge; £25k from GSK (Thomas); £108k from GSK (Wright/Clarke); £300k from
     Cynora (Zysman-Colman). ZEMFuels was formed as a spin-out company (Irvine) to
     commercialize technology developed through IAA-funded research.
    A policy of providing matched funds for externally funded PhD studentships has helped
     generate 112 industrially-linked PhD studentships. This provides an effective mechanism for
     solving industrial problems and seeding long-lasting collaborations, such as those between
     Camp/Infineum, Pulham/Sunamp (both now ICSs), and Uhrin/Glycomar.
    Sabbatical leave for impact development has cemented successful collaborations: Schaub
     with Integrated Graphene; Love with a GCRF consortium on reclaiming gold from urban
     mining; Heal with the Defra Air Quality Expert Group; and Morris with MOFGen (ICS on
     commercialisation of porous materials). RS Industrial Fellowships also enable focus on impact
     (Clarke with Dr Reddy’s, Webb with Sasol, and Wright with Johnson Matthey).
    Increased training opportunities for PDRA and PhDs communities, including an annual lecture
     series on commercial awareness, entrepreneurism, and research commercialisation.
    Since 2014, a total of 47 patent applications were filed by UoE/UStA, with EaStCHEM staff
     named as inventors, to protect IP that may generate impact.
 Objective (3) Facilitating interactions with research users
 The following illustrates our mechanisms to facilitate interactions with research users.
    We have developed long-term strategic partnerships resulting in an EPSRC Prosperity
     Partnership with BP (“Preventing Surface Degradation in Demanding Environments”
     Camp/Pulham) and Rolls Royce in GENESIS at the Eden Campus.
    Our world-class facilities attract SMEs and large national/international companies. Investment
     in dedicated facilities management has ensured provision of a high-quality service, which has
     provided a revenue of £1.4M, seeded collaborations, and generated impact (Section 3).
    We ring-fence on-site lab space and facility access to SMEs and spin-outs, which has proved
     particularly valuable at the early stage of their existence. For example, spin-out successes
     Invizius, MOFGen, and Gemini Therapeutics, highlighted as ICSs, were all supported in this
     way. In addition, Edinburgh Molecular Imaging, Red-T/Invinity Energy Systems, The Falcon
     Project, LERC, ZEMFuels, and Drochaid have all co-located within EaStCHEM and have
     worked closely with our researchers.
    Year-long student placements in industry, as part of undergraduate degree programmes, seed
     new contacts and have provided valuable support to our spin-outs and existing partners (308
     placements with 81 companies since 2014). At PhD level, industrial placements are embedded
     in the CRITICAT, EaSICAT, and OPTIMA programmes.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1f. Open research and research integrity/ethics
 Creating an open research environment: EaStCHEM is committed to ensuring the widest
 access to its research through providing Open Access and Open Data to published outputs.
 Building upon institutional support (UStA/UoE IES, Section 2), we have provided dedicated
 administrative resource and clear mechanisms for open research to minimise additional work-load
 for academic staff. As a result, our Open Access compliance rate is 92% (based on 1953 outputs
 published since 1st April 2016). For Open Data, we have developed discipline-specific guidance
 notes on what constitutes data, what makes good metadata, and what compliance means for
 chemistry outputs, particularly those resulting from research funded by UKRI or the EU. To help
 staff achieve compliance, these policies and mechanisms were communicated to staff through a
 series of workshops, and with guidance published online. Underpinning data for over 600 datasets
 has been published in the EaStCHEM research repository (PURE) since 1st April 2016.
 Research integrity/ethics: EaStCHEM’s approach to research integrity and ethics follows
 institutional best practice (UStA/UoE IES, Section 2), with clear and robust procedures to report
 and investigate allegations of scientific misconduct. To ensure that EaStCHEM’s high expectations
 for research integrity and ethics standards are met, we have developed a code of practice based
 closely on the policies and procedures of the UK Research Integrity Office. These define the
 principles and expectations for research conduct, and ensure that EaStCHEM research is subject
 to the appropriate ethical, legal, and professional standards. All staff, PDRAs and postgraduate
 students undertake mandatory online research integrity and ethics training modules that support
 and foster best practice.
 1g. Future plans
 Over the next ten years we will build on the EaStCHEM synergistic partnership, with our strategy
 designed to: (1) address significant challenges in each of our research themes; (2) to invest in
 people to sustain momentum and improve our diversity; (3) maintain our trajectory and focus upon
 impact generation; and (4) maintain and improve our pooled infrastructure.
 Research: our five research themes are well positioned to address global challenges and
 showcase interdisciplinarity through our fundamental and applied research. In T-CBI, we will take
 chemistry into the operating theatre with non-invasive imaging technologies for medical
 diagnostics and interventions, and develop new computational technologies to accelerate
 preclinical drug development. In T-CS we will develop and improve new catalytic reactions that
 use earth-abundant materials to maximise resource use and minimise waste across industrial
 processes. In T-FM we will design new materials, making increasing use of predictive
 computational and data-driven approaches, for applications including energy conversion and
 storage, gas separations, and quantum computing. In T-SCCD we will follow chemical reactions
 and processes in real time and on rapid timescales to advance insight into fundamental processes
 covering the whole of chemistry. In T-EES we will continue to monitor key parts of the environment
 (air quality, peatland), and develop techniques for recycling/urban mining of polymers and metals.
 We will demonstrate the potential of hydrogen as an energy vector in the transportation sector via
 the Hydrogen Accelerator.
 People: a projected 15 retirements over the next decade, together with the continuation of our
 strategy of sustainable growth in staff numbers, will provide the opportunity for future appointments
 at all levels. This will include a minimum of two named Chair positions (Crum Brown, Industrial
 Chemistry) to provide leadership at senior level. Building on our flagship Christina Miller and
 Ettie Steele Fellowships, which have resulted in the development of talented women ECRs into
 future research leaders (Section 2), we will target recruitment from under-represented groups to
 achieve a balance that better reflects the diversity of UK society. We will broaden our mentorship
 schemes to enable ECRs/PDRAs to benefit from the experience of peers and senior colleagues
 across EaStCHEM, enhance institutional links, and initiate new collaborations.
 Impact generation: we will build on our current momentum to further enhance staff engagement
 with industry and policy makers in order to translate research into impact leading to major
 contributions to healthcare, energy, sustainability, and climate change. This will be achieved by
 strengthening the Impact Team by the appointment of a permanent full-time EaStCHEM Impact
 Coordinator and the establishment of an Impact Strategy Board with external representation. We

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 will continue to appoint staff who have the potential to deliver impact, e.g. in 2021 we will fill the
 vacant Chair of Industrial Chemistry and appoint Agnew (former Chief Technologist at Rolls-
 Royce) to a personal chair.
 Infrastructure: significant new builds will accommodate chemical research at the
 biological/medical interface. At UStA a £15M refurbishment (estimated completion August 2022)
 will replace the building damaged by fire in February 2019, while at UoE a £39M investment will
 develop new interdisciplinary laboratories within The Edinburgh BioQuarter, Scotland’s leading
 hospital campus (Section 3c). We will continue to maintain, renew, and improve our pooled
 infrastructure to ensure that EaStCHEM staff will have access to state-of-the-art facilities.

 2. People
 2a. Staffing strategy
 Across EaStCHEM we have appointed talented researchers who add excellence to our research
 strengths and share our commitment to an environment that is supportive to all.
 Strategic appointments: as noted in Section 1b, newly appointed staff have strengthened
 research and impact activity across our research themes, enhanced interdiscipinary links (Section
 1d), and improved our diversity. We welcomed 29 new academic staff, spanning independent ECR
 fellowships (13), lectureships (9), readerships (3) and chairs (4), increasing academic staff
 numbers to 88.3 FTE from 80.6 submitted to REF2014.
 Enhancing gender balance: following an analysis of ECR appointments during REF2014 (Fig.
 8), it was clear that EaStCHEM’s gender balance would remain poor unless affirmative action was
 taken. As a consequence, we implemented our Christina Miller (CMF) and Ettie Steele (ESF)
 Fellowship schemes, which are targeted at under-represented groups who are traditionally less
 likely to follow an academic career and may lack the confidence to apply directly to conventional
 fellowships. These schemes helped to achieve gender balance for ECRs recruited since 2014
 (Fig. 8), and increased the overall proportion of female staff to 23% (from 16% submitted to
 REF2014). The continuation of these schemes shows our future commitment to deliver targeted
 recruitment from under-represented groups, and to enable EaStCHEM to approach a gender and
 diversity balance that better reflects society. In addition, we have incorporated best-practice ED&I
 processes for recruitment across EaStCHEM, including: (1) scrutiny of the language used in
 adverts to encourage applicants from all groups; (2) unconscious-bias training for all panel
 members; (3) gender-inclusive appointment panels; and (4) targeted advertising to under-
 represented groups.




    Fig. 8. The REF2014 and REF2021 staff/age profiles showing the correction of the gender
                      imbalance for ECRs during this assessment period.
 2b. Staff development and support
 EaStCHEM prides itself on providing a highly supportive environment for career development, and
 nurturing talent at all levels to fulfil their research and impact potentials.
 Direct support is provided by the allocation of studentships from both internal and external
 funding, such as the EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), by a transparent and fair
 process overseen by Studentship Allocation Committees. Strategic prioritisation is given to newly
 appointed staff and projects that have high potential to generate impact via industrial engagement.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for new staff: induction includes tailored programmes relevant to gaining skills in
 research, impact, and teaching, which contain school-specific, university-wide and EaStCHEM
 training components. Each new staff member is allocated an academic mentor to provide support
 and guidance during the transitional period of setting up a research group and achieving a
 successful independent portfolio of grants and outputs. Mentors and senior colleagues also
 provide informal peer review of grant applications.
 Support across career progression: staff have annual performance and development reviews.
 Training courses are offered for the development of vital academic skills such as grant writing,
 supervision of PhD students, and leadership. Interview practice is provided for fellowships (e.g.
 UKRI Future Leaders) and major grant applications (ERC, UKRI), which has contributed to
 successful awards (Section 3). The expectation is that all appointed research-active staff have the
 potential to achieve the status of Professor or Reader, consistent with an increasing proportion of
 staff of age >45 who are Professors (65%). During the assessment period there were 19
 promotions to Personal Chair (Ashbrook, Baddeley, Camp, Colin Campbell, Campopiano,
 Clarke, Cockroft, Goss, Heal, Hulme, Jones, Lawrence, Love, Morrison, Robertson, Seery,
 Shaver, Westwood, Zysman-Colman) and 3 promotions to Reader (Aitken, Alexander,
 Thomas).
 The following staff have left to take up prestigious external positions that reflect positively upon
 their career development at EaStCHEM.
    Arnold to Chemical Sciences Division Director at the Lawrence Berkeley National Labs.
    Cazin to Professor of Chemistry, Ghent University.
    Duarte to Associate Professor of Chemistry, Oxford University.
    Kamer (deceased) to Professor of Homogeneous Catalysis, LIKAT, Rostock.
    Moggach to Professor of Structural Chemistry, University of Western Australia.
    Naismith to Director of the Rosalind Franklin Institute.
    Shaver to Professor of Polymer Science, University of Manchester.
    Vogt to Professor of Chemical Engineering, Dortmund Technical University.
 Time for research and impact: the EaStCHEM Board prioritises staff time for engagement in
 research and impact. Teaching commitments have been reduced significantly by employing 9
 teaching-focussed lecturers whose remit is to professionalise and update our undergraduate
 programmes. Newly implemented workload models ensure that time to concentrate on research
 and impact is correctly balanced against the time commitments of teaching and administration. In
 particular, ECRs have reduced teaching loads to allow them to focus on building their research
 groups. Further support for research and impact comes from dedicated teams of administrative,
 technical, and computing staff. We have increased our investment in expert facility managers (up
 to 20 from 14 at REF2014) to professionalise these services and provide research time for staff.
 Research or impact sabbaticals: with recognition of their importance for the development of
 research programmes and impact, staff with >4 years of service are eligible to apply for a
 sabbatical period of up to 12 months. Fifteen research sabbaticals were taken, most of which
 involved extended visits abroad including: Queens University, Canada (Baddeley); Technical
 University of Berlin (Buehl); Biofrontiers Institute in Boulder, USA (Colin Campbell); University of
 Nagoya, Japan (Eleanor Campbell, Shaver); University of Campinas, Brazil (O’Hagan); and
 Northwestern University, USA (Philp). As an example of the success gained from sabbatical
 leave, Baddeley’s resulting collaboration with Crudden (Queens University) demonstrated the
 direct formation of self-assembled N-heterocyclic carbene films on gold and their application in
 biosensing (Nature Commun. 2016). This led to funding from UKRI (EP/S027270/1, £500k) with
 Queens as a research partner. Impact sabbaticals were also initiated to stimulate collaborations
 with research users resulting in significant funding and impact (e.g. Schaub/Integrated Graphene,
 Section 1d).
 Recognising research and impact performance: in addition to promotions, excellence in
 research and impact is rewarded by nominations for prizes and awards resulting in great success
 during this assessment period (40 in total – see Section 4f).



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2c. Equality, diversity, and inclusion
 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (ED&I) are core EaStCHEM values promoted by our active ED&I
 committees, the chairs of which sit on each School’s management group. These committees draw
 membership from undergraduates, postgraduates, research/teaching staff, and professional
 services staff to ensure that a diversity of voices are represented. Major infrastructure initiatives
 in this period include the establishment of gender-neutral toilets, improved disabled access, as
 well as communal social space and dedicated wellbeing and multi-faith prayer rooms (£1.0M;
 Section 3c). Training has been provided in mental health awareness, the identification and
 prevention of bullying and harassment, and resilience training (of particular importance with
 disruption due to COVID-19) to help ensure that EaStCHEM provides an inclusive and supportive
 environment to all staff and students. We celebrate ED&I through informal social events including
 Ada Lovelace Day and International Evenings.
 Supporting under-represented groups: Four BAME staff have been appointed as ECRs and
 future appointments will be facilitated by more targeted use of the CMF/ESF schemes to
 encourage applications from under-represented groups. We have prioritised the development of
 our ED&I policies to provide a fair and inclusive environment for all staff/students with protected
 characteristics, resulting in increased access and support for disabled staff/students.
 Supporting gender equality: our achievements in promoting gender equality were recognised
 by Athena Swan Silver (UoE) and Bronze (UStA) awards during the assessment period. We are
 particularly proud of our pioneering CMF and ESF schemes, which have helped the following
 exceptional female researchers transition to independence (Section 2a).
  Garden from PDRA (Imperial College) to CMF (2016-17) to British Ramsay Memorial Trust
   Fellowship (2017-20) to UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (2020-).
  Jarvis from a Marie Curie Individual Fellowship (UStA) to CMF (2017-19) to UKRI Future
   Leaders Fellowship (2019-).
  Payne from PDRA (UStA) to ESF (2018-).
  Hobday from PDRA (Bath) to CMF (2018-2020) to Chancellor’s Fellowship (2020-).
  Mey from PDRA (UoE) to CMF (2019-2020) to Chancellor’s Fellowship (2020-).
 Further evidence for the success of our “appoint and nurture” strategy is shown by Bell who
 transitioned from a 3-year NERC Soil Security Fellowship to a 5-year NERC Independent
 Fellowship, and Duarte who transitioned from Chancellor’s Fellow to Associate Professor of
 Chemistry (Oxford). As a consequence of this strong support for talented female ECRs, gender
 balance has been achieved for EaStCHEM ECRs (Fig. 8). While these are positive steps, we
 recognise that it is essential for support for female staff to be sustained throughout their careers,
 and so the following initiatives were implemented.
  Flexible paternity/maternity arrangements including opportunities for phased return to work
   with options for alternative working arrangements.
  All formal meetings and academic symposia are scheduled within core hours.
  All non-professorial staff are considered annually for promotion.
 In addition to exceptional support for female ECRs, the following is evidence that women thrive
 throughout their careers within EaStCHEM.
  Chair promotions (Ashbrook, 2013; Goss, 2018; Hulme, 2018; Jones, 2015; Morrison,
   2019) have increased the number of female professors to 7 (from 3 submitted in REF2014).
  Arnold elected RS Fellow (2016) and awarded OBE (2018).
  Ashbrook (2016) and Goss (2020) elected RSE Fellows.
  Ashbrook presented with a Wolfson Merit Award (2015).
  Cazin awarded Sir Thomas Makdougall Brisbane medal of the RSE (2014).
  Eleanor Campbell elected President of the Faraday Division of the RSC (2015-2018) and
   Member of Academia Europaea (2018).
  Hulme elected President of the RSC Perkin Division (2017-2020).
  Slawin recognised in 2018 by the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (CCDC) as the
   woman who has contributed the most XRD structures (3350!).

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The award of prizes to Arnold (RSE Lord Kelvin Medal, 2017), Ashbrook (RSC Corday-
   Morgan, 2015), Bell (RSC Joseph Black Award, 2017), Eleanor Campbell (Ubbelohde Prize,
   British Carbon Group, 2016), Garden (Macro Group Young Investigators Award, 2019;
   L’Oreal-UNESCO Women in Science Fellowship, 2019), and Hobday (CCDC Chemical
   Crystallography Prize for Younger Scientists, 2018; Durward Cruickshank Young
   Crystallographers’ Prize, 2018).
  Arnold and Ashbrook provided national leadership on the issue of promoting women in
   chemistry (Section 4d) as recognised by Suffrage Science Awards.
 ED&I in REF preparations: ED&I was carefully considered during the preparation of
 EaStCHEM’s REF2021 submission. All staff involved in developing the submission and assessing
 outputs completed a specific training course on ED&I, and we have followed strictly policies and
 processes set out in our institutional codes of practice. Inclusion in the output portfolio was based
 solely on quality as determined by a gender-inclusive panel of staff members, all of whom had
 taken unconscious-bias training. Of the 221 submitted outputs, 63 (29%) contain a female staff
 member as author, which is greater than the proportion of female staff (22%).
 2d. Early-career researchers
 During the assessment period, EaStCHEM selected, via rigorous appointment processes, an
 excellent cohort of ECRs including 3 lecturers (Cumby, Horrocks, Szabla) and 18 who
 succeeded in obtaining competitively awarded fellowships both internally from the UoE’s tenure-
 track Chancellor’s Fellowship (Clarke, Duarte, Erastova) or CMF/ESF (Garden, Hobday, Jarvis,
 Mey and Payne) schemes, and externally from the RSE/BP Trust Fellowship (Johansson),
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Kumar, Lancefield, Pal, Taylor), NERC Soil Security
 Fellowship (Bell), RS URF (Ewen Campbell, Johnston), UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Yue), and
 UKRI Early Career Fellowship (Gibbs) schemes.
 Appointment and progression: all ECRs, including fellows, are appointed with the firm
 expectation that their research performance will merit retention on completion of their probationary
 period or fellowship. As such, they are immediately viewed as highly valued and fully independent
 members of the academic staff. Potential applicants to fellowships are interviewed to ensure they
 provide a good strategic fit to EaStCHEM’s research, and they are committed to contributing
 towards its collegiate environment. Once approved, help to achieve fellowships includes: (1) a
 strong letter of support that commits to generous start-up funds including studentships; (2)
 mentorship and feedback on draft proposals; and (3) mock interview practice with experienced
 staff. There is an expectation that all ECRs and fellows progress to the level of Reader or Professor
 within 10-15 years of appointment (excluding career breaks). However, it is recognised that it can
 take time to excel at group leadership, generation of impact, teaching, knowledge exchange, and
 outreach. Support is provided from both an academic mentor and an established laboratory host,
 and feedback is given on draft grant proposals. All ECRs and fellows are eligible to apply for
 competitive internal resources such as DTP/School or University funded studentships, and funding
 for conference attendance and equipment. A reduced teaching/administration load, particularly
 during the two-year period following appointment, allows for rapid establishment of research
 activity. Progress is reviewed each year via Performance and Development Review (P&DR) and,
 for fellows, a full review after three years ensures that they are on track for an open-ended
 lectureship appointment.
 Nurturing success: a project jointly funded by EaStCHEM and the Wellcome Trust’s Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund sought to understand why only a relatively small number of academics are
 successful at leading large interdisciplinary proposals and building research clusters. Diversity
 issues relating to the award of large UKRI grants were also investigated by a collaboration
 between physical and social scientists funded by the EPSRC grant “Evidence Base: Growing the
 Big Grant Club” (Arnold). In both studies it was found that PIs develop the necessary confidence
 and entrepreneurial skills early in their career. Consequently, all ECR staff are given specific
 training in leadership and the networking skills required to develop large grants and fellowship
 applications.
  Our successful “appoint and nurture” strategy is demonstrated by the progression of Garden
   and Jarvis to UKRI Future Leader Fellowships, Bell to a NERC Independent Researcher

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Fellowship, and Hobday and Mey to Chancellor’s Fellowships. In addition, the following ECRs
   have achieved permanent academic positions: Duarte (Associate Professor, Oxford);
   Johansson (Lecturer); Pal (Lecturer, IIT Jammu); and Taylor (Lecturer, Bath).
  ECR fellows appointed prior to this REF period have also successfully transitioned to
   permanent positions: Bode (Lecturer from EaStCHEM Fellow); Cowley (Senior Lecturer from
   Chancellor’s Fellowship); Kay (Lecturer from RSE Fellow); Kirrander (Senior Lecturer from
   Chancellor’s Fellowship); Lilienkampf (Lecturer from University Fellow); Michel (Senior
   Lecturer from RS URF); Nudelman (Senior Lecturer from Chancellor’s Fellow); Shaver (Chair
   of Materials, Manchester from Chancellor’s Fellowship); Thomas (Reader from RS/URF
   extended); and Zysman-Colman (Chair from EaStCHEM Fellow).
 2e. Postdoctoral reseach associates
 PDRAs are valued members of staff who contribute greatly to the success of EaStCHEM, but in
 the past, they were not offered the same opportunities for professional development as PGR
 students. As a result, staff follow the Vitae Concordat to support the career development of
 researchers, and we have developed the following initiatives.
  To promote networking and collaboration, and develop research and leadership skills, the
   annual EaStCHEM Conference for Early Career Researchers (ECECR) was established in
   2016. Hosting alternates between UoE/UStA, and there is an annual attendance of >100
   PDRAs and ECRs.
  PDRA Committees promote social, cultural, and scientific events.
  There is PDRA representation on Safety, ED&I and Staff Committees.
  Members of academic staff act as Champions to represent PDRA interests.
  Training courses to improve academic skills (such as writing grant and fellowship proposals,
   networking and leadership) are provided by EaStCHEM and University units.
  Career development advice is provided by supervisors at annual P&DR meetings.
 2f. Postgraduate research (PGR) students
 Number of students and funding sources: PGR students are central to our research activities
 in EaStCHEM. During the assessment period, we awarded 526 doctoral degrees, with most
 proceeding on to post-doctoral study or industrial jobs in chemistry related disciplines. Both
 Schools have invested in the collaborative EaStCHEM PhD Studentships Scheme (£900k
 investment) involving PI co-supervision and research time (at least 12 months) at both UStA and
 UoE. A variety of PhD studentship opportunities have been offered as follows.
  EaStCHEM-based training programmes that combine high quality research with skills
   development training such as OPTIMA (Optical Medical Imaging), CRITICAT (Critical
   Resource Catalysis) and EaSICAT (East of Scotland Industrial Catalysis).
  Training centres including EaStBIO BBSRC Training Partnership, Industrial Biotechnology
   Innovation Centre (IBioIC)-CTP, Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces (SOFI) CDT, and NERC
   Edinburgh Earth, Ecology and Environment DTP.
  EPSRC/DTG funds combined with EaStCHEM investment.
  China Scholarships Council, with whom strong links have been developed (47 studentships).
  Marie-Curie ITN networks (SubiCAT, PhotoReact, and TADFLife).
  Industry (112 studentships).
 Monitoring and assessment: all postgraduate research students are members of the EaStCHEM
 Graduate School, with progression monitored by individual Schools. The Graduate School
 Committees, led by Westwood/Kilian and Nudelman, oversee supervision and training quality,
 and ensure effective milestone monitoring across all programmes. To emphasise cohesiveness
 within EaStCHEM, UStA and UoE have amended their regulations to allow staff from either
 partner to act as internal PhD examiners. Key events on the path to a PhD are an assessed
 written report, viva, and presentation for all students on a yearly basis throughout their PhD
 studies, plus a departmental research presentation at an annual Postgraduate Symposium.
 Progress is assessed by a thesis committee for each student, consisting of their primary and
 secondary supervisors and an independent academic. Assessment is recorded by written reports


                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through an on-line electronic system (MMS, UStA; EUCLID, UoE), with students given access to
 feedback. The 4-year completion rate for PhD students across EaStCHEM is >90%.
 Support for PhD students: the EaStCHEM Graduate School, working with the Institute for
 Academic Development (IAD) and Centre for Academic, Professional and Organisational
 Development (CAPOD), provides core PhD training courses and events that integrate transferable
 and scientific skills. In addition to mandatory training on research integrity and ethics, joint
 EaStCHEM Graduate School courses include popular programmes on project management, how
 to write a thesis, and the preparation of papers for academic journals. In addition, EaStCHEM
 provides vibrant and inclusive social activities via the following organisations.
       Chemunity: a scheme to build social networks to help mental health and well-being.
       Long-established and very active Chemical Societies that organise frequent social events
        (such as Annual Balls, Burns Night celebrations, Quiz Nights) as well as academic and
        industrial lectures.
       International Societies that organise social events for all PhD students.
 Not only have these initiatives helped build inclusive communities, but also they have provided
 much needed support during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
 EaStCHEM has spent >£113M of research funding in the REF period including >£9M from
 industry. To underpin our research strategy (Section 1), we have enhanced our infrastructure and
 established further shared cutting-edge facilities to: (1) enable world-class research; (2)
 professionalise and expand our technical support base; (3) support a safe working environment
 for all researchers; and (4) promote facility use to external users to raise income and further impact
 activities.
 3a. Research income
 Major awards (see Section 4a for international consortia funding): initiatives to enhance
 funding include targeted workshops for ERC applications and practice interviews for short-listed
 applicants for ERC Starter and Consolidator Grants. This helped to achieve a significant increase
 in EU funding (from £2.7M p.a./REF2014 to £3.7M p.a./REF2021, total £26M), including 6 ERC
 Advanced Investigator Grants (Arnold, Attfield, Bradley, Lloyd-Jones, Morris, Naismith), 3
 Consolidator Grants (Goss, Ashbrook, Ingleson), and 4 Starter Grants (Cowley, Lawrence,
 Cockroft, Michel). Rigorous interview practice also helped to achieve major UKRI platform
 grants: “Putting the squeeze on molecule-based magnets” (Brechin, EPSRC, £1.3M); “Exploring
 electronic materials under extreme conditions” (Attfield, EPSRC, £1M); Critical Mass grant
 “Emergent Nanomaterials” (Irvine, EPSRC, £1.6M); and IRC grant “Proteus” (Bradley/Megia-
 Fernandez, EPSRC, £4.3M). Similarly, it helped staff to secure the following Fellowship grants:
 “Assembly, disassembly, reassembly - new routes to extended structures and their impact”
 (Morris, EPSRC, £1.3M); “Artificial metalloenzymes as evolvable catalysts for selective chemical
 synthesis” (Jarvis, UKRI Future Leaders, £1.4M); “Next generation advanced materials: structure-
 property relationships” (Gibbs, EPSRC, £1.2M); and “Molecular, microbial and enzymatic
 synergies and their significance to peatland condition” (Bell, NERC, £700k). Focused workshops
 on writing GCRF/ISCF proposals helped to achieve the following grants: “NEXGENNA Faraday
 Challenge Award” (ISCF, Irvine/Armstrong, £12M); “Chemical recycling of electronic waste for
 sustainable livelihoods and material consumption in India” (GCRF, Love, £400k); and “Equitable
 access to Quality Antibiotic Therapies in Africa” (GCRF, Florence, £900k).
 Industry funding: industry is a significant contributor to EaStCHEM research funding with the
 following major grants awarded during the assessment period: Eastman Chemicals (£1.5M);
 LERC (£1.1M); Evonik (£770k); AGT Management (£720k); Castrol (£700k); AWE (£480k);
 Cynora (£300k); BP (£277k); and Infineum (£300k). Smaller grants to support PhD studentships
 (£20k-£108k) were obtained from AstraZeneca (16), GlaxoSmithKline (14), Syngenta (5), Johnson
 Matthey (3), Sasol (3), Axis-Shield (2), Pfizer (2), and UCB Celltech (2), with a further 35 partners
 providing support for a single PhD studentship. Smaller studentship grants seeded research that



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evolved to larger collaborations, such as that between AstraZeneca and Thomas on Group 13
 catalysts.
 3b. Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Professionalising facilities: a key benefit of EaStCHEM is the pooling of research equipment
 that ensures cutting-edge facilities are available to all researchers at each institution. These state-
 of-the art facilities are led by exceptional scientists (Ashbrook, Bode, Clarke, Irvine, Parsons,
 Slawin, Uhrin), and operated by experienced facility managers and technicians. Salary
 contributions from each institution are made to staff, and technical support is provided for joint
 ventures such as The Scottish High Field NMR Centre. The provision of expert facility managers
 across NMR (4), MS (3), XRD (2), ICP elemental analysis (1), surface science (1), electron
 microscopy (1), high-performance computing (0.4), and fermentation (1) ensures the smooth
 running of facilities, and unhindered access to internal and external users. Research is also
 supported by efficient mechanical, IT, electrical and glassblowing workshops. Complementarity is
 maintained over the two institutions with, for example, UoE hosting high-field NMR instruments
 for liquid samples, whereas UStA specialises in solid-state NMR and EPR.
 Supporting a safe working environment: EaStCHEM’s top priority is to ensure a safe working
 environment for all researchers. This has prompted the recruitment of a dedicated Health and
 Safety Manager (Easdale) who has previous experience in a similar role in the chemical industry.
 This appointment has had a very positive effect on the working practices at UoE, and therefore, a
 similar dedicated position has been created at UStA, with the new appointment (Jones) starting
 in Feb 2021. In response to the devastating fire in the Biomolecular Sciences (BMS) building
 (February 2019), bespoke automated metal containers have been designed to prevent the spread
 of fire when using plastic isopropanol/KOH wash-baths. An additional strategy to prevent fires
 provided investment (£250k) for a solvent purification laboratory, which enables safe access to
 dry solvents for all research groups. In addition, the EaStCHEM Board has devised a detailed
 Business Continuity Plan which includes dealing with unforeseen events that can disrupt research.
 An example is provided by the close sharing of detailed plans and best practice for resuming
 research activity after the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in both Schools
 being among the first to reopen for research at each University.
 Use of infrastructure, facilities and expertise in impact activities: the generation of impact is
 a key driver for providing access to EaStCHEM facilities for industrial and other external users.
 There has been a significant increase in external revenue to £1.4M across our facilities during this
 assessment period, with a notable expansion of NMR services (from £7k in 2014 to £58k in 2020,
 £249k in total). Impact generated directly from within EaStCHEM services and facilities during the
 REF period includes the following.
    The development of novel MS techniques to characterise and quantify Bioven’s promising lung
     cancer vaccine EGF-PTI, in order to confirm batch purity and consistency before its US/EU
     Phase III trials (MS Facility Manager Mackay).
    MS 3D imaging of cell cultures was used by AstraZeneca for screening the distribution of drug
     candidates in cells, thus reducing the need for animal models (Mackay). AstraZeneca’s Head
     of Imaging reports that data from EaStCHEM, “combining high spatial resolution with the
     highest spectral resolution”, was “crucial for decision making” in the progress of seven internal
     projects.
    In collaboration with The Scotch Whisky Research Institute, the complexity of Scotland’s
     favourite tipple and highest-value export has been investigated using high-resolution MS and
     NMR, leading to novel methods of establishing provenance and authenticity (Uhrin, J. Am.
     Soc. Mass Spectrom. 2017, Food Chem. 2019).
 3c. Infrastructure investment
 EaStCHEM has been the beneficiary of major governmental and institutional investment in
 infrastructure to enhance its research environment.
 City Deals: a significant multimillion-pound investment by government (£30M as part of the Tay
 Cities Deal) and industry (11 companies, £8M) has resulted in the Scottish Centre for Clean
 Energy Storage and Conversion and Enterprise Hub on the Eden Campus with EaStCHEM a

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 major beneficiary (Irvine, Webb, Goss, Schaub). The Edinburgh and South-East Scotland City
 Deal on Data-Driven Innovations has helped stimulate projects on the application of machine
 learning to crystallography (Cumby/Hobday) and polymer design (McKeown), and provided
 collaborations with the Bayes Centre for data science (Michel/Mey).
 Investment in buildings: institutional investment facilitated hosting of: (1) the DECC-funded
 Pyrochemical Research Laboratory (PRL, Mount, £1M), which is an open access facility affiliated
 to the National Nuclear Laboratory, providing integrated pyrochemical reprocessing of nuclear
 fuel; and (2) the building of the Electron Microscopy and Light Element Analysis Centre (£2.4M)
 (Section 3d). The fire in the BMS building displaced seven research groups, which were rehoused
 and operational within one month thanks to efficient space management and the goodwill of
 EaStCHEM colleagues. A rapid renovation (£2M) to replace synthetic chemistry laboratories lost
 in the fire (30 fume cupboards) was completed in June 2020. A major refurbishment of the BMS
 building (£15M), due for completion in August 2022, will provide significant workspace at the
 Chemistry-Biology interface (O’Hagan, Goss). The building of new laboratories within The
 Edinburgh BioQuarter at Little France, Scotland’s leading hospital campus, has been confirmed
 with an institutional investment of £39M. This interdisciplinary hub will allow the research cluster
 led by Bradley, which develops chemical processes for medical imaging and in-vitro drug
 activation, to benefit from major future UKRI investment at the medical science/physical science
 interface (Section 4).
 General refurbishment: additional institutional investment from UoE/UStA (£1.35M) and RS
 funding (£250k) has allowed laboratories and offices to be refurbished for newly appointed/current
 staff. General building refurbishment (£2M) has upgraded lecture theatres, disability access, a
 first-aid room, WiFi provision, and a loading bay, and provided a modern social space used by all
 UoE-based students and staff. Training of Year 4 UoE undergraduate students in research
 techniques (Daff) has benefited from a bespoke new laboratory (£220k) with equipment provided
 by a donation from Afton Chemicals (£85k).
 Environmental sustainability: institutional investment from UoE/UStA (£1.5M) has been used
 to reduce the cost and environmental impact of research by upgrading fume cupboards and
 ventilation (saving over £100k in energy costs and 500 tons of CO2 emissions per year). The
 provision of chillers for rotary evaporators and air condensers for refluxing reactions is estimated
 to save 600 m3 of water annually. Replacement of a rotating anode for XPS (Baddeley, £129k),
 and an upgrade to single crystal X-ray analysis (Slawin, £111k) have also been possible through
 energy efficiency savings. The investment of helium recovery units for NMR and MS magnets at
 both UoE and UStA (£100k) will pay for itself in 8 years, and guarantees an uninterrupted supply
 during regular world-wide shortages, thus eliminating potential damage to essential equipment.
 3d. Improvements to provision of facilities supporting research and impact
 NMR: EaStCHEM provided leadership to the Scottish NMR Users Group (SNUG) that successfully
 bid to EPSRC to establish the Scottish High Field NMR Centre (Uhrin/Ashbrook, £1.4M). The
 Centre operates an 800 MHz Bruker spectrometer, accessible to EaStCHEM users and Scottish
 researchers, across physical and biological sciences. Supported by ScotCHEM and the Scottish
 Universities Life Sciences Alliance (£69k), the Centre distributes competitive grants to facilitate
 the preparation of biomolecules (often isotopically labelled) for structural biology studies. Other
 NMR facility investments (£1.5M) include the purchase of an AVIII-HD-700 instrument and
 upgrades (including cryoprobes and console) to existing spectrometers.
 MS: BBSRC funded the purchase of a state-of-the-art 12T/SolariX/2XR/FT ion cyclotron
 resonance MS (Campopiano/Clarke, £750k) which enhances and complements EaStCHEM’s
 already impressive MS suite.
 Diffraction: single-crystal X-ray diffraction (XRD) facilities were augmented by the EPSRC-funded
 purchase of a diffractometer (Parsons, £560k), specifically to maintain EaStCHEM’s world-
 leading research on high-pressure XRD. EPSRC core equipment bids led to upgraded powder
 XRD facilities for materials characterisation (Payne, Kirk, £800k).
 Materials characterisation: the Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions (CSEC) provides
 EaStCHEM researchers access to expertise and wide-ranging facilities to study the structure and

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 properties of matter (e.g. XRD, magnetism, and calorimetry) when subjected to extremes of
 pressure and temperature. In addition to upgraded XRD facilities (as above), EPSRC funded a
 Physical Properties Measurement System (PPMS) (Attfield, £600k).
 EPR: institutional investment and BBSRC funded a cryogen-free cooler and Arbitrary Waveform
 EPR (Bode, £350k).
 Microscopy: the Electron Microscopy and Light Element Analysis Centre (Irvine, £7.9M total
 investment) has been enhanced by EPSRC funding (£1.5M) for an electron probe microanalyser
 (EPMA), a separate soft X-ray emission spectrometer (SXES) system, and a confocal Raman
 microscope. For the characterisation of soft matter, a cryo-SEM with focussed ion beam has been
 funded by EPSRC (Nudelman, £1.3M).
 High performance computing (HPC) facilities: access to world-leading HPC facilities, hosted
 by the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre and the UK’s materials and molecular modelling
 hub, underpins research by Buehl, Erastova, Hobday, Mey, Mitchell, and Morrison (EPSRC
 UKCP consortium, £470k). Computing facilities across the Science Schools at UStA have been
 upgraded with £1.3M investment.
 3e. In-kind use of facilities and donations
 Significant in-kind contributions to EaStCHEM facilities include
 bespoke ultra-high vacuum equipment (Fig. 9, acquisition value
 £800k) from the Maier laboratory at the University of Basel, to
 continue Ewen Campbell’s URF-funded research into
 astrochemical fullerene formation (Nature, 2015). The School
 of Physics donated a 300 MHz solid-state NMR spectrometer
 (acquisition value £300k). Links to the Organic Semiconductor
 Centre allow EaStCHEM researchers access to the newly Fig. 9. A gift from Basel: the
 refurbished £2M clean room facility.                             astrochemical laboratory.
 3f. Use of major facilities
 The extensive use of major facilities by EaStCHEM staff is indicated by the 240 outputs published
 since 2014 that are co-authored with researchers at a UK/international major facility.
 UKRI: EaStCHEM researchers (e.g. Attfield, Gibbs, Lightfoot, Morrison, Parsons) are major
 users of UKRI facilities (DLS, ISIS, EPSRC Services) as evidenced by the £16M total in-kind
 funding allocated during the assessment period.
 International: access to major international facilities has facilitated the following research: the
 structure of lead halide perovskites using the Spallation Neutron Source, Oak Ridge National
 Lab/USA (13 days, Affield/Irvine/Payne); Attfield’s characterisation of solid-state structures at
 ALBA Synchrotron/Spain (3 days), FRM-II neutron facility/Germany (2 days), Petra III
 Synchrotron/Germany (4 days), and Spring-8/SACLA/Japan (3 days); Morris’s use of the
 Advanced Photon Source, Chicago/USA (4 days) for PDF studies of materials; Nudelman’s
 analysis of inorganic biomaterials at the Swiss Light Source (9 days); and Kirrander’s use of X-
 ray free electron lasers to investigate molecular reactivity (Fig. 6) at SLAC National Accelerator
 Laboratory/USA (34 days), Spring-8/SACLA/Japan (35 days), and FERMI Lightsource/Italy (4
 days).




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Strong and wide-ranging collaborations by EaStCHEM staff, which are enabled by pooled
 expertise and world-leading research facilities, are demonstrated by an analysis of the 3400
 outputs produced since 2014 [Web of Science (28/12/2020)]. This shows that 450 outputs have a
 co-author from another UK chemistry department, 200 have an industrial co-author, and over 1000
 are co-authored by a researcher from another discipline. International collaborations have resulted
 in outputs with co-authors from Europe (820), Asia (470), North America (342), the Middle East
 (140), Australasia (80), South America (39), and Africa (22).
 4a. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 In    addition      to    many     informal
 collaborations, EaStCHEM’s staff play
 a leading role in interdisciplinary
 research centres and partnerships at
 local, national and international level.
 Local centres (Fig. 10) include Proteus
 (Bradley/Megia-Fernandez),            which
 has been highlighted by the House of
 Lords as an exemplary interdisciplinary
 research hub in which chemists,
 biologists, optical physicists, designers
 and clinicians are co-located and work
 together day-to-day to tackle lung
 disease. This unique approach has
 delivered the first optical imaging
 probes ever used in the human lung
 (Fig. 5), the first ever to detect bacterial
 infection in vivo in humans, and four
 chemical reagents now in clinical            Fig. 10. Selected local interdisciplinary interactions.
 studies. T-CBI research is also
 incorporated within The Biomedical Sciences Research Complex (BSRC), forging links with
 Biology, Physics and Medicine, as well as theme T-CS through the EaSICAT Training Centre.
 The Centre for Magnetic Resonance (CMR) links T-FM with T-CBI. Within T-SCCD we lead the
 Scottish Centre for Interdisciplinary Surface Spectroscopy (SCISS) that links with Physics, while
 the Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions (CSEC) links with the Schools of Physics,
 Engineering, GeoSciences and Biological Sciences. Achievements from CSEC includes the
 demonstration of the first agostic uranium-hydrogen bond formed using high pressure (Parsons,
 ACIE 2015). T-FM and T-EES researchers collaborate closely with Physics via the Organic
 Semiconductor Centre and with Engineering on the applications of porous materials and
 polymer membranes.
 As noted in more detail in Section 3a, we are members of a range of research consortia and
 networks. Nationally, these include large UKRI IRC/Critical Mass/Programme/Platform grants
 focussed on materials for medical (Bradley), magnetic (Brechin/Attfield), separation membrane
 (McKeown), porous material (Morris) and energy (Irvine) applications. Internationally, we
 contribute to research projects across the EU (e.g., HySeas III, €13M, Irvine; M4CO2, €10M,
 McKeown/Wright; CUCAM, €9M, Morris) and at the Eden Campus Energy Demonstrator
 (European Regional Development Fund/Scottish Enterprise, £1.1M, Irvine). We have co-
 ordinated (SubiCAT, PhotoReact) and participated (TADFLife) in 3 Marie-Curie ITN networks with
 a combined value of >£7M. Beyond the EU, collaborations are funded by an EPSRC-JSPS Core-
 to-Core Programme on optoelectronic materials with Kyushu University, Japan (£1M, Zysman-
 Colman) and a US Department of Defense grant with the Edgewood Chemical Biological Centre
 (£1.1M, McKeown).
 4b. EaStCHEM’s contributions to the economy and society not captured by impact case
 studies
 In addition to the seven ICSs, we have generated the following diverse impact.

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Industrial/economic impact
    Ongoing collaborations support the development of new processes for Ingenza, a spin-out
     from EaStCHEM research in 2002 (REF2014 ICS), and now a world leader in industrial
     biotechnology (Colin Campbell/Campopiano/Uhrin).
    Work with Integrated Graphene, funded by Innovate UK, resulted in a disruptive manufacturing
     process of 3D graphene foam electrodes (Schaub).
    A fluorescence-based method to reduce transmission of micro-organisms in the poultry
     industry is currently in commercial testing with a major breeder Aviagen (Jones).
    Optoelectronic materials research has led to a spin-out company SolOLED developing
     solution-processed OLEDs (Zysman-Colman).
    Expert support for MS analysis confirmed the absence of carcinogenic residues in pig meat
     preventing the withdrawal of FDA approval for Phibro Animal Health Corp’s leading Mecadox
     antibiotic (Campopiano/Clarke).
    An enzymatic method for preparing halogenated heterocycles has led to the formation of a
     spin-out company XGenix (Goss).
    Consultancy has been provided to industry ranging from large international companies (Afton
     Chemicals, ALMAC, Antabio, Bioven, Daiichi-Sankyo, ExxonMobil, Mars, Merck, Pharmaxis
     Ltd, Servier, Syngenta, Vertex Pharmaceuticals) to smaller local ventures (Cambrex, Ingenza,
     Graphene Star, and Integrated Graphene).
 Environmental impact
    As a member of DEFRA’s Air Quality Expert Group and the Department of Health’s Committee
     on the Medical Effects of Air Pollutants, Heal advises governments on air pollution and its
     consequences for health. Research, including analysis of ammonia sources and application of
     14
       C dating to airborne particulate matter, has provided valuable evidence of the role of farming
     emissions and domestic wood burning in the UK. Both are now included in policy action for
     the first time through the 2019 Clean Air Strategy. The diffusion-tube guidelines presented in
     our REF2014 ICS remain the standard for statutory NO2 measurements across Scotland.
    Research by Bell on peatland degradation and restoration at a molecular level informs
     restoration decisions through advisory roles for the Scottish Wildlife Trust (Red Moss of
     Balerno), RSPB (Flow Country, Caithness and Sutherland), and Global Peatlands Initiative.
    Robertson’s research has informed reports including the Solar Vision for Scotland (to Scottish
     Parliament, 2014), Solar Commission report (UK Government, 2019), and the Review of
     Innovation and Opportunity in the Scottish Solar Energy Sector (Scottish Government, 2020).
 Health impact
    A fluorescence method that delivers fast and comprehensive antibody analysis forms the basis
     of Quotient’s MosaiQ platform for automated testing of blood grouping and infection (Colin
     Campbell). The technology is now in trials and has been rapidly applied to provide a high-
     performance COVID-19 antibody test, available from April 2020.
    With Edinburgh Molecular Imaging, fluorescent labelling of colonic polyps will improve
     detection and removal of suspect lesions (Bradley).
    Alchemical free-energy simulation software for computing binding affinities between proteins
     and drug-like molecules is commercially available in Cresset’s structure-based design tool
     Flare to speed up pre-clinical drug-discovery (Michel/Mey).
    MS techniques have been developed for the 3D imaging of cell cultures for AstraZeneca
     (Clarke), and to characterise a lung cancer vaccine for Bioven (Mackay; see Section 3b).
 Cultural impact
    Advanced chemical analysis of dyestuffs has enabled re-interpretation and enhanced
     conservation of important textile and quillwork artefacts at museum and gallery partners
     worldwide (Hulme).
 Impact on defence and security
    Research on energetic materials in collaboration with The Falcon Project, Weapons Science
     Technology Centre, UK Home Office, and US Army, has influenced UK MOD policy on their

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     incorporation into munitions (Pulham).
    Novel microporous polymeric adsorbents for Chemical Warfare Agents, such as Sarin and
     Novichok, are being developed in collaboration with the US Defense Threat Reduction Agency
     (McKeown).
 The COVID-19 crisis has initiated the following research projects: (1) fluorescent peptides that
 selectively label SARS-CoV-2 virions for drug screening and diagnostic applications
 (Michel/Hulme); (2) using MOFs to provide enhanced filtration by targeting binding of the exterior
 spike protein of the virus (Morris); (3) proteins engineered to reduce inflammation in the lungs
 (Barlow); (4) oxygen generation by separation from air using either polymer membranes
 (McKeown) or electrochemical generation (Irvine); (5) repurposing Sunamp’s thermal storage
 technology to provide hot water for mobile hand-washing facilities, and transportation and storage
 of ultra-cold vaccines for delivery to GPs and care homes (Pulham).
 4c. Public engagement and outreach
 Outreach activities are coordinated by our dedicated Public Engagement/Widening Participation
 Officers (Burns/Baker). Top-up funding to PhD scholarships and the CRITICAT/OPTIMA CDT
 programmes provide a core group of graduate students to develop and deliver activities.
 Highlights
    Development of STEM engagement activities to challenge gender stereotypes for pre-school
     children (Fig. 11). This expertise was shared widely via the British Interactive Group STEM
     Communicators Network Annual Conference (2019).
    At secondary level, the Chemistry on Tour and Chembus initiatives takes chemistry
     experiments and demonstrations to >20 schools and communities across Scotland per year
     focussing on deprived and rural areas that links with
     RSC local sections.
    Annual Christmas Lecture series that gives exciting
     Chemistry demonstrations to local school students at
     secondary level.
    An engaging "shooter" computer game (eXcitune,
     Kirrander; Fig. 12) communicates complex concepts
     in theoretical chemistry (Explorathon 2017, Festival of
     Physics 2018/2019).
    As part of the First Chances programme, National
     5/Higher School students have studied the links Fig. 11. STEM outreach for pre-school
     between the structure of molecules and their children.
     fragrance, as well as renewable energy and fuel cell
     technology (Aitken/Baker).
    Use of virtual reality software to introduce young
     people to biomacromolecular structures (Michel,
     Edinburgh Science Festival, 2019).
    Proteus (Bradley/Megia-Fernandez) with public
     engagement strategist, Helen Szoor-McElhinney, has
     produced the Circuits! teaching tools to inspire the
     next generation of biomedical engineers based on a
     working model of their optical imaging technology.
     This is now incorporated into the Scottish high school
     curriculum, and has a permanent pod in the Glasgow Fig. 12. The computer game eXcitune.
     Science Centre.
 Examples of EaStCHEM promoting chemistry via the mass media include discussing the recently
 discovered UStA periodic table on Antiques Road Trip (O’Hagan), plastic sustainability and urban
 mining on BBC Radio Scotland’s Brainwaves (Garden, Love, McKeown), solar water treatment
 in rural India on Radio Scotland (Robertson), and the photoprotection of antibiotics with pollen
 with Radio 4/The Times (Goss).



                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4d. Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
 EaStCHEM researchers contribute significantly and diversely to the sustainability of chemistry, as
 illustrated by the following examples.
 Promotion of women in chemistry and STEM: “A Chemical Imbalance”,
 (www.chemicalimbalance.ed.ac.uk), which features Arnold, Eleanor Campbell, Hulme, Jones,
 and Morrison, is a call to action for simple changes to achieve equality of opportunity in science.
 Arnold also launched a new network for senior women in STEM in Scotland, SciSisters.
 Ashbrook has authored the “Academic Women Now” and “Academic Women Here” booklets,
 describing the experiences of mid-career academic women in Scotland.
 Chemical education: Seery’s pedagogical research provides insights on how chemistry students
 interact with the curriculum outside of formal lectures to enhance self-learning, which informs his
 very popular YouTube video channel (passed 1M views on 06/10/20).
 Major contribution to UK chemistry committees: President of the RSC Faraday Division
 (Eleanor Campbell, 2015-18); President of the RSC Perkin Division (Hulme, 2017-20);
 Chair/Treasurer of the RSC Theoretical Chemistry Group (Morrison/van Mourik); Chair of the
 RSC Heterocycle and Synthesis Group (Smith, 2020-current); Chair of the RSC Inclusion and
 Diversity Committee (Arnold); Chair of Heads of Chemistry UK (Eleanor Campbell, 2013-15;
 Pulham, 2019-21).
 4e. Indicators of wider influence
 In addition to scientific advisory panels that drive policy change (Section 4b), EaStCHEM’s
 researchers have contributed to the following national/international panels/committees.
 EPSRC Physical Sciences Prioritisation (Bradley, Lusby, O’Hagan, van Mourik); EPSRC
 Programme Grants (Bradley, Hulme, O’Hagan, Chair); EPSRC New Horizons (Bradley); ERC
 Starter/Consolidator Fellowships PE4/5 (Arnold, Ashbrook, Bradley, Zysman-Colman); ERC
 Synergy Grants Evaluation (Eleanor Campbell); Leverhulme Trust Prize (Morris, Eleanor
 Campbell); Blavatnik Awards for Young Scientists, UK Jury (Eleanor Campbell); STFC Advisory
 Panel for Public Engagement (Pulham, Chair); RS APEX/FLAIR Committees (Morris); RS
 Wolfson Fellowship (Lloyd-Jones, Eleanor Campbell); RS URF (Eleanor Campbell, Chair;
 Lloyd-Jones, Slawin); RS Newton International Fellowships (Ashbrook); Swedish Research
 Council Grant Review (Eleanor Campbell; Hulme); STFC scientific panel that prepared the
 science case for the UK X-ray free electron source laser (Kirrander).
 4f. Recognition by the research base to EaStCHEM researchers
 Fellowships: the RS elected Arnold, Attfield, Morris and Naismith as Fellows, to join existing
 FRSs Eleanor Campbell and Lloyd-Jones and provided Ashbrook, Lloyd-Jones, and Smith
 with Wolfson Merit Awards. The RSE elected Ashbrook, Goss, Lloyd-Jones, McKeown and
 Smith as Fellows, and appointed Ashbrook, Johansson and Thomas as members of the Young
 Academy of Scotland. Morris is RSE Vice-president (physical sciences and engineering); Eleanor
 Campbell, Morris and Irvine were elected Members of Academia Europaea and Attfield Fellow
 of the Indian National Science Academy.
 RSC Awards and Prizes: Joseph Black Award (Bell, 2017); Chemistry of the Transition Metals
 Award (Brechin, 2014); Bob Hay Lectureship (Cockcroft, 2017); Corday-Morgan (Ashbrook,
 2015); Tilden Prize (Lloyd-Jones, 2014; Bradley, 2015; McKeown, 2017; Brechin, 2018;
 Morris, 2019); Sustainable Energy Award (Irvine, 2015); Peter Day Award (Morris, 2015);
 Organic Stereochemistry Award (O’Hagan, 2015); Interdisciplinary Prize (Bradley, 2019); Merck
 Award (Smith, 2014); Hickinbottom Award (Thomas, 2016; Lawrence, 2017; Watson, 2019);
 Charles Rees Award (Smith, 2018); Pedlar Award (Lloyd-Jones, 2018), Emerging Technology
 Award (Morris, 2016); Wilkinson Prize (Arnold, 2018); and Capps Green Zomaya Memorial
 Award (Michel, 2020); RSC Industry and Technology Award (Mowat, 2016).
 Other significant national prizes: RSE Sir Thomas Makdougall Brisbane medal (Cazin, 2014);
 Philip Leverhulme Prize (Cockroft, 2016); Ubbelohde Prize, British Carbon Group, (Eleanor
 Campbell, 2016); Suffrage Science Award (Arnold, 2015; Ashbrook, 2017); RSE Lord Kelvin
 Medal (Arnold, 2017; Irvine, 2018); Durward Cruickshank Young Crystallographers’ Prize

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Hobday, 2018); CCDC Chemical Crystallography Prize for Younger Scientists (Hobday, 2018);
 Macro Group Young Investigators Award (Garden, 2019).
 International awards: Federation of Analytical and Spectroscopic Societies Innovation Award
 (Colin Campbell, 2015); The Baron Axel Cronstedt Award (Morris, 2017); EuCHEM Young
 Investigator (Watson, 2018); Prix Moissan of the Maison de La Chimie (O’Hagan, 2018); L’Oréal
 -UNESCO For Women in Science Fellowship (Garden, 2019); Mercator Fellowship of the
 Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Morris, 2018); Anders Gustaf Ekeberg Tantalum Prize
 (Love, 2020).




                                                                                       Page 23
