Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Harper Adams University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA6




                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 As a specialist institution submitting to a single unit of assessment, Harper Adams University
 (HAU) is not submitting a REF 5a. As such, this introductory section contains more general
 information about the University for context.

 HAU is a specialist institution, comprising 160 FTE academic staff and c. 3000 students, focusing
 on the rural economy and industries reliant upon that economy, with a specific commitment to
 sustainable agriculture and land use. HAU’s mission is to provide; World leading higher
 education and research for the delivery of sustainable food chains and the protection of
 rural resources for future generations. This submission is based on the research of a
 collaborative group of 45 staff (42.35 FTE) from across the five academic departments of the
 University. This represents an increase from 17.4 FTE in 2014, demonstrating our commitment to
 growing research and impact activity. Research income per annum has grown by 35% over the
 assessment period from £2.34m to £3.17m (in the last pre-Covid year). Research postgraduate
 student numbers have increased from 56 in 2012/13 to the current number of 97 and research
 outputs (peer reviewed papers) across the University have grown from 49 per annum in 2013 to
 115 per annum in 2020.

 Research activity at HAU is organised into either multidisciplinary research centres or research
 groups defined within a theme, and delivers international research and impact in a number of
 areas including in policy and practice. Our research has a clear focus on agriculture, livestock
 systems designed to help reduce emissions to the environment, and new approaches to the
 management of soils, forests, water resources and biodiversity. All research is supportive of
 practitioners and advisers to move towards sustainability of food production systems. We are
 developing research interests in artificial intelligence to help automate processes and improve
 agricultural, environmental or veterinary analyses and decision-making, and engaging with rural
 businesses and agri-food supply chains who will need expertise in data management and analysis.

 The strategic focus of the University is to provide a vibrant, sustainable environment for research
 and research-led teaching to maintain our status as the premier specialist provider for sustainable
 agriculture and land use. The tangible outputs of this approach, and our place within the HE sector
 can be measured by the many awards won by our students and the University. The University has
 in recent years won various THE Awards relating to research collaborations: Outstanding
 Business/University Collaboration; Technological Innovation of the Year; and Outstanding Estates
 Strategy (based on environmental sustainability). In addition, we have been nominated for
 University of the Year; and the THE Leadership and Management Award (THELMA) for
 International Strategy. There is recognition globally of the reputation we have established with the
 industries in the sectors we serve as shown in the QS World University Subject Rankings 2018-
 2020 for Employer Reputation, where HAU ranked second in the world. This clearly demonstrates
 the way in which the University works with industry, at home and overseas, to positive effect
 including joint research projects, student industry placements and knowledge exchange activities.
 Since REF 2014 we have forged important new relationships with universities, institutes and
 businesses across five continents.

 Research at HAU is managed by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Mills until November 2020,
 thereafter Lee), supported by a Director of Research (Kettlewell 2010-2018 and thereafter Arnold).
 Research is frequently delivered through interdisciplinary centres (e.g. Global Institute of Agri-
 Tech Economics, Agricultural Centre for Sustainable Energy Systems, Centre for Evidence Based
 Agriculture, and the Fresh Produce Research Centre) or, where appropriate, research groups
 defined within themes where a critical mass of research occurs (e.g. areas such as animal
 nutrition, welfare and behaviour, and food innovation). Centres have Directors (e.g. Behrendt,
 Theodorou, Leather, Randall and Monaghan) and within centres, areas of activity have an
 identified lead scientist to coordinate activities and ensure strategic delivery. The University has
 an integrated approach to research across the entire agri-food supply chain and is presenting a

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 single group of staff with a significant responsibility for research to REF, within an overall theme
 of ‘Sustainable Agriculture’.

 The University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee develops policy and strategy
 which is subsequently approved by Academic Board. ‘Research’ is a standing item on the agenda
 of monthly University and Departmental staff meetings. The University Research Office explores
 research opportunities from all sources and provides staff with weekly updates of opportunities
 and a weekly blog for background information. The Research Office and Finance Department
 provide support for grant applications, contracts and IP negotiations, further supported by three
 Business Development Officers within the University. HAU’s vision is that we engage with the
 industries, professions, organisations and policy-advisors that comprise and influence the global
 agri-food chain which in-turn supports the UK rural economy, to deliver an outstanding, practice-
 based research and learning environment. The University makes positive contributions to the UK
 rural sector, the wider economy and society by securing the skills needed by our industries and
 professions. Our research and research-led teaching helps inform stakeholders views regarding
 food, animal wellbeing and the environment, contributing to UK economic prosperity and
 developing new and emerging technologies.

 In 2020, in collaboration with Keele University, HAU established the 9th Veterinary School in the
 UK. This has involved a >£10m capital investment in facilities by the University which is a
 substantial investment for a small specialist institution. Our strategy is based on the integration of
 veterinary science education and research with our existing strengths in animal sciences,
 agriculture, agricultural business management and, uniquely, with our expertise in agricultural
 engineering/agri-technology we believe that HAU could be a critical deliverer of future
 interdisciplinary advances. We have worked successfully with academic and industry partners to
 bring about a number of initiatives since 2014, including the Saputo UK Innovation Centre, the
 Midlands Hub of the Agri-EPI Centre for Agricultural Engineering and Precision Innovation and the
 forthcoming Newport Innovation Park scheme, in which we are supporting our Local Authority,
 LEP and the DTI in agri-tech economic development.

 Our sandwich degrees are a major factor in student preparation for the world of work, but also in
 putting research-led education into practice. Each student undertakes a 1-year placement which
 includes a research project of relevance to the placement provider, enabling us to remain in close
 contact with over 500 employers world-wide.

 We have continued to highlight the importance of rural concerns, and our subject base, to our
 regulatory and funding bodies and to Government and have contributed to the development of the
 national agri-technology agenda with world-first extension work e.g. our Innovate-UK funded
 Hands-Free Hectare/Hands-Free Farm programmes.

 With the passing in to law of the Agriculture Bill (November 11th, 2020) the University’s research
 will support the transition required for the sector in a post-Brexit environment, noting that the Bill
 could have wider implications for the shape of the agri-food sector in future. Research innovations
 across the agri-food supply chain drive improvements in productivity, reduce emissions and costs
 and contribute to global food security. A steady increase in research funding over the last decade,
 creation of research facilities coupled with the support provided by industrial and public sector
 funding sources, and appointment of research active staff in recent years has transformed the
 contribution that HAU is making to the global challenges of sustainable agriculture and future land
 use.

 The University helps develop innovative approaches for the provision of high-quality food, whilst
 at the same time minimising the impact of food production on the environment, at a time when
 there is considerable structural change, perturbations to geopolitical groupings and growing
 volatility in global food systems. The University’s expertise in agri-food production systems across
 the agri-food chain, agricultural engineering, animal health and welfare, environmental
 management and bioenergy production provide a resource that is addressing some of the most
 critical challenges faced by the international community over the next few decades. By continuing

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to conduct research that supports industry, and training future generations of applied scientists
 who will work within the agri-food chain and help manage our rural resources, HAU will play a
 distinctive and important role in underpinning the UK’s response to achieving carbon Net-Zero
 within the agricultural and land use sectors, achieving sustainable global food security and
 delivering to the UK’s Paris Climate Agreement commitments.

 Research and impact strategy

 The University’s Strategic Plan contains a key vision to be ‘A recognised centre of research
 excellence, especially in the application of science and technological advances’.
 Our portfolio of research has been expanded over the last planning period with important new
 relationships with universities and businesses across 5 continents.

 The University is mindful that the next five years will see a significant period of change following
 the UK’s departure from the EU. This will result in disruption for the core disciplines of agriculture,
 food, rural land, environmental management, engineering and veterinary science in which we
 specialise. Whilst this might pose a number of risks, we are confident that it will also signal new
 opportunities for research to work with, and support, related industries and professions as they
 seek to adjust to their new operating conditions. It also seems likely that if the UK is to prosper
 beyond its membership of the EU, it will have to forge new ways of interacting with a wider range
 of countries. UK expertise in our subject base will be critical in contributing to these interactions,
 not least in new technologies and techniques where already, other countries wish to emulate the
 University’s pioneering work in agri-technologies. The University will be open to opportunities to
 operate in new environments, but also ensure that we maintain strong relationships with target
 markets for joint research activities. HAU is already seeing success in leading bids associated
 with the challenges imposed on the agricultural sector following leaving the EU through leading a
 project on Agricultural Trade negotiations funded by AHDB.

 Our strategic plan states that in fields where subject specialists are in short supply, we must seek
 to develop our own talent to continue to have academic experts who are also able to draw from
 their experience of the world beyond higher education. This will be a significant challenge for the
 University, but as a specialist institution delivering applied research and practical and theoretical
 education, it will be an essential aim for the University over the lifetime of our plan.

 The UK has to address two aspects of delivery that have been given scant attention in the last 20
 years, and which feature in our strategy. These are a need for applied research and development
 together with the translation into practice of innovations in basic science and technology; and the
 need to secure new research-informed entrants at all levels to the land, food and farming sectors
 and to the rural economy more generally. In seeking to establish HAU as a critical part of the
 ‘supply line’ for these requirements we have strengthened our position as a contributor to the
 health of the UK agri-food chain, as well as ensuring that our research will help the UK agri-food
 system make a substantive contribution to addressing the challenge of providing healthy food to
 a growing global population that also protects the environment. Importantly, this includes a focus
 on closely related subject areas in animal nutrition, health and welfare, and agricultural
 engineering. In addition, we have extended our role in renewable energy production as another
 key feature of our sustainable agriculture and land use research activities. We anticipate greater
 attention to be directed at renewing the higher-level skills of those working in industry over the
 planning period, underpinned by our near market research. In addition, we play a key role in acting
 as an independent and authoritative source of advice and comment on issues of concern to the
 agri-food supply chain and to the wider rural economy. This is evidenced by contributions to
 Government bodies and committees, for example Hare was a member of the UK Expert
 Committee on Pesticides 2015, an expert scientific committee that provided advice on pesticide
 approvals and authorisations to the HSE and government ministers. We measure success in terms
 of research income and outputs, the level of our engagement with industry (c. 500 businesses),
 the citations of our published research, and in periodic independent assessments by key
 stakeholders of the profile and contribution of the University.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Investing in Impact. Our impact strategy sets out that we will establish a top 10 position
 amongst UK agri-food institutions for impact and communication of our research, so as to
 underpin our engagement with industry, and our capacity for informative and useful education
 and research. We continue to develop the role and reputation of HAU as a contributor to national
 policy formulation and delivery on enhancing rural economic development and the UK’s
 contribution to global food security. HAU provides key inputs into strategic decision making at
 LEP and local authority levels and has been central to a decision to create a business park
 based on agri-tech in the local area. The University seeks active engagement with local
 businesses and provides support, in particular to SMEs, in terms of provision of facilities,
 technical advice including innovation and product development and high-level skills.
 Internationally, we work with the academic community, collaborative institutions across the world
 and the DIT to attract industry contacts to the UK to build on the specialist research skills here.
 Nationally, we have created relationships with UK Government to directly support industry.
 Regional impact is clearly defined in our local growth and regeneration statements, through a
 variety of projects in which we have partnered or invested.

 Objectives over the REF assessment period since 2014 have included:

    •   Deliver Research Outputs: Work with academic staff to plan, support and deliver research
        outputs across our subject base that will maximise the impact of our research activities
        whilst achieving high quality ratings.
    •   Industry Engagement with Research: Construct and deliver a coordinated programme of
        industry engagement with our research activities to ensure that our research has greater
        influence within industry over the planning period and that, where relevant, the benefits of
        mutual proximity are exploited.
    •   Strengthen Research Capacity: Take opportunities to strengthen our research expertise in
        key areas of our portfolio, and to enhance our provision in the social sciences to better
        support the translation of agri-food science and engineering-led research into practice.
    •   Postgraduate Research Numbers: Grow our postgraduate research student numbers to 80
        over the planning period, in part as a means to secure future academic talent for the
        University.
    •   Research Informed Curriculum: Pursue the development of a balanced portfolio of
        education and research that will enable the University to benefit from research informed
        teaching across the curriculum whilst maximising the impact of our performance in national
        research assessments.
    •   Public Understanding: Promote a better understanding of our research activities and
        performance with public research funding bodies and the consumer.
    •   New Collaborations: Seek new collaborations with other UK and international universities
        to mutually enhance our capacity to generate research income and high-quality research
        outputs.
    •   Applied Research: Continue our focus on applied research to exploit this currently under-
        developed element of the research spectrum within the agri-food sector.

 Progress with objectives
 Deliver Research Outputs: It is important to note that the University is not focussed solely on REF-
 aligned outputs but strives to achieve a balance to meet the needs of a wide range of stakeholders.
 As such, a proportion of our outputs are aimed at multiple industry-facing end-users through trade
 journals, industry bodies and events (e.g. the Soil and Water Management Centre training days)
 and knowledge exchange activities across the world (e.g. our Hands-Free Hectare/Farm KE
 activity which has been publicised in 86 countries). Notwithstanding, planning meetings were held
 with staff with a significant responsibility for research throughout the assessment period to ensure
 clear understanding of REF requirements and adherence to strategic objectives. This strategy has
 resulted in a significant increase in the number of peer reviewed open access publications.

 Industry Engagement with Research: The University has significantly increased our interaction
 with industry partners during this assessment period. In particular, emphasis has been placed on

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Department of Business Energy and Industrial Strategy funding with significant success
 achieved through the Government’s Agri-tech Strategy for capital (>£7m) involving >100 industry
 partners, and, notably, funding from Innovate UK (27 projects, totalling over £4.5million, and
 working with 92 collaborators nationally and globally). Horizon 2020 has also facilitated greater
 industrial partnerships and European Regional Development Funding has enabled the University
 to work with >90 companies to develop their innovative capacity within the Agri-Food sector.

 Strengthen Research Capacity: Approximately 40% of submitted staff have been recruited since
 2013. This targeted recruitment, and promotions, has greatly increased our capacity to deliver
 high quality research and impact. The assessment period has seen significant growth in total
 academic staff numbers (16.7%) and in some cases has facilitated the creation, or strengthening,
 of research centres/thematic groups (e.g. Theodorou and Kirby - Agricultural Centre for
 Sustainable Energy Systems; Lowenberg-DeBoer, Harris, Huang and Behrendt - Global Institute
 for Agri-Tech Economics; Vickers and Beacham - Urban Farming Group; Arnold, Segar, Roberts
 and Campbell - Centre for Integrated Pest Management; Beaver, Charlton, Shaw, Davies and
 Herath - Animal Production Science Centre; Hartley, Jeffery and Crockford - Soil and Water
 Management Centre). The University has been able to attract world-leading expertise in some of
 our discipline areas (Arnold, molecular plant pathology; Lowenberg-DeBoer and Behrendt,
 agricultural economics; Theodorou, sustainable energy; Davies aquaculture).

 Postgraduate Research Numbers: Since 2012/13, we have had a total of 771 research student
 registrations and the number of research students has increased considerably, from a total of 56
 in 2012/13 to the current number of 97 (PhD & MRes).

 Public Understanding: An initiative to enhance worldwide public understanding of some of the
 issues facing 21st Century agriculture based on our research outputs was launched at HAU in
 2019/2020 with support from the Garfield Weston Foundation. A unique position of Chair of Public
 Engagement in Agriculture was to have been created in early 2020 but has been delayed by the
 pandemic.

 The largest citizen-focussed community events, delivered at HAU in 2018 and 2019, were our
 Field to Fork Festivals celebrating the journey of food, based in part on our research outputs. Staff,
 students and sponsors delivered knowledge exchange activities for a schools’ day for over 800
 pupils and a public day to encourage the community to engage and gain a better understanding
 of the technologies used in food production and environmental management. More than 18,000
 members of the public of all ages attended. HAU is a major contributor of practical information for
 the Food and Farming Futures repository, a national initiative aimed at the food and farming sector.

 In 2018 we joined CWIN, a Capgemini World Innovation online and in person event, where staff
 from HAU demonstrated Agriculture 4.0 and the new farming revolution by looking at artificial
 intelligence, using big data, and the technologies applied within the Hands-Free Hectare
 programme.

 New Collaborations: The University has established 29 new collaboration agreements with
 international HEIs and has also established a wide network of University partners within the UK
 (for details see Partnerships section below).

 Applied Research: The University prides itself on the quality of research outputs from fundamental
 science (e.g. anaerobic gut fungi published by Theodorou in Science; soil international policy
 published by Jeffery in Nature; methodology for making informed ecological choices by Randall in
 Nature), through strategic research (e.g. global food safety by Nayak in Trends in Food Science
 and Technology; reorganisation of butterfly communities in extreme weather events by Leather in
 Ecography) to applied research. Much of our agenda is driven by the needs of the industries we
 serve. A few examples of applied research include microchip slug tracking to facilitate precision
 application of control measures (Pope); drought tolerance in crops to adapt to climate change
 (Kettlewell); lettuce post-harvest discolouration to improve shelf life (Pink, Monaghan and
 Beacham); understanding dairy cow behaviour to improve milk yields (Rutter, Beaver and

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Charlton); nutrition optimisation to improve poultry (Pirgozliev) and dairy cow (Sinclair) yields; and
 reduced soil compaction to improve crop yields (Misiewicz).

 Research Informed Curriculum: A comprehensive revision of the entire University undergraduate
 portfolio was undertaken in 2017. This ensured that research strengths were translated into
 revisions across the undergraduate portfolio. At level 7, many new awards have been established
 since 2013 based on the research strengths including MSc in entomology, plant pathology, data
 science, agroecology, ruminant nutrition, agricultural sciences and integrated pest management.
 In addition, a new portfolio of MRes awards has been established, resulting in an increase in
 research student registrations since 2013 (0 in 2013 to 21 students in 2020).

 Strategy 2020-2025

 The University will continue to enhance its research capacity and capability. The University’s
 strategic aim for the next five years will focus on helping to achieve ‘Net Zero’ in agriculture and
 food supply chains within the context of co-delivering the wider requirements of sustainable
 agriculture (e.g. rural economies, animal welfare and Nitrogen/Phosphorus pollution). In recent
 years we have focussed on building a research base of academics able to address the key issues
 of carbon reduction within agriculture and the environment, whilst recognising the constraints of a
 single metric approach, i.e. carbon, in defining a sustainable system. We will continue to
 collaborate with leading partners in academia (within the UK and worldwide) and those in industry
 to expand our research and increase its impact in defining policy and sustainable practices across
 the supply chain.

 UK agriculture is currently responsible for 45.6m tonnes of CO2 equivalents (eq) per annum
 equating to circa 10% of total UK emissions. The Committee on Climate Change has
 recommended a 64% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the agriculture and land-use
 sector to meet a 2050 net zero carbon target in the UK. To achieve this will require application of
 a range of mitigation and carbon removal strategies. For all agricultural emissions, a recent
 assessment of cost-effective mitigation strategies available concluded there is the potential to
 reduce emissions by 7.1 Mt CO2-eq by 2035. This is only 19% of the goal for total agricultural
 emissions, leaving 81% to be delivered between 2035 and 2050, emphasising the needs for
 concerted action and research.

 To maximise speed of uptake and rate of change requires coordinated and collaborative work
 within and across sectors, between farmers, food processors and their supply chain partners, and
 partnerships between government, scientists and consumers. HAU is perfectly positioned to drive
 this required change due to its strong reputation for working across the supply chain. Our
 expertise, facilities and research deliver across primary production to food innovation, with
 critically important disciplines including agricultural engineering, precision agriculture, food
 science and one health. We have identified eight focus areas to deliver our strategy. Progress in
 these areas will be achieved through a multidisciplinary approach involving natural and social
 scientists, and engineers.

 Our eight focus areas are:

    1. Smart (Agriculture 4.0), Precision and Urban Farming: Agriculture will continue to need to
       produce more products from fewer inputs. The University has strengthened its research
       capacity for optimising agricultural inputs and is building a research capability that will focus
       on precision farming through the use of automation, robotics (including swarm robotics)
       and extending the use of drone applications. This expertise, driving the advancement of
       precision farming, will be further extended to solving some of the challenges of urban
       farming as many of the constraints around resource use are the same.

    2. Soil Health: Notwithstanding soil being a carbon capture approach, improving soil carbon
       storage will improve overall soil health (biological functioning) through improved physical
       structure and microbial aerobic processes, i.e. more nutrients in the soil will be assimilated

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       into biomass (plants, animals and microbes) rather than dissimilated into pollutants (e.g.
       nitrous oxide), allowing it to be more productive with lower inorganic inputs. Therefore,
       increasing soil organic carbon will contribute to net zero carbon targets either directly
       (carbon capture) or indirectly (soil health). Our focus will be on soil compaction (responsible
       for >90% of energy requirements each year during cultivation) and soil ecosystem
       functioning.

    3. Land Use: Mitigation alone will not achieve net zero. Carbon sequestration by the natural
       landscape and other approaches to removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere
       can contribute significantly to balancing emissions from agriculture. How carbon is
       accounted for will need to realise the potential of certain land-types for carbon
       sequestration. Moreover, these land-based benefits need to be credited to the agricultural
       sector (e.g. hedgerows on farm and land set-aside for forestry). Land use, including
       improvement of soil health, will play a critical role in contributing to this but uncertainties
       remain about the relative contributions of land management, where land remains broadly
       constant, as opposed to land use change where a new land use such as forestry is
       introduced. Through the Centre for Evidence-based Agriculture we will make use of
       systematic review/mapping methodologies to identify new management processes in
       agroecosystems to optimise land use for efficiency and, ultimately, carbon emissions.

    4. Ruminant Livestock: A greater understanding of rumen microbial ecology may offer
       solutions to lower methane through microbial manipulation and reducing methane
       producing archaea (e.g. through gut microbial programming or dietary supplements). Use
       of home-grown sources (especially protein) will reduce reliance on imported soya and the
       impacts associated with deforestation. Use of co-/by-products in livestock feeds, especially
       those not contributing to the competition between food and feed will significantly reduce
       impacts. Through our work on animal health and welfare, in particular the integration of
       sensor data for early warning of animal health issues, will further contribute to reducing
       methane production from livestock production through healthier more productive animals.

    5. Energy Production and the Circular Economy: Our world leading position with anaerobic
       gut fungi biology and micro-anaerobic digestion technologies will help drive the
       development of low or zero carbon emission energy systems. We aim to create a circular
       nutrients system for agriculture which works across economic, social and ecosystem
       dimensions, where waste loops are closed, surpluses shared and multiple forms of value
       retained and circulated.

    6. Integrated Pest and Disease Management: We have established a critical mass of pest
       and disease expertise who will focus on the reduction of losses to crops caused by pests,
       pathogens and weeds, both in the field and post-harvest, that will reduce the amount of
       food we need to grow through integration of precision technologies and reducing resource
       intensive and costly chemical interventions.

    7. Public Engagement: The University is committed to creating a Chair of Public Engagement
       in Agriculture to ensure new technologies and processes required for the 21st century agri-
       food supply chains are understood by a wide range of stakeholders.

    8. Research Students: A core aim will be to continue the growth of our population of research
       students. This will be achieved in the short term through our partnership in the Midlands
       Integrative Biology Training Partnership (MIBTP), but longer term through participation in
       other successful DTP bids and industrial sponsored research students delivered through
       industry embedded within our campus (e.g. Saputo, Agri-Epi Innovation Centre, ABP Food
       Group).




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Centres and Thematic Groups

 To facilitate delivery of our research strategy, research at HAU is organised into either
 multidisciplinary research centres or thematic research groups. A selection of these are described
 below.

 Soil and Water Management Centre (Jeffery, Crockford, Misiewicz, Back, Hartley)

 An industry-led initiative to help UK farming make the most of its two most precious assets.
        o Acting as a central source of soil and water management information and
            expertise, and a national forum for establishing essential improvement priorities.
        o Making practical soil and water management training and advisory materials widely
            accessible and co-ordinating farm-based workshops and demonstration projects.
        o Instigating and supporting applied soil and water management research
            addressing particular challenges and improvement opportunities.

 Centre for Integrated Pest Management (Leather, Pope, Segar, Campbell, Hare, Arnold,
 Edwards, Roberts, Back)

 A multidisciplinary team addressing UK and global issues in agricultural, forestry and horticultural
 crop production.
        o Research interests in entomology, chemical ecology, pest monitoring, application
            technology, nematology, pesticides, plant pathology and weed science.
        o Expertise in UK and tropical forestry, arable crops, horticultural crops, field vegetables,
            soft fruit and protected crops.

 Fresh Produce Research (Monaghan, Vickers, Beacham, Hare)

 A multidisciplinary team addressing UK and global issues in horticultural crop production along
 the supply chain.
        o Research on crop breeding, crop production, post-harvest physiology and food safety.
        o Expertise in field vegetables, soft fruit and protected vegetables.

 The Centre for Evidence-Based Agriculture (Randall, Herath, Huang)

 The Centre aims to ‘synthesise’ existing agri-food evidence to support decision-making in policy,
 industry, practice and research.
         o Development of structured ‘evidence synthesis’ methods used to collate and evaluate
             existing research to support decisions.
         o Evidence syntheses for policy formulation within Defra and European Food Safety
             Authority.
         o The Centre has formed a partnership with the Universities of Bangor and Exeter to
             create the UK Centre for Collaboration for Environmental Evidence (CEE). The CEE is
             a global network that also has centres in Australia, Canada, France, South Africa and
             Sweden.

 The Global Institute for Agri-Tech Economics (Behrendt, Lowenberg-DeBoer, Huang, Peets)

 A unique worldwide network of leading multidisciplinary researchers and stakeholders bringing
 together experts working on the application, adaptation and adoption of innovative agricultural
 technologies. The Institute is committed to developing and implementing:
        o Economic analyses to inform decision making at the private and public policy levels
            through applied research and international collaboration.
        o A multidisciplinary team approach to identifying challenges and addressing the gaps
            between technology development and decision making in uncertain environments.
        o Data analytics to aid real-time decision making in value chains and policy.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        o   A mechanism for the exchange of ideas, feedback on research results and for jointly
            promoting high level interdisciplinary research into Agri-Tech Economics.
        o   Increased engagement with the global farming community, industry and government
            stakeholders.

 Urban Farming Group; (Vickers, Monaghan, Beacham, Harris, Kirby)

 A multi-disciplinary team focussed on the challenges of commercial food production in urban
 environments. Relevant research funded through industry and government, has investigated:
    o Barriers for implementation.
    o How widely-available LED lighting is radically reducing the energy cost of indoor growing.
    o Optimisation of fruit production using advanced technologies such as hydroponics,
        vertical farming and climate control.
    o Integration of renewable energy sources into urban farming businesses.
    o The creation of city circular economies that feed into urban farming systems.
    o Legal and social constraints and opportunities, with the view to helping policy makers
        design resilient cities.




                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staff profile: Staff with significant responsibility for research comprise a head count of 45, of which
 15 (33%) are female. The group consists of 10 (c.22%) Lecturers, 13 (29%) Senior Lecturers, 9
 (c.20%) Readers/Principal Lecturers, 13 (c. 29%) Professors, and 9 (20%) are within 4 years of
 the start of their research careers. This balance across five levels of staff ensures that the
 University is actively succession planning. Proactive mentoring, training and promotion rounds are
 used, in part to ensure that the University maintains an appropriate range of skills and disciplines
 and delivers to staff CPD. The University maintains an increasingly rare portfolio of whole
 organism skills amongst its research active staff in both animal and crop sciences.

 Research active staff are ably supported by a highly qualified and skilled group of technical support
 staff including: 9 laboratory staff, 21 animal technical support staff, 6 support staff in the Crop and
 Environment Research Centre and 11 farm staff. Each of the 5 academic departments has an
 administrator whose responsibilities include supporting research activity. The University operates
 a Research Office with a Director of Research and two members of staff who support academics
 in the preparation of grant proposals, contract management, IP issues and business engagement.
 The Finance Department has dedicated business partners to advise and assist with proposal
 costing preparation and are responsible for invoicing funders. The University also provides access
 to a Knowledge Exchange Coordinator who actively supports academics by connecting them to a
 wide range of stakeholders (including industry and sectors of the public) and, over the REF
 assessment period, a Technical Author who re-purposes complex technical information from our
 research portfolio to enable improved accessibility for other audiences. Short research notes
 (around 20 per annum) are produced to provide explanatory summaries of our current and
 completed research projects, aimed at non-specialists, students and practitioners in farming and
 associated industries.

 Academics are also supported by three Business Development Officers who frequently adopt a
 leading role in linking academics with industry partners, especially when applying for Innovate UK
 funding.

 Recruitment: Over this assessment period, the University has had a strategic objective to
 increase the quantity and quality of research in specific areas of its research programme. The
 University has focused on the recruitment of research active staff with appropriate expertise which,
 in part, has resulted in the increase from 17.4 FTEs at REF 2014 to 42.35 FTEs for REF 2021.
 Academic staff numbers have increased from 137 in 2014 to 160 in 2020 (16.7%) exemplifying
 the dynamic environment experienced over the assessment period. Newly appointed staff are
 placed into the most appropriate academic department and are encouraged and supported to join
 at least one of the University’s research centres or thematic research groups based on their
 research interests. Targeted areas for development to meet University strategic aims have
 involved a collective effort by academic staff to secure external funding. An example of this is
 creation of two Professorial positions (Behrendt and Lowenberg-DeBoer) in Agri-Tech Economics,
 globally unique at the time of appointment, with £0.5m funding secured from the Elizabeth Creak
 Charitable Trust. One appointee joined HAU from Purdue University in the USA and one from
 Charles Sturt University, Australia. This has enabled the University to establish a global network
 in agri-tech economics. Other strategically focused recruitment has included soil microbial
 ecology, sustainable energy, urban farming, data analytics, physical chemistry of foods and
 parasitology, all of which address our current and future research agenda. There has also been
 substantial capacity building around existing research strengths such as entomology, animal
 behaviour and molecular plant pathology.

 Staff development: The University has adopted the principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers, and ensure that researchers are equipped and supported
 to be adaptable and flexible in an increasingly diverse global research environment and
 employment market. The University provides opportunities, structured support, encouragement

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and time for researchers to engage in professional development, and provides researchers with
 opportunities, and time, to develop their research identity and broader leadership skills. We
 encourage managers to have regular career development discussions with researchers, including
 holding a career development review at least annually. The University provides opportunities for
 researchers to engage in leadership and management training to enhance their personal
 effectiveness, and to promote a positive attitude to professional development. We also actively
 support researchers through our use of mentoring. The University holds promotion rounds every
 two years and provides active support through the line management system, and additionally
 through the use of external consultants, to help promotion candidates prepare applications for
 promotion and also prepare for final selection interviews. Unsuccessful candidates are provided
 with detailed feedback on their promotion journey. In 2020, 3 staff were promoted to Professorial
 level, 1 to a Readership and 3 to Principal Lecturer (37% of total applicants).

 The University is committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for researchers and providing an
 environment that supports that objective. All of our researchers are required to undertake equality
 and diversity training.

 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students

 Research student environment: The University has a dynamic, growing population of research
 students encompassing MRes, MPhil and PhD registrants. The number of research students has
 increased considerably from a total of 56 in 2012/13 to the current number of 97. Our intake of 16
 PhD students in 2019/20 was 56% EU/International and 44% UK which is similar to the profile
 seen in recent years. Over the last 6 years the average number of applicants per studentship has
 been 14.7:1 reflecting a vibrant recruitment environment for postgraduate research at the
 University.

 The PGR community has full access to all of the University’s research facilities. The students
 integrate fully into academic life having full access to all academic staff, postdoctoral RAs,
 technical support staff in plant/crop/animal production, leading research facilities including a
 commercial scale mixed-dairy, arable and sheep farm as well as units for pig, poultry, beef and
 aquaculture research, a precision robotic-smart research dairy and food technology/engineering
 workshops.

 To ensure that the research environment is appropriate and remains so for the postgraduate
 research student population, the University produces an Annual Monitoring Report for Research
 Degrees which is considered by the Research Degrees Committee and the Academic Board.

 During each annual reporting period the University monitors the effectiveness of its postgraduate
 research provision and the action items identified in previous year’s Annual Monitoring Report for
 Research Degrees. This annual report provides the evidence base on which the Research
 Degrees Committee, on behalf of Academic Board, can judge whether awards standards and
 postgraduate research student experience are appropriate. The report takes into consideration
 the UK Quality Code for Higher Education - Advice and Guidance for Research Degrees. The
 report provides an overview of issues arising from: (a) evaluation of progress on previous action
 points, (b) changes made to research degrees award procedures, (c) final awards achievement,
 (d) issues arising from external examiners’ reports, (e) student progression data, (f) student
 appointments, (g) matters arising from the Research Degrees Awarding Board (RDAB), (h) an
 overview of student satisfaction levels and (i) employment of students. It also identifies areas
 where work is in progress to address problems or further improve provision and offers proposals
 for further development, for the Research Degrees Committee to approve, if considered
 necessary.

 MPhil and PhD students are also invited to take part in the annual national Postgraduate
 Research Experience Survey (PRES) conducted by Advance HE. In recent years, the university
 has been placed in the highest quartile for all sections with respect to the global benchmark
 data. HAU scores are shown in the diagram below:

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Support and generic training: The University operates a comprehensive Doctoral Development
 Programme for PGRs which, for much of the assessment period, has been delivered as a two-
 week programme at induction and then throughout the academic year on Wednesday afternoons.
 A dedicated member of staff, the Researcher Developer, provides support and guidance for PGRs
 and coordinates the following training programme:

 Researcher Development Framework Planner: The University subscribes to the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF) Planner which provides a structured format for training throughout
 the duration of the studentship. The RDF Planner is designed to help students reflect on their
 achievements against the Vitae RDF. Training is delivered by appropriate academic staff and all
 resources are available to PGRs through the Harper Adams Learning Hub.

 Online Training: As a small institution HAU made a strategic decision to fully engage with the
 ‘University of East Anglia (UEA) Online Training Series’ to optimise the benefits of research
 training for our PGRs. This programme offers research and professional skills training for PGRs
 in a ‘live-taught’ online format delivered via a virtual classroom. The training is organised into five
 modules spanning 62 scheduled sessions, each focused on a specific area/topic including
 Academic Writing, Qualitative Research Skills, Finishing your PhD, Teaching Skills and
 Quantitative Research Skills.

 Event Related Advice and Guidance: In 2020, the University provided a PhD researcher guide to
 Covid-19 and supported PGRs to return to laboratory work as soon as it was considered safe to
 do so (PhD students were prioritised for return to campus). The University also gave extensions
 to registration periods when requested.

 Partnerships for research students: The University has actively sought partnerships to support
 and develop research student opportunities:

 Advanced Training Partnerships: HAU has been a partner in two BBSRC-funded Advanced
 Training Partnerships. The most recent was the Agri-food Training Partnership (AFTP) led by the


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Reading, and involving HAU, University of Nottingham, Aberystwyth University,
 Cranfield University, Bangor University and University of Birmingham. This was a formal
 collaboration that delivered cutting-edge training including short courses and on-line learning for
 part-time Master's programmes and Research Degrees.

 Doctoral Training Partnership: The BBSRC-funded Doctoral Training Partnership Midlands
 Integrative Biology Training Partnership connects five centres of excellence across the Midlands
 (Universities of Warwick, Birmingham, Leicester, Aston and HAU) to support the rapidly-
 developing Midlands bioeconomy. In addition to facilities listed elsewhere at HAU, MIBTP students
 can take advantage of the Midlands research infrastructure and the intellectual environment this
 provides. Collaboration between participating institutions enables cross-partner access for HAU
 PGRs to state-of-the-art facilities including the £>6M cryo-EM (UoL), £8M 1GHz NMR
 spectrometer (UoB - 2020), £1.5M MRI scanner (UoB), £0.7M 3-D cellular imaging system (UoW);
 £0.6M super-resolution multi-photon and dSTORM imaging system (UoL); £1.2M high
 performance mass spectrometry (UoB); >£2M multi-omics facility with mass spectrometers for
 proteomics, metabolomics and microbiomics equipment (UoB, UoL); £5M plant phytobiology
 facility (UoW). Joint supervision of PGR students within the MIBTP has provided a step change
 in interdisciplinarity capability and the research environment for HAU students.

 Student achievements: Postgraduate students have contributed to a proportion of our submitted
 outputs (13%). Our PGR students regularly win prizes at national and international events.
 Examples include two PGR students coming first (£10k prize) and second in the European
 Farming by Satellite competition, announced in Paris in 2013. This competition was open to
 students and young people from across Europe with a total of 114 people entering from 25 different
 nations. PGR students have won the Worshipful Company of Poulters research prize in 2015; the
 Royal Entomological Society Prize in 2016, the prize for best presentation (from >50) at the AHDB
 Postgraduate Seminar Programme; PGR students won third prize in an international open-air field
 robot contest, held in Slovenia in 2015.

 A number of PGRs are in receipt of scholarships (e.g. Barham Benevolent Fund Scholarship,
 Faccenda Scholarship, Silcock Scholarship, John Oldacre Fellowship and Felix Thornley Cobbold
 Agricultural Trust Scholarship). The University also participated in the Science Without Borders
 Programme, hosting students from Brazil.

 DLHE data for the University shows that 91.6% of PGR graduates achieve graduate level
 employment within 6 months of completion. Most graduates are employed in Lecturing, Teaching
 & Research e.g. of the 10 students who were awarded their degrees in 2019 all entered
 employment or continued employment with their existing employer, including 5 as lecturers in HE,
 an Outreach & Engagement Executive, a Postdoctoral Researcher, a Research Technician, a
 Postdoctoral RA and a Research Scientist (commercial sector).

 Equality and Diversity

 Policy: HAU’s Equality and Diversity Policy supports the University’s commitment towards
 eliminating discrimination and promoting diversity and equality of opportunity in its practices,
 policies and procedures. It sets out provisions encompassing all areas of equality and diversity
 across the University and provides for the coordination and implementation of our strategic
 objectives in this area as set out in its Vision and Strategic Plan. The University continues to
 develop other policies to support this objective, and specific areas of equality and diversity, as
 appropriate. Our policy was developed in consultation with the University’s main stakeholders,
 including the University and College Union and Staff Consultative Group.

 The University is committed to promoting a culture and environment in which its students and staff
 are treated fairly and are not discriminated against without lawful cause, on the basis of race,
 religion or belief; gender (including gender reassignment); marital/civil partnership status; sex;
 sexual orientation; disability; age; parental, pregnancy or maternity status; social or economic


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 group. Victimisation is also prohibited under this policy, as well as harassment related to any of
 the protected characteristics.

 The University complies with current anti-discrimination legislation as well as associated codes of
 practice or guidance issued by the Equality and Human Rights Commission and other relevant
 bodies. The University is committed to addressing barriers to equality. All of our staff, including
 research staff, are trained in Equality and Diversity and our “Avoiding Unconscious Bias” training
 is completed by staff and managers to support the continued elimination of bias from our people
 processes. We have embedded new guidance on gender neutral language into the recruitment
 process to ensure that no applicant is consciously or unconsciously deterred from applying.

 The commitment to equality comes from the very top of our institution where gender equality is
 clearly evidenced through the make-up of the senior management team (four females, two males).

 Responsibilities: The University, its staff and its students are all responsible for promoting and
 maintaining equality and diversity across the University and in all of its activities. The University’s
 governing body, the Board of Governors, has overall responsibility for ensuring that the University
 complies with the requirements of anti-discrimination legislation and in particular with the
 provisions of the Equality Act 2010 (“the Act”) and the general duty under the Act.

 The University promotes the flagship Advance HE Aurora Programme. Aurora is a women-only
 leadership development initiative designed to enable a wide range of women, in research,
 academic and professional roles in higher education, to engage with leadership development at
 an earlier stage in their careers. Aurora combines education, mentoring and project work to
 provide a learning experience with an enduring impact. The University continues to see positive
 results in successful applications for promotion from Aurora participants in academic and
 professional service departments.

 The University has worked on recommendations from expert external consultancy support, which
 was undertaken to establish what works to enable women to progress within the institution.




                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 External research income for 2013-2020 was c. £23m, derived from a wide range of funding
 sources. Grant income consisted of a combination of UK industry, commerce and public
 corporations (38%), BEIS and Research Councils (23%), UK central Government bodies (19%),
 EU (9%) with the remaining 12% coming from charities. Internal funding supporting research
 over the same period has been c. £3.2m, mainly supporting PhD students, derived from QR
 funding.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The University has made a considerable investment of more than £22m in infrastructure projects
 to accommodate the increase in research activity since 2013, new appointments and an increase
 in PGR student numbers. Investments during the assessment period include the Elizabeth Creak
 Laboratory opened in 2017 (£2.5m partially supported by the Elizabeth Creak Charitable Trust)
 and an extension to the University’s ‘living laboratory’ through the purchase of a further 92
 hectares of agricultural land (£2.84m in 2018) bringing the total potential experimental capability
 to c. 630 hectares. Funding from the UK Government’s Strategy for Agricultural Technologies was
 won to establish the Midlands hub of the Agri-EPI Centre to provide engineering and precision
 agriculture solutions for the Agri-Food industry and a ‘precision’ dairy for research on sensor
 technology and robotics (£6m in total on campus from a £17.7m UK government investment). With
 support from the Jean Jackson Trust, the University has also been able to establish a research
 glasshouse facility (£400k) and state-of-the-art entomology research facilities including controlled
 environment rooms for insect culturing and a research laboratory (£200k). Details of further
 investments are noted below.

 The Harper and Keele Veterinary School (first cohort 2020) has been a major investment for the
 University (c. £10m capital and joint recruitment at steady-state of c. 70 staff). It will make use of
 existing, state-of-the-art University research facilities, including the commercial scale mixed-
 dairy/arable and sheep farm; robotic milking smart dairy facility; pig, poultry, beef and aquaculture
 research facilities, and a companion animal house which houses exotic and non-exotics.

 Examples of smaller scale infrastructure investments

 Precision Dairy: (users Rutter, Charlton and Beaver) £1M. The new dairy facilities (commissioned
 2017) within Agri-EPI enable researchers, the dairy industry and agri-engineering companies to
 work together to develop the next generation of dairy housing and management and to test and
 develop sensor technologies. A key concept is developing technology to facilitate cow choice that
 this can improve milk production efficiency as well as improving animal welfare.

 Young Stock Facility: (Sinclair, Rutter, Bleach, Beaver and Charlton) £500,000. Purpose built
 facility for the rearing of young stock to support the University’s main ruminant facilities.

 Poultry Research Facility: (Pirgozliev, Rose) £600,000. This state-of-the-art facility can operate as
 two large floor pens and can be further sub-divided into pens to facilitate replicated scientific
 experiments. Environmental-controlled rooms (for lighting and temperature) and a partitioned
 caged-laying facility allow replicated comparative studies. The facility also allows studies on
 poultry behaviour and welfare assessments of egg production systems and poultry meat
 production.

 Pig Unit Weaner Building plus equipment: (PhD students) £295,000. Extension to existing pig
 research facility to support finishing of animals on-site.

 Veterinary Services Centre: (existing and new Vet School staff) £600,000. The VSC is a purpose-
 built facility available for research purposes. The facility consists of eight consulting rooms and a

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hydrotherapy suite. Two of the consulting rooms have the ability to provide a total black-out
 function, and are identical, which is necessary in behavioural research. The hydrotherapy suite is
 a state-of-the-art room with the benefit of both a pool and a canine underwater treadmill. The pool
 is fitted with underwater cameras projected onto large television screens above with glass sides
 allowing viewing from all angles.

 Applied Research Laboratory: (PhD students) £180,000. Provided to further enhance research
 laboratory capacity and accommodate the increase in PGR student numbers.

 Aquaculture: (Davies, Herath) £154,000. A state-of-the-art facility providing long-term research
 infrastructure that can be utilised for multidisciplinary industry and academic research and
 development. The fish tissue culture facility provides additional 3R-compliant research ability to
 test novel antimicrobial ingredients and feed additives.

 Anaerobic Digestion: (Theodorou, Kirby) £84,000. The Agricultural Centre for Sustainable Energy
 Systems (ACSES) has a comprehensive laboratory for undertaking a wide range of anaerobic
 digestion experiments, from biochemical methane potential assays to bench-scale digestion trials.
 ACSES also has a unique pilot-scale anaerobic digestion plant (2m3) for commercial development
 work, aiding companies to trial products and bolt-on technologies with a smaller-scale replica of a
 commercial plant.

 Glasshouses: (Back, Edwards, Hare, Hartley, Kettlewell, Monaghan, Vickers, Reade, Pope,
 Leather, Segar, Campbell, Roberts) £400,000. The glasshouse provides modern, futureproof
 research facilities for a wide group of academics. It is made from polycarbonate rather than glass,
 which allows for better thermal dynamics, making it more energy efficient.

 Policies and practice in relation to research governance

 We aim to establish and promote good governance and ethical practice in the conduct of research.
 We encourage researchers to adhere to best practice relating to the ethical development,
 implementation and dissemination of research; to protect the integrity and reputation of our
 University; to protect the rights of participants and fellow researchers and to promote sustainable
 agriculture, enhance biodiversity and optimise energy use in an environment of finite natural
 resources. Researchers must demonstrate respect for the integrity of knowledge, respect for
 animals, and for the environment.

 We adhere to Rigour, respect and responsibility: a universal ethical code for scientists, a public
 statement of the values and responsibilities of scientists, defined by the Department for Business,
 Energy, and Industrial Strategy as including anyone whose work uses scientific methods, including
 social, natural, medical and veterinary sciences, engineering and mathematics. The University
 also follows both the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the UK Research Integrity
 Office (UKRIO) Code of Practice for Research written on behalf of the University sector and
 providing a basis for the conduct of all research in academia. HAU also follows the Government
 led Joint Code of Practice for Research. This code lays out a framework for the proper conduct of
 research using ‘best scientific practice’ from the start of all research projects. Many funders are
 signatories to this Code. All staff and students carrying out social science research are required
 to abide by the Market Research Society (MRS) Code of Conduct. Researchers also adopt the
 principles of good research practice (adapted from BBSRC Statement on Safeguarding Good
 Scientific Practice, 2016) and acknowledge, through this process, the role of collaborations and
 other participants.

 Researchers must comply with all legal requirements governing research, including the Bribery
 Act 2010, and the Animal (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986. In particular, they must ensure
 compliance with Data Protection Law. This consists of all EU Data Protection Directives, including
 GDPR, and all UK legislation (including the Data Protection Act 2018). All research data collection
 must conform to the GDPR2018 regulations and is expected to have a Data Management Plan.


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In order to comply with the above the University’s Research Office provides advice to researchers
 on contracts, ensuring compliance with legislation, regulation and best practice listed above. HAU
 also has a comprehensive suite of policies on research ethics, working with plant pathogens, and
 ensuring compliance with the Nagoya Protocol. Research governance is carried out for each
 individual project. Individual projects have to secure ethical approval from the Research Ethics
 Committee. Each project is reviewed blind by two appointed scrutineers in line with the University’s
 policy and procedures for research ethics approval. All projects require risk assessment and
 depending on the subject require approval from Genetic Modification Safety, Biological Safety
 committees and Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body.

 The Technician Commitment is a sector-wide initiative led by the Science Council, supported by
 the Gatsby Foundation, to address key challenges facing technical staff working in research and
 to deliver greater status, profile and opportunity for the technical community in higher education.
 The University backed a pledge in 2017 to support our technicians who are critical to the success
 of the University and its research endeavours.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research collaborations are generated at several levels to enable us to reach our research
 goals and contribute more widely to the economy and society.

 Engagement with UK and international partners

 A strength of our applied and interdisciplinary research is the strong connection of our researchers
 to industry, the professions and the policy-makers whom advise the sector. Much of the research
 undertaken is either directly funded or conducted in collaboration with industry partners or policy
 advisors. This relationship underpins the University’s emphasis on problem solving research and
 allows researchers to make use of industry research facilities when required. The University has
 also established a wide network of University partners both within the UK and across the world.
 This has been in response to our research strategy which sought to widen our influence both within
 the UK and globally.

 As part of its collaboration strategy the University is a partner in two Agri-tech Centres funded
 through the UK Government Agri-tech Strategy. The Agricultural Engineering Precision Innovation
 Centre (Agri EPI) brings together leading organisations in all sectors of the supply chain. Agri EPI,
 which is partly based at HAU, is becoming a world-leading centre for excellence in engineering
 and precision agriculture to benefit the livestock, arable, aquaculture and horticulture sectors. The
 core partners in the Centre are HAU, Scotland’s Rural College (SRUC), Cranfield University,
 Harbro Ltd, Ag Space Agriculture Ltd and Kingshay Farming. A further 130 companies are now
 supporting the Centre through ‘in kind’ and cash contributions (to match the original £17.7m
 Government investment), including large supermarkets, food producers, farmers, processors and
 engineering and technology businesses.

 The Centre for Innovation Excellence in Livestock (CIEL) is an innovation centre involving HAU
 and 12 other UK Universities/Institutions. CIEL brings together the food industry and academic
 researchers to transform the productivity of the UK livestock industry. CIEL was allocated £27.7m
 funding from the Government’s Agri-tech Strategy to set up facilities across the UK, providing the
 livestock industry with world-leading access to research. Additional funding from industry and the
 participating research institutions will bring the total investment to £70m. HAU provides expertise
 and facilities for dairy, beef and poultry research for this Centre.

 HAU also has an extensive portfolio of partnerships with industries including Saputo (formerly
 Dairy Crest) who invested £4 million to create a new innovation centre on the HAU campus,
 moving 40 R&D staff to the university. Dairy Crest and HAU, won the Most Innovative Contribution
 to Business-University Collaboration award at the Times Higher Education Awards 2016. The
 judges noted that, “Embedding research scientists in one of the country’s top agricultural
 Universities was a pioneering collaboration in an industry with traditionally low R&D”. HAU entered
 a research and development collaboration with MagGrow, an Irish SME based in Dublin, that
 strengthened the company’s industrial research capability and experience for agricultural spraying
 coupled with the development of a spray testing facility. Internationally, HAU entered into a
 collaboration with India-based Tractors and Farm Equipment (TAFE) to develop advanced
 technological, agronomic and educational solutions for the delivery of sustainable food production
 around the world. TAFE, the world’s third largest tractor manufacturing company in terms of
 volume, was the first business to take up residence in the Agri-EPI Centre Midlands Hub, on the
 university campus for a collaborative research and development project.

 Engagement within academia

 We take a proactive approach to promoting excellence, collaboration and impact in research and
 strongly encourage collaboration with both international and UK universities. In the period under
 review the University has established 29 new collaboration agreements with international HEIs.
 These are in: Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Dominican Republic, Germany, India, Indonesia,
 Japan, Namibia, The Netherlands, New Zealand, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, USA

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (including Cornell and the University of California) and Ukraine. This marks a step change in the
 University’s approach to internationalisation since REF 2014 and is of particular note as many of
 these agreements have been initiated by the international partners. One example of the outputs
 of these collaborations is the Science paper in 2016 (Early-branching gut fungi possess a large,
 comprehensive array of biomass degrading enzymes); another example is our collaboration with
 Kasetsart University to investigate and provide recommendations on how to improve the economic
 sustainability of small-scale rubber farms in Thailand, through Newton funding.

 Our researchers are working in collaboration with a number of national HEIs. We have a
 collaboration with Leeds University and Barworth Agriculture to improve the accuracy of the ‘AHDB
 potato cyst nematode (PCN) pallida calculator’ which is currently used as an educational
 forecasting tool for UK potato growers. We have BBSRC funded collaborations with the
 Universities of Oxford, Birmingham and Reading on bacterial pathogen evolution and with NIAB-
 East Malling Research Station and Reading University on cherry pathogens. Our staff are part of
 the organizing group, with Universities of Reading, Royal Agricultural, Warwick, and Newcastle,
 of the Centre for Effective Innovation in Agriculture (CEIA). As well as these specific examples our
 staff currently have collaborative projects with the Universities of: Warwick, Keele, Greenwich,
 Durham, Reading, Sheffield Hallam, Hartpury, Leeds, Royal Agricultural, Surrey, Birmingham City,
 Nottingham, Leeds, Napier and Bristol.

 Wider influence and esteem

 More widely, our staff take leading roles in supporting the national and international knowledge-
 base. A number of our researchers demonstrate Academic Leadership, through their prominent
 roles in funding panels such as being members of BBSRC panel B (Arnold), the Management
 Board of the BBSRC Horticulture Quality and Food Loss Network (Monaghan), the Review Panel
 for BBSRC National Capability 2019 (Leather) and Reviewer Board member of Animals (Bleach).

 As well as peer reviewing for national funding agencies (BBSRC, NERC, EPSRC) our
 researchers are actively involved in reviewing for a number of international grant awarding boards
 from countries such as Norway, Austria, Sweden, Canada, USA, France, New Zealand and the
 United States-Israel Binational Agricultural Research and Development Fund.

 Our staff hold positions on number of editorial boards. These include; Editor-in-Chief for
 Physiological Entomology and Associate Editor for Antenna (Pope); Editor-in-Chief Annals of
 Applied Biology (Leather); Insect Conservation & Diversity, Pest and Invertebrate Biology, Annals
 of Applied Biology (Leather); Plant Pathology and PLOS One (Arnold); Journal of Ecology
 (Campbell); Precision Agriculture (Lowenberg-DeBoer); Animals and Reproduction in Cattle
 (Bleach); Fermentation and Journal of the Institute of Brewing (Vriesekoop); Annals of Applied
 Biology, Pest Management Science and European Society of Soil Biology (Back); Journal of
 Horticultural Science and Biotechnology (Monaghan); Scientific Reports (Kettlewell); European
 Journal of Entomology (Segar); European Journal of Plant Pathology (Edwards); Journal of
 Sustainable Agricultural Management and Informatics (Behrendt).

 Our staff are regularly invited to join the scientific organising committees and to be keynote
 speakers at prestigious international meetings and other networking events, which allow for
 development of national and international collaborative networks. For example, meetings where
 colleagues have been on scientific organising committees include the First African Conference on
 Precision Agriculture (2020); American Society of Microbiology annual meetings (2018-19);
 Symposium of Potato Cyst Nematode Management (2015 and 2019); the International Agricultural
 Science Congress, Turkey (2018), British Society of Animal Science and Advances in Nematology
 Conference (both annually). Colleagues have also been invited to speak at many meetings
 including; Pseudomonas, Malaysia (2019); XXII Colombian Congress of Agronomic Engineers,
 Colombia (2019); Dairy Europe (2019); EUCARPIA Leafy Vegetable Symposium, Czechia (2019);
 Science technology engineering economics for Digital Agriculture Conference, Australia (2019);
 Latin American Conference on Precision Agriculture, Chile (2018); IAFP European Symposium on
 Food Safety (2016 & 2018); the 50th Anniversary Congress of the Southern African Society for

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Plant Pathology, Drakensberg, South Africa (2017); European Commission conference on Climate
 change and mycotoxins in feed and food: a challenge for feed and food supply and safety EXPO
 MILAN (2015).

 Our staff play key roles in learned societies and advisory boards representing the range of
 disciplines in which we are involved. These include President of the International Society of
 Precision Agriculture (ISPA) (Lowenberg-DeBoer); President of the British Society of Plant
 Pathology (2019) (Arnold); President of the British Society of Animal Science (2016) (Sinclair);
 President Amateur Entomological Society 2017-2018 (Leather); membership secretary for
 International Society of Applied Ethology (Charlton); the Society of Microbiology representative for
 the UK Plant Sciences Federation (Arnold); committee member of the Midlands section of the
 Institute of Brewing & Distilling (Vriesekoop); Chair of Red Tractor Produce Technical Advisory
 Committee (2010-17) (Monaghan); AAB Plant Physiology and Crop Improvement Group
 Committee (2015) (Monaghan); member of the UK Expert Committee on Pesticides (Hare);
 International Network for Economic Research (de Aguiar); Programme Secretary for the AAB
 (Back); British Crop Protection Council Pests and Beneficials Expert Working Group (Pope);
 Scientific Advisory Board for the €18m Crop Optimisation through Sensing, Understanding and
 Visualisation project at University College Dublin (2018) (Kettlewell); Scientific Advisor on the
 Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board Sutton Bridge Crop Storage Research Advisory
 Committee (2019) (Kettlewell); Independent expert member of UK Cereal Mycotoxin Stakeholders
 Group (Edwards); Deputy Community Leader, International Society of Precision Agriculture
 Economics Community (Behrendt).




                                                                                             Page 21
