Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA7

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  UoA7 at the University of Leicester (UoL) covers a broad spectrum of the Earth and
  Environmental Sciences reflecting the complex nature of our planet. We investigate and model
  diverse planetary processes—from mantle dynamics to the molecular composition of the
  atmosphere—traversing vast timescales, from the fundamental interpretation of 500 million
  year-old ecosystems through to human impacts on terrestrial vegetation and the carbon cycle.
  Questions of sustainability and future states of a rapidly evolving Earth System are newly
  emerging research themes. The scale of the questions addressed drives us to embrace
  diversity and collaboration in the pursuit of research excellence. This has become part of our
  core identity and underpins our future aspirations. Our integrated Research and Impact (R&I)
  strategy, with a clear set of shared goals, has created a stimulating and nurturing environment
  and improved performance across all areas of R&I during the REF2021 cycle. Highlights
  include:


    1. World-leading research on carbon storage in, and greenhouse gas (GHG)
       emissions from, organic soils. This has driven global government and NGO policies
       to protect carbon-rich peatlands, improved awareness and knowledge of the
       environmental impacts of peatland agriculture, and contributed to renewable energy
       directives and climate change initiatives (Page, Impact Case Study 3, ICS3).

    2. Development of novel greenhouse gas measurement algorithms using space-
       based observations to identify national emissions and their sources/sinks. These
       models underpin support of climate change action and leading activities in the
       production of United Nations World Meteorological Organization (WMO) Essential
       Climate Variable Datasets in Greenhouse Gases (Boesch, ICS1) and Fire Disturbance
       (Tansey).

    3. Developing the Anthropocene concept via leadership of data-driven research into its
       definition, starting point, and scientific impacts, combined with substantial contributions
       to transforming socioecological understanding of our Planet in the arts and humanities
       (Williams, Zalasiewicz).

    4. Transforming understanding of the onset of global and hemispheric warming
       trends from anthropogenic greenhouse gases as reflected in novel datasets derived
       from corals (Zinke).

    5. Powerful new models of mineral deposit formation, leading to more sustainable
       exploration and extraction of resources and the development of new ways of processing
       metal ores to reduce environmental impacts (Holwell, Jenkin, Smith and ICS2).


  Since REF2014, we have increased research income by 67% per FTE. Category A staff have
  published 691 refereed journal papers, attracting 12,862 citations. Of these papers, 24% are
  published in journals within the top 10% citation percentile (Scopus/SciVal). Our R&I activities
  include 219 publications mapping onto the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal ‘Climate
  Action’ (111) and ‘Life on Land’ (108), significantly contributing to UoL’s ranking in the top 3%
  in the Times Higher Education World Impact Rankings 2020.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Unit context and structure

  UoA7 sits within the College of Science and Engineering. Our research is shaped by two
  College Research Themes: (1) Environment and (2) Astronomy, Space and Earth
  Observation. This has facilitated multidisciplinary engagement and collaborations drawing on
  diverse specialist knowledge. Since REF2014, the Geography and Geology Departments
  have merged to form the School of Geography, Geology and Environment to better realise our
  research ambition to create a vibrant community of researchers working in the Earth and
  Environmental Sciences with past, present and future perspectives. We have also
  strengthened the alignment of Earth observation (EO) scientists across the University, building
  on the inter-disciplinary co-ordination of EO at Leicester since its foundation in 1993.

  The unit’s research activity is organised functionally into three Research Groups (RGs): (1)
  Evolution and Past Environments; (2) Solid Earth; and (3) Contemporary Environments
  (Fig.1). The Groups operate as nuclei for research staff and students with related specialisms.
  Collaborative working has encouraged research output quality, funding success, and impact,
  significantly enhanced through staff mentoring, inclusive strategic discussions, and weekly
  discursive lab-groups and seminars. Our capability to employ an array of physical, chemical,
  and geological approaches to analyse the atmosphere, geosphere, and biosphere has been
  dramatically enhanced by these strategic developments.

  Each RG houses a Research Centre, recognised by UoL as ‘centres of research excellence’.
  The Centre for Palaeobiology is focused on delivery of agenda-setting palaeobiology
  research, especially on applying experimental and quantitative approaches to the fossil
  record. The Centre for Sustainable Resource Extraction carries out research to ensure
  security and supply of Earth resources to society, coupled with a substantial reduction in
  environmental footprint, through the development of technologies that will revolutionise the
  relevant industries. The Centre for Landscape and Climate Research (CLCR) delivers
  enhanced understanding of human-environment interactions using EO technologies to
  address pressing global challenges such as land use change, fire disturbance, deforestation,
  and forest and peatland degradation.

  UoA7 also hosts the National Centre for Earth Observation (NCEO), a multiple-location NERC
  Research Centre, directed by Remedios. UoA7 staff in NCEO lead national, cross-
  HEI programmes in environmental observations, including carbon cycle (Boesch), EO
  methods and data (Remedios), UK Earth System Model and the NCEO Official Development
  Assistance Programme (Balzter). They provide membership of 8 international satellite mission
  advisory groups and science teams. Additionally, through the NCEO, the CLCR leads the
  Programme Coordination Team of the £10.5M UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund Landscape
  Decisions Programme. Thus, UoA7 boasts a large portfolio of research using EO techniques
  to address challenges ranging from global climate change to ecosystem change, land
  emissions, and impact of hazards.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                             Figure 1.
                                      Left: Staff within RGs.
                  Right: Core research areas and Research Centres within RGs.
                      Bottom: Multidisciplinary intersections between RGs.


  Research and Impact Strategy

  REF2014 aims. In REF2014, our future strategic priorities were to: maintain and develop our
  research groups; protect quality research time; and build collaborations across the University
  and with external organisations, including industry. We have both achieved and progressed
  these aims. The breadth of research expertise has enabled us to build on our existing
  research strengths and catalyse new and exciting research directions. We have protected
  research time, resulting in improved quality of outputs and grant capture (increase of 67%
  income per FTE since REF2014), recruitment of funded Independent Research Fellows (8-fold
  increase), PDRAs (a factor 2.8 increase) and PGR completions (an increase of 42% per
  FTE/year). We work with colleagues across the University, and our external reach and
  collaboration with industry has seen a significant step-change.

  Vision and Strategy
  Our vision throughout this cycle has been to support our researchers in the delivery of the best
  possible research via the provision of a supportive, dynamic, and flexible environment which
  stimulates and disseminates international and world-leading research that is: (a) discovery-
  led, addressing fundamental questions about the Earth, atmosphere, and biosphere, past and
  present, and; (b) challenge-led, developing solutions to the major problems of sustainability
  and stewardship of our planet, with an explicit goal of maximizing the impacts of our work.

  The 8 guiding principles of our R&I strategy are to:

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  (R1) Build established areas of research excellence whilst nurturing emerging strength.
  (R2) Promote, support, and grow multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary projects and
  collaborations, enabling research to move into new and fruitful areas and allow us, collectively,
  to respond to emergent challenges of environmental, industrial, and societal relevance.
  (R3) Increase the impact of our research by developing strong links with industry and policy
  makers.
  (R4) Recruit and retain outstanding academic staff to provide leadership and expertise, and
  nurture ECRs and future leaders.
  (R5) Recruit high-quality PhD students and develop a community of well-rounded and highly
  employable researchers.
  (R6) Maintain a diverse funding portfolio to underpin research and impact, by proactively
  engaging with funders via agenda-setting initiatives and supporting staff in their preparation of
  applications.
  (R7) Maintain specialist facilities and equipment through institutional bids and overhead
  reinvestment.
  (R8) Maximise global engagement with our research by embedding a culture of open science.

  We provide evidence for how each of these principles is facilitated, and their effectiveness,
  throughout this statement.

  Governance and integrity. The development and implementation of the unit’s R&I strategy is
  the responsibility of the Research Committee, led by Director of Research (DoR). This
  includes: Head of School (HoS), REF lead and REF impact lead, Research Group leads,
  Postdoctoral and PhD student representatives, Research Centre heads, and PGR tutors. We
  adhere to institutional policy on research integrity (Institutional environment statement, section
  2.7) and expect researchers to embed good practice in all aspects of their work, as outlined in
  the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Performance, using data from output quality
  reviews, and grant applications is monitored in monthly meetings between the DoR, REF lead,
  HoS, and the College Dean of Research, as well as via annual performance development
  discussions (PDDs).

  Open Research (R8). In addition to observing REF policy and institutional requirements (IES,
  2.6), we have embedded a culture of open research. In Leicester’s first Open Research
  Survey (2020), 100% of research staff in this UoA who responded believed there is value in
  anyone being able to access their research and 79% had actively made more of their research
  freely available and accessible since 2014. During the assessment period, 75% of our outputs
  were published open access, compared to the Russell Group average of 63% (SciVal). Many
  of our researchers are editors and/or on the editorial board of open-access peer-reviewed
  journals (e.g. Baltzer, Kaduk and Tansey for Remote Sensing; Zinke and Purnell for
  Scientific Reports), and we use open platforms such as Github, DRYAD, and Figshare. Data
  produced through NCEO programmes and other NERC-funded projects are available publicly
  on the NERC-STFC platform CEDA.

  Approach to impact (R3)
  Our research aims to influence policy to mitigate climate change and protect the environment,
  enhance industrial performance, and improve people’s lives. The principal beneficiaries of our
  research are the public, the environment, natural resource and space industries, and UK and
  EU governments.

  The mechanisms employed to deliver impact are:



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Multidisciplinary collaboration (R2). We recognise the benefits of a multidisciplinary
       approach to addressing social, environmental, and industrial challenges. A cornerstone
       of our impact strategy is EO, involving environmental scientists, chemists, and
       physicists. The work by Boesch and NCEO colleagues has significantly improved the
       accuracy and reliability of satellite-derived data for monitoring global emissions (ICS1).
       Their research has enabled international environmental and space programmes to
       provide governments with resources and recommendations to facilitate compliance with
       the Paris Agreement. Boesch et al are playing a leading role in the first ever purpose-
       built European CO2 Monitoring satellite mission and were instrumental in devising a
       European operational system which can meet the political needs for monitoring and
       verification of carbon emissions.

    2. Provision of expert advice to policy-making bodies. We recognise the value of
       translating evidence-based research into effective policy-making in support of improved
       environmental protections and action on climate change. Page’s research (ICS3) on
       carbon-rich peatland ecosystems has shaped EU, USA, and Indonesian policies on
       peatland land uses and biofuels derived from palm oil, while also contributing to palm oil
       certification standards (RSPO). Remedios works closely with UK government in Defra
       and the UK Space Agency (UKSA): e.g. the UK international office for GEO and CEOS
       and across government on space sector initiatives and COP-26.

    3. Fostering sustainable relationships with industry partners. This is a vital strand to our
       approach to knowledge exchange and enables us to tackle practical problems identified
       by industry. Holwell’s research which has informed and generated strategies and
       mining procedures for mining and exploration companies in Greenland and Zambia
       (ICS2). By enabling these companies to accurately pinpoint ore resource, Holwell’s
       research contributed to significant economic growth for these companies, increased
       employment in local regions and reduced environmental damage. Tansey is lead for
       EO innovation at the Leicester Innovation Hub (IES, 2.5). Tansey has been funded for
       three Innovate UK Energy Catalyst Round projects on renewable energy assessment in
       African countries. The EO teams have supported >130 companies in 10 years to
       understand and implement EO-based research and data sets (>50 based in the
       Midlands). Strategic support has been obtained through Leicester-led projects, including
       the East Midlands Centre of Excellence supported by the Satellite Applications Catapult,
       environmental fellows in the ERDF-funded Innovation Hub and the HEFCE-supported
       SPRINT programme.

    4. Impact leadership and support. The UoA created a new post of Impact Lead (Page)
       who has facilitated liaison with policymakers and industry for the purpose of
       communicating UoA capability, as well as providing advice, training, and support to
       colleagues to improve impact planning (R6). In addition, we benefit greatly from the
       expertise and support provided by the University’s Research Impact team and financial
       support from a dedicated Impact Development Fund. These activities have been
       underpinned by three NERC knowledge exchange fellowships (Johnson, Morgan,
       Vande Hey) and College- and University-level initiatives providing funding of impact
       projects.

    5. Public engagement. We have orchestrated a comprehensive programme of community
       engagement activities that aim to engage with underrepresented groups. These include
       public lectures, festivals, and learning resources for school children to increase interest
       in geophysics and enhance understandings of environmental change from space.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Approach to multi- and interdisciplinarity (R2).
  Meeting the challenges that society faces, and advancing our understanding of how our planet
  works, needs multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research. We have achieved this by
  facilitating the interaction of staff to address environmental challenges, so that research is
  applied and translational. College Research Days are specifically aimed towards bringing staff
  together to strengthen our ability to take advantage of opportunities arising in the external
  environment that cross traditional discipline boundaries. For example, Jenkin and Smith are
  collaborating with colleagues in Chemistry with support from Argo Natural Resources Ltd (total
  £272k) to explore the potential of deep eutectic solvents as green replacements for harmful
  chemicals in metal recovery from ores. We are collaborating with social sciences to develop
  scientifically, socially, and culturally-informed investigations in resource utilisation. For
  example, Page is collaborating with Upton (UoA14) on the SUSTAINPEAT project,
  overcoming barriers to sustainable livelihoods and environments in smallholder agricultural
  systems on tropical peatland (BBSRC, £200k to UoL).

  We receive institutional support through the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS),
  launched in 2016 with the specific aim of promoting interdisciplinary research (IES, 2.2).
  Emerging areas of research are supported by smaller-scale seed-corn funding that target
  ‘grand challenges’. This funding facilitates the assembly of researchers to enable faster
  development of pioneering research ideas to address future funding calls. UoA7-led projects
  include ‘Anticipating and Avoiding Unintended Consequences of Remote Sensing
  Applications’ (Johnson) and ‘Earth System Plastics’ (Gabbott). The latter was submitted as a
  Strategic Programme Idea and fed into a UKRI Collective GCRF Fund call (£20M) ‘Reducing
  the Impacts of Plastic Waste in Developing Countries’.

  Achievements by research group (R1)

  Evolution and Past Environments is concerned with reconstructing the environment and
  evolution of life from 'deep time' (Palaeozoic through Cenozoic) to the Anthropocene. The
  group aims to enhance our knowledge of past environments, past climates, and the processes
  and patterns of the evolution of life, and further extends this knowledge to assess the current
  and future state of the Earth. The group has a strong track record of success in targeting
  journals with the highest rejection rates and citation metrics: for example, of 241 outputs
  published in this cycle, 49.8% are published in journals within the top 10% (citescore), and
  27.4% are among the top 10% most cited outputs worldwide (Scopus/SciVal).

  Headline achievements include:

    1. Analysis of evolutionary, ecological, and environmental transitions (e.g. Harvey in
       Hearing et al. 2018, Science Advances; Harvey and Butterfield 2017 Nature Ecol. Evol;
       Purnell in Gill et al. 2014 Nature; Purnell in Bestwick et al. 2020, Nature Comms).
    2. Novel approaches to phylogenetic placement of enigmatic organisms (Gabbott, Purnell
       in Clements et al. 2017, Nature), and analysis of early vertebrate vision (Gabbott,
       Purnell et al. 2016, Proc. Roy. Soc. B.).
    3. Catalyzed the development of the Anthropocene concept via world-leading scientific
       and philosophical contributions to its definition, starting point and impacts (e.g. Williams
       in Waters et al. 2016 Science (744 citations, FWCI 15.12).
    4. Palaeoclimate reconstructions derived from ancient and modern archives using a variety
       of innovative techniques (e.g. isotopes, trace elements, biomarkers, OLS dating) to
       reveal details about how the Earth System works, including ice sheets (Williams in
       Hillenbrand et al. 2017, Nature), coral reefs (Zinke in Abram et al. 2016, Nature, FWCI
       5.81; Zinke in Neukom et al. 2014, Nature Climate Change, FWCI 10.27; Zinke et al.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2015, Nature Comms) and rainforests (Boom in van der Sleen et al. 2015 Nature
        Geoscience, 221 SciVal citations, FWCI 16.84).


  Solid Earth is predominantly concerned with Earth System processes, including the structure,
  chemistry, and dynamics of the planet, from mantle to crust. The group studies processes that
  range from catastrophic events such as volcanic eruptions and extraterrestrial impactors
  through to techniques for sustainable extraction of mineral resources.

  Headline achievements include:


    1. New and fundamental insights into crustal dynamics and the nature of volcanic super-
       eruptions (Branney in Knott et al. 2016; 2020, Geology), meteorite impacts (leadership
       by Branney and Barry of a multinational NERC Discovery Science project) and the
       formation of mineral deposits (NERC Highlight Topic consortium ‘Arc Magmas to Ore
       Systems (FAMOS)’ (UoL CoIs: Smith, Holwell, Miles, Barry, Knott, Jenkin; R6)) which
       boasts collaborators from research, industrial and international organisations, with
       £2.9M recovered from the funders across the consortium).
    2. Powerful new models of ore-forming processes (e.g. Smith, Jenkin, Holwell in Keith et
       al., Ore Geology Reviews; Smith, Jenkin et al., 2017 Ore Geology Reviews; Holwell,
       Smith et al. 2019 Nature Comms; Smith 2014 Nature Comms; Holwell in Blanks et al.
       2020 Nature Comms) and leadership in critical raw materials (Smith, Holwell and
       Jenkin led the NERC funded TeaSe consortium (£843k), focusing on sources and
       cycling of tellurium and selenium).
    3. Innovation of more sustainable exploration and extraction of mineral resources, and
       new ways of processing metal ores to reduce environmental and social impacts of
       resource exploitation (e.g. Jenkin in Anggara et al. 2019 Green Chemistry; Jenkin et
       al. 2015, Minerals Engineering).


  Contemporary Environments deals with observations and understandings of environmental
  processes on both a fundamental level and in terms of the impacts of human activities on our
  environment. The group encompasses the work of NCEO and the CLCR, delivering world-
  class science in satellite-based remote sensing of deforestation, land use change,
  meteorology, climate change, and greenhouse gas inventories (funded by, inter alia, ESA,
  European Union, European Environment Agency, UKSA, Royal Society, NERC and GCRF).

  Headline achievements include:


    1. New insights into our understanding of the terrestrial carbon cycle (including fire, forest
       degradation and loss, and peatland drainage) including the dynamic interactions
       between the drivers for and consequences of land use change, and quantification of the
       effects of drought induced wildfires on the carbon balance (Espirito-Santo in Withey et
       al. 2018, Phil Trans. R. Soc. B; Boesch in Parker et al. 2016 Atmos. Chem. Phys).
    2. Fundamental new insights into the amount of carbon stored in the world’s peatlands,
       their contributions to global GHG emissions and role in natural climate solutions
       (e.g. Page in Dargie et al. 2017, Nature, FWCI 10.34, cited >250 times; Page in Leifeld
       et al. 2019, Nature Climate Change; Page in Goldstein et al. 2020, Nature Climate
       Change), new estimates of forest biomass and carbon stocks (e.g. Balzter, Tansey in
       Rodríguez-Veiga et al. 2016, Remote Sensing of Environ) and deeper insights into the
       tropical carbon cycle (Boesch in Palmer et al. 2020, Nature).



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Improved estimates of greenhouse gas fluxes and emissions (e.g. Boesch in Ganesan
       et al. 2017 Nature Comms and Wang et al. 2020 Nature), new insights into the
       behaviour of environmental pollutants (Whelan in Krogseth et al. 2017 Env. Sci. &
       Tech; Harrison in Hossaini et al. 2015; Harrison et al. 2016 Atmos. Chem. Phys;
       Harrison in Chipperfield et al. 2016, Atmos. Chem. Phys.), development of new
       retrieval algorithms and application of novel tools for rigorous climate-quality, remote
       sensing of land surface temperatures (LSTs e.g. Ghent et al. 2017; Ghent and
       Remedios in Dodd et al. 2019 JGR Atmospheres; Remedios and Ghent in Good et al.
       2017 JGR Atmospheres) and tropospheric air quality monitoring (e.g. NO 2 and PM2.5;
       Vande Hey in Lin et al. 2020 Atmospheric Environment).


  Future research and impact plans
  Through our guiding principles we will continue to provide a supportive and inspiring research
  environment, delivering high-quality research in areas of existing strength and maintaining
  agility to take advantage of arising opportunities. Our four core strategic objectives for the next
  five years are:


    1. To support and build discovery-led science in our priority areas, generating world-leading
       and agenda-setting outputs and pushing the boundaries of knowledge. These
       discoveries will provide a platform for exciting public engagement. Research areas of
       particular importance are: novel and quantitative analyses in palaeobiology; fundamental
       structural, geochemical and mineralogical understanding of mineral deposits and their
       formation, and of impact craters and super-eruptions; and improving our understanding
       of planetary responses to environmental change, including global surface temperature
       and GHG fluctuations, terrestrial ecosystem dynamics, carbon stocks and climatic
       feedbacks.

    2. To engage with the world’s grand challenges via interdisciplinary research to foster
       sustainable development under climate change and transition to a low-carbon future. We
       are increasingly working with colleagues beyond our traditional academic siloes to seek
       solutions for challenging problems. E.g. Page is part of a new interdisciplinary NERC
       GCRF project (£739k to UoL) with social science colleagues to deliver practical solutions
       to protect health, livelihoods, biodiversity and climate in Indonesia. We aim to further
       engage with challenge-led research agendas through our strengths in palaeontology,
       stratigraphy, and taphonomy to understand current issues (such as the spread and
       impact of invasive species) and to help find solutions. E.g. Williams has received
       Institutional support to lead an interdisciplinary Research Network ‘Reimagining the
       Homogenocene’ which aims to improve our understanding of ecological resilience in
       human and nonhuman contexts; this will be a £10M Leverhulme Research Centre bid.

    3. To grow and diversify partnerships and collaborations with non-academic stakeholders in
       order to maximize our impact in three specific areas: (1) Terrestrial carbon dynamics.
       We will continue to strengthen new and existing international partnerships in southeast
       Asia (e.g. Peatland Restoration Agency and Ministry of Environment and Forestry,
       Indonesia) and the UK (e.g. Defra, BEIS) which have underpinned recent impact (ICS3),
       and in South America (Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (EMBRAPA) linked to
       Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture (Espirito-Santo). (2) The sustainability of resource
       supply to support low-carbon technologies, such as solar panels and batteries. We will
       inform and influence UK government policy (Smith’s role with the Parliamentary Office of


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Science and Technology) and engage with the mining and metals processing industries
        to reduce environmental impacts and drive a more sustainable future. This work starts
        now as part of a Circular Economy Centre in Technology Metals for which UoL will
        receive £950k (Jenkin and Smith). (3) Public engagement. We will build wider
        engagement at national level, working with our sporting partners (Leicester City Football
        Club and the National Youth Agency) and the National Space Centre, focusing
        particularly on big environmental science challenges, such as upcoming COP-26 and
        activities within Branney’s asteroid impact project.

    4. To enhance our capacity and impact in applications of EO. We will build on our
       substantial strengths in carbon and climate data, forestry, and atmosphere composition
       whilst engaging in new related science with innovative applications; e.g., the latest
       satellite missions. Areas of focus will include: vegetation fluorescence and carbon, urban
       environments, fire emissions and long-term records, climate services, minerals
       exploration, and peatland resilience. A key initiative in this area is Space Park Leicester
       (IES 2.4, 4.4)—completion of phase 1 will bring together all our EO work in one building
       for the first time. Of the £100M+ invested in SPL to date, ~£52M is being directed
       towards EO research and activities, including the Manufacturing, Engineering,
       Technology and Earth Observation Research Centre. Once established, our EO and
       environmental staff will undertake cutting-edge core research and will deliver pioneering
       academic-industry co-development, with commercial companies working and co-locating
       alongside the best researchers to feed excellent EO science directly into services and
       inform government policy. We have established a baseline EO partnership of 12
       companies in this new venture, from which we will support a network of SMEs.



 2. People

  Research Staff (R4)

  Overview
  We are submitting 31.85 FTE staff to REF2021 (Table 1). Since REF2014, there have been 5
  internal promotions to Associate Professor [Carr, Barrett, Holwell, McLaren, Smith] and 7 to
  Professor [Zalasiewicz, Branney, Gabbott, Tansey, Jenkin, Boesch, Whelan]. We have a
  strong track record in securing grants for postdoctoral researchers, including 65 PDRAs and 9
  Independent Fellows comprising two Royal Society International Newton Fellows, McCoy and
  Mendes de Moura; three European Space Agency (ESA) Fellowships to Anand, Trent, and
  Parker; a Daphne Jackson Fellow, Greenfield; and three NERC KE Fellowships, Vande Hey,
  Johnson, and Morgan.

  Our research activity is supported by 2 teaching fellows, 4 teaching-focused academics, and 2
  cartographers who produce graphics for outputs and wider engagement.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                                 Total
                           Lecturers                             6
                           Associate Professors                  11
                           Professors                            14
                           PDRAs                                 65*
                           Independent Research Fellows          2 (9*)


                         Table 1: Composition of academic staff in UoA7.
                               *Includes past PDRAs and Fellows.


  Staffing strategy and development.
  Our collective strength thrives in a supportive, diverse, and inclusive environment. This is at
  the heart of how we seek to recruit and nurture staff at all levels. Our aim is to provide the
  same support and opportunities to all staff. Our staffing and staff development strategy is built
  around the following principles:

     1. Retain talented staff by providing development opportunities, as outlined in the
        Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. During the
        REF2021 cycle, we have promoted staff who joined as ECRs to Professor (Gabbott,
        Tansey, Jenkin) and to Associate Professor (Barrett, Carr, Holwell, McLaren,
        Smith). People stay where they are happy, motivated, and supported. Our retention
        strategy is based on facilitating success, creating clear pathways for staff
        development, and providing a supportive, collegial and stimulating working
        environment. The University allows a fraction of grant overhead to be shared between
        Schools and PIs, facilitating further research investment, dissemination activities, PhD
        co-sponsorship, workshops and equipment procurement. To make time for research
        many staff have teaching grouped into one semester, and we encourage study leave
        (typically one semester in seven).


     2. Recruit new colleagues at all career stages, targeting appointments that will
        enhance our expertise in areas of strategic importance. During the REF period, we
        have made 9 new appointments, including 4 research-led appointments in key areas
        identified for strategic development (R1): Prof. Zinke (Royal Society Wolfson Fellow) is
        a quantitative palaeoclimatologist, with a focus on tropical marine coral reef
        ecosystems. Associate Professor Espirito-Santo is a landscape ecologist focusing on
        post-disturbance changes to forest structure, principally using EO, in the Brazilian
        Amazon. His appointment reinforces our remote sensing research in land cover
        change, ecosystem dynamics and biogeochemical cycles. Lecturer Miles investigates
        crustal processes with applications in sustainable mineral exploration and supply of
        resources critical to renewable energy. Vande Hey joined us as a PDRA in 2013 and
        then won an independent NERC KE fellowship on air pollution and health. This was
        enhanced by an internally-managed Welcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support
        Fund interdisciplinary fellowship. He was appointed to an interdisciplinary Lectureship
        in environment and health in 2018.

     3. Create a working environment that motivates and supports all staff to develop
        their career. All staff have an annual Performance Development Discussion (PDD)
        with a senior colleague, which includes review and planning of research and training

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         needs. PDD reports are reviewed by the HoS to identify candidates for promotion and
         to assess the need for interventions (e.g. workload adjustments). Our weekly ‘lab
         groups’ are sub-sets of our three research groups and include Category A staff,
         PDRAs, PhD students, and technicians—these have significantly enhanced our
         research environment, from discussion of ‘big questions’ to skills-based topics. Joint
         lab-group meetings are directed to identify and instigate multidisciplinary research
         ideas.

         Staff on Grade 9 and above can access the University’s Future Leaders Programme
         which helps colleagues define their strengths, motivations, and leadership skills. UoA7
         staff who completed this programme have gone on successful leadership roles,
         including: Davies, Head of School GGE and Head of College of Science and
         Engineering (CSE); Purnell, Dean of Research CSE; Whelan, Director of Research;
         England, former Head of Geology and Director of SEIS-UK; Tansey, former Head of
         Geography. Additional high profile leadership roles held at College include: Director
         Advanced Microscopy Facility (Gabbott), Director of PGR (Williams), Research
         Impact lead (Page), Enterprise lead (Tansey) and Director of NCEO (Remedios).

     4. Provide additional support for early career researchers (ECRs). In addition to
        institutional support and annual PDDs, ECRs go through an induction programme and
        have regular probation meetings. We have ECR representatives on the Research
        Committee, Athena Swan and EDI Committees, and a dedicated Research Staff
        Advisory Group to support the professional development of postdoctoral staff. In
        addition, ECRs have individual mentors to discuss research and impact plans and help
        with grant and output writing. Furthermore, Davies and Morgan organised 3
        successful, international, CPD-accredited Summer Schools (2016-2019, 108
        participants, 70 institutions, 14 countries) focused on enabling ECRs to use physical
        properties data in their research.


  Visiting scholars: We have been visited by researchers from all over the world (Fig.2). E.g.:
  Tansey has hosted >10 visits from academics, researchers and students from China
  Agricultural University and Peking University, as part of exchange programmes supported by
  the Royal Society and the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Experts Affairs. This
  collaboration resulted in 10 papers.




                         Figure 2: Global distribution of visiting scholars



                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research Students (R5)

  Recruitment and studentships. We recognise that research students are essential to our
  research environment. Over the REF period, we have had 84 doctoral completions—
  representing a doubling of completions per year and a 42% increase in completions per FTE
  per year since REF2014. Funding for studentships over the REF period has come from an
  increasingly diverse range of sources, including 21 competitively awarded NERC-CENTA
  projects, 2 NERC iCASE awards, and 4 highly competitive college-funded studentships. We
  were also lead organisation (PI Balzter) for GIONET, a European Marie Curie Centre of
  Excellence for Earth Observation Research Training, which supported 10 Leicester PhD
  students. In the 2018 NERC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP2) competition, the Central
  England NERC Training Alliance (CENTA), of which we held the Deputy Directorship
  (Purnell), was awarded 18 notional studentships annually—the highest in the UK for NERC
  DTPs. PGR funding has also been obtained from a number of other international,
  governmental, and industrial sources, including: SIOPACT (Germany DFG), the Petroleum
  Technology Development Fund, ESA, Consolidated Nickel Mines, Anglian Water, the Royal
  Thai Embassy, the Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education, King Abdulaziz University, CASP, and
  the Chinese Science Council. Furthermore, MPhil students have been recruited using ERDF
  funds through the Leicester Innovation Hub (LIH), and are supervised by an academic, an
  Innovation Fellow from the LIH, and a representative from industry.

  Training, support, and monitoring. Students have meetings with their supervisors (2
  internal) at least once a month, which are recorded to monitor engagement and progress.
  PGRs complete a training needs analysis and follow a tailored training plan. Progress is
  assessed by an independent panel at 3 and 9 months, and then annually until the viva.
  Research students are supported within lab groups which provide a forum for them to present
  their work, debate scientific developments, and broaden their perspectives. They are also
  actively encouraged to organise meetings and workshops, support national and international
  conferences, and take advantage of our extensive international networks.

  The PGR training programme is consistent with the Researcher Development Framework.
  Central training is coordinated by the University’s Doctoral College (IES, 3.2). The 2019
  Postgraduate Research Experience Survey indicated that 91% of PGRs believe that their
  training develops their skills in applying appropriate research methodologies, tools, and
  techniques and 88% agreed that it allows them to increasingly manage their own professional
  development.

  PGR achievements. We celebrate PGR success stories via a monthly newsletter, social
  media, and on the UoL website. Our research students are actively encouraged to publish,
  helping them to secure postdoctoral positions and to apply for independent fellowships. For
  example, Clements et al. 2016 presented novel evidence that the enigmatic fossil ‘Tully
  Monster’ had a vertebrate affinity (Nature, 2016: 99th percentile for online activity of all tracked
  articles of similar age; Altmetric). Clements secured a Leverhulme Fellowship at Birmingham
  University. Many research students have very visible media profiles—in part due to PGR
  media engagement training run by Gabbott (British Science Association Media Fellow 2017).
  For example, a paper on supervolcanoes based on Knott’s PhD (Geology, 2020) attracted
  stories and interviews in Scientific American, USA Today, the NY Times, the Express, and the
  Mail.

  There is an annual PGR Research Day, with prizes awarded to the best talks, to support
  attendance at an international conference of their choice. Several monetary awards are
  available annually to support PGR research and public engagement.

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Our research culture encourages PGR students to engage with the wider scientific community.
  Several have won plaudits, awards, and recognition, both nationally and internationally. Select
  examples include: hosting the Progressive Palaeontology Annual Conference 2017
  (Bestwick); a Society of Economic Geologists Graduate Fellowship of $10k, sponsored by
  Anglo American (Ward); a Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology POST Fellowship
  on remote sensing and machine learning, 2020 (Essen); a UKRI/NERC Science Policy
  Fellowship at the POST (Essen); winner of the UK’s Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry
  Society Student Award for the best PhD thesis submitted in 2017 (Rodriguez-Veiga); recipient
  of the Geological Society’s 2020 Lyell Fund (Hearing); winner of the President’s Prize at the
  Palaeontological Association 2017 Meeting (Bestwick).

  Next destination. Since REF2014, 40% of our 84 PGR graduates have progressed to
  academic positions in the UK and overseas, including lectureships and postdoctoral roles.
  39% of graduates have progressed to industry posts, including Equinor, Airbus Defence and
  Space-Intelligence, the Asian Development Bank, Scotgold Resources, COREX, and Point4;
  10% are in government-funded institutes, including CEH, BGS, the Met Office, and the
  Environment Agency. The remaining graduates are teachers (5%), work for Charities (2% e.g.
  Project Leader, Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation), or are in academic professional
  support.

  Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
  We have a strong and genuine commitment to EDI. In addition to implementing institutional
  strategy and policy (IES, 3.1), we have a dedicated EDI officer (Matulis) who works alongside
  Athena Swan officers (Balzter, Barrett). They play an important role in maintaining a high
  profile for EDI issues by, for example, running workshops on topics such as intersectionality,
  overcoming challenges for women in fieldwork, and LGBT issues. There is currently a large
  group of LGBTQ+ academics and students within the Unit who meet informally and provide a
  supportive environment.

  The School is preparing a combined application for a Bronze Athena SWAN Award, to be
  submitted in 2021. Currently, 18% of submitted staff are women (21% of Professors, 18% of
  Associate Professors, and 17% of Lecturers). We recognise that women are
  underrepresented at all levels. To tackle gender inequality, we are actively promoting the
  visibility of female role models by, for example, ensuring female staff are supported to attend
  institutional and national leadership programmes, such as the Aurora Women’s Leadership
  Programme (Gabbott: now REF lead). In this REF cycle, there has been an increased
  number of female PDRAs: 5/6 of the IODP research staff and a NERC IODP Knowledge
  Exchange Fellow (Morgan, 2014-2017) and all of research staff employed by SEIS-UK are
  women. Our challenge is to transform our culture and environment to attract, welcome, and
  retain applicants from women and other under-represented groups in permanent positions.

  We acknowledge that we need to improve our BAME representation. Currently, 9.1% of REF-
  eligible staff are BAME and 7.7% of staff at Professorial level are BAME. In line with the
  University’s commitment to improve the representation and progression of minority staff (IES,
  3.1), we have already begun to drive forward race equality initiatives, including attracting a
  diverse range of external speakers to internal events to promote a positive and inclusive
  culture.

  We are encouraged by the increasing diversity of our PhD community and what we hope
  indicates a snapshot of the profile of our unit in the future. During the REF period, 62% of our
  PhD cohort were female and 36% were BAME.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  We are submitting all eligible staff in our REF return. UoL’s REF Code of Practice specifies
  how our REF return has been compiled with due regard to EDI. In advance of this, we ensured
  a diverse mix of staff were involved in output quality review. We have a supportive process in
  place for declaring staff individual circumstances in relation to our REF submission, guided by
  our EDI Officer (Matulis) and University’s EDI team. We have robust support structures in
  place so that even staff facing substantial challenges have been able to produce outputs for
  REF.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Income (R6)
  During the REF2021 period, our average research income per FTE has increased by 67%,
  from £87k FTE/year (total income ~£2M/year) in REF2014 to £145k FTE/year (total income
  ~£4.63M/year) for REF2021. UoL is among the top UK institutions in terms of NERC Science
  Budget expenditure (e.g. 9 th in 16-17 NERC Annual Report, the most recent available).
  Furthermore, our portfolio has diversified (Fig.3). Our success has been underpinned by
  institutional support for capturing external awards (IES, 4), including the formation of Funder
  Groups (which provide peer-review and mentoring for grant applications), internal pump-
  priming schemes, and a proactive strategy to influence funder priorities. For example, we led
  the promotion of a NERC Highlight Topic on raw material demands of a green transition via
  the NERC SOS Minerals expert group and contributed to others on Copper and Lithium
  (Smith). These culminated in funded projects: Smith, Jenkin, Barry, Miles, and Holwell are
  CoI’s in FAMOS (From Arc Magmas to Ores: £238k to UoL) and we led CUBES (Copper
  Basin Exploration Science in the Central African Copperbelt: £338k; England and Holwell).




                      Figure 3: Funding in REF2014 compared to REF2021.

  Our strength in earth observation has resulted in a number of high-profile grants. Key national
  funding has come through NCEO (£4.8M, Remedios, NERC) including long-term science, UK
  Earth System Model evaluation, the NCEO ODA programme, strategic greenhouse gas
  projects such as GAUGE (£364k, Boesch, NERC) and the UKSA-CNES Bilateral Carbon
  Mission Support Study (£480k, Boesch, UKSA). International awards include Copernicus

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  contracts to provide UK expertise, for example, in the Sentinel-3 Mission Performance Centre
  (£783k, Ghent, ESA); Copernicus land monitoring services to develop a new CORINE land
  cover map (£676k, Balzter, European Environment Agency); and leading projects to derive
  data for Essential Climate Variables including land surface temperature LSTs (£304k,
  Ghent, ESA ESRIN) and fire disturbance (£289k, Tansey, ESA Climate Change Initiative:
  CCI).

  We have made substantial progress in securing challenge-led funding germane to our goal of
  tackling environmental challenges, for example: to help protect and restore up to 300M
  hectares of tropical forests through advanced applications of satellite data in the Forests 2020
  programme (£1.3M to UoL, Balzter, UKSA). We are also making significant contributions to a
  NERC Large Grant CongoPeat (£149k to UoL, Page, Boom), investigating the developmental
  history and function of the vast peatland in the Congo Basin (30 Gtonnes of stored carbon:
  Page in Dargie et al., 2017 Nature). We are also investigating how the tropical oceans
  regulate our climate and to what extent global warming has modified natural cycles (£236k,
  Zinke, Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship).

  We have secured challenge-led funding relating to our strengths in the Green Economy and,
  specifically, the location and extraction of minerals for sustainable development. For example,
  in the TEASE project (Tellurium and Selenium Cycling and Supply) we are investigating the
  sustainable supply of strategic metals for solar panels (£843k to UoL, Smith, Holwell and
  Jenkin, NERC).

  We have also been successful in securing funding for fundamental science aligned to existing
  core strengths. For example, we led NERC Discovery Science projects on Siberian forest
  recovery from wildfire (£378k, Barrett) and on catastrophic asteroid impact cratering (£600k,
  Branney and Barry).

  We have succeeded in developing stronger links with industry and policy makers to make
  meaningful impact (see Section 4; R3). For example, we have been awarded three Innovate
  UK projects (e.g. to explore micro hydro-power and crop waste residues as biofuels in Africa:
  £191k, Tansey) and funding from Anglo Operations to develop a model for world’s largest Ni-
  PGE deposit in South Africa (£319k, Holwell). Our engagement with policy makers has led to
  a number of successes. Notably, we were appointed as the Programme Co-ordination Team
  for the UKRI Landscape Decisions Programme, managing the integration of 59 projects to
  deliver better evidence-based land use decisions and liaising with several government,
  business, and land-management stakeholders (£739k, Balzter, UKRI). We have supplied EO
  expertise to support the UKSA and Defra in inter-governmental and space agency bodies
  (£128k, Remedios, UKSA/Defra); and we have worked with industry to use satellite remote
  sensing to assess peatland degradation in SE Asia in the PASSES project (£183k, Page,
  UKSA).

  Lastly, we have received ~£396k of income in-kind from UKRI, including 6 awards for NERC
  Isotope Geosciences, Community Support and Radiocarbon Facilities, GEF, and the NERC
  Ion Microprobe.

  Facilities and Infrastructure (R7)
  All UoA7 staff have individual offices with access to High Performance Computing (IES, 4.3)
  and specialised software. Laboratories are staffed by 8 experienced technicians with specialist
  expertise (e.g. in thin-section preparation, XRF, ICP-MS, electron-microscopy, and GC-MS).
  This support significantly enhances our research capability. Our state-of-the art facilities and
  equipment base is exceptional and has received substantial strategic investment over this


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  REF period, both externally and via the University’s internal competitive Research Equipment
  Infrastructure Fund (REIF) which has funded £1.14M equipment in this cycle.

  Specialist infrastructure, facilities, and equipment
  The Unit hosts two major NERC capabilities (NCEO and GEF-L) and the International Ocean
  Discovery Program (IODP). NCEO has over 130 affiliated scientists distributed across leading
  UK universities and research organisations. Working strategically with space agencies and
  supported by NERC national capability funds, it provides the UK with core expertise in EO
  science, data sets, and model evaluation which underpins wider activities in Earth System
  research. Leicester-based NCEO staff play significant roles in the preparation of
  internationally-recognised data products (e.g. the Climate Change Initiative LST data) and use
  these to gain important Earth System insights (e.g. global landscape and forest carbon
  change, precipitation dynamics, greenhouse gas emissions, atmospheric chemistry and
  radiation balance).

  NERC’s Geophysical Equipment Facility (Leicester) is delivered by SEIS-UK. Led by
  England, it provides equipment, expertise and support for land based seismology. Its
  instrumentation and research support underpins the quality of seismic data acquired by the
  UK's seismological community, including researchers in the Unit, and it ensures that the data
  are freely available internationally. The IODP group (led by Davies) has a pivotal role within
  the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD) Science Operator, providing
  high-level support for drilling expeditions, giving us visibility and influence in a range of cutting-
  edge scientific projects.

  We have well-equipped laboratories with in-house capability for most standard analyses of
  rock, soil, and water samples. In particular, petrology, mineral, rock and fossil analyses
  suite enables a range of fundamental in-house analyses, including XRF, XRD, microCT,
  Environmental chamber SEM, and (Laser Ablation) ICP-MS. Additionally, REIF has funded a
  state-of-the-art Zeiss FEG-SEM with microXRF, WDS, 2 EDS, and cathodoluminescence with
  Mineralogic software (£700k). This configuration is unique in the world and provides
  unparalleled spatial quantitative geochemical analyses of rock and fossil specimens. Our
  researchers have access to the £4M Advanced Microscopy Facility (Director Gabbott)
  comprising several state-of-the-art Electron Microscopes (including FiB and TEM). Our ICP-
  MS facility provides critical support for projects, such as the catastrophic impact cratering
  project (Branney and Barry).

  Our thin section laboratory is one of only four HE-based micromorphology labs in England
  (£320k equipment plus refurbishment costs). We also have the UK’s only dental microwear
  texture lab (e.g. Purnell in Gill et al. 2014; Nature).

  Our organic analytical chemistry and stable isotope analysis laboratory is equipped for
  novel compound-specific stable isotope analysis for accurate analysis of stable isotopes in
  biological and geological materials. Instruments for isotope Ratio MS, include a CDS
  Pyroprobe 1000 (for kerogen analysis) and a Thermo ISQ MS and Trace 1310 GC
  hyphenated with a Delta V Plus Isotope Ratio MS and Solid Phase Micro Extraction. This was
  funded by REIF (£248k) and allows ΔD to be determined on individual biomarker compounds
  (Boom in van der Sleen et al., 2015 Nature Geoscience, FWCI 16.84; Boom in Brienen et al.,
  2016, Nature Comms). It has also supported awards from NERC (Boom, Page: Seedcorn and
  ‘Congo Peat’ Large Grant), our contribution to an ERC project on environmental change in
  southern Africa using isotope analysis of rock hyrax middens (Boom, Carr in Chase et al.,
  2019 Geology, FWCI 6.04), and a Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship (Zinke). New research
  examining environmental plastic dynamics (e.g. Gabbott, Boom) has been supported by a
  FTIR Focal Plane Array chemical imaging microscope (REIF, £188k).

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Our Geochronology laboratory employs a Risoe DA 20 TL/OSL reader with single grain
  laser attachment, Riso GM25-5A Beta counter, and portable field gamma spectrometer,
  housed within a bespoke analysis suite for estimation of sediment burial age (e.g. OLS
  dating). New insights from OLS dating have provided the first and only complete climate
  record (high resolution 50K years) for Namib Desert climate evolution (e.g. Carr et al., 2016
  Quaternary Research).

  Geophysical and meteorological equipment includes a containerised Petrophysics Lab
  housing a Multi-Sensor Core Logger, Thermal Conductivity probes and a Discrete P-wave
  Analyser. Research and operations are supported by bespoke industry licenses for academic
  use, e.g. Kingdom Suite, Schlumberger’s Petrel, and Techlog for seismic interpretation and
  mapping of wellbore data and Haliburton’s SeisSpace for seismic reflection data processing.
  We access the SEIS-UK catalogue, and have field equipment and software for onshore
  recording of earthquakes and controlled seismic sources along with a range of near-surface
  geophysical surveying equipment. We deploy eddy covariance flux towers for measuring land
  surface-atmosphere trace gas exchanges on lowland deep and wasted peatlands in the UK
  (Kaduk and Page funded by Defra).

  In EO, we have access to state-of-the-art facilities, such as clean rooms and dark labs, to
  develop, calibrate, test, and maintain remote sensing instrumentation, which are either used
  for field deployment or to demonstrate new technology for future space missions. This
  includes a network of radiometers for LST, a portable greenhouse gas column instrument
  (currently deployed to Uganda with the NERC MOYA project), a series of airborne instruments
  (GHOST greenhouse gas spectrometer, NO 2 mapper, and HAPI NO2 imager), a state of the
  art terrestrial laser scanner (which can be used for groundtruthing EO data) and an ASD
  FieldSpec Handheld portable spectroradiometer for observations of reﬂectance, radiance, and
  irradiance spectra on the ground.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


  Since REF2014, we have been involved with >160 national and international research
  collaborations across academia, the public sector, and industry—with 148 commercial
  contracts and 7 Technology applications. We have consolidated existing external partnerships
  and developed many new ones as a consequence of our new shape, size, and strategy (R1,
  2, 3). Overall, the unit has brought in >£21.9M of Higher Education Business and Community
  Interaction relevant income from contract research, consultancy and commercial and
  analytical services (£98k FTE/year).

  External collaborators include multinational companies (e.g. Anglo American, Newmont, Zeiss,
  Unilever, Reckitt Benckiser, Astra Zeneca, Dow Corning, Airbus, TAS UK, Telespazio, CGI,),
  SMEs (e.g. Longland Resources, Previsico, Assimila, Geospatial Insight, Bluesky, 2Excel
  Aviation), Global NGO’s (e.g. WWF), UK national and local Government (Defra, BEIS, UKSA,
  Health and Safety Executive, Parliament, and Leicester City Council), the EU (European
  Environment Agency), international space agencies (including ESA, NASA and JAXA), other
  research organizations (BGS, James Hutton Institute, National Physical Laboratory, and the
  Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, CEH). For example, our research collaboration with Defra
  and agricultural businesses operating on peat soils in eastern England is being used to design
  and assess carbon emission mitigation measures (Page, Kaduk). We collaborate closely with
  industrial partners on developing innovative satellite-based instruments, mission concepts and
  services via ESA. We are also active in the SPace Research and Innovation Network for

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Technology and East Midlands Centre for Excellence in Satellite Applications (10 projects with
  a total value of £650k).

  Being at the vanguard of Anthropocene research has raised our national and international
  profile. We have made substantial contributions to the arts and humanities, opening up a
  wealth of historical, literary, political, anthropological, and philosophical investigations of the
  Anthropocene. The concept has generated at least three new journals, thousands of articles,
  scores of books (several authored by Williams, Zalasiewicz), a major film, art installations,
  and new institutes worldwide. It was used as a framing concept in recent IPCC and WWF
  reports. Williams, Zalasiewicz and Zinke sit on the Anthropocene Working Group,
  responsible for formally defining this new chronostratigraphic unit. At Leicester, there is a
  multi-disciplinary Anthropocene group which coordinates a multi-national €800k grant from
  Berlin’s Haus der Kulturen der Welt to the AWG to define the chronostratigraphic ‘golden
  spike’, along with several public dissemination activities. We are increasingly applying our
  expertise in classical palaeontology (supported, inter alia, by a Leverhulme Trust International
  Network to Williams) and palaeoecology to address pressing questions raised by the
  current global biodiversity and climate emergencies (e.g. in ocean systems: Zinke with
  partners in Germany, Australia, France, Madagascar, Malaysia and South Africa).

  The CSRE (Jenkin, Smith, Holwell, Miles) is actively working with industry to ensure the
  security of supply of metal resources needed for future green energy technologies and
  reduce the environmental footprint of metal extraction and processing. This includes a joint
  venture with Argo Natural Resources Ltd (Jenkin), and colleagues from chemistry, to develop
  new deep eutectic solvents for ore processing, replacing cyanide, reducing energy, water
  usage and minimizing the toxicity of waste products.

  Collaborations in Land Use Change and the Terrestrial Carbon Balance are extensive. The
  UKRI Landscape Decisions Programme Co-ordination Team (Balzter and Whelan with
  colleagues from Geography, Mathematics, and LIAS) is working with over 50 component
  projects and a wide stakeholder community to improve landscape decision-making, partly to
  support Defra’s 25-year environment plan. Balzter is also leading the NCEO’s ODA
  Programme (£413k, NERC, Remedios and Balzter). The Leicester components of this
  programme are developing better satellite-based methods for forest carbon monitoring in East
  Africa and air quality alerts to improve human health in South-East Asia. CLCR and the
  University of Edinburgh (with spin-off company) collaborated in the UKSA-funded FORESTS
  2020 project that brought together the UK’s leading experts on forest monitoring with overseas
  partners from Indonesia, Brazil, Columbia, Mexico, Ghana and Kenya. This project developed
  an open-access App to give near-real-time satellite-based deforestation alerts to enable timely
  field interventions by rangers. In addition to ICS3, we have been involved in collaborations on
  global peatlands; revising estimations of carbon storage, improving our knowledge of their
  behaviour, and better-understanding anthropogenic degradation. The ‘CongoPeat’ project
  (Page and Boom) has delivered policy impacts, such as the Brazzaville declaration of the UN
  Environment Programme. We are also a major partner on the UKRI-GCRF Multi-Hazards
  and Systemic Risks programme, led by Exeter with several other UK and Indonesian
  partners (Page). This is focused on interactions between development, drought and peatland
  fires in Indonesian Borneo and hazards for conservation in the context of the Covid-19
  pandemic (Harrison and Page 2020 PeerJ).

  Work on Environmental Pollution (e.g. Whelan and Harrison) focusses on the fate and
  effects of organic pollutants in air and water. Harrison’s work on halogenated compounds in
  the atmosphere involved collaborations with UK organisations and researchers from Canada,
  Belgium, Norway, Switzerland, Australia and the USA. Whelan has worked closely with
  colleagues at the Norwegian Institute for Air Research, the University of Stockholm, and with

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  the Global Silicone Industry on the fate of Volatile Methyl Siloxanes in aquatic systems. This
  work (e.g. Krogseth et al., 2017 ES&T) has been cited in European Chemicals Agency reports
  considering restricted uses of these chemicals in Europe (e.g. ECHA 2018: Article 57d&e).

  Our collaborations in the areas of Climate Change and GHG Emissions are extensive. For
  example, Boesch is a key member of ESA’s CCI GHG Study Team with U. Bremen, SRON,
  BIRA/IASB, DLR, LSCE, MPI-BGC (and the Copernicus Climate Change Service), producing
  high-quality data sets to challenge climate models and estimate emissions. Ghent leads the
  equivalent ESA CCI LST project with a world-leading team from KIT, IPMA, U. Reading, UK
  Met Office, Estellus, and U. Valencia amongst others). Remedios has also contributed to the
  EU Horizon 2020 FIDUCEO project, setting up new systems to inter-calibrate satellites to
  climate accuracy by combining insights from metrology with the observation of the Earth’s
  climate from space (in collaboration with U. Reading, NPL, Centre for Environmental Data
  Analysis and international partners in Germany and Portugal).

  We have actively designed a number of public engagement activities. The UoL SEIS-UK
  team led a major outreach project to disseminate applications of seismology to school
  children, successfully stimulating enhanced interest in Geophysics. This involved collaboration
  with the UK School Seismology Project at the BGS, recording crowd-generated seismic
  signals of football goal celebrations (‘VardyQuakes’, after Leicester’s top striker) during
  Leicester City Football Club’s Premier League winning season. This generated widespread
  media attention from BBC World Service, Radio 1, 2 and 5; Sky Sports News, BBC One (One
  Show), Sky One and CNN. Subsequent work with National Youth Agency, Leicester City in the
  Community, the National Space Academy, and the BGS developed a curriculum-focused
  teaching resource, ‘Geophysics in a Box’ (with a low-cost Lego seismometer for hands-on
  workshops), that has been presented to over 200 school groups.

  NCEO’s EO Detective project was launched in 2015, looking at 50 years of environmental
  change from space (funded by UKSA and NERC). This included a suite of EO-based
  classroom activities for 5 to 16 year olds, accompanied by free downloadable resources. Over
  4000 teachers and 140,000 children have used these resources. They have also been
  adopted by organisations including ESERO-UK (Tim Peake Primary Project), STEM Learning
  (Polar Explorer Programme), NERC and the Association of Science and Discovery Centres
  (Operation Earth), The Scout Association (Astronautics badge supporting materials), and the
  Institute for Research in Schools (MELT project).

  Leadership, recognition, and esteem
  High-profile advisory panels. Several colleagues hold positions of esteem on national and
  international organisations. These include: ESA mission advisory groups e.g. Copernicus
  Anthropogenic Carbon Dioxide Monitoring Missions (Boesch), Copernicus LST Monitoring
  Mission (Ghent), and the Far Infrared Out-going Radiation Understanding and Monitoring
  Mission (FORUM). Balzter was a member of the European Space Sciences Committee and
  serves on the Scientific Steering Committee on Land Use/Land Use Change and Forestry for
  the BEIS National Greenhouse Gas Account. Page is a member of the Independent Peatland
  Expert Working Group of the plantation company Asia Pacific Resources International
  Holdings Ltd., served on the Indonesia Peat Prize Scientific Advisory Board and is Chair of the
  Borneo Nature Foundation, the UK Peat Society, and the Scientific Advisory Board for the
  Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires, Environment and Society (Imperial College). Jenkin is Board
  member of Extractive Metallurgy and Mineral processing. Holwell is Regional European Vice
  President for the SGA. England is Ex-Officio member of NERC's Geophysical Equipment
  Facility Steering Committee. Zinke is an active member of the Past Global Changes (PAGES)
  2k consortium under the Future Earth initiative to synthesize palaeoclimate data from multiple
  geo-archives and serves as IPCC Expert Reviewer for WG1 and the Ocean special reports.

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Whelan serves on the UK Government’s Expert Committee on Pesticides. Smith is currently
  a seconded fellow with the Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology (POST, is Chair
  of the Mineral Deposits Studies Group). Remedios is Principal Investigator for the Along
  Track Scanning Radiometer (ATSR) series of instruments, Chair of the Advanced ATSR
  Science Advisory Group and Chair of the Traceable Radiometry Underpinning Terrestrial- and
  Helio- StudiesTRUTHS Mission Advisory Group. He is also a member of the UK Space Sector
  Council, the UKSA Earth Observation Advisory Committee and Board member for the Space
  Growth Partnership, providing oversight of, for example, the UK space industry report to
  government ‘Prosperity from Space’ (setting out a vision for enhanced growth in the UK space
  sector over the next decade).

  National and international peer reviewed journals, colleges, panels and conferences: UoA7
  staff serve as editors on 17 leading disciplinary and interdisciplinary academic journals (e.g.
  Tansey is Editor in Chief International Journal of Remote Sensing; Espirito-Santo, Kaduk,
  Baltzer for Remote Sensing; Berrio for Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution; Zalasiewicz for
  The Anthropocene Review; Holwell for Economic Geology; Purnell for Palaeontology;
  Wheelan for Soil Research). Several colleagues are active in peer review colleges and
  panels, particularly NERC (x9): UKRI/GCRF; European Space Sciences Committee (ESSC) of
  the European Science Foundation; Finland Academy of Sciences; French National Research
  Agency; Cyprus Research Promotion Foundation; the Helmholtz Society, Germany; the Irish
  Centre for Applied Geology; the Leverhulme Trust; the National Geographic Society; the
  National Environmental Isotope Facility strategy group; Global Observations of Forest Cover
  Fire Implementation; the US National Science Foundation, and the South African National
  Research Foundation. Staff have given approximately 50 invited lectures and keynote
  addresses at national and international organisations and regularly Chair conference
  sessions.

  Prizes and awards. These include the Copernicus Masters Award recognizing innovative
  solutions to sustainability challenges based on EO data (Balzter); the Cuthbert Peek Award of
  the Royal Geographical Society for advancing geographical knowledge of human impact
  through EO (Balzter); the Theodore Sperry Award of the Society for Ecological Restoration for
  pioneering work on peat swamp forest biodiversity (Page); the Prestwich Medal of the
  Geological Society of London (Zalasiewicz); the 2015 Coke Medal of the Geological Society of
  London (Davies); the Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (Balzter and Zinke).

  In conclusion, UoA7 research at Leicester has witnessed a major transformation over the last
  6 years. Our environment has enabled a resilient, diverse, and sustainable portfolio of support,
  allowing us to maintain and grow a world-class research community to address the most
  important, urgent and exciting challenges in Earth and Environmental Science. Our strategic
  vision has developed and driven our approach—as a community we are individually diverse
  but united in our purpose to make significant and meaningful contributions to the Research
  base and to economic, societal, and environmental wellbeing.




                                                                                           Page 20
