Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy



Overview

Psychology research at Coventry has experienced a step-change in quality and quantity over the
past seven years as a result of significant and strategic investment from the University. The unit’s
research income is five times greater than its income during the previous REF period and is now
almost double the median income recorded for areas submitted to Unit of Assessment (UoA) 4 in
REF2014. 21% of the unit's outputs are in the top 10% of cited papers (field weighted) and 34% of
outputs are in the top 10% of journals for the field, measured in SciVal using SNIP (accessed
10/03/2021). The total of PhD completions has increased by six times.

Research at Coventry University (CU) is organised into trans-disciplinary, challenge-led research
centres, closely aligned to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Psychological science is relevant to most of these centres, given the importance of human factors
in these Goals. As such, the unit’s psychology-focused research is spread over multiple research
centres. This dispersal allows researchers to work in truly trans-disciplinary ways and maximises
the contribution and impact of their research. As a result, some psychology researchers are
returned in other units of assessment, and the psychology unit itself, focuses on researchers
working in the fields of educational psychology, forensic psychology, health psychology and social
psychology. Researchers work across three research centres: the recently formed Centre for
Global Learning, Education and Attainment (GLEA); the Centre for Trust, Peace and Social
Relations (CTPSR) and the Centre for Intelligent Healthcare (CIH).

Five unit members (Adefila, Breadmore, Carroll, Clouder and Tramontano) are part of GLEA,
working at the interface of psychology and education. Their work focuses on theoretical and
practical understanding of how learning can be truly inclusive for all groups of learners, including
disadvantaged learners.

Three unit members (Farias, Jong and Sullivan) work within CTPSR. Two (Farias and Jong)
focus on the role of religious communities and spiritual beliefs and practices in stimulating the
development of prosocial behaviours and emotions, helping mitigate social injustice. One
(Sullivan) works at the interface of social psychology and international relations, understanding
collective emotions and how they can guide behaviour.

Three unit members (Curtis, O’Doherty and Wright) work in CIH, within the Behaviour and
Implementation Science theme. Their work aims to develop and evaluate innovative, holistic,
person-centred approaches and interventions to address global health needs.

Across these groups, and what draws the unit together, is a common focus on using the theoretical
frameworks and rigorous empirical research of psychology as a discipline to address and inform
societal issues in trans-disciplinary teams.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
History of Psychology Research at Coventry since 2014

CU has a long-established strength in psychology, with a large School of Psychology and
Behavioural Sciences (PSBS), supporting over 2,000 undergraduates and over 600 taught
postgraduates. The University decided to make a significant investment, increasing the capacity of
high-quality research in psychology, by creating the centre for Psychology, Behaviour and
Achievement and making several high-profile new appointments (discussed in section 2).

In 2019, as a result of a careful reflection on the progress of the research centres across the
University, a decision was made to move away from discipline-based research towards challenge-
led centres. Therefore, psychologists moved into several research centres, reflecting the value of
psychology across the profile of CU research. Of the 13 research centres at the University, there
are psychologists playing prominent roles in seven of them, detailed in Table 1. In many cases,
psychologists are returned to UoAs relating to their current research centre rather than to UoA4,
reflecting their trans-disciplinary focus.

Table 1: Psychologists across the University and their affiliations
 UoA              Name                              Centre
 UoA3             Prof. Turner                      CIH

                     Dr O’Doherty, Dr Wright, Dr          CIH
                     Curtis
                     Prof. Carroll, Prof. Clouder, Dr     GLEA
 UoA4                Breadmore, Dr Tramontano, Dr
                     Adefila
                     Prof. Sullivan, Prof. Farias, Dr     CTPSR
                     Jong
 UoA12               Prof. Harris                         Future Transport and Cities
 UoA14               Dr Abell                             Agroecology, Water and Resilience

 UoA19               Dr Liebling                          CTPSR
 UoA24               Prof. Duncan, Dr Oxford              Sport and Exercise Science
 UoA32               Prof. Moody                          Arts, Memories and Communities




Performance against REF2014 Objectives

As a result of significant investment from the University, the Unit has achieved its ambitious
objectives. The achievement against the stated objectives has been as follows:

   1. To extend and develop the unit’s network and reputation in Child Development and
      Education, leading to building and evaluation of theoretically grounded interventions:

        Researchers have radically extended their network in child development and education and
        are now internationally respected experts in the area. The unit successfully completed its
        second large-scale educational intervention trial funded by the Education Endowment
        Foundation and received funding for two further large-scale trials, both of which are now in
                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      the analysis phase. The unit has also been asked to conduct various reviews and create
      guidance for government policy makers, described in more detail below.

   2. To develop the unit’s research understanding, the identities and resilience of varied
      communities, working at the interface of theory and practice:

      Researchers have conducted research in a very wide range of communities around the
      world, including those dealing with natural disasters or emergencies (Sullivan), those with
      varying religious and spiritual beliefs (Farias and Jong) and those recovering from sexual
      assault or abuse (O’Doherty). All the unit’s work is conducted at the interface of theory and
      practice and in many cases this work has given a voice to communities who traditionally are
      not widely heard. It, too, has generated several significant new insights. For example,
      examining the underpinnings of religious belief in a wide variety of communities and using a
      wide range of methodologies, has demonstrated the importance of social and cultural
      bonding in religious belief (https://pureportal.coventry.ac.uk/en/persons/miguel-
      farias/publications/ Scientific Reports 7, 15100). A focus on quality of life and social status
      measures highlights the long-term consequences of relocation of individuals in disaster
      areas (Int. J. Disast Risk Re, 10.1016/j.ijdrr.2020.101629).

   3. To develop novel methodologies to understand empathy and emotional and sexual
      reactivity in sexual and violent offenders, informing rehabilitation programmes used within
      the community:

      Excellent progress was made towards this objective, with Professor Erica Bowen and
      Professor Sarah Brown working closely with community-based rehabilitation programmes.
      Over the REF period however, the unit changed its focus of its research from the
      rehabilitation of offenders to the support of victims of abuse as it aligned the forensic
      research more closely with the strength in health psychology (submitted to UoA3 in 2014,
      now submitted to UoA4). This has resulted in ground-breaking work, including the ongoing
      MESARCH project which looks at how victims of abuse can be best supported in sexual
      abuse referral centres.

   4. To develop inter-disciplinary research in the area of conflict resolution with colleagues
      working in Politics and International Studies:

      The inter-disciplinary work has certainly exceeded the unit’s stated ambitions.
      Researchers work as part of a trans-disciplinary research centre (CTPSR) which houses
      researchers from psychology, politics, sociology and international studies, with a particular
      focus on conflict resolution. The unit also forms part of several other trans-disciplinary
      teams across the University, as described above.

   5. Anticipation that the unit would achieve 25 new PhD completions in the 2014 REF period:

      44 new completions across the REF period were achieved, almost double the 25
      completions predicted. This equates to four completions per FTE over the REF period. The
      success in this area is due to many factors, including several internally and externally
      funded studentships and the high-quality support provided to the unit’s PhD students.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact

Researchers embed the potential impact of their research at every stage, from the project proposal
phase onwards. They foster long-term, bidirectional relationships with key stakeholders. Growing
these relationships, prior to beginning a project, is important to ensure that a culture of trust has
developed. It means that researchers truly understand the needs and priorities of stakeholders
and, in some cases, can co-create research. Work can then be planned that is directly relevant to
them. Researchers work with dedicated Research Impact Officers to plan pathways to impact at
the first phase of the project design and review these regularly. This allows reflection on
approaches and changes in responses to shifting demands. A wide variety of communication
approaches is used to ensure that the research meets a range of audiences.

There are several examples of this impact strategy being successful, including, but not limited to,
our impact case studies. For example, to foster a long-term partnership, Professor Katherine
Brown worked at Public Health Warwickshire one day a week from 2014-2019. This allowed her to
understand the priorities and issues the service faced. Specifically, while public health authorities
were providing information on the dangers of female genital mutilation (FGM) to the public, this
was not reducing rates of the practice in UK and EU communities. She sought research funding to
test the use of principles from behaviour change research to redirect this information, ensuring it
was tailored to the audiences. The results are detailed in the case study entitled Tackling FGM
across the EU though a Community Behaviour Change Approach.

Carroll has fostered a long-term relationship with the British Dyslexia Association, having chaired
their international conference in 2014 and hosted their AGM in 2019. This has allowed her to
understand the pertinent issues for individuals with dyslexia which in turn has led to two PhD
student projects on the socio-emotional impact of dyslexia – one the result of an internally funded
studentship and the second a self-funded student. Both students were invited to present at the All-
Party Parliamentary Group on Dyslexia in 2020, providing a pathway to impact of their research on
future government policy.

Jong’s work on death anxiety indicated significant benefits for individuals, having discussions with
others about their beliefs and psychological preparation for death. To extend the impact of this
work, Jong focused on different communication strategies rather than key stakeholders. He wrote
for a range of audiences, from articles in The Conversation to a piece for BBC Bitesize aimed at
young people. He has promoted debate on Twitter and even hosted a series of ‘Death Cafes’:
events promoting conversations about death in an informal context. This approach allowed him to
reach a wide cross-section of society.

As a young and rapidly growing unit, it is expected that the impacts will continue to increase over
the next REF period, as current large grants are completed. The MESARCH project, for example,
will come to an end in 2022; a large amount of high-quality evidence will guide best practice in
sexual assault referral centres. The unit has two large-scale reading intervention projects which will
end next year and which, potentially, will make significant impacts on early literacy.

An Open Research Environment

The unit provides an open research environment for staff and research students. First, and in
keeping with the principles of CU, it is believed that a crucial part of an open research environment

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
is making research available, relevant and useful for non-academic audiences, particularly
professionals and policy-makers. The unit’s way of working has been significantly enhanced to
address issues that have affected the field of psychology particularly over the last decade: the
reproducibility crisis.

Much of the unit’s most successful work is developed with the aim of making high-quality research
accessible. Often this involves providing high-quality reviews of a field of research and drawing out
key-implications for practice. O’Doherty has carried out four Cochrane Systematic Reviews, aimed
at health professionals and policy-makers (COCHRANE DB SYST REV, 2020, 7,CD013017;
COCHRANE DB SYST REV, 2020, 6, CD013648; COCHRANE DB SYST REV, 2019, 11, 26,
CD013456; COCHRANE DB SYST REV, 2015, 7, CD007007). The unit has also become a trusted
centre of expertise in translating education and child development research into widely used,
practical and accessible guidance for teachers and other education professionals: Carroll has led
evidence reviews for the Department for Education and the Government Office of Science and
Technology. In 2019, Breadmore led a team of CU researchers on the Education Endowment
Foundation Review of literacy development.

In terms of addressing issues around reproducibility, all researchers within the UoA4 submission
understand the value of an open research environment in which methods, findings and data are
freely accessible and reproducibility of results is valued. This is encouraged at every level: training
and support is provided to both PhD students and staff in open research methods. It is believed
that this closely aligns to the ability of demonstrating high research integrity. Some of researchers
have pre-registered their studies (e.g. https://osf.io/rfy7h) and also routinely lodge preprints of their
work (e.g. https://psyarxiv.com/j5fuy/, https://psyarxiv.com/qyt95/).

The unit has played an important role in some of the largest psychology projects directly
addressing the reproducibility crisis. Sullivan is a co-author on the paper Estimating the
Reproducibility of Psychological Science, published in Science in 2015 which replicates 100 highly-
cited psychological effects. Sullivan carried out a replication of Tracy and Robins (2008) and
indicated that the results were partially replicated (https://osf.io/9uqxr/). Sullivan’s team also took
part in the Psychological Science Accelerator Initiative (https://psysciacc.org/), a globally
distributed network of psychological science laboratories that coordinates data collection.

Jong has ensured that the datasets produced from his large-scale projects with the John
Templeton Foundation have been made publicly available. His two datasets available on Nature
Scientific Data have been accessed over 1,000 times each
(https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-020-0482-y, https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-019-
0163-x).

The unit also supports open publishing, using the institutional repository, but also open access
journals (e.g. BMJ Open, 10, 11, 23 p., e041339; BMJ Open. 10, 12, 10 p., 34295) and in an
editorial capacity. For example, Clouder is Editor in Chief of the International Journal of Practice-
based Learning in Health and Social Care, a peer-reviewed, Scopus-indexed journal. The journal is
financially supported by the University and is both free-to-publish and free-to-read.

Research Integrity




                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As much of the unit’s work involves vulnerable individuals and sensitive topics, it is crucial that the
highest standards of research integrity are being upheld. All research conducted, whether using
primary data or secondary data, is reviewed through the University’s Ethics Committee before
commencing. In addition, all research staff take on roles as peer reviewers for the Ethics
Committee and take part in regular ethics training. This ensures that all staff know the ethics
guidelines and are aware of changes to rules of conducting research, e.g. in 2018, when the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was introduced, or, in 2020, when face-to-face
research was halted due to Covid-19.

The unit values participants’ privacy and ensures that any data they provide is kept secure. Various
projects have required external agencies, including the police, the NHS and third sector, to be able
to share personal and sensitive data with researchers. IT Services has identified a range of secure
solutions, including optimising the collaborative possibilities of SharePoint for Research and has
delivered bespoke solutions. They have also worked with external service providers to optimise
systems for tracking thousands of research participants. Legal Services have also played a key
role in the work of the Abuse and Trauma group, having set-up around 100 data sharing and
collaboration agreements for partners and research sites. They have helped to design consent
forms for the Lived Expertise team to contribute to the production of media materials and advised
on complex aspects of GDPR as it applies to the acquisition of service user data directly from NHS
and non-NHS sites.

Our future objectives

Psychological science is increasingly important in every area of research that addresses human
factors. The world is becoming aware that new advances in medicine, education and technology
are unlikely to achieve their potential unless they are developed with a thorough understanding of
how people think, learn and react, individually and within groups. As described in the Institutional
Environment Statement, the University is developing a series of research institutes containing
multiple research centres. Psychologists will play key roles in many of these research institutes,
ensuring that psychological factors are addressed across the University’s research profile.

It is also important to support psychologists to maintain links with one another and with their
discipline. As psychology is a young and rapidly developing field, the researchers will ensure that
psychology research continues to be highly rigorous, with psychologists having opportunities to
develop theory and practice in psychology as a discipline and to use psychology to inform trans-
disciplinary research. To do this, the unit will increase the links between PSBS and the research
centres. A central link between PSBS and the research centres is the Associate Head of School for
Research, Dr Sam Oxford. His role is to facilitate PSBS staff to become independent researchers
in the future. The unit will support this by building bidirectional links between the research centres
and PSBS and by implementing an Academic Support Programme in Research Excellence
(ASPiRE), suitable for Early Career Researchers (ECR).

These twin approaches will allow the unit to achieve the ambition to increase the quantity of
excellent and impactful research and address key challenges, including the United Nations’ SDGs.
The unit will continue to build an international reputation for integrating psychological expertise in
high-quality, challenge led research, to increase its funding levels further, in order for research
centres to move to being financially self-sustaining.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

Staffing strategy

Early in this REF cycle, the University funded strategic recruitments to build on the areas of
research strength. The strategy has been to recruit and develop those researchers with a potential
to carry out world-class work, showing a clear alignment with the areas of strength and a
commitment to the ideals of the psychology unit. Eight of the 11 staff of UoA4 have been recruited
during the current REF cycle, giving an indication of the University’s investment in new staff. Many
of these staff members come from traditionally, research-intensive universities in the UK, including
the University of Oxford (Farias, Jong), the University of Warwick (Carroll, Breadmore) and the
University of Birmingham (Wright). In some cases, the investment allowed the unit to recruit pairs
of researchers who were already collaborating with one another (e.g. Farias and Jong; Carroll
and Breadmore) which allowed the unit to move quickly to large-scale research.

Researchers were recruited at every phase of their development, from early career researchers to
senior staff which is important in securing the sustainability of the unit. The youth of the unit’s
research culture is illustrated by the majority (9/11) of the researchers being aged under 50. The
fact that the unit is highly regarded in terms of providing consultancy, despite its relative youth,
indicates high-quality research and demonstrates the success of the approach to dedicate staff
and resource to a few highly focused themes in order to develop ‘critical mass’.

Several of the researchers have received internal promotion since arriving at Coventry. O’Doherty
has been promoted from Research Fellow to Associate Professor, Wright from Research Fellow to
Assistant Professor, Breadmore from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor and Sullivan
and Carroll from Associate Professor to Professor.

Staff Development

Staff development is a central tenet of the unit. Academic development and progression are
assisted by mentoring, internal funding schemes, PhD studentships, identification of research
funding support, training in the preparation and submission of grants and papers, research
seminars and newsletters and funds for conference attendance.

As described in the Institutional Environment Statement, researchers benefit from a University-
wide system which monitors staff objectives, provides feedback and records progress – CORE
Clear Review. In addition to each staff member having a formal line manager, the unit uses the
research teams to provide systems of informal mentoring at every career phase. Regular team
meetings are held for different teams and routinely all levels of staff are invited, from PhD students
to professors. These are a forum for discussing ideas and research findings, but they also provide
an insight for more junior members, illustrating how more experienced staff deal with the
challenges that are part of the research process; staff are encouraged to discuss setbacks as well
as successes. All staff members and PhD students are expected to present or lead discussions at
least once during the year, thereby developing presentation and leadership skills in a low-stakes,
informal, yet academically rigorous environment.

The unit enables promising individuals to progress to the next stage of their career. All
undergraduate psychology students complete a work experience module and each year several

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
students work with the unit. A number of successful PhD students began as undergraduates on
work experience (e.g. Parminder Khela, Jodie Enderby). Conversely, successful PhD students
have gone to work as researchers in the unit or as lecturers in PSBS after completing their
doctorate (e.g. Katherine Hall). The dynamic changes at Coventry over this REF period have
inevitably led to changes in staffing, with both the unit and the University being proud of how early
career support has been a springboard for many into their first permanent lectureships (e.g. Dr
Sarah Cassidy, Dr Emily Burdett, the University of Nottingham; Dr Emma Vardy, Nottingham
Trent University).

As described in the Institutional Environment Statement, formal staff training at all levels is
provided by the Centre for Research Capability and Development (ReCap) and unit staff have
benefited from this. For example, in 2019 Breadmore completed the Aurora programme aimed at
supporting women in developing leadership skills and, within a year of completion, she had been
promoted.

In addition to the formal support from their line manager, and the informal support provided through
their theme membership, all staff can avail of an institutional research mentoring scheme,
coordinated by ReCap, which provides guidance for early and mid-career researchers from a
senior researcher who is not their reporting manager.

Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

The unit provides a supportive environment for ECRs, with close knit teams and a matrix
management structure.

ECRs are encouraged to develop their own research interests in addition to collaborating with
more senior colleagues and to take the lead in smaller scale projects, leading to larger projects.
Wright works in the cognitive neuropsychology of ageing and has an interest in the role of sexual
activity in preventing cognitive decline. She received an internal pump priming award of £5,000 in
2015 which gave her the opportunity to act as the Principal Investigator (PI) for the first time,
allowing her to develop key research skills, including project management, budgeting, networking
and stakeholder engagement. She published a paper based on this work and made a further grant
application working with the network she had developed. Owing to the widespread media coverage
of her research, she had developed new collaborative partnerships with public health researchers
at the University of South Carolina (USC). With these colleagues, Wright initiated the development
of a collaborative Online International Learning (OIL) course for students at Coventry and USC. In
2017, she received an internal incoming mobility grant for these researchers to visit her in the UK.
The visit fell during Wright’s maternity leave and she was encouraged to use flexible ‘keeping in
touch’ days to facilitate the visits. This ensured her academic profile was not negatively affected by
her maternity leave. The resulting OIL course runs annually. In this way, high-quality research,
engagement and career development has been facilitated through the unit and University’s flexible
and responsive approach.

The unit uses internal funding and team-based supervision to support ECRs to supervise PhD
students effectively. Staff members have benefited from ‘Trailblazers’, a scheme providing funded
studentships, supervised by promising ECRs and mentored by a more senior member of staff.
Cassidy received in 2015 £4,000 as an ECR to support a study of sensory and motor differences
in developmental disorders. This led to a PhD studentship supervised by Cassidy and multiple

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
successful publications (FRONT NEUROL, 10.3389/fneur.2016.00124; MOL AUTISM,
10.1186/s13229-016-0112-x).

Research centres also run a series of seminars with a mixture of internal and external speakers
and each theme receives annual funding, enabling academics to travel to national or international
conferences.

Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges with non-academic bodies

The unit has developed a range of partnerships with non-academic bodies which often take the
form of consultancy. Given the focus of UoA4’s work, these are usually non-profit organisations
such as charities or government bodies. In many cases, researchers are invited to undertake
consultancy work repeatedly from, e.g. Hodder Education, the Education Endowment Foundation
and the Higher Education Funding Council for England. These are facilitated by CU Services Ltd,
which delivers and manages the University’s commercial contracts and provides efficient and
flexible support with bid writing and management.

Research Students

The unit provides a challenging, yet flexible and supportive environment for its PhD students. This
is reflected in the high rates of retention and completion: only three of 61 registered PhD students
have withdrawn over the REF period and 44 PhD students successfully completed over that
period.

All research students are assigned a Director of Studies (DoS) and a supervisory team consisting
of at least three colleagues from a range of backgrounds to embed trans-disciplinary working. This
team-based supervision model also allows more junior members of staff to become experienced in
PhD supervision under the guidance of more experienced colleagues. The University requires at
least three successful PhD completions across a supervisory team, meaning that no PhD student
is supervised by an inexperienced team. Supervisors are also expected to have completed the CU
Doctoral Supervision Programme run by ReCap. Further training is available for more experienced
supervisors who can go on to take part in viva examinations.

An annual review is held for each PhD student during which a subject expert assesses student
progress and both student and supervisor give their views privately on the supervisory
arrangements. This provides an excellent way of monitoring student progress and dealing with
issues around supervision before they cause major problems. Each research centre has a member
of staff responsible for research students and they form a point of contact for any issues. The unit’s
research students are also supported by the University’s Doctoral College, who organise annual
reviews and provide training and events for students.

Our research students are embedded within the centres as members of staff with the necessary
support made available to them. They have access to desks in the main open plan offices
alongside the staff members and have monthly informal meetings to discuss issues that arise with
a dedicated staff member who is responsible for research students. They are expected to
contribute regularly to theme meetings and research seminars, fostering presentation skills,
enabling feedback and preparation for both viva voce examinations and conferences. The PhD



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
community is enhanced by regular visiting students from Brazil, Argentina, Turkey and Indonesia
which helps research students and staff to build international networks.

The unit supports a diverse range of individuals to achieve PhDs. 53% of the cohort are from a
Black and Minority Ethnic (BAME) background in comparison to sector averages of 21%. 55% of
our cohort are aged 36 and over, compared to 27% for the sector average. In line with the sector
average 57% of the cohort are female.

Some of the research students supervised by members of the unit are enrolled on the PhD
programme in Global Education. This is a fully online, part-time PhD programme, aimed at
education professionals currently working in schools, colleges and universities. It provides a
structured and supportive approach to PhD research which is particularly useful in attracting and
retaining students from diverse backgrounds. For the researchers, this is a valuable additional link
with professionals working in the field of education.

Equality and Diversity

While the UoA4 submission for Coventry University is small, it shows a positive level of diversity.
18% of the team come from BAME backgrounds which compares well to the sector average of 7%.
The unit does, however, have a lower proportion of individuals from a BAME background within
their staff members than in their PhD student cohort. This needs to be monitored to understand
whether it is an indication of a ‘leaky pipeline’ or whether it is a natural consequence of
demographic changes (e.g. younger UK residents are more likely to come from BAME
backgrounds).

64% of the staff are female which is close to the sector average of 62%. This gender split is also
consistent across different grades, with two of the three professors in the submission being female.
None have a declared disability, but with the small numbers of FTEs in the submission it is difficult
to conclude anything from this finding.

It is believed that these levels of diversity stem from the supportive and collaborative approaches
across the unit, as well as this being a consequence of the research interests of the unit. As much
of the work centres on disadvantaged or under-represented groups, it is expected that the unit’s
academic researchers would be likely to come from those groups. This is positive in itself: it is
anticipated that seeing senior members of staff from under-represented groups will inspire more
individuals from these backgrounds to go into academia and therefore the unit will become
increasingly diverse over time.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

As a young and expanding unit with a focus on impactful research, there has been a clear strategy
to build research income across the REF cycle. Researchers have aimed to build strong
relationships with key funders and stakeholders in their particular areas of strength and have
gained a reputation for producing high-quality research relevant to policy and practice. This
strategy has proved extremely successful: funding has increased from £797,441 in the previous
REF period to £4.2 million in the current cycle. As an indication of the unit’s growth, the research

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
income reported in the 2008 Research Assessment Exercise (RAE) was only £4,225, meaning that
it has increased almost a thousand times in 12 years.

In many cases, the strategy has involved working closely with UK government bodies and
government funded organisations, such as the National Institute for Health Research. 23% (or
£970,333) of the unit’s total research income comes from these sources. In other cases,
relationships have been built with charitable foundations closely aligned to the unit’s research
aims, such as the John Templeton Foundation, the Nuffield Foundation and the National Literacy
Trust. 44% of the income (£1,864,005) comes from UK-based charities. A further 10% (or
£447,819) of the total research income comes from central European Union (EU) research funding.

A key partner and funder over the period has been the Education Endowment Foundation. The
unit’s focus on using psychological approaches to understand and promote educational
attainments fits with the ethos of The Education Endowment Foundation, are a government-
funded organisation focused on promoting evidence-based practice within UK schools. They have
funded Coventry University to carry out four large-scale trials (Evaluating Chatterbooks, 2013-
2015: £397,314; Evaluating ABRACADABRA, effectiveness trial 2013-2015: £643,467 and efficacy
trial 2017-2020: £658,255; and Evaluating Peer Assisted Learning Strategies 2019-2021:
£236,265) This work has been highly effective and impactful. For example, the ABRACADABRA
project is highlighted as being an effective intervention for use in schools
(https://educationendowmentfoundation.org.uk/projects-and-evaluation/projects/abracadabra-abra-
pilot/) and has been rolled out in over 200 schools. This work provides a direct comparison
between computer-based and teacher-led intervention and shows when content is matched, they
have very similar effects overall. Given the increased emphasis on computer-based education over
the past year, this is a highly relevant finding.

The Education Endowment Foundation have also commissioned the unit to lead two evidence
reviews (Review of Evidence on Literacy, £28,698, Systematic Review of Attainment Measures
(ongoing): £41,697). This work forms the basis of teacher guidance documents which have been
widely disseminated in UK schools. It is estimated that 10% of secondary school teachers in
England have used these guidance materials.

A second key funding partner has been the John Templeton Foundation and their sister foundation
the Templeton World Charity Foundation, an international funding charity with interests in the
scientific underpinnings of belief and religion. Again, the ethos of this foundation fits with the unit’s
work, in particular the focus of the Brain, Belief and Behaviour team. The John Templeton
Foundation funded the Neurostimulation of Belief (£119,286) and Understanding Unbelief (£2.3m,
£68,815 to CU) projects held by Farias and the Cultural and Cognitive Foundations of Religion and
Morality project held by Jong ($2.2m, £131,991 to CU). The Templeton Religion Trust have funded
the Religion and the Social Brain project, on which Farias collaborated with Michael Reiss
(University College London UCL) and Robin Dunbar (University of Oxford). This large-scale
project employed a combination of field and experimental pharmacological studies to understand
the sociobiological mechanisms of rituals and how these relate to religion (e.g., BIOL LETT-UK,
16, 10, 5 p., 20200485).

In line with the unit’s emphasis on policy-relevant research, researchers have sought and received
funding from multiple UK government bodies, including the National Institute for Health Research
(funding the MESARCH project £1.3m), NHS England (£43,651), the Ministry of Justice (£89,969),

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Department for Education (£55,970) and HEFCE (£107,725). This funding has allowed them to
make significant new findings linked to current issues – for example the use of psychological
behaviour change approaches used to reduce the practice of FGM as described in the Impact
Case Study entitled Tackling FGM across the EU though a Community Behaviour-Change
Approach.

As a result of the unit’s strong links with organisations outside of academia in health, education
and justice (as described in section 4), researchers are regularly approached to undertake
consultancy work with a wide range of stakeholders including Thames Valley Police, Hodder
Education, the National Literacy Trust, West Midlands Probation Service and several more. This is
an important source of income for the unit, totalling £246,636 between 2016/17 and 2018/19. This
consultancy work has also allowed researchers to increase the reach and impact of their research,
as detailed in the impact case studies and has led to several high-quality publications.

Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

Researchers within the unit have benefitted from internal research funding available through
ReCap, having received over £380,000 worth of internal pump prime funding to support research
projects, equipment and impact initiatives. As described above, this is particularly targeted at early
career researchers to enable them to develop international networks and work towards external
funding. This includes a range of schemes to strategically boost research capacity, including
visiting professorships, enterprise and engagement funding, research equipment grants, staff and
student mobility schemes and PhD studentships. For example, in 2016, Breadmore received
funding of £10,484 for exchange visits with Professor Helene Deacon at Dalhousie University,
Canada. This has led to a fruitful ongoing research partnership between the two teams, including
three publications, two symposia at international conferences and co-editing special issue in the
Journal of Research in Reading, published 2020.

The University has provided considerable support for research and researchers submitted in this
Unit through the appointments of staff at all stages of the research cycle. For three consecutive
years during the early phase of the REF cycle the University provided approximately an extra £1
million per annum which was mainly put in to staffing, appointing 15 new members of staff on
permanent research contracts between July 2014 and March 2016.

In terms of supporting staff to procure and carry out research, there are teams of staff which assist
with both pre-award and post-award activity. These staff are assigned to specific research centres,
allowing them to build an in-depth knowledge of the funding area and get to know the expertise of
the research teams. This ongoing relationship between researchers and support staff enables fast,
yet high-quality responses to funding announcements and invitations to tender which can often be
on a tight timescale. Pre-award staff support the identification of funds for research along with staff
to assist in formatting, costing and internal reviewing of proposals. In post-award, staff assist in
ensuring milestones are achieved and project spend is on target; they also provide funder
expertise and liaison.

The University provides flexible support for the unit’s research through infrastructure, equipment
and computer software. In many cases, researchers are encouraged to think creatively about what
elements would enhance their research and request them, rather than a top-down provision of
facilities, resulting in a wide-range of support tailored to the research.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


For research carried out by the Brain, Belief and Behaviour team, for example, dedicated
laboratory space is provided, with equipment to assess neurological processes, including TOBII
eye trackers, an EEG machine and the transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) device. This
equipment has allowed the team to carry out ground-breaking work, examining the role of inhibition
and executive functioning processes on supernatural beliefs which included a double-blind brain
stimulation experiment. This showed that, contrary to previous neuro-cognitive findings,
supernatural belief is not modulated by intuitive thinking or cognitive inhibition (Scientific
Reports. 7, 15100). Farias and colleagues argue that the varied participants taking part in their
research (including fieldwork with individuals on a religious pilgrimage) and the innovative
techniques may account for the contradiction with previous work which has largely sampled US
university students.

Similarly, researchers who focus on educational psychology have a need for equipment that can
be used for assessing the cognitive and educational development of children and students. They
have a dedicated testing library which includes a wide range of recent psychometric tasks aimed at
children and adults. They also have exclusive use of an Eye and Pen system for online analysis of
writing behaviour and an Eyelink 1000 plus, a highly precise and accurate eye tracker ideal for
monitoring reading behaviour in real time.

Much of the unit’s research involves co-creation or interaction with participants who are unfamiliar
with a university environment. Some of whom will be vulnerable or anxious and disclose sensitive
information. Accordingly, the unit’s researchers are provided with a safe environment for
conducting their research, either face-to-face and over the phone; e.g. sound-proofed dedicated
spaces for data collection, secure and encrypted dictation devices and mobile ‘phones for each
staff member liaising with agencies and members of the public. The unit also places great
importance on the creation of a welcoming yet professional environment for visitors which has
required strategic investment in infrastructure and included the refurbishment of the research
space. Researchers ensure that visitors have a reserved parking space, that relevant staff are
available to assist in reception areas and that individuals with disabilities can access meeting
spaces easily.

An important element in the growth strategy was to develop national and international
collaborations. The University has also ensured that the unit is well equipped to host these
collaborations, with access to board room style spaces, in-house catering and facilities for
video/teleconferencing. Given CU’s central geographical location, the unit is ideally placed to host
multi-disciplinary meetings, for example the British Dyslexia Association AGM in 2019.

The use and acquisition of research-relevant software packages is managed by IT Services
through their AppsAnywhere service. A wide range of software is available through this service
(e.g. SPSS, AMOS, RefWorks, NVivo, R), with further software being available on request (e.g. M-
Plus, Endnote). This approach supports flexible working, with users being able to access software
on and off campus, crucial during the lockdown of 2020 and 2021.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Effectiveness of Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A significant feature of the University’s research strategy is the emphasis on collaboration both
within the academic community and with external partners. In some cases, research exchanges
have been funded internally (as with Breadmore’s successful collaboration with Dalhousie
University detailed above). In others, they have been facilitated by external networking grants. For
example, Clouder has worked on a series of ERASMUS and ERASMUS+ programmes (SWING,
PACES and MUSE) with a wide range of international partners, culminating in her current work
leading the ENTENDER partnership with collaborators in Mexico, Argentina, Italy, Greece and
Spain. She also leads a second networking grant linking universities across the ASEAN region
(Philippine Normal University (Philippines), Universitas Kristen (Indonesia), Universiti Pendidkan
Sultan Idris (Malaysia), Phu Xian (Vietnam), The Vietnam National Institute of Educational
Sciences (Vietnam).

The unit has ongoing joint PhD agreements with Aarhus University (Denmark) and with the
Donders Institute at Radboud University (Netherlands). The unit’s first research student from this
latter partnership (Ivana Buric) has recently completed her studies and shortly afterwards was
awarded an individual Marie Curie Fellowship to continue her research at the University of
Amsterdam.

Some colleagues have served as visiting professors or research fellows internationally,
demonstrating their international reputations. Farias is an Honorary Research Fellow at the
Institute of Psychology, University of Sao Paulo (Brazil) and has been a Visiting Professor at the
Medical School, Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora and at the Catholic University of Brasilia
(Brazil). Carroll has been a Visiting Professor at the Beijing Institute of Science and Technology
(China). O’Doherty is an Honorary Fellow of The Melbourne Medical School (Australia).
Tramontano was a Visiting Professor at the University of Florence (Italy) from 2018 to 2019 which
led onto a collaboration with the National Institute for the Evaluation of the Education System
(INVALSI) in Italy, working on secondary data analyses of large-scale international education
surveys such as ICCS and PISA. In the next round of PISA data collection, Tramontano’s
measures on bullying and cyberbullying will form part of the national assessment in Italy.

O’Doherty has forged strong connections with the third sector and statutory agencies, with
national and regional level partnerships and agencies such as Rape Crisis England and Wales,
NHS England and NHS Improvement (NHSEI), the Survivors’ Trust, Leicestershire Police, NHS
trusts, Coventry Haven Women’s Aid. This enhances the feasibility and impact of her programme
of research into domestic and sexual abuse. She has carefully grown these links using Coventry
University as a springboard, securing non-academic partners as co-investigators on successful
grants (e.g. on the MESARCH project).

By treating experience as a form of expert knowledge, O’Doherty’s involvement with the
MESARCH project is leading advances in Patient and Public Involvement, in the sphere of trauma
and abuse. Authentic participation of survivors gives rise to co-produced knowledge
(http://mesarch.coventry.ac.uk/patient-and-public-involvement/). Members with lived experience
can act as a sounding board, share decision-making and help to ensure the project is conducted to
the highest standards in terms of inclusivity, justice and safety. These elements are integral to
successful research in mental health and similar settings where people’s voices have been largely
unheard due to dominant institutional and social forces at play.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Advisory board membership has allowed connections to flourish. Professor Sarah Brown (unit
member 2014-2019) served on the advisory board for the Centre for Expertise for Child Sexual
Abuse. O’Doherty serves on regional boards to implement NHSEI’s strategy to improve care
pathways for survivors of sexual abuse and violence. She utilises this as one avenue to channel
regional and national data from her research programme. Carroll and Breadmore have served on
teacher guidance advisory panels for the Education Endowment Foundation to provide guidance
disseminated to every school in the UK.

The work in the unit has had far-reaching impact beyond the examples highlighted in the impact
case studies, often highlighting ways in which services can support wellbeing and safeguarding for
the most vulnerable. Over the past seven years, for example, O’Doherty has worked on several
Cochrane Reviews, including ones on psychological and psychosocial therapies for women who
experience intimate partner violence and sexual abuse and on screening for intimate partner
violence in healthcare settings. This final review indicated a need for screening for intimate partner
violence during pregnancy and has been highlighted in World Health Organisation antenatal
guidance (https://www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789241549912).

Dr Sarah Cassidy, unit member 2014-2017, received an Economic and Social Research Council
(ESRC) Future Leaders Fellowship while at Coventry University that was key to her developing a
fruitful ongoing relationship with the charity Autistica. As a result of this partnership, Cassidy
demonstrated for the first time that individuals with autism were at an unusually high risk of suicide
(LANCET PSYCHIAT. 1, 10.1016/S2215-0366(14)70248-2). She went on to co-create research
with autistic adults, allowing her to detail the risk factors around suicide for this group (MOL
AUTISM, 10.1186/s13229-018-0226-4). This led to a national campaign to address preventable
deaths in individuals with autism (https://www.autistica.org.uk/downloads/files/Personal-tragedies-
public-crisis-ONLINE.pdf#asset:1499).

Engagement

As a young University in the centre of a diverse city, Coventry University has always regarded
regional and national engagement as an important element in its mission.

Regional engagement often focuses on local families. For example, the unit took the lead in
organising Coventry Young Researchers between 2015 and 2018, an event for local families with
school-aged children. At this event, children and parents were able to take part in various ongoing
experiments and learn about the science of psychology. Each year, over 200 children took part
over five days and feedback from these events was overwhelmingly positive. The events also
provided an effective way of collecting research data over the quiet summer period and extremely
useful experience for the PhD students and early career researchers who took the lead on co-
ordinating different aspects of the project each year.

The unit’s work has regularly attracted media attention; an example being Farias’s pioneering
work on the effectiveness and limitations of meditation and mindfulness which includes his 2014
book The Buddha Pill - revised and updated in 2019 - and his 2018 systematic review (ACTA
PSYCHIAT SCAND. 142, 5, 374-393). Both have been widely reported in the media. This work
argues that practices such as meditation and yoga can in some cases have negative or harmful
effects, particularly when implemented without their spiritual and philosophical underpinnings and
that they should not be viewed as a panacea.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Wright has produced a series of high-profile studies which indicated that older adults who reported
regular sexual activity showed cognitive benefits. This work caught the attention of a wide cross-
section of the media, and, as a result, Wright developed online learning materials on how to
engage with the media responsibly.

The unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline is demonstrated by its membership on
various boards and committees, including the International Association for the Psychology of
Religion, the British Psychological Society (BPS) Political Psychology section, the BPS History and
Philosophy of Psychology section, the BPS Psychological Government programme and the Society
for Scientific Study of Reading.

Staff members have played significant roles in organising conferences: Sullivan organised the
International Society for Theoretical Psychology annual conference in 2015 (300 attendees), while
Carroll chaired the British Dyslexia Association International Conference in 2014 and was Vice-
Chair in 2018 (400 attendees on each occasion).

Wider Influence

Awards
  • Farias won the 2017 William Bier Award from the American Psychological Association,
      Division 36, in recognition of his contributions in the psychology of religion and spirituality
      and public engagement.
  • Carroll won the 2018 British Dyslexia Association Lifetime Achievement Award in
      recognition of her contributions to understanding and supporting dyslexia and dyslexic
      individuals.

Editorial Responsibilities
    • Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Research in Reading (Carroll 2014-2018)
    • Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Practice-based Learning in Health and Social
        Care (Clouder)
    • Associate Editor of Journal of Research in Reading (Breadmore 2017-present)
    • Editorial Board Memberships: PLOS One (O’Doherty), Scientific Studies of Reading
        (Carroll), Child Abuse and Neglect (Tramontano).


Members of the unit have given invited keynote lectures at the following conferences:
  • International Education Conference, Bandung, 2019
  • British Dyslexia Association Conference, 2014
  • Forum for Research in Literacy and Language, 2018 and 2019
  • British Association of Applied Linguistics, 2019
  • The Dyslexia Show, 2020; National Association of Disability Practitioners, 2017 and 2018

Researchers have also provided keynote lectures at the following universities:
   • Leuven University, Belgium
   • Philippines Normal University, Philippines
   • International Psychoanalytic University, Germany
   • Edge Hill University, UK
   • Nottingham Trent University, UK

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Royal Holloway, University London, UK
   •   University of Dundee, UK
   •   University of Worcester., UK

The unit’s researchers provide reviews for a wide range of funding bodies, including:
   • ESRC
   • Medical Research Council (MRC)
   • National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
   • Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
   • Nuffield Foundation
   • John Templeton Foundation
   • Polish Science Foundation
   • British Council
   • British Academy
   • Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Canada.

Reviews for numerous high-quality journals, including:
   • Psychological Science
   • Developmental Science
   • Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry
   • Cognition, Political Psychology
   • Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology
   • Theory & Psychology
   • Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology
   • Child Development, Annals of Dyslexia
   • Journal of Research in Reading
   • Research in Developmental Disabilities
   • Rehabilitation Process and Outcome
   • Contemporary Educational Psychology
   • Developmental Psychology
   • PLOS ONE
   • Applied Psycholinguistics
   • Journal of Experimental Child Psychology
   • Dyslexia
   • Journal of Child Language
   • Adolescent Psychiatry
   • Scientific Studies of Reading
   • Frontiers in Psychology




                                                                                        Page 17
