Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Institution: Royal Conservatoire of Scotland
 Unit of Assessment: 33 – Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Royal Conservatoire of Scotland is a small specialist institution that has an impact and
reputation which belies its size.
Our research resides squarely within Unit of Assessment 33, and the unit and the institution are,
therefore, one and the same for the purposes of this submission. REF5a introduces our research
environment and addresses strategic considerations, including a review of the plans we described
in REF2014: it should be read first. REF5b describes our environment for research and our
approach in practice.
As noted in REF5a, impact and interdisciplinarity are central at the Conservatoire, part of a creative
ethos that seeks change in the world. A range of practices and policies manifest and support this
ethos in practice, from recruitment, to training and support for academic staff, to strategic planning
for research and knowledge exchange, to our Outcome and Impact Framework with the Scottish
Funding Council, and the outward-facing strategic vision and mission for the future of the
institution.

Impact
We believe that, in the performing arts, profound impacts can be achieved at a range of scales,
from the individual to the systemic; the impact case studies (ICS) in REF3 are chosen to reflect

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


that full range. ICS 1 (What’s Going On?...) reports impacts on policies affecting very large
numbers of young people and effecting change at a national level. ICS 2 (Challenging Creativity)
centres on creative work that has unlocked new possibilities for disabled musicians and changed
understandings around what those musicians can achieve. ICS 3 (Coorie Doon) explores an
artistic research practice that has a profound impact on the lives of a small number of families
experiencing life-changing events.




1: 'What's hidden in the ice?' MacRae’s Anthropocene (image: Scottish Opera)

The ICSs reflect our profoundly felt social conscience and demonstrate, in practical terms, our
commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion. They also reflect our wider ambitions for impact: to
shape public policy for the arts and education, to push the boundaries of creative practice; and to
achieve a deep impact on the lives of individuals.
These ambitions are manifest throughout the submission, in outputs that impact on audiences, the
professions, policy and wider societal discourse. Examples include MacRae’s opera Anthropocene
(impact on specialist and non-specialist audiences), which received six performances in Glasgow,
Edinburgh and London, reaching a live audience of 4800, and was streamed by Operavision.eu,
reaching at least a further 6700 online. The desire to make a difference is reflected in the critical
stance of outputs such as ECR Hopfinger’s article Children, Ecology and Performance and in the
project that culminated in Irvine’s CD Songs and Lullabies, from which all profits go to UNICEF.
When recruiting researchers, we consider the impact (track record and potential) alongside the raw
‘quality’ of candidates’ research and teaching, an approach that feels natural because it grows from




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




2: Article on Doolittle’s research in The Sunday Mail (18 June 2017)

the particular relationship we have with the wider professional world in which we participate: the
arts and cultural sectors, and the creative industries. We do the same with doctoral applicants.
Impact is integral to our support for researchers, whatever their stage of development – for
example, it is a key consideration in the Research Clinics that are open to all staff and may be a
practitioner’s first steps in research. Support for impact continues through our project and
sabbatical schemes for staff, the Athenaeum Awards, in which activity designed to maximise the
reach and significance of the work’s impact is as well supported and recognised as the research
itself. Considerations of impact inform every decision of the awarding committee and an indication
of the range of impacts achieved is given in the review that we published to promote the awards
and inspire further work from colleagues: Practising Research: The New Athenaeum. (More detail
on these awards is provided below.)


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Public Engagement as a priority
In addition, the Exchange team (see REF5a) models, for researchers across the institution, high-
quality public engagement and other activities designed to maximise the impact of their work.
Examples include the series of Creative Conversations organised in conjunction with the Royal
Society of Edinburgh in August 2019 and 2020, and the specially curated series of blogposts
exploring the experience of the performing arts in the global pandemic, The Green Room, in 2020.
Our Exchange Talks series is an important aspect of our public engagement work; there are
normally 18-20 of these weekly public talks on contemporary issues in the performing arts each
academic session, with a typical weekly attendance of 30-50 people. The priority that we place on
these is indicated by the fact that when the first coronavirus lockdown was announced in March
2020, the talks moved seamlessly online on the first operational day of the lockdown. It is normally
a condition of funding that Athenaeum awardees contribute a public talk in this series, ensuring
that it is richly informed by the current work of staff.
We promote diverse public engagement, supporting work that ranges from the examples above to
Whiteside’s contribution on dance health for BBC Two’s Trust Me I’m A Doctor, to MacAulay’s
feature on ‘Forgotten Women Composers’ for The People’s Friend, and Broad’s work as presenter
on the BBC’s Classics Unwrapped programme.

Partnerships for impact
All three ICSs in this submission are built upon partnership: as a small institution, the significance
of partnership working, across our operation, cannot be overstated. Such partnerships, whether
formal and operating at the institutional level, or informal and driven by the researcher, are central
to maximising the reach and significance of our impact. The partnerships that underpin the ICSs –
with the Music Education Partnership Group and Creative Scotland, with Drake Music Scotland,
and Chamber Music Scotland – are indicative of a wider web of relationships that reflects our
small-institution attitude to partnership and uniquely networked position in Scotland.
There are further examples of partnerships that enhance impact right across this submission.
Some relationships provide unique creative challenges that would not otherwise present
themselves, such as ECR Robertson’s work with Glyndebourne Opera as Composer in Residence.
The relationship with Glyndebourne has enabled her to explore the questions that arise from
collaborative composition, and a tightly drawn commission; the result is the output Pay the Piper,
co-authored with other composers who are part of the company’s Balancing the Score initiative.
Then there are those relationships that permit a researcher to enlarge radically the impact of an
insight. An example of this is the partnership with Glasgow Women’s Library fostered by former
member of staff Birch that resulted in a promenade performance of Cicely Hamilton’s suffragette
pageant The March of Great Women. With the decisive contribution of the GWL, the performance
became a significant and striking event in the city involving over 100 participants, resulting in an
excellent film and compelling imagery that has been re-used in many contexts (including
accompanying an article by Scotland’s First Minister, Nicola Sturgeon).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




3 March, a project in partnership with Glasgow Women's Library

Interdisciplinary research
As noted in REF5a, we are distinctive internationally for the range of performing arts education we
offer and we consider interdisciplinarity to be integral to our identity as an institution.
In research terms, our commitment to interdisciplinarity is fused with our commitment to impact and
stems from the way we see our work in its wider artistic, intellectual and societal context. The
(sometimes messy) complexity that arises from that commitment can be seen right across the
submission, from overtly interdisciplinary work (such as Doolittle’s ‘Hearken to the Hermit-
Thrush'..., MacDonald’s Le Sirenuse and Broom’s The Imperfection of Memory), to work at the
intersections of disciplines (such as Gonzalez’s Make Me Yours, Myers’s The Science of Brass
Instruments and Gilmore’s Organising Music), to work in which the researchers themselves take
multiple roles (numerous examples). Interdisciplinarity contributes directly to the sustainability and
vitality of research at the Conservatoire because it demands a constant critical dialogue between
research practices.
The Exchange team includes those with backgrounds in performance, composition, dance,
musicology, organology, management theory and theatre practice: our small team has wide
interests. The range of disciplines represented in the Exchange, the close working of the team, and
its extensive networks, help to ensure that interdisciplinary working is strongly supported.
Our wider institutional practice is at its core collaborative. For our outputs to be delivered, a variety
of skills and approaches are needed in a process mirroring wider artistic practice. For example,
composers work intimately with performers and technicians; theatre-makers work closely with
sound, costume, and set designers; and dancers develop their work together with musicians. In a
research context, interdisciplinary collaboration has a direct impact on the types of work
undertaken, the tools used and developed, the processes that unfold, and the outputs that are
produced. We provide support (through mentoring, training and funding) so that researchers can

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


produce outputs in multiple formats (e.g. performance, composition, journal article), within a single
overarching project.




4 Broom’s The Imperfection of Memory, a collaboration with artist Heather Lander

As with impact, support for interdisciplinary research is embedded in our processes: Athenaeum
Awards, for example, are considered by an interdisciplinary panel. When recruiting researchers
and doctoral students, we prioritise interdisciplinary work. The strategic appointment of our two
Athenaeum Fellows is a case in point: we sought excellent researchers who could also support
colleagues across the institution. From a strong field, we appointed one Fellow with a music
background and established networks in the natural sciences, and another with a performance
background and strong connections to fine art and critical theory. That the Fellows could support
interdisciplinarity in complementary ways only increased the strategic value of these appointments.
It is important to note that many of our researchers have multiple intellectual identities that are
manifest in their work. In our submission, there are examples of composer-performers (e.g.,
Buckley, MacDonald, van der Walt), composer-scholars (e.g., Doolittle, Fitch, Searle), performer-
scholars (e.g., Bissell, Gonzalez, Hopfinger, Howat, Watkin), scholar-practitioners (e.g., Drury,
Whiteside) and performer-curators (e.g., Irvine), among many other configurations. A significant
proportion of our researchers, therefore, embody interdisciplinarity as they enact multiple roles.
That all this can happen in a relatively small community only adds to the sense of energy and
vitality.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Beyond the UoA boundaries




5 Image from Gonzalez Make Me Yours: How Art Seduces. The author encounters a shoe by Manolo Blahnik.

As with impact, a range of partnerships support our interdisciplinary work. We have used trans-
institutional supervision to support interdisciplinary doctoral projects since the inception of our
doctoral programme; this was recently supplemented by our membership of the AHRC Doctoral
Training Partnership (DTP) Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), which has
helped us foster further key relationships. Unusually, we always appoint two external examiners for
each doctoral project, meaning that interdisciplinary work at this level can be interrogated from
different disciplinary perspectives.
In 2017, Athenaeum Fellow Doolittle established SHARE (Science, Humanities, and Arts Research
Exchange) to facilitate wider interdisciplinary collaborations between researchers and PGR
students at the Conservatoire and the University of St Andrews. SHARE supports interdisciplinarity
at various levels: from initial match-making, introduction and networking, and developing
scholarship through themed discussions like the RASCAL (Research on Animal Songs in Culture,
Art and Literature) group, which has 59 members from 11 countries, to supporting collaborative
funding applications and disseminating the outcomes of projects through symposia. SHARE has
been instrumental in securing three interdisciplinary doctoral scholarships in music, dance and
science, and presents collaborative events for PGRs and academic staff.
Through Athenaeum Fellow Gonzalez, the Conservatoire is part of the Wellcome-funded Glasgow
Medical Humanities Research Network, an interdisciplinary group that brings together HEIs and
civic collections around the city. Its broad themes cover Objects, Place and Time in a variety of

                                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


disciplines including medicine, literature, performance, and music. The network of 139 academics
and artists supports a discussion group from which collaborations emerge, offers seed awards to
ECRs, disseminates research through events and supports Conservatoire projects around mental
health, wellbeing and performance.
In these partnerships, we cultivate an ethos of open sharing and mutual respect. In some so-called
interdisciplinary work, the ‘art’ is used only to increase the impact of an insight developed in
another discipline, rather than the methods and theories of each discipline challenging and
expanding the other. We know that we can learn from other academic fields – but equally, they can
learn from us. Our work through SHARE has paid dividends in this regard, as has our key strategic
partnership with Scottish Ballet, which is described in more detail below. Such genuine
interdisciplinary partnerships bring us back to the fundamental artistic impetus to make a difference
in the world.

Open Research
REF5a sets out our strategic approach to an open research environment and the ‘open access’
attitude that we seek to cultivate among researchers. The emphasis we place on public
engagement is another part of this ethos, and the ‘open access attitude’ was further evidenced in
the move online of our Exchange Talks series and full performance programme during the global
pandemic. More details of this are provided in our Covid Annexe.
Our CRIS (a specially-adapted instance of Elsevier’s Pure) includes performances, scores for
download, and films that either report on research undertaken or are a direct outcome of that
research – all available beyond the campus, for free, by anyone (see, for example, De Simone’s
work Geek: the score, accompanying notes and a high quality recording are available).
Finally, we have participated in discussions and sectoral development of OA arrangements through
groups like Conservatoires UK (CUK) Research Forum, and more widely through the OA Scotland
Group and the Scottish REF Managers Group.

Research Integrity
REF5a sets out our strategic approach to research integrity. In practical terms, a culture of integrity
is assured by our Ethics Committee and supported through training for programme teams, doctoral
students and supervisors, and the provision of exemplar materials and mentoring to support good
ethical practice. The Academic Board has determined that taught students engaging in research
should also undergo an ethical training and approval process, further reinforcing that culture: staff
from The Exchange often contribute to that training. The Ethics Committee is active: in AY 2019-
20, it considered 62 applications (45 from students, 11 from staff and 6 external applications) and
investigated 3 breaches of research integrity.
Our mechanisms for supporting staff research offer further opportunities to ensure strong integrity
across our work. The Research and KE Committee (RKEC) ensures that no Athenaeum Awards
are made for work that will require ethical approval without that being specifically noted in the
process; where the researcher might require additional support to achieve approval (for example,
in the case of an ECR, or for more complex cases), a mentor is appointed from the Committee.
RKEC also reviews the progress of work that results from internal awards and requires regular
progress reports from Principal Investigators (PIs) on all externally funded research and
consultancy, providing researchers with additional support and/or mentoring whenever required
and further assuring the integrity of our work.
The Conservatoire participates in the CUK Research Ethics Committee: three of our Ethics
Committee members also serve on the trans-institutional Committee. One of our Ethics Committee
members (Jaap) is President-elect of the Scottish Educational Research Association (SERA) and
co-authored the Association’s guide to good research practice Starting Points for Educational
Research in Scotland. Like the CUK Research Ethics Committee, this is both a contribution to


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


good ethical practice beyond the institution, and a way of benchmarking our processes to ensure
that they remain robust.




6 From Wild Life by ECR Sarah Hopfinger

Our Research Ethics Policy draws on the frameworks of the British Education Research
Association and the British Psychological Society to ensure that we meet the normal expectations
of ethical research, and the sectoral requirements of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
Our Performance Ethics Policy goes ‘beyond compliance’ and draws on an independent
international review of such policies that we commissioned in 2012. Through it, we ensure that
performance work at the Conservatoire is undertaken within an ethical framework that takes
accounts of the needs of all those involved in performance – performers and audiences, but also
members of the creative and production teams, and venue staff. The Policy does not require that
all performances are reviewed by the Ethics Committee, but the Committee is on hand to offer
advice and make judgements in challenging cases.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

REF5a describes our wider staffing strategy: the impact of that strategy may be seen in the
increased size of this submission, compared to 2014. In the AP, systematic consideration of
research profile in the appointments process has resulted in a greater number of senior and ECR
researchers being recruited to posts across the institution. ECRs Robertson-Kirkland, Hopfinger,
Whiteside, Robertson and Broom in this submission are witness to this approach, as are senior
researchers Halfyard, Buckley, Fennessy and Watkin. The continuing development of researchers
at all career stages is evidenced by the award of six professorships to researchers with SRR
during the AP.

Staff development strategy
Our support for researchers proceeds from the principle of a ‘single ecosystem’ that supports both
established and emerging researchers: this is central to both the vitality and sustainability of our
environment.
It is important to note again the distinctive nature of the Exchange, which bears the main
responsibility for staff research support. Researchers across the institution refer collegially to the
Fellows and Research Lecturers in the Exchange for advice in matters such as project
development and management, methodology, internal and external funding, and maximising
impact. They also seek out disciplinary (and interdisciplinary) support across the fields represented
in the team. The number of staff and range of expertise in the Exchange is sufficiently high to
ensure that support can be meaningful and tailored to individual need, and its networks ensure that
external specialist support can be easily sourced when needed.
Complementing this ad-hoc support is a structured offer, which includes:
   •   Research and KE inductions for all new academic staff – whether currently research active
       or not – from the Exchange team, setting out the support we offer, routes to professional
       development in research, and opportunities for interdisciplinary working that arise at the
       Conservatoire: our aim is to welcome people to research.
   •   an annual staff development conference, which is central to staff development more
       generally: compulsory for all full time and pro-rata staff, doctoral students are also invited to
       attend. The Exchange team leads specific sessions dedicated to research and KE.
   •   staff Research Clinics, led by Gonzalez, offered regularly on a walk-up basis. The Clinics
       have supported colleagues from ECRs to the professoriate, from hourly-paid teaching staff
       to full time colleagues with SRR. Clinics offer advice on all matters relating to research and
       impact, signpost staff to further support opportunities, and are a particularly important
       aspect of our support for colleagues without SRR. Topics raised range from assistance with
       book proposals and dissemination of research to the development of personal archives and
       setting up exhibitions. During the pandemic, the research clinics moved online and,
       perhaps because of the expectations established by the in-person clinic, there was no drop
       in uptake from staff.
   •   so-called CAKE Sessions, informal roundtable discussions with tea and cake, convened
       around particular issues in research or KE and led by a member of the Exchange. CAKE
       Sessions in the AP have included advice on achieving external funding; publishing;
       supervision of Practice Research; and ethics, as well as individual discussions on
       colleagues’ research. CAKE Sessions respond to needs revealed by the Research Clinics
       and consider issues in all four quadrants of the Research Development Framework (RDF).
       These sessions inspire collaboration and dialogue, and signpost colleagues to further
       opportunities.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   a Journal Club, led by Doolittle, which convenes regularly to discuss a chosen text. The
       Club is open to all staff and doctoral students and is strongly interdisciplinary in feel.
       Members lead discussions on new and/or key texts in their fields for colleagues across the
       Conservatoire’s disciplines.
   •   a range of activities to stimulate and facilitate exchange between the Conservatoire and
       wider society (described below).
The most significant aspect of structured support is our internal awards scheme for research and
KE – the Athenaeum Awards. In addition to supporting colleagues with SRR, these awards are
open to other staff, whether full time, part time or hourly paid, where this will demonstrably support
their professional development and enhance the Conservatoire’s research environment – a further
example of how we seek to cultivate a ‘single ecosystem’ for research. Although they are
competitive, we offer all applicants mentoring from a member of the Exchange as they make their
application, which may include support in framing their proposal, public engagement and routes to
impact, and budgeting. We see all applications – successful or not – as professional development
opportunities for colleagues, and where applications are unsuccessful, colleagues are directed to
the Clinic for further support.
There are three competitions in the scheme: the ‘Athenaeum Small Project Awards’, which offer
project funding (or part-funding); ‘Athenaeum Sabbatical Awards’, which offer a 3-month mini-
sabbatical to pursue more significant outcomes, and the ‘Athenaeum Global Challenges Awards’,
which offer funds for projects that support Official Development Assistant (ODA) objectives. Each
competition is available for research or KE and the turnaround between deadline and
announcement is typically two weeks, meaning that these awards can respond quickly to need. As
noted above, it is usually a condition of funding that successful applicants undertake some public
engagement.
All competitions, including the Sabbatical Awards, are open to all academic staff, regardless of
contractual status, and we do not require staff to have completed a fixed period of employment
before applying. There is no limit to the number of applications a colleague may make. Many
awards contribute part funding to projects that are also supported by industry, charities or
government, and several have led to further externally funded projects
Teaching loads across the institution are such that it is not usually possible for other staff to absorb
the teaching of a colleague who is on sabbatical so, in arranging teaching cover for staff on
sabbatical leave, we aim to provide new teaching opportunities for ECRs where appropriate.
The Awards are central to our open, inspiring, egalitarian and truly vital research environment. In
2019, we published a retrospective of Athenaeum Awards entitled Practising Research: The New
Athenaeum, which highlighted the range of activity that these awards have supported since their
inception in 2010, with the aim of encouraging more staff to get involved in research.
https://www.rcs.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/3682-RCS-The-New-Athenaeum-FINAL-
PROOF.pdf

 Athenaeum Awards (Research and KE)                           2014-2020

 Awards                                                       102

 Total value                                                  £190,376

In time, our workload model will permit more strategic and targeted support for staff with SRR:
working with their manager and colleagues from the Exchange, those with SRR will complete an
annual research plan that reviews their research activity over the previous twelve months and sets
goals for the coming year – for projects and outputs, and their continuing professional development
as researchers. This will allow us to further systematise our support for SRR researchers –

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


particularly for those whose research careers are more developed – and achieve greater alignment
between individual staff development and our wider strategic ambitions.

Doctoral students
The Conservatoire’s doctoral cohort comprises MPhil, PhD and DPerf (Doctor of Performing Arts)
students, and is integral to our current vitality and future sustainability. We keep our support for
doctoral students under continuous review through the Research Degrees Committee (RDC), and
use additional quality-checks, such as a recent international benchmarking exercise with the
Orpheus Instituut, Ghent, the Kunst Universitaat, Graz and the Queensland Conservatorium, to
ensure our programmes meet the highest expectations.
Recruitment to the doctoral programmes is of course rooted in supervisory capacity and expertise:
the growth in doctoral completions in the AP is linked to a significant expansion of the doctoral
community, which is itself built on a supervisory base that has grown in size and quality since
2014.
Recognising that in the performing arts there are many routes to a successful doctorate, we assess
doctoral applicants in accordance with the Conservatoire’s Contextualised Admissions Policy and
take specific account of relevant professional experience alongside qualifications. We offer all
applicants mentoring and advice before they make a formal application, and applications are
reviewed by a panel remitted by RDC which considers the applicant’s readiness for research, the
quality of proposal, and ‘fit’ with institutional expertise, along with any other relevant information, to
inform a decision to interview.
Interviews and, where relevant, auditions are carried out by a panel that will always include at least
one researcher with expertise in the candidate’s proposed field of study and at least one academic
member of the Exchange team.
We take pride in our robust monitoring and support mechanisms for doctoral students. These are
overseen by RDC, which has responsibility for all matters relating to research degrees and
includes membership from the University of St Andrews. All students undergo annual monitoring,
which includes formal reports from students and internal members of their supervisory teams, the
submission of a current plan for completion, and an interview with a Progress Review panel. In
addition, at the end of the first year FTE, students undertake a comprehensive review, comprising
of the annual reports and plans (as above), plus a submission of work which is reviewed by two
‘readers’ (one of whom will normally be external to the institution), and a presentation or lecture-
recital. Outcomes for each progress review are expressed by means of a traffic light system, with
clear criteria and (where necessary) remedial expectations for each outcome.
As noted above, doctoral examinations at the Conservatoire always include two external
examiners. Partly this reflects our small scale (and the challenge in identifying internal examiners
that have not been involved with the project), but it also supports the interdisciplinary work that we
prize, as well as ensuring that the final submission is scrutinised to the highest standards of rigour.
Completions during the AP include our first PhD in dance (ECR Whiteside); our first Doctor of
Performing Arts completion; and the successful conclusion of an institutionally funded studentship
to edit a critical edition of Prokofiev’s War and Peace. This doctorate completed work begun by
former Vice Principal McAllister (submitted to REF2014) and underpinned a new production of the
opera by Welsh National Opera in their 2018 season (also performed at the Royal Opera House
Covent Garden in 2019).
External examiner comments indicate that doctoral work at the Conservatoire is reaching sectoral
expectations for work at this level: ‘An outstanding amount of primary source research that has
never been undertaken before… remarkable in its comprehensiveness’ (EE report 2017); ‘An
outstanding, original, rigorous and meticulously crafted thesis that makes a significant contribution
to several fields.’ (EE report 2021). In the next few years, we will see further completions in dance
and our first in production.

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Completions in AP                              15

Without corrections                            2                      13%

Minor corrections                              9                      60%

Major corrections                              4                      27%

On time                                        9                      60%

Within an approved extension                   5                      33%

Outwith an approved extension                  1                      7%

Skills development for doctoral students
We aim to treat doctoral students as academic colleagues and believe that a strong sense of
community assists students academically, professionally and personally. In this secure
environment, ideas can be tested and challenged without fear; networks for professional life within
and beyond academia are strengthened; and the wellbeing of students is supported. We have
worked hard to sustain a close-knit cohort as the number of students has grown. Before the
pandemic, the students’ physical space in the Conservatoire was an important enabler of this
community, with many students choosing to work in it, and the space being shared by senior
researchers. During the pandemic, we have made concrete efforts to sustain that community
remotely, through training events, online ‘writing retreats’, study days, fortnightly catch-ups with the
Exchange team, and social events. These online events have typically achieved attendances of
around 80%.
We are members of the Universities Scotland Researcher Development and Training Committee,
and students benefit from a range of research skills training that belies our size as an institution.
Following an induction, students receive sessions on navigating the academic landscape,
methodology, ethics, supervisor management, and the philosophy of Practice Research. They are
then folded into a whole-cohort approach, which sees all students come together three times each
year for compulsory study days that cut across their research skills needs and offer opportunities
for peer-learning. Supplementing this, further opportunities for individually tailored research skills
training are available within the Conservatoire, through the substantial offerings of SGSAH (which
are available to DTP and non-DTP students alike), and through the Centre for Educational
Enhancement and Development (CEED) at the University of St Andrews. In addition, students are
expected to attend our public Exchange Talks series each week.
Students make a research skills plan with their supervisors, and the agendas for study days are
responsive to need, being shaped by a formal feedback process and planned with reference to the
RDF, which guides the balance of activities and ensures that sufficient weight is given to the
personal skills and capacities that underpin an effective research career.
We recognise that our doctoral students are the future of research and contribute hugely to the
vigour of our intellectual environment. We support their integration by helping them find appropriate
teaching within the institution, celebrating their research (through, for example, institutional social
media), ensuring that they are well represented on the roster of Exchange Talks, facilitating events
like ‘Research on Display’ (an exhibition of doctoral research curated by students in 2018-19), and
supporting other initiatives, which, in the AP, include:
   •   The student-led Scottish Journal of Performance, which has published eight issues in the
       AP. The special issue on ‘The Art of Care’ (Vol. 5 No. 1) (included in this submission) offers


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         an example of practical support we offer: the issue was co-edited by two PGRs (Bozdog
         and Watson) working with two senior researchers (Bissell and Gonzalez);
   •     Conferences such as ‘Shared Narratives’ (a conference for performing arts researchers of
         colour, 2020, co-led by PGR Arockiam) and ‘Spheres of Singing’ (conference on singing
         research, 2020, co-led by ECR Robertson-Kirkland and PGR Slimings, supported by
         SGSAH and leading to a RSE grant for Robertson-Kirkland).

Studentship support for doctoral students
Growing the number of doctoral students was a strategic priority at the time of REF2014 and, as
noted in REF5a, the headcount of students has more than doubled since then. A dramatically
changed landscape for studentships has supported this growth.

 FTE Studentships                    2017-18         2018-19          2019-20         2020-21




 RCS Studentship                     6.5             6.5              6               8.5

 RCS Strategic Studentship           1               1                0.5             0.5

 RCS/St Andrews St Leonard’s         0               0                1               1
 Interdisciplinary Studentship

 UKRI                                0               0                2               3

 UK Trusts and Charities             0               0                1               2

 Total                               7.5             7.5              10.5            15



Our membership of SGSAH has been transformative. We joined in 2014 as a non-DTP member,
which opened up new possibilities for collaborative doctoral student training and led, in 2018, to
our becoming a full member of the AHRC-funded DTP, based on a review of the quality of our
research and supervisory capacities. This represented a significant commitment in time and co-
funding to the continued development of the doctoral programmes on the part of the Conservatoire
but our time as a non-DTP member had demonstrated the value added by SGSAH and gave us
confidence to make the case for DTP membership. Alongside this, we successfully negotiated
membership of the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, opening a further route to
externally funded studentships.
Our strategy in both competitions has been to identify a small number of high-quality applicants
and give them comprehensive support in their nominations. This approach has paid dividends: in
the first two years of our participation in the SGSAH DTP and Carnegie competitions, we submitted
six nominations and received five studentships.
In addition to externally funded studentships, the Conservatoire has: co-funded two
interdisciplinary studentships through a competition led by our validating partner, the University of
St Andrews (so-called St Leonard’s Studentships); supported three strategic studentships in areas
important to the institution; and increased the amount of institutional studentship allocated to
research degrees from c.£43k in 2014 to c.£86k in 2020.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Equality and Diversity
In the context of research and research students, we seek to ensure that all arrangements for
researcher and PGR recruitment robustly support our wider objectives for equality.
Specifically, we work hard to build a diverse and balanced PGR student cohort of individuals with
diverse life-experiences. The interview is designed around the specific needs of the candidate,
such as relevant access requirements (with more time given, for example, to interviews in which a
BSL interpreter is required), and we have assessed the cumulative equalities impact of our
decisions. This assessment demonstrates that the gender and age profiles of students, for
example, is similar at shortlisting, interview and offer stages, indicating that that process works
equitably to facilitate applications from each group. Numbers of applications remain relatively
small, however, so further analysis of this kind (for example with respect to race or other protected
characteristics) is not yet meaningful. We have, however, identified the clear lack of representation
of black and global majority researchers in our PGR cohort as a particular issue, as it is in our
wider community. Our support of the ‘Shared Narratives’ conference is a small contribution to
addressing this; two of the three strategic institutional studentships mentioned above concern
issues of fair access to conservatoire education.




7 PGR Catherine King performs integrated BSL interpretation in a production of Henry V




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Organisational infrastructure
REF5a introduces our strategic approach to income, infrastructure and facilities, recognising our
particular context.
As will be clear from previous sections, the Exchange unit is a major feature of our infrastructure
for research, performing a wide range of strategic and operational functions to support excellent
and developing research, achieve impact, and grow interdisciplinary work. Institutional investment
over the AP has seen the unit grow in scope, capacity, creativity and effectiveness. In addition to
the new academic expertise, the team has been supplemented in the AP by a KE Manager who
leads on all aspects of KE and innovation, and further supports staff impact activities.
Strengthened links with the Conservatoire’s well-networked Communications team have also
enhanced impact and public engagement activities and, recognising the diversity in our
Conservatoire community and our obligation to welcome the widest possible audiences to
research, we have invested strongly in BSL interpretation and closed captioning services, which
are normally provided as standard for all public research events: around 29 events organised by
the Exchange in the current AY have been BSL interpreted and closed captioned.
New resources include our CRIS, which has professionalised a range of functions from output
management to grant tracking, as well as developing our ‘shop window’ for research and
professional practice.

Operational infrastructure and facilities




8 Production of Bacchae in the New Athenaeum Theatre

The excellent resources of the Conservatoire, as a specialist performing arts institution, are a vital
part of our infrastructure for research. These include five public venues: the Stevenson Hall
(capacity 355, live streaming capability, full lighting rig, sound system, organ); New Athenaeum
Theatre (capacity 344, stage size of the London Palladium, full lighting, sound and stage
automation rigs); Ledger Recital Room (capacity 108, livestreaming capability, minstrels gallery);
Alexander Gibson Opera Studio (capacity 147, black box, lighting rig, sound system); Chandler
Studio Theatre (capacity 125, black box, lighting rig, sound system). Researchers regularly use
                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


these venues, and our high-specification electroacoustic and recording studios, rehearsal spaces
and practice facilities, all of which have seen significant investment in the AP (see REF5a).




9 Student-led production in Alexander Gibson Opera Studio

The scholarly infrastructure at the Royal Conservatoire naturally reflects our focus on practice-
based work. The Whittaker Library is performance-oriented with strong printed music and e-
resource collections and takes a pro-active approach to engaging staff and students with new
research materials and external research events through its multiple social media channels and
high engagement levels. In the AP, the library has increased the range and depth of e-resources
available to over 60 databases, alongside thousands of e-book and e-journal collections available
online via a new Discovery Service. Research students and supervisors also have direct access to
the very significant online research resources of St Andrews University Library.
In 2014, we reported significant investment in Archives and Collections, including the appointment
of a full-time archivist. Continued investment has seen the relocation of the collections and search
room to a custom facility in a decommissioned whisky bond warehouse. Co-located with the
Glasgow School of Art Archive and creative endeavours like Glasgow Sculpture Studios, our
historic collections are well sited to take advantage of collaborative projects, and this has led to
site-specific performances using archival engagement. The archive continues to attract high-profile
donations, including most recently the personal archives of the conductors Raymond Leppard and
James Loughran, jazz singer and actress Annie Ross, Baroque trumpet authority Edward Tarr, and
an important collection from the inventor of Braille musical notation, Edward Watson. These add
richness and depth to the many other historic archives and collections which support our research
community and historically informed performances. According to data shared across CUK
members, our archive is regularly the busiest of any UK conservatoire.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




10 RCS Symphony Orchestra perform in the Stevenson Hall

Research funding
External research income has grown considerably over the AP, representing a significant boost to
the sustainability of our work, but even in our context as a monotechnic institution with fewer
sources of external funding, it remains modest and is a high priority for future growth. Our
approach, in practice, has been to seek a balance in the time we invest in bids for small and
easier-to-reach grants for specific projects that will quickly bear fruit in tangible outputs and larger,
more strategic but also more speculative bids for significant funds that will boost our long-term
sustainability. In pursuing larger bids, we have sought institutional partnerships (such as with
Glasgow University for an AHRC Creative Industries Cluster bid) and used our excellent networks
to increase the credibility of our proposals. We have not yet secured a game-changing large
investment but believe that developments during the current AP provide the foundations for that to
happen in the next. Consultancy has contributed financially and will continue to do so.
Funding received by our researchers to pursue artistic research and professional projects from
sources that are not reported to HESA has been significant in the AP. While this does not
contribute to the sustainability of research at the Conservatoire, it does give an indication of the
esteem in which their work is held.




                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                                                                                 Total

UK Government and Arts Funding Agencies                                                        £91,075

UK Charities, Trusts and Foundations                                                          £142,912

International Government and Arts Funding Agencies                                            £119,806

International Charities, Trusts and Foundations                                                £60,643

Private donors                                                                                  £9,800

Total                                                                                        £424,236


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Networks and partnerships
As noted earlier, the significance of partnerships and networks cannot be overstated for a small
specialist institution, and we support them at the highest level. Our Principal is a Council Member
of the European Association of Conservatoires (AEC); our Deputy Principal (Lois Fitch, researcher
in this submission) is Council Member in the Royal Musical Association; our KE Manager is a
Board Member of the European League of Institute of the Arts (ELIA); and our Director of
Research (Broad, this submission) is chair of the European Platform for Artistic Research in Music,
and a member of the ELIA Working Group on Artistic Research. We are resolutely focussed on
playing an active part in the networks to which we belong.
We benefit considerably from strong networks across Scotland: SGSAH has already been
mentioned, as has our relationship with the University of St Andrews; we are also founding
members of the Scottish Arts and Humanities Alliance (SAHA) and the Scottish Research Integrity
Network. The scale and ethos of the Scottish sector means that we benefit from being equal
partners in Universities Scotland (US), helping to shape research policy in a way that is sensitive to
the contingencies of the performing arts and small institutions, and participating in wider sectoral
initiatives (such as Broad’s chairing of a US steering group on the commercial promotion of
specialist research facilities, through Interface).
Beyond Scotland, networks such as CUK Research Forum are significant, not only as a locus for
sharing good practice, but also to meet specific practical needs (for example, supporting
cooperation on good ethical practice through the CUK Ethics Committee).
Our systemic use of networks extends to efforts to shape discourse internationally, for example
through Broad’s membership of the drafting group for the Vienna Declaration on Artistic Research,
which seeks to extend the definitions of research given in the OECD’s Frascati Manual to embrace,
unambiguously, Artistic Research. This work will be especially significant in countries that ally their
policies for research closely to the Manual; following the launch of the declaration, Broad is now a
member of the 6-person working group developing definitions for the next edition of the Manual.

Contribution to the disciplines
We aim to make a strong contribution to the vitality and sustainability of our wider disciplines, and
the cause of research in specialist performing arts institutions. In the first three years of the AP, we
welcomed more than two thousand delegates to the Conservatoire, hosting the ELIA Biennial with
Glasgow School of Art, 2014 (c.300 delegates from across Europe); the Congress of the AEC,
                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2015 (c.275 delegates from across Europe); and the Congress of the International Society for
Music Education (ISME), 2016 (c.1800 delegates from around the world).
These three large events are indicative of our approach, which is to prioritise work that will
contribute to our disciplines, enliven and refresh our own research environment, and allow us to
influence disciplinary and institutional discourse beyond our walls. This approach is evidenced in
events and initiatives such as NEXUS #1 IN/ACTION, an online symposium that was the inaugural
meeting of the Contemporary Performance in Higher Education Network (2020, hosted RCS.
Bissell, chair, 133 delegates from 7 countries); Pedagogies, Practices & the Future of Folk Music in
Higher Education (2018, two conferences hosted RCS and Sibelius Academy, Helsinki. Dickson,
founder and chair, 83 delegates from 11 countries), which has led to plans for a new AEC Platform
for Tradition, Folk and World Music; and the interdisciplinary Art-making in the Anthropocene
seminar series (co-funded by RSE and RCS, hosted RCS. Doolittle, Hopfinger and MacRae, co-
chairs, 202 participants from 14 countries), which was presented at the New European Bauhaus
Conference in April 2021. We pay particular attention to supporting emergent ECR networks, such
as Spheres of Singing and Shared Narratives noted above, and the Conservatoires UK Research
Student Conference (2017, hosted RCS. Whiteside, chair, 40 PGR delegates from UK and
Ireland). We also contribute to well-established events, such as the Music in Nineteenth-Century
Britain conference (2015, RCS hosted. Broad, co-chair, 83 delegates from 10 countries).
Numerous collaborations and partnerships involving individual researchers, such as ECR
Whiteside’s work with Georgetown and Florida universities and Scottish Ballet on Dance for MS,
are managed and supported by the Exchange team.

Contributions to wider society
Our researchers are well networked in the wider culture sector as the examples in Practising
Research: The New Athenaeum demonstrate. Traditional patterns of employment in the
Conservatoire, in which part time contracts are typical, both reflect and facilitate a close
relationship with industry. The number of part time PGR students we support also mirrors this:
many such students also have significant careers as professional freelance artists. We make full
use of the levers available to support flexible working for staff and PGRs alike, including (for
example) offering students Leave of Absence for periods of full-time professional work, and this
supports a creative culture where the boundary between professional life within and outwith the
Conservatoire is porous. Individual colleagues’ external networks are amplified by sectoral
organisations – an example being The Work Room, a Glasgow-based network that includes ECR
Hopfinger, Gonzalez and PGRs Henry and Watson among a wider network of around 150
practitioners and small companies.
The Exchange team further stimulates and facilitates effective knowledge exchange with business,
industry and charities by identifying potentially valuable opportunities for individual staff members
(for example, through agencies such as Interface and mechanisms such as SFC’s Innovation
Vouchers); supporting researcher-led exchange through Athenaeum KE awards and tailored
support for innovation; and ensuring effective partnerships (including IPR management) through
contracts and memoranda of agreement. Since the organisations with which we have the closest
links are often not-for-profit, or have tight margins, we often contribute to strategic partnerships by
providing in-kind support in the form of additional staff time.




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




11 Visual minutes of the 2019 SHIFT summer school

Innovation support is closely integrated with research support and operates through a number of
strands:
    •   Athenaeum Awards (including sabbatical awards) for KE;
    •   staff innovation support;
    •   our entrepreneurial education programme.
Support is tailored to need and includes advice and mentoring on business start-up and
development, and issues such as IPR management. The KE Manager oversees this support and
assists staff in pursuing external opportunities, such as the Converge Challenge competition for
entrepreneurs or the RSE’s Enterprise Fellowship. We worked with Converge to create a new
strand of the competition that would support innovation in the creative industries, and colleagues
have been shortlisted 5 times in this Scotland-wide competition. One of the academics shortlisted
for a Converge award went on to win an RSE Fellowship and is now CEO of a new company
Stageport, which offers innovative digital solutions to the theatre industry.
Recognising that the sectoral mechanisms for innovation support are not always sensitive to the
requirements of the creative industries we have invested innovation funds in new partnerships with
commercial potential. Our ‘Make It Work’ programme was designed to support creative industries
applications for Innovation Vouchers, with partnership matching, development time and
contributions to project costs. Outcomes so far include a trailer-length animation for part of
Doolittle’s opera Jan Tait and the Bear, designed to support the animator and composer to achieve
substantial industry funding for a full-length animated film.
The Exchange also runs four interlinked strands of entrepreneurial education for students
(including PGRs) and graduates: ‘Make It Happen’ (a programme of enterprise events throughout
the year); the ‘Make It Happen Fund’ (ten awards of £1k for recent graduates, with mentoring and
further support); ‘The Road Ahead’ (professional skills week run in conjunction with the Student
Union) and SHIFT, an innovative entrepreneurial summer school developed in collaboration with
the Glasgow School of Art and Queen Margaret University.
                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Many of our contributions to wider society are based on long-term relationships. An example is our
work with Creative Scotland, to shape policy around youth arts – the body of work that underpins
one of the ICSs in this submission. Among the strongest examples of this approach, though, is
ECR Whiteside’s research partnership with Scottish Ballet, which has had a strong impact on the
company’s developing practice. Whiteside was initially involved in evaluating the company’s
Dancers’ Education Group, an innovative scheme that seeks to enhance and extend the
professional lives of dancers through a sustained programme of professional development in
education. The success of this partnership led on to successive and ever-closer working with the
company in its work in Dance Health – specifically its Dance for Parkinson’s Scotland, Time To
Dance (dance for dementia) and Elevate© (dance for multiple sclerosis) programmes. Whiteside’s
distinctive qualitative approach, which among other methods involves her building significant
relationships with participants through the act of dancing with them, has generated a wide range of
insights including how (for example) a movement with aesthetic intent can help a person with
Parkinson’s achieve control of their body that would otherwise prove challenging. The initial contact
was made through the Exchange team while Whiteside was a PGR student, and the Exchange has
continued to support her in contractual matters, IPR etc., as the relationship has grown from an
essentially transactional one to a genuine partnership producing academic outputs alongside
professional insights and substantial funding (£0.5m) for the company.




12 ECR Bethany Whiteside dances with a participant in one of Scottish Ballet's dance health programmes

We seek to be changed by our relationships with business and industry. An example of this is our
partnership with d/Deaf theatre company Solar Bear, which was kicked off in 2012 with an SFC
Innovation Voucher exploring the training of d/Deaf actors. From that initial work has grown an
undergraduate programme – our BA Performance in British Sign Language and English - which is
innovative internationally and will soon produce its second cohort of conservatoire-trained d/Deaf
actors. A strategic doctoral studentship is tracing the experience of students on the programme,
and staff and students alike have contributed to significant cultural change at the Conservatoire.
We expect, in future, that this will develop into new strands of research.

                                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Selected indicators of wider recognition
Journal Editorship
   •     Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (Bissell, Associate Editor (-2018))
   •     Music Performance Research (Broad, Editor)
   •     Scottish Music Review (Broad, Ed Board)
   •     Journal of the Alamire Foundation (Fitch, F., Ed. Advisory Board)
   •     Scottish Journal of Performance (PGR Harvie, Editor) (Broad and Whiteside, Editorial
         Board)
Participation on grants committees
   •     KEAR Composer Residency, Bowling Green State 2014 (MacDonald)
   •     The Work Room Residencies 2018 (Gonzalez)
   •     Ivor Guest Grant, Society for Dance Research (Whiteside)
   •     COALESCE Research Fund (Irish Educational Research Council) (Jaap)
Fellowships
   •     2014 Winston Churchill Travelling Fellowship (Thorpe)
   •     2016 Civitella Ranieri Fellowship (Buckley)
   •     2020 Fellowship of the Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and
         Commerce (Jaap)
Prizes
   •     2014 Christopher Monk Award of the Historic Brass Society (Myers)
   •     2014 Frances Densmore Prize of the American Musical Instrument Society (Myers)
   •     2014 IAMLS Personal Achievement Award (McAulay)
   •     2016 Fulbright Scholarship (Buckley)
   •     2016 Whedon Studies Association: Short Mr Pointy for the best essay in Whedon Studies
         (Chapter in Sounds of Fear and Wonder, output in this submission)
   •     2018 The Anthony Baines Memorial Prize of the Galpin Society (Myers)
   •     2018 British Composer Award for Amateur or Young Performers (Searle, Microscopic
         Dances)
   •     2019 Nation’s Lifesavers award: Universities UK’s MadeAtUni campaign (Thorpe)
   •     2020 PRS Women Make Music Award (Buckley)
   •     2020 Gold award at the New York Festivals Radio Awards (Buckley)
   •     2020 Scottish Awards for New Music (MacRae, Anthropocene, Large-scale work)
Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees
   •     European Platform for Artistic Research in Music (Broad, Chair)
   •     ELIA Working Group on Artistic Research (Broad)

                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   SGSAH Executive (Broad)
   •   AEC Working Group for Diversity, Identity and Inclusiveness 2018-21 (Dickson)
   •   Natural Environment Research Council (Doolittle)
   •   Canadian New Music Network (Doolittle, Board Member)
   •   Scottish Music Centre (Doolittle, Board Member)
   •   SGSAH Disciplinary+ Catalyst co-lead for Creative Arts and Design (Doolittle, Gonzalez,
       Whiteside)
   •   Sistema Scotland (Fitch, L., Board Member)
   •   Scottish Government Cross-Party Group for Music, Music Education and Music Business
       (Fitch, L.)
   •   Arts and Humanities Research Council Peer Review College (Gonzalez)
   •   Scottish Educational Research Association (Jaap, President Elect)
   •   Association Repertoire International d'Iconographie Musicale (Myers, Vice-President 2011-
       2019)
   •   New Music Scotland (Searle, Chair 2015-19)
   •   Justice and Arts Scotland (Thorpe)
   •   Society for Dance Research (Whiteside, Executive Committee Member)
Invited keynotes, lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles
   •   World Music Conference (WOMEX) 2018 (Dickson, keynote)
   •   Pedagogies, Practices and the Future of Folk Music in Higher Education II, Helsinki
       (Dickson, keynote)
   •   Symposium, Universtät Wien, Neue Forschungen zur Isaac und Senfl: Musik und
       Wissenschaft zur Maximilian-Jahr 2019 (Fitch, F.)
   •   Third KISD Masterclass: Writing and Performance for Integrated Design Postgraduates,
       Köln International School of Design, 2019 (Gonzalez)
   •   ‘How Art Seduces’, Köln International School of Design, 2016 (Invited lecture, Gonzalez).
   •   Faure Tag, Hochschule fur Musik und Theater Leipzig/Peters Edition 2018 (Howat)
   •   Conference de Prestige, Universite de Montreal 2018 (Howat). Four guest public lectures.
   •   Lithuanian Academy of Music and Theatre, Vilnius 2018 (MacDonald)
   •   Escola Superior de Música Catalunya (ESMUC), Barcelona 2019 and 2020 (MacDonald)
   •   Icelandic Academy of the Arts 2016 (MacDonald)
   •   4th International Conference on Romantic Brass: Presentation, Preservation, Interpretation,
       Basel and Bern, 2017 (Myers, invited keynote)
   •   Joint conference of the Galpin Society and the American Musical Instrument Society, 2017
       (Myers, chair)
   •   British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies Annual Conferences, 2020, 2019, 2018
       (Robertson-Kirkland, chair)

                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   •   “Dangers in the Music Room” April 2020, University of Southern California (Robertson-
       Kirkland, invited lecture).
   •   Eighteenth-century Arts Education Research Network, Historical Performance Institute,
       May 2019, Indiana University (Robertson-Kirkland, Keynote)
Peer review
   •   18th Century Studies (Robertson-Kirkland)
   •   Animal Behaviour (Doolittle)
   •   Arts and Humanities in Higher Education (Gonzalez)
   •   Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies (Gonzalez)
   •   Human Relations (Gilmore)
   •   Journal of Emerging Dance Scholarship (Whiteside)
   •   Journal of the American Musicological Society (Broad, Halfyard)
   •   Journal of Artistic Research (Searle, Gonzalez)
   •   Journal of the Royal Musical Association (Fitch, L.)
   •   Management Learning (Gilmore)
   •   Music Analysis (Fitch, L.)
   •   Music Education Research (Jaap)
   •   Music Performance Research (Fitch, L.)
   •   Music Sound and the Moving image (Halfyard)
   •   Nordic Journal for Dance (Whiteside)
   •   Parsejournal.com (Broad)
   •   Royal Music Association Research Chronicle (Robertson-Kirkland)
   •   Sage OPEN (Jaap)
   •   Slayage: The International Journal of Buffy+ (Halfyard)
   •   Scottish Journal of Performance (Silberschatz, Gonzalez)
   •   Street Art and Urban Creativity (Gilmore)
   •   Subjectivity (Gonzalez)
   •   Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (Silberschatz)




                                                                                        Page 25
