Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University
 Unit of Assessment 19 - Politics and International Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and context
 Politics and International Studies (PAIS) research at Leeds Beckett University (LBU) is
 renowned internationally for an applied focus on tackling global inequalities, and for making a
 positive impact on policy-making. In the period since REF 2014, PAIS research at LBU has
 made significant advances, supported by enhancements in the research environment,
 sabbaticals and leadership delivered through the School Research Strategy. Significant areas of
 research strength include: political economy, with a focus on feminist and gender analysis; and
 peace studies, which foregrounds an ethical position of non-violence, and is feminist, critical and
 qualitative.

 The eleven members of PAIS are located in the Leeds School of Social Sciences (LSSS),
 primarily in the Politics and International Relations (PIR) group (nine of eleven PAIS members).
 Other PAIS colleagues are in Criminology and Sociology. These three are collectively known as
 the Social Policy groups within LSSS. All members of PAIS researchers are members and
 leaders in the Centre for Applied Social Research (CeASR). This is a strong, research-active
 group that is making its first submission to the REF, where PAIS scholars were previously
 included under Unit of Assessment 22, Social Work and Social Policy (SWSP) in 2014. CeASR
 operates across the Social Policy groups and into the School of Health and Community Studies.
 PAIS has grown into a discrete research unit resulting from the LSSS Research Strategy, linked
 to CeASR’s research development strategy to ensure that PAIS was supported and funded.
 PAIS has embodied equality and diversity through the leadership of its female Head of Subject
 (Price) and the female Head of its research centre (Julian). Furthermore, Price and Julian as
 experienced, active researchers provide crucial leadership and mentoring. This leadership has
 allowed PAIS to grow a research presence that did not exist in 2014.

 In 2016, LBU put in place twelve DoRs to provide leadership at the level of UoA. PAIS is co-
 ordinated by the Director of Research (DoR) for Social Work and Social Policy (Spracklen), who
 is responsible for research within the Social Policy subject groups (Criminology, Sociology and
 PIR) in LSSS. The DoR is a strategic professorial appointment who works closely with the Dean
 of LSSS (Craig) to deliver the research and impact strategy. The LSSS Research Strategy was
 written and approved by the School in 2015 with the appointment of Craig, following consultation
 with all academic staff. It has since been endorsed by the Directors of Research.

 Research and impact strategy
 The primary aim of the LSSS Research Strategy is “to have a positive impact on the social and
 economic well-being of the communities that we serve at regional, national and international
 levels”. This aim captures our professional ethos and commitment to research and research
 practice that tackles global inequalities. This aim is pursued through four objectives articulated in
 the School Research Strategy and which frame our research activities and impact efforts:
 (1)     Producing high quality research that is critically engaged with current societal issues and
 concerns;
 (2)     Engaging with the wider community, of academics, policy makers, practitioners, and the
 public, to ensure that our research has positive social impacts;
 (3)     Building research capacity through developing our own colleagues and providing high
 quality doctoral and research training;


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (4)    Ensuring that we operate on a sustainable basis, with regards to resources, environment
 and the well-being of our staff.

 PAIS research is aligned with broader university research strategies agreed by the DoR with the
 Dean of LSSS, which is implemented in all parts of LSSS overseen by the DoR (Sociology,
 Criminology and PIR). The DoR vision for 2029, and hence PAIS, is for ‘all staff across these
 three subject groups to be research active, and for research to be making an impact locally,
 nationally and internationally in line with the LSSS research strategy’. As is documented below,
 since 2016 PAIS has met the objectives of the strategy by increasing research activity and
 impact with increased national and international presence. All members of PAIS are now
 research active with corresponding impact activities build into their research portfolio. The PAIS
 impact strategy was to ensure that all research funded internally was approved subject to
 researchers identifying pathways to impact: collaborations, partnerships, training, or policy
 development. Our two impact case studies on our research in peace studies (Julian; O’Reilly)
 are submitted in this REF but others are emerging in global inequalities and British politics.

 Since 2014 PAIS has delivered on our strategic aim. For example, as of 31 July 2020, current
 and past members of PAIS have produced 10 books (including 5 research monographs), 66
 journal articles, 25 book chapters, 22 conference contributions, 1 conference proceeding and 1
 working paper. All members of staff in PAIS are research-active. All members of staff in PAIS
 and the PIR subject group consider journal impact factors (while recognising their limitations) to
 make outlet choices in their Research Action Plans, and this allows this supports our
 researchers to ensure that outputs are aimed at highly-esteemed journals to increase quality
 (Objective 1) and global scope of our research (LSSS Vision).

 Enhancing research through investments in people
 We have made significant strides in PAIS since 2014 by investing in staff and research
 development. Initial work in 2014 and 2015 focused on increasing the number of academic
 colleagues who were engaged in research activity. The primary vehicle for this was CeASR
 (approved as an LBU research centre and launched in June 2013). CeASR established a range
 of activities, including research programmes, training, writing retreats and seminar series. These
 were successful in increasing the number of colleagues engaged in research (from five to all of
 those in PAIS) and supporting those already involved to further develop the quality of their
 outputs. This has helped individuals find new research interests, refine existing ones, and seek
 out collaborations within the framework of the centre. The centre has worked collaboratively and
 developed its own Strategy and Plan aligned to the LSSS strategy.

 In recognition of the growing strength of research across the whole of the School, CeASR was
 restructured and re-focused in 2016 following the strategic appointment of Julian, who oversaw
 the review. CeASR is now focused on PAIS and SWSP research. All PAIS research is located
 within CeASR within LSSS. The centre and some of the programmes are interdisciplinary across
 PAIS and SWSP, with programme leads being drawn from both to enhance practices of trans-
 disciplinarity and to act as strategic drivers for research development. The CeASR research
 strategy aims to increase interdisciplinary research, external partnerships and collaborations.
 This work is organised around five research programme themes:
     • Child Welfare (led by Frost);
     • Crime, Justice & Society (led by Cockcroft);
     • Global Inequalities (led by Ibrahim and Price);
     • Peace, Conflict and Human Rights (led by Julian and O’Reilly);


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Social Change (led by Gerodetti and Davies).

 As part of the CeASR refocus, we established the Early Career Research Network (led by
 Asquith) which provides training and support for colleagues (see People Section below), and
 introduced a mentoring scheme.

 We started with Global Inequalities as the sole programme for PAIS, with some interdisciplinary
 overlaps with Social Change. We have supported peace research through the supportive
 environment within PAIS and within Global Inequalities, and by appointing new staff (O’Reilly).
 Once we had built the capacity within PAIS, we were able to establish Peace as a separate
 programme in CeASR. Global Inequalities and Peace were the strategically identified
 programmes that have enabled the research environment of PAIS to grow, allowing us to attract
 post-graduate students and secure new partnerships and grants. This aligns with the primary
 aim of PAIS and the LSSS research strategy. The future strategic aims of PAIS are to grow the
 research in Global Inequalities and Peace.

 CeASR has partnerships with local, national and global networks, organisations and individuals
 sympathetic to its aims (for example, the Feminist Peace Research Network, and Section Four
 for full details). These partners engage with our research. As a result of these partnerships staff
 in PAIS can create research outputs that build in impact relationships, have avenues for social
 influence, and can work toward our larger aim to help tackle global inequalities. CeASR receives
 £60,000 per annum from LSSS to support the development activities of its programmes,
 including: a formal newsletter; workshops and the purchasing of books for early careers
 researchers; seminars and lectures bringing in external speakers; seed-grants for helping staff
 develop collaborations ahead of funding bids; and smaller grants to support research (data
 collection, data analysis, dissemination, networking). Funding calls operate every three months
 in the academic cycle. CeASR programme leads meets with the DoR and centre heads to
 review all funding applications. The progress of PAIS is the result of a range of additional
 investments, including sabbaticals for Price, Purcell, Redhead and Julian; Early Career Funding
 for Julian and Redhead; contained periods of research leave for Purcell, Raviv, Houseman and
 O’Reilly; and through four funded PhDs and mentoring.

 CeASR is the vehicle through which we can share interdisciplinary approaches and
 methodologies within PAIS, the School, and across the University. There are 130 internal
 members of academic staff associated with CeASR. Seminars and lectures are attended by
 academics from across LBU, and some events have been led by social scientists in other
 schools (for example, a lecture on ‘whiteness’ by Dr Shona Hunter from Education which was
 attended by over 30 people, from a range of schools). Internally to the School, CeASR
 encourages staff to work and align themselves to its interdisciplinary programmes via
 discussions with line managers, research mentors and programme leads about the best place
 for their own research.

 Effective leadership
 In 2016, LBU put in place twelve DoRs to provide leadership at the level of UoA. DoRs are
 senior Professorial Appointments, and work closely with relevant Deans of Schools to set targets
 for research activity, evaluate performance, and manage resources. The DoR took two steps to
 further develop a supportive research environment for PAIS colleagues. The first was to transfer
 all the research funding to CeASR. The second step was establishing a system for academic
 research planning, which supports all colleagues to develop a research plan with DoR feedback


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and support. The DoR convenes a ‘Professors and Readers group’ which advises on the
 development of the research strategy and the management of the unit and SWSP. For PAIS, the
 DoR works closely with the Head of Subject, the Head of CeASR and the Dean of the School on
 a PAIS research leadership panel.

 As well as CeASR, another key part of the PAIS research environment is the PIR group itself.
 PIR has a supportive, pro-active, research culture led by Price and Julian. In addition, PIR
 received GCRF funding through AHRC-ESRC PaCCS, based on research themes that
 engender further collaboration. The Global Inequalities £35,000 research cluster funding
 awarded by LBU fostered interdisciplinary research through collaboration with Cultural Studies
 and Humanities and provided support and engagement opportunities for staff involved. For
 example, funded fieldwork was undertaken in West Africa, leading to publications by Price.
 Building on the work of Julian and Wright, a CeASR research programme on Peace, Conflict and
 Human Rights was established in 2017. The recent recruitment of O’Reilly has further
 strengthened this area of work, and O’Reilly became the programme co-lead in 2019.

 As such, we can demonstrate world leading critical research through our outputs with an
 emphasis on engaging with practice and tackling global inequalities. It has growing interest in
 British politics and political movements. The research profile of the group has been raised
 through hosting a range of events, including the 2016 Conference of the British International
 Studies International Political Economy Group. Public engagement with PIR research is in part
 achieved through the Annual Politics Lecture, The Annual Leeds Peace Lecture, the Annual
 Week-long Politics and IR Festival and through a regular PIR research seminar. These lecture
 series have generated partnerships, with staff sitting on the Boards of partners as trustees
 (Wright, Julian, Price).

 Our strategy for the PIR group is for it to continue to grow its research activity in global
 inequalities and peace studies, as well as political movements and British politics. The aim is
 that every member of PIR becomes part of PAIS in the next REF. PIR and therefore PAIS will
 also have a group of senior research staff – Readers and Professors – bringing in research
 income and PGR students. This fits with the vision and the ambition of the LSSS research
 strategy.

 Summary of our research strategy successes and vibrant, sustainable research
 community:
 As a result of our ambitions and actions, since 2016, we have:
 (1)     Increased the research activities of all staff and ensured PAIS research is operates in a
 research environment that is inclusive, developmental and sustainable.
 (2)     Ensured the sustainability of the research student community. The 2014 REF submission
 reported 6 completions when PAIS was submitted in SWSP. For the current REF assessment
 period, there have been 7 completions. There were 14 PhDs enrolled on 31 July 2020.
 (3)     Generated impact (see Mainstreaming Unarmed Approaches to Civilian
 Peacekeeping, case study by Julian; Gender and Agency in War and Peace, case study by
 O’Reilly), increased research grant income, collaborations and partnerships – all of which
 demonstrates that we are making a real difference in tackling global inequalities as well as
 increasing the knowledge of the subject field.

 All this means we are well-placed to continue to grow our research culture.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 PAIS is committed to tackling global inequalities through our research and our impact, and this is
 embedded in our staffing and research development strategies. This aligns us with the LSSS
 School Strategy, and its aim and objectives, and shows how we contribute to it. That is, we are
 committed to building a community of active researchers withing PAIS and LSSS, as well as the
 University.

 Staffing strategy and equality and inclusion
 LBU has strong institution-wide Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) policies: we are a member
 of the Race Equality Charter, we hold an Athena SWAN Bronze award and have been a
 Stonewall Top 100 employer three years running. PAIS embeds EDI in its staffing strategy, as
 does the School. The Head of Subject and the Dean sit on the panel for all new academic
 appointments to ensure that their research supports and captures the aims of the Research
 Strategy. During the current REF assessment period, four Senior Lecturer appointments have
 been made (Gifkins, Houseman, Purcell, Raviv), which were strategic appointments aimed to
 refresh and expand the research base and leadership as well as strengthen identified areas
 within our research themes. In addition, Craig joined LBU at Professorial rank when he was
 appointed as the Dean of the School in 2015, a major strategic appointment designed to
 facilitate and champion LBU research aims at a crucial time of transition. As a PAIS researcher,
 Craig contributes directly to the development of PAIS. These appointments have echoed our
 commitment (in line with the University’s clear commitment to EDI) to increasing the equality and
 diversity of the staffing base, by ensuring a more equal gender balance with increases in female
 senior leadership. For example, in the PIR Subject Group 45% of staff are female (five out of
 eleven) and the PAIS research leadership panel is 50% female. As part of our ongoing
 commitment to inclusion, the School and the PIR subject group recognise that people from a
 BAME background are strongly under-represented in our staffing base. In response, an action
 plan on equality and inclusion is being developed by the School Academic Committee’s Equality
 and Diversity Sub-Committee to further enhance our support for all colleagues and further foster
 an environment that facilitates their development as researchers.

 The PIR group has also created new investment pathways for Early Career Researchers by
 introducing appointments at Lectureship level. This is providing additional opportunities to
 appoint early career researchers, to provide opportunities for career progression and further
 develop its research profile. Four members of staff have joined at this level since 2015 (O’Reilly,
 White, Byrne and Ajala), with O’Reilly being promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020.

 Research profile development strategy
 A key aim for the 2014-20 period has been to increase the number of academic colleagues who
 are producing high quality research, with the goal that all staff who have a significant
 responsibility for research should produce work of at least international standing. We invested in
 existing staff to enhance their research activities and profiles through CeASR. For example, all
 academic members of LSSS are required to develop a Research Action Plan in their annual
 Performance Development Reviews. These are monitored by Heads of Subject and the relevant
 line manager (if it is not the Head). Each DoR revisits Research Action Plans so as help staff
 develop research as well as monitor their progress in case additional support is needed. All
 funding decisions in CeASR’s panels are subject to the inclusion of an up-to-date Research
 Action Plan, and all recipients of funding are accountable to produce the outputs and grant
 applications they were funded to finish. In the PIR subject group, the Head of Subject ensures
 that every member of staff is enabled to make progress on research through time allocations,

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 financial support, and support for research assistants that can free up staff to meet deadlines on
 bids and writing research outputs. The leadership of the Head of Subject and the Director of
 CeASR, with its collaborative ethos, encourages an environment where PIR staff work together
 as colleagues and not individuals in competition with one another. The two members of PAIS
 who are not in the PIR subject group reside in Sociology and Criminology, where the School
 commitment to research activity ensures that they have fully supportive line management and
 their own Research Action Plans.

 A key PAIS aim has been to support current staff to become research active and to become
 ‘Research Independent’, which means they have been assessed in the Code of Practice at
 Category A to be entered into the REF in this submission. All staff in PAIS meet this criterion,
 and have won funding from CeASR and staff development to do research, publish and create
 pathways to impact. Others in the school are being helped to become active researchers. For
 example, one member of the PIR subject group is Working Towards Independence in Unit 19, as
 defined by the University’s Code of Practice on Research Independence. There are also two
 members of the PIR subject group who have been assessed to be Working Towards
 Independence in Unit 20. All members of the PIR subject group are research active (nine) or
 working to be research active (two). The two members working towards independence have
 access to CeASR funds and both have received funding to seed-corn partnerships, as well as
 funding for research assistants. In 2014, only half of the PIR subject group was research active
 compared to 65% now.

 Staff professional development
 We maintain a commitment to supporting the professional development of staff as a means not
 only to assist in their personal growth, but also as a strategy to enhance our general research
 environment and to distil a cooperative ethos as a community of scholars. For example, since
 2016, an annual round for promotion to Professor and Readers has been in place. During the
 period, the University has conferred one promotion to readership in PAIS, (Julian). Julian was
 then promoted to full Professor in 2020. Julian is the first woman to be a Reader in Politics and
 International Relations, and a Professor of Politics and International Relations, at LBU.

 Moreover, funding was provided to support professional development via research activity
 through several pump-priming and competitive bidding mechanisms. These included Early and
 Mid-career research prizes and Research Cluster Awards for multi-disciplinary teams working
 across schools on specific research problems. In addition, a university-wide sabbatical scheme
 was put in place to provide time for developing significant research projects.

 With the creation of the DoR role, LBU has also delegated more funding for strategic
 management at UoA level. The DoR is provided with a proportion of university funding from
 Research England (QR moneys) to support research activity within PAIS and SWSP, around
 £60,000 per annum. This has been allocated on a competitive basis to fund research,
 dissemination, and engagement activity. PAIS has won just under half of that money, even
 though the unit is much smaller than others in SWSP. Research funding is also provided at
 School level (£20,000 per annum), through the allocation of a portion of the School budget to
 support research activity and staff development.

 This staff development funding can be individually accessed via application and can be used to
 support conference attendance, research training, and other developmental activities. For
 example, staff have been supported for range of prestigious international conferences, including
 but not limited to: International Peace Research Association (Julian); International Studies

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association (Price, Julian, O’Reilly); European International Studies Association (Price); Latin
 American Studies Association (Purcell); American Political Studies Association (Craig); Political
 Studies Association (Craig, Byrne); British Sociological Association (Ibrahim).

 Staff development has also been supported through group-based activities appropriate to the
 different stages to which the researcher has engaged in social research. For example, to foster
 our aim to support and develop staff, CeASR provides peer and mentoring support through the
 Early Career Research Network, encouraging and giving opportunities for writing days, training
 on how to communicate research, and research ethics support. For those developing their
 research into funding bids and publications, specialist training sessions, appropriate to social
 sciences are provided. For those looking to establish partnerships in line with our impact
 strategy, there are sessions that help people learn to develop such links. Specialist sessions are
 further offered to programme leads to help them develop researcher development strategies and
 focus their programme areas. CeASR also manages a research mentor scheme, with 24
 involved as informal mentors and mentees.

 Research students
 PAIS is committed to develop the next generation of researchers from which we can draw on
 new research enthusiasm while also promoting intellectual innovations for our discipline. As part
 of this commitment we have dedicated resources so that our community of research students
 has been able to grow since 2014 from an enrolled number of 2 to 14 at 31 July 2020. The PIR
 subiect group had 4 fully-funded Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) schemes PhD students in
 2014-2018, all of whom completed. We have drawn in students from the Global South, ensuring
 we are tackling global inequalities. Since 2014, there have been 7 PhDs awarded to PAIS
 students. This matches the total number awarded in the previous REF period under Social Work
 and Social Policy, which highlights that within one REF cycle PAIS can match the performance
 of larger and more experienced UoAs.

             2013/14   2014/15     2015/16     2016/17    2017/18     2018/19 2019/20      Total
  Politics   0         1           1           3          2           0       0            7

 The dip in completions in 2018/19 is a result of improvements in on-time completion rates for our
 full-time PhDs. The number of PhDs has remained stable given the small size of the subject
 group and the PAIS REF unit. All staff in PAIS and the PIR subject group have undertaken
 university training to be research supervisors, so future capacity has been secured to
 accommodate an increase in numbers for the remaining REF period and beyond. To increase
 our PGR research community PIR has produced bespoke marketing material to attract MRes
 students in its subject fields, and this has proven a success in its first two years of
 implementation, with 4 MRes students and one completion. The strategic benefit of the MRes
 programme is that it allows staff to complete research student supervision training while offering
 a research foundation year for PhD students, with the expectation of improvements in successful
 completions.

 Doctoral students are provided with access to a dedicated postgraduate research community
 office space on the tenth floor of Calverley building, a dedicated laptop computer (with all
 software including any dedicated apps for students with specific learning needs) and a £3000
 allowance to support their research and professional development. Research training is in place
 to develop students’ research skills, with the Graduate School running seminars on topics such
 as statistics, ethnography, interviewing, preparing for conferences, publishing, writing a PhD,


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and preparing for a viva. Students have access to the University Library, which is open 24/7,
 access to extensive on-line resources, and easy access to the British Library at nearby Boston
 Spa, to further support their research.

 A clear university framework of processes and procedures is in place to ensure that students
 receive high quality supervision and that their progress and performance is monitored and
 assessed. All meetings are recorded online. Students meet with their supervisors at least once a
 month, and all students have to pass a Confirmation of Registration. Every year there are robust
 processes for progression, which support student completions. Progression panels involve the
 student submitting a progress report and an examination by two appropriate researchers
 approved by the Graduate School.

 The launch of the Graduate School in 2018 has provided further opportunities to develop support
 for students. It is the Graduate School that has reviewed and improved quality assurance
 matters (admissions, progressions, training, conformations of registration, and exams). The
 Graduate School provides the online software for monitoring all student supervisions, and the
 University Research Degree Sub-committee (URDSC) audits for compliance. LSSS has a Post-
 Graduate Research Co-ordinator for Social Policy, which includes PAIS. This Co-ordinator sits
 on URDSC and works with the DoR and Subject Heads to ensure we are compliant.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 PAIS is committed to bidding for funding to support our research tackling global inequalities, as
 our work involves real, long-term engagement that only funding can allow. As discussed earlier,
 we have used CeASR funding to create partnerships that have enabled us to secure external
 income. We have bid for and won Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) funding, as this is
 a key funder for tackling global inequalities. This aligns us with the LSSS School Strategy and its
 aim and objectives 1, 2 and 4:

 1)      Producing high quality research that is critically engaged with current societal issues and
 concerns;
 (2)     Engaging with the wider community, of academics, policy makers, practitioners, and the
 public, to ensure that our research has positive social impacts;
 (4)     Ensuring that we operate on a sustainable basis, with regard to resources, environment
 and the well-being of our staff.

 In this period, we secured £135,071 in total (see below for details):
 Research income and research income-in-kind (£)
  Source                     13-14 14-15 14-16 16-17 17-18                18-19    19-20 Total
  BIS Research               1,946 -181        12,491 28,582 10,035       8,770    64,049 125,692
  Councils, Royal
  Society, British
  Academy and Royal
  Society of Edinburgh
  UK-based charities         0      0          0       0         0        0        9,379     9,379
  (open competitive
  process)
  Total                      1,946 -181        12,491 28,582 10,035       8,770    73,428 135,071



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and engagement within PAIS is supported by Research and Enterprise Services and
 research support is given through Libraries and Learning Innovation. This includes support for
 PAIS from a Research and Impact Officer, Research Services Advisor, and Business
 Development Manager. They provide specialist support on areas including open access and
 open data; knowledge exchange and KTPs; and effective impact and dissemination strategies.
 In addition, support is provided at the School and University level in the development of research
 bids. This includes a rigorous peer-review process to ensure that bids are of the highest quality
 and aligned to our strategy. All bids in PAIS during this REF cycle (Julian, Price, Wright, Byrne,
 Willott, Ibrahim) have received this rigorous peer review.

 LBU has in place a robust set of processes to ensure that research is planned and conducted in
 an ethical manner. Each School has a Research Ethics Committee, with a Research Ethics Co-
 ordinators within each subject group. Complex issues are referred to the University Ethics
 Committee. Price is the School Research Ethics Co-ordinator as well as the Head of Subject for
 PIR, so the School has adopted good practice developed by PIR on ensuring research overseas
 is ethical and as low risk as possible.

 Julian is the PI for ‘Policy development oriented research leading to counter human trafficking
 protection and prevention policies in Kenya’ (AH/T011769/1), awarded in January 2020 for 12
 months by the AHRC. This is GCRF funding. Julian was also the PI for a 2015 AHRC-ESRC
 PaCCS Innovation Research Grant AH/N008464/1 ‘Raising Silent Voices: Harnessing local
 knowledge for communities' protection from violence in Myanmar’ worth £99,290. Finally, Julian
 is Co-I on ‘Creating Safer Space: Strengthening Civilian Protection Amidst Violent Conflict’, led
 by Dr Berit Bliesemann de Guevara at Aberystwyth University (AH/T008024/1), awarded by
 AHRC Large Grants stream in January 2020 and worth in total £1.8 million. In addition, small
 successful bids have been won by Wright and Julian from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation.

 Price was awarded £10,800 in 2019 to undertake research for the evaluation of a Department for
 Education skills and community development programme. This involved undertaking data
 collection with cohorts of children and young people participating in arts, culture and sports
 activities, with practitioners, parents, carers and organisers. In 2019 Price was also awarded a
 network grant of £6,500 by The Academic Association for Contemporary European Studies
 (UACES), to support the creation of the Network of EU-Africa Research (NEAR). This network
 aims to enable researchers, policy-makers and third sector representatives to work
 collaboratively on a global scale to examine the challenges in EU-Africa relations and to inform
 the future policy agendas.

 PAIS is using CeASR funding targeted at active researchers and ECRs to support income
 generation through nurturing and developing external partnerships, and knowledge-exchange,
 which will in turn lead to funding bids in the next REF cycle. For example, Price is being
 supported to explore links with academics at University of Ghana and Lagos State University.
 Byrne has received support to submit bids with his existing colleagues on British politics, and
 has submitted to Leverhulme for a project on teaching politics. Lastly, Ibrahim has been
 supported with funds for travel to develop an inter-disciplinary bid on activist networks with
 Professor Peter Millward at Liverpool John Moores University.

 Open access
 PAIS has a strong commitment to open access. Researchers are required to deposit their
 accepted manuscript for journal articles/conference proceedings with an ISSN, and encouraged
 to deposit, where copyright allows, book chapters, as per the University Open Research Policy.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also encourage gold open access, and researchers can apply for funding through CeASR to
 cover the cost of publication if necessary.

 Facilities
 PAIS staff work in Calverley building, at the heart of the University’s City Campus, in offices
 shared by subject group. PIR staff are all on the eighth floor of Calverley. The shared offices
 allow staff to interact and collaborate, and a dedicated meeting room allows staff to meet their
 PhD students.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 It continues to be a research aim of PAIS to create critically engaged research that speaks to
 current societal issues and which pushes disciplinary boundaries. As part of this PAIS is
 committed to engaging with the wider community, of academics, policy makers, practitioners,
 and the public, to ensure that our research has positive social impacts and has thus continued to
 deliver socially relevant research with impact.

 Contribution to the wider academic community
 Colleagues are involved in a range of activities that support the development of the work of
 professional bodies and learned societies in developing their research base and supporting
 the discipline. Craig is a co-founder of the Political Studies Association’s Specialist Group on
 Teaching and Learning, and currently co-Chair of the Political Studies Association’s Teaching
 and Learning Network. Julian established and runs the Unarmed Civilian Peacekeeping (UCP)
 Research Network. O’Reilly is a member and co-convenor of the global Feminist Peace
 Research Network. Ibrahim has also led the creation of the Political Studies Association’s
 Special Group on Political and Social Movements Specialist Group, which he co-convenes with
 John Roberts of Brunel University. Price is the co-lead of the The Academic Association for
 Contemporary European Studies (UACES) Network of EU-Africa Research (NEAR) and an
 active member of the Politics Studies Association Head of Department network.

 Staff within PAIS also contribute to the discipline and research base through leadership roles in
 journals and scholarly publishing. For example:
    - Craig is a member of the Editorial Board for the American Political Science Association’s
         Journal of Political Science Education.
    - Price is the co-editor of the Lynne Reinner book series Advances in International Political
         Economy.
    - Ibrahim is a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Cultural Analysis and Social
         Change, and Sociological Research Online, one of the three official journal of the British
         Sociological Association. Ibrahim is on the editorial review board of the book series
         Transforming Capitalism, Rowman and Littlefield International.
    - O’Reilly has co-edited a special issue of Peacebuilding on feminist peace research, with
         Laura McLeod of Manchester University.
    - Julian co-edited a special issue on UCP in Peace Review.
    - Price is an Editorial Advisory Board Member of Issues in Social Sciences, University of
         Chester Press.

 All members of PAIS act as peer-reviewers for a full-range of high-ranked journals and academic
 publishers (for example but not exclusively: Peacebuilding, Political Studies Review, European
 Political Science, The Journal of Common Market Studies, The International Journal of Human



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rights, The Journal of European Integration, The Review of African Political Economy, Peace
 Review, New Political Economy, Oxford University Press, Routledge).

 Julian was invited to be a keynote speaker at the BSV Symposium: Civilian Peacekeeping
 Unarmed Civilian Peacekeeping: Introducing the concept. Bonn, Germany, October 2015. Julian
 has also been an invited speaker at nine other events nationally and internationally (including
 Nairobi Peace Writing Workshop, Kenya, February 2020; International Gandhi Symposium,
 Austria, September 2019), demonstrating the extent of our impact in and beyond the disciplinary
 base.

 Expanding interdisciplinary academic collaboration
 PAIS and CEASR are both committed to inter-disciplinarity and to collaboration within the
 discipline. Ibrahim is a member of the Specialist Bourdieu Study Group of The British
 Sociological Association: the group held their inaugural biennial conference ‘The Contemporary
 Relevance of Pierre Bourdieu’ in July 2016, at which Ibrahim delivered a keynote lecture
 ‘Bourdieu, Activism and Public Sociology’.

 Byrne has collaborated with Prof Kevin Theakston (Leeds) and Dr Nick Randall (Newcastle) on a
 research project investigating political leadership under conditions of crisis. Byrne has also
 collaborated with Dr Peter Kerr and Dr Emma Foster (both Birmingham) on the long-term effects
 of ’Thatcherite’ policymaking, under the aegis of the ESRC Thatcher Network. Gregson was
 invited to present his research on MacIntyre's relationship to Marxism at a conference entitled
 ‘To What End? Narrative, Institutions, and Practices’, 25-27 July 2019, Notre Dame University.

 Contributions are also made to a range of academic bodies and networks which intersect and
 enhance our research environment and profile:
    - Price is a member of the Global Policy North Steering Group
    - Wright served as a reviewer for the European Commission’s Research Applications in
        the field of Science and Technology
    - Price has served as a peer reviewer for ESRC funding applications
    - Julian has served as a peer reviewer for ESRC funding applications and is an RCUK
        assessment panel member
    - Craig was a member of the Advisory Board for the School of Advanced Studies,
        University of London, which delivered a national research infrastructure, and served on
        the British Academy’s High Level Strategy Group on Quantitative Skills
    - O’Reilly is a member of AHRC Research Network on UN Television in Croatia and
        Bosnia-Herzegovina (PI Dr Catherine Baker at Hull University)

 Work is also undertaken to support public engagement, knowledge transfer and impact
 activities locally and globally through the following roles and activities:
     - Byrne’s Research on PMQs has featured in House of Commons Library Briefing Papers.
         Julian is a Board member for The Old Library project (UK), Peace News Trust and
         Nonviolent Peaceforce.
     - As detailed in our impact case studies, on the invitation of the Chairwoman of the
         Subcommittee on Civilian Crisis Prevention, Conflict Management and Integrated Action,
         a subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Bundestag, Julian went to
         Berlin to talk on the topic of UCP at a public hearing on Monday, 14 March 2016. Then,
         on the invitation of the Permanent Missions to the United Nations of Australia and
         Uruguay, Julian went to talk to the meeting at the United Nations in New York on UCP,


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        24 May 2018 at Sustaining Peace and Preventing Violence Through Unarmed Civilian
        Protection.
    -   Wright was a board member of Privacy International; the Mines Advisory Group; ICRAC,
        the new group of specialists campaigning against autonomous weapons systems.
    -   As detailed in our impact case studies, O’Reilly took part in a Participation in Knowledge
        Exchange Workshop on ‘Gender and Extremism in the Western Balkans’, organised by
        OSCE Mission to Serbia, 7-8 March 2019, Belgrade (Serbia). O’Reilly then took part in a
        second Participation in Knowledge Exchange Workshop on ‘United Nations Television
        and the Media in Former Yugoslavia: Lessons for Peacebuilders’, at Imperial War
        Museum 13 September 2019, London (UK) - co-organised by Dr Catherine Baker (Hull)
        and Suzanne Bardgett (Imperial War Museum).
    -   Price’s research on Africa and on Brexit led to her presenting her findings and taking part
        in discussions at the UK’s All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Africa and APPG for
        Trade Justice parliamentary symposium on UK-Africa Trade and Brexit on Tuesday 21st
        January 2020 in the House of Commons, London.
    -   Price’s research has also been referenced in House of Lords (2018) Library Briefing
        Brexit: Overseas Development Assistance and has prompted requests from Oxford
        Analytica, a geopolitical risk analysis and advisory firm, for her expertise.
    -   As mentioned in the funding section, Price’s research collaborations with partners across
        Europe and Africa which have been further enhanced through her leadership of the
        UACES Network of EU-African Researchers (NEAR), following a successful proposal to
        UACES for funding worth £6,500.

 CeASR has a strong social-media presence, with a Twitter feed that has 172 followers, including
 The Leeds Salon, Leeds Survivor Led Crisis Centre, and the Edith Cowan Centre for Global
 Issues based at ECU, Australia. In addition, CeASR’s newsletter and invitations to events are
 emailed to over a hundred external individuals and organisations. Research staff also publish on
 public facing for a such as the LSE Brexit Blog (Price) and in The Conversation (Byrne and
 Ajala). As a result, PAIS research is consistently plugged into wider networks that create real,
 critical knowledge exchange and public engagement.

 Summary of progress and the future
 We are proud of our research achievements to date. We are plugged into wider networks that
 create real, critical knowledge exchange and public engagement. The growth in research culture
 and performance since REF 2014 has been phenomenal and has resulted in this being a brand-
 new submission for our unit. This is reflected not only by the number of staff who have been
 submitted, the quality of the outputs, funding and PhD completions – but also in the commitment
 of all staff in producing applied social research that challenges global inequalities and changes
 lives for the better. Our success to date, aligned with an ambitious research strategy and impact
 strategy beyond this REF, gives us confidence in our potential to deliver more internationally
 excellent and world-leading, impactful research in the future.




                                                                                              Page 12
