Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment:
 D:34 (Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information Management)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our D:34 submitting unit is distinctive in drawing on the work of colleagues across two Schools:
 the Department of Journalism in the School of Arts and Social Sciences (SASS); and the Centre
 for Information Science, a research group whose members constitute the Library and
 Information Science (LIS) staff within the School of Mathematics, Computer Science and
 Engineering (SMCSE). Researchers in both Journalism and LIS lead exploration of ideas and
 issues related to the communication of factual information to the public, as well as the
 preservation and safeguarding of that information, particularly in a digital era. Their focus is on
 information that enhances civic understanding and citizen well-being, encompassing libraries
 and archives, information systems and journalistic media.

 Compared with the 2014 REF reporting period, City’s current submission is smaller but more
 cohesive, enabling us to generate high-quality work around a more clearly defined set of
 research objectives. In the 2014 submission, our UoA (D:36) included colleagues in Culture and
 Creative Industries. This cohort is now operationally and strategically aligned with Sociology; it is
 part of City’s C:21 submission for REF2021. In 2014, City established a Department of English,
 encompassing the study and production of literary works. Research from English colleagues,
 also folded into our prior UoA, now is part of City’s inaugural D:27 submission.

 Research strategy
 Prior REF assessment: LIS scholarship at City has received the highest rating in HEFCE’s
 research assessment exercises since 1996; REF2014 was a first entry into the national
 assessment process for Journalism. Our submission thus combined long-standing and emerging
 research strengths to earn our unit a top 20 national ranking in REF2014. Globally, our
 programmes have placed in the top 100 in the QS Top Universities world rankings every year
 during the current REF period; in 2021, City was ranked 21st in Library and Information
 Management and 50th in Communication and Media Studies.

 REF2014 unit strategy: Aside from the transfer of some colleagues to different units of
 assessment, Journalism and LIS (referenced in the REF2014 submission as Computer and
 Information Science) have followed our strategy as then outlined. Through the work of new and
 existing colleagues, LIS has continued strengthening its leadership position in situating and
 contextualising information science within a digital environment, with a focus on open access
 policy and practice. The empirical and conceptual work of senior LIS scholars Bawden and
 Robinson has been central to the development of new conceptual models of creativity and
 innovation in a networked space, as our 2014 strategy proposed. Journalism also has fulfilled its
 pledge to expand its position as a centre for outstanding research, particularly in areas including
 international reporting, women and journalism, and new media models and approaches. As
 described below, Journalism remains a renowned leader in productive, research-driven
 knowledge exchange with the media industry, a core identity outlined in our REF2014 strategy.

 At the time of the REF2014 submission, Journalism had newly hired six early career
 researchers as part of its development strategy. One, a PhD alumna of our department, left the
 university, but the other five have matured into highly productive City scholars, and all are
 returned with the current submission. Supported by mentoring and other activities designed to
 nurture a collective and collaborative research culture, as outlined below, all five earned
 promotions during the current REF period; Bunce and Rodgers already are Readers, and
 Abubakar, Lonsdale and Porlezza are Senior Lecturers. Three additional research hires since
 2014 have bolstered departmental strength in health communication, gendered media issues
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and investigative journalism, complementing the areas listed above. Overall, a stronger sense of
 shared purpose around the provision of information in the public interest has been achieved than
 was possible at the time of the REF2014 submission, when the department encompassed three
 disparate disciplines.

 REF2021 unit strategy: Research by City scholars in D:34 is designed to be of value to
 a) citizens in a democratic society who rely on credible and accessible information;
 b) information industry practitioners and policy makers, in line with our institution’s commitment
 of service to business and the professions; and c) the international academic community,
 primarily in the fields of journalism studies and information science. As part of our outward-facing
 philosophy and in line with the University’s impact strategy, we engage extensively in
 interactions, grounded in our research activities and discoveries, with all three sets of
 stakeholders. In doing so, we enjoy support at the department, School and University levels.
 Departmental initiatives are highlighted throughout this document. At School level, talented
 professional staff – from communications officers to grant-writing experts to research student
 support teams – help sustain our scholarship and enable our work to reach and benefit the wider
 community. Extensive University resources, many newly implemented since REF2014, are
 described in component 5(a) of this submission.

 These interactions further our research strategy of knowledge creation and transfer in multiple
 ways. Knowledge transfer to the industry ranges from service on such oversight bodies as
 Ofcom, to the provision of expert testimony to Parliament and other government bodies, to
 keynote and other high-profile talks for industry and academic organisations. As part of the
 strategic expansion of our global research reputation, City also routinely hosts international
 conferences in our field, serving academics (for example, the International Society for
 Knowledge Organization conference in 2019, coordinated by Bawden and Robinson), the
 industry practitioners whose work we examine in our scholarship (for example, the Global Fact-
 Checking Summit in 2015, Singer), and both academics and practitioners together (for example,
 the Congress of the Worldwide Association of Women Journalists and Writers in 2018, Harb).

 Indeed, connecting researchers and practitioners is a key strength and a core strategy for our
 UoA. Embedded in both our REF2021 impact case studies, for example, is our commitment to
 research that engages communities of practice to generate beneficial effects nationally and
 internationally. Our well-attended Women on Air symposia (2014, 2016 and 2018, Howell and
 Franks), highlighted in our expert women impact case study, have been cited as instrumental in
 improving industry practice around the use of female experts in leading news programmes.
 Comparably central to our crisis reporting impact case study is work of the Humanitarian News
 Research Network, launched at City in 2016; this unique initiative regularly hosts on-campus and
 external events that enable researchers and practitioners to share findings and publicly debate
 key issues (Bunce and colleagues). Colleagues’ successful grant applications for funding from
 internal and external sources will help us drive work forward in both areas in the 2020s.

 We intend our strategic commitment to knowledge creation and exchange to continue to lead to
 original scholarship that is both theoretical and empirical. Particularly within the Department of
 Journalism, which returns 13 of City’s 17.5 FTE for D:34, the REF2014 and especially the
 REF2021 periods have seen a significant shift from a predominantly practice-based culture,
 focused on preparing graduates to successfully enter the workforce, to one in which research is
 more prominent, more widespread and more broadly seen as integral to effective teaching. This
 shift has been enacted through hiring and promotion decisions, active research mentoring,
 regular research seminars to enhance visibility of our work across and beyond our department,
 and extensive institutional support, as well as through colleagues’ individual efforts.

 During the REF2021 period, we have consolidated research in the Department of Journalism
 around four clusters. One is gender and diversity issues in journalism, including matters
 related to the role of women within news organisations as well as media coverage of diversity
 and gender (Blumell, Franks and Lonsdale). A second is international journalism, including
 humanitarian news, coverage of conflict or crisis and those affected by it, and the role of external
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 actors such as funders and policymakers (Abubakar, Bunce, Cooper, Franks, Harb,
 Honigsbaum, Rodgers and Tumber). Another is journalism policy, practice and ethics,
 including policy and practice related to investigative journalism, freedom of information, and
 ethics in legacy and digital media (Harb, Lashmar, Porlezza, Singer and Tumber). And the
 fourth is new and emerging journalism, including innovative journalistic forms, models and
 production methods (Bunce, Hewett, Porlezza and Singer).

 All staff within LIS are research-active, and engaged with open practice and digital scholarship.
 City’s Centre for Information Science provides a home and a focus for their work, which
 balances theoretical and conceptual explorations with empirical scholarship of social and
 professional relevance. Although research topics are wide-ranging, work in LIS falls under three
 main categories, to which all colleagues (Bawden, Dunne-Howrie, MacFarlane, Makri and
 Robinson) contribute. The first is foundations of the information sciences, covering the
 nature of information; links between physical, biological and social conceptions of information;
 library and information history; and philosophy of information. The second is documents and
 documentation, including changes in the processes and nature of documentation and
 resources – how information is discovered, described, organised and communicated – and their
 consequences for information specialists. The third is information behaviour of individuals,
 groups and society more broadly. This area covers ethics, models and concepts of information
 behaviour, including behaviour associated with emerging technologies and other non-traditional
 realms exemplified by leisure and virtual communities. Information and digital literacy also are
 part of this focal area.

 Particularly noteworthy is our commitment to open access scholarship, which goes well beyond
 compliance with the baseline requirement that institutions maintain a freely available repository
 of outputs generated by their researchers. During the current REF period, 354 outputs were
 added to our open-access repository by D:34 scholars. LIS colleagues have been especially
 proactive in leading the move toward fully open access within the University and among the
 wider academic community. Initiatives have included creation of a CityLIS area on the
 Humanities Commons repository, containing a wide variety of materials; memberships on the
 editorial boards of open access journals such as Sci (Bawden), Information (Bawden) and
 Publications (Robinson); and a leading role in an Emerald Editors Group initiative to persuade
 the publisher to allow no-embargo open access, years before funders required it. LIS staff also
 have implemented open-access publishing for major conferences that they have organised;
 examples include CoLIS, published in Information Research, and DocPerform, published in the
 Proceedings of the Document Academy.

 Overall, as detailed below, both departments are characterised by an integrated and
 interdisciplinary research programme; a substantial and growing community of research
 students who go on to employment in both industry and academy; and strong and substantive
 engagement with the external research community.

 Objectives for REF2028: Going forward, our unit’s plan for sustainable achievement aligns with
 the three strategic priorities of City’s 2026 Vision and Strategy. The first of these is to maintain
 quality trajectory. In D:34, we will continue recruiting and nurturing junior scholars to bolster
 our success in generating top-quality outputs and grant income; expand our small cohort of
 senior scholars through internal promotion and/or external hires; and build on a key strength, the
 alignment of our research with pressing societal needs around delivery and consumption of
 information. Examples include our provision of expert communication on health pandemics
 (Honigsbaum), our input into media policy development at parliamentary level (Howell and
 Singer) and our shaping of ethical communication about humanitarian crises and concerns
 (Abubakar, Bunce, Cooper and Harb).

 A second University priority is to achieve growth. In addition to adding new research staff –
 who, like all D:34 colleagues with a primary responsibility for research, have 40% of their time
 earmarked for scholarly activities – we have implemented a policy of allocating 20% of the
 workload of teaching-focused academics to research-related activities. These education-oriented
                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues, who bring extensive industry experience to their university roles, have now begun
 contributing to departmental research initiatives in innovative ways, especially but not exclusively
 in forging links between research and student-facing activities. Three recent educational hires
 are likely to move onto a research track ahead of the next REF, as they earn PhDs and benefit
 from internal mentorship around the creation and dissemination of academic research. We also
 will continue to improve our PhD student experience as former early-career researchers qualify
 for supervisory roles, broadening the range of expertise we can provide and the number of
 doctoral students we can support. The recent creation of a University-level doctoral college will
 help streamline and coordinate student recruitment, retention and progression. Finally, research
 income is expected to expand as colleagues build on grant success in the current REF period.
 Newly strengthened support at School and University levels facilitates locating suitable grants,
 submitting high-quality bids and sharing successful strategies.

 The third University priority involves leveraging partnerships. Here we already enjoy
 considerable strength through our close connections with diverse industry bodies, as described
 below and in our impact case studies, and through our collaborations across and outside the
 University. We seek to extend and enhance these connections post-Covid through public events
 featuring high-profile practitioners, building on the model created through our Women on Air
 symposia; our hosting of public addresses by industry leaders, such as our annual Cameron and
 Cudlipp lectures; and our many panel sessions, open to the public and packed with well-known
 journalists. We also anticipate that the joint research project involving LIS and Journalism in the
 development of unique newsroom tools, funded by a £258K Google Digital News Initiative grant,
 will bear fruit in the next REF period and afford expanded partnership opportunities.

 Inter-disciplinary research
 The unit’s research explores topics encompassed by diverse academic disciplines, including but
 not limited to media sociology, international politics, law and ethics, economics, data processing
 and information science. Our researchers’ backgrounds are similarly eclectic, including physical
 and social science, journalism and media studies, drama, information systems and computer
 science. Ongoing collaborations also cross disciplinary boundaries. For example, a Journalism
 scholar (Porlezza) is the PI on the Google grant project mentioned above, with two co-
 investigators from LIS (MacFarlane and Makri) and a third from Journalism (Cooper); co-
 authored research papers stemming from this collaboration were presented at two international
 conferences in 2020 and are expected to lead to publications during the next REF period.

 Our engagement with research intended to improve industry practice also has facilitated inter-
 disciplinary collaboration with colleagues in City’s Cass Business School, consistently ranked
 among the 100 best in the world. One example has been our work with colleagues in the Centre
 for Creativity in Professional Practice, launched in 2015 by a former SMCSE researcher, which
 unites colleagues from three of City’s five Schools to explore new forms of creative leadership
 and digitally augmented human creativity. Journalism colleagues involved in Centre activities
 during the current REF period, including a project to develop creative search strategies for
 explanatory digital journalism, have included Brock, Payton and Singer. Another example is
 Franks’ ongoing work with business school colleagues on an EU Commission / Horizon 2020-
 funded project around digital innovation in science and technology communication.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 We envisage additional recruitment and promotion of permanent academic staff to continue the
 research trajectory established before and during the current REF period. Following REF2014,
 three new Journalism researchers were hired at either the Lecturer or Senior Lecturer level; all
 three have already received promotions. LIS also has expanded its scope with the addition of a
 colleague (Dunne-Howrie) who unites information science with innovative theatre performance.
 New research-active hires are required to have a PhD prior to employment, as well as published

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs assessed as at least 3* by REF criteria. Most also have strong professional
 backgrounds. The unit is multi-national in composition, another strength on which we will
 continue to build; active researchers include citizens of Canada, Lebanon, New Zealand,
 Nigeria, Switzerland and the USA, in addition to the UK. All D:34 colleagues in this submission
 have an ORCID ID.

 The hard work of research-active staff initially hired as Lecturers who have now attained
 promotion – for which sustained production of high-quality outputs is required, along with
 teaching excellence – was supported in multiple ways during the current REF period. These
 include an increase in opportunities for sharing and discussing research processes and findings,
 notably through monthly research seminars, described further below; the foregrounding of
 scholarly accomplishments in annual appraisals; departmental financial support to fully cover
 participation in international academic conferences; and ongoing display and celebration of our
 research outputs via social media, in departmental public spaces, and in panel discussions and
 symposia. Research-active staff who join us as early-career researchers also are eligible for
 institutional ‘pump priming’ support; Abubakar, Blumell, Cooper and Rodgers received these
 university grants for their work during this REF period.

 Mentorship also is integral to the D:34 research culture at City. All research-active staff in LIS
 and Journalism are mentored by a senior scholar; Singer and Tumber in Journalism, and
 Bawden, MacFarlane and Robinson in LIS, routinely advise colleagues as well as research
 students on appropriate strategies for planning and executing publishable research and, more
 broadly, on their personal and professional development as scholars. In 2017, Journalism
 additionally instituted a policy of having the department’s research lead attend all performance
 appraisals of research-active staff whose line manager is not engaged in research. The change
 provided a formal process for researchers to obtain feedback on completed scholarship and
 guidance on planning their research trajectory over the coming year; it also made research
 integral to a performance consideration that previously focused on teaching and administrative
 activities. This has not only created a stronger incentive for producing high-quality outputs but
 also has ensured that time is ring-fenced to generate it within the department’s Workload
 Allocation Model.

 Unit staff also provide support for junior colleagues outside the institution. For instance, during
 the current REF period, Lashmar helped a colleague at Bangor University develop a successful
 proposal for an ESRC-funded project on holding intelligence elites to account, Porlezza helped
 a colleague from Lugano obtain an early postdoc scholarship from the Swiss National Science
 Foundation, and Singer guided colleagues through the Association for Education in Journalism
 and Mass Communication (AEJMC) mentorship scheme.

 Other departmental structures also nurture the research community. A core component is the
 assessment of all research staff outputs – including books, chapters and academic journal
 articles – through City’s Annual Research Quality Monitoring (ARQM), an intensive process that
 applies the same criteria as the REF. Publications are reviewed by a panel of experienced
 internal researchers in Journalism or LIS, with panel composition guided by equality and
 diversity considerations; further advice from external experts is solicited as needed. Reviewers
 provide confidential comments to authors about their work, offering constructive informal
 feedback that supplements and informs more formal staff development initiatives.

 A key enhancement in Journalism during the current REF period has been the reconfiguration of
 our research seminars, held monthly in Terms One and Two. These began as opportunities for
 individual research talks but have evolved to encompass diverse formats, including workshops,
 thematic panels, grant application tutorials, discussion of work in progress – even a research-
 themed ‘pub quiz’. The seminars help build cross-disciplinary connections, with LIS, Sociology
 and English staff and student colleagues invited to attend and periodically to share their own
 research. The seminars also serve as a forum for visiting scholars; recent speakers have hailed
 from Austria, Brazil, Denmark, Egypt, Lebanon, Sweden and the USA, as well as from other UK
 institutions such as LSE and Oxford. One seminar each year is devoted to presentation of
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 doctoral student work. The session is designed like an academic conference research panel,
 with up to five students sharing their work and obtaining feedback on it; this not only offers
 benefits in its own right but also is a useful rehearsal for actual conference presentations.

 Research committees (departmental for Journalism and School-based for LIS) convene at
 least once each term, and more often if needed, to share information, discuss research strategy
 and address issues arising. Regular slots are allocated to reports and action plans related to
 research ethics, the PhD programme and the ARQM / REF. Committee members also serve as
 members of the ARQM panel, as described above. Broadly, the committee generates and
 communicates research policy for the department, as well as liaising with School and University
 bodies; committee members also serve on job search panels for research appointments.

 University, School and department-level ethics committees ensure the ethical conduct of all
 research, providing a close review of all procedures involving or affecting human subjects, as
 well as a risk assessment covering researcher and research subjects. All researchers –
 including staff and PhD students as well as MA and undergraduate students conducting studies
 involving human subjects – submit detailed study plans for departmental ethics committee
 approval, including consent forms, participant information sheets and interview guides as
 appropriate. Most projects undertaken within the unit are of low risk, but those posing greater
 risks are considered by a School-level committee and, in rare cases, may require University-
 level approval. In 2018, the ethics approval process migrated from paper-based forms to an
 online system that uses a branching structure to channel projects appropriately based on their
 risk level. The online system has streamlined approval and record-keeping processes.

 Generous travel funding fully supports conference paper presentation by D:34 researchers.
 During this REF period, Journalism has been able to fund one international and one domestic
 conference trip per year for all who have sought such support. Requests for funding are first
 approved by the travel budget holder (the chair of the department research committee), then
 circulated for final approval to all committee members. For LIS colleagues, School financial
 support for research is channelled through the Centre for Information Science, which funds
 conference attendance and related activities. All research-active D:34 colleagues whose
 conference attendance has been thus supported have published one or more of their presented
 papers in refereed academic journals during this REF period. Examples of REF2021 outputs that
 began as conference presentations include but are not limited to publications by Abubakar in
 Journalism and Mass Communications Quarterly; Bunce in Journalism Studies; Cooper,
 Blumell and Bunce in International Communication Gazette; and Singer in Journalism: Theory,
 Practice and Criticism.

 Research leave and sabbatical policy
 In consultation with their line manager, research-active staff develop an annual action plan
 based on a Workload Allocation Model. Research-active staff have 40% of their time allocated to
 research activities and the rest to teaching and administrative responsibilities. That said, we
 support strong integration of scholarship and teaching, not just of our research students but also
 of master’s and undergraduate students; examples of our research-informed teaching are below.

 City maintains a generous sabbatical leave policy relative to many peer institutions: All staff are
 eligible to apply for sabbatical leave after seven terms of service and are encouraged to do so.
 With three terms per academic year, this policy allows one term dedicated to research in every
 third year. Applicants must provide a detailed plan showing how they will productively use any
 time awarded, and written support from their department head is required. School-level
 committees review all requests approved by the department head, assessing the feasibility and
 ambitiousness of stated research goals. Sabbatical requests typically are approved so long as
 eligibility criteria have been met and other departmental obligations can be covered; both policy
 and culture strongly support staff engagement in productive research. A report of achievements
 is due to the School committee three months after the sabbatical ends, with a more extensive


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 report due to the School Board of Studies within a year. Staff continue PhD supervision during
 their sabbaticals, ensuring that support for post-graduate scholars is uninterrupted.

 Although most sabbaticals awarded within D:34 during this REF reporting period have been for
 one or two terms, the provision is flexible and longer awards are not uncommon. For example,
 yearlong sabbaticals have been awarded to MacFarlane, Cooper and Franks, notably to
 accommodate unique, externally funded projects. All 10 Journalism researchers who applied for
 sabbaticals during this REF reporting period were approved. As other sections of this
 submission demonstrate, these periods of research leave have provided time for authored and
 edited book projects, collaborative work, international data-gathering initiatives and impact case
 study development. Among the many examples of outputs directly resulting from sabbatical work
 are books by Lonsdale (Rebel Women between the Wars) and Rodgers (Assignment Moscow),
 articles in top-tier journals by Bunce and Singer, and book chapters by Franks and Harb.

 Equality and diversity
 City has a policy of fair and equitable treatment of all staff employed on both permanent and
 fixed-term contracts, with a wide range of support services available, as described in our 5(a)
 submission. Schools also take additional steps to ensure equality of opportunities. For example,
 SASS funds are available for staff members who accrue additional childcare costs while
 attending research conferences or training-related activities. Both SASS, which houses the
 Department of Journalism, and SMCSE, which houses LIS, are committed to the university’s
 flexible working policy and indeed go beyond it in accommodating long- or short-term staff needs
 for work flexibility. For example, two Journalism staff colleagues working on their PhDs have one
 workday free from other university obligations; another research-active colleague retained
 productive connections to a Swiss university thanks to flexible working hours.

 City has been a member of the Athena SWAN Charter since February 2014, achieving the
 Bronze Award for its commitment to gender equality in 2017, with Silver Award status pending
 as of the end of the current REF period. Research staff in our departments reflect this
 commitment. In Journalism, half of the active researchers are women, including two of the three
 holding the rank of Professor (Franks and Singer); in LIS, the only researcher holding the rank
 of Reader is a woman (Robinson). Franks and Robinson have served as heads of department
 during this REF period.

 Research by D:34 scholars also directly addresses issues of equality and diversity. For example,
 MacFarlane has explored issues related to dyslexia and information retrieval; the work of
 Blumell, Cooper and Franks, collaboratively and separately, focuses on media portrayal of
 women, as well as their experiences within media organisations; and our humanitarian news
 work, led by Bunce, foregrounds the concerns of global communities.

 Research students
 PhD candidates come to City Journalism and LIS from all over the world. In this REF period, we
 have been home to research students from Bangladesh, China, Colombia, Egypt, Germany,
 India, Ireland, Lebanon, Poland, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Swaziland, Turkey, Trinidad
 and Tobago, and the USA; we also have hosted, as visiting junior scholars, research students
 from Brazil, Spain and Switzerland. Despite being housed within different Schools, the two
 departments share similar approaches to and success with doctoral-level study. PhD
 researchers in both LIS and Journalism have two supervisors, who provide extensive and
 intensive guidance to help them meet the goal of submitting their final thesis within four years of
 enrolment. Part-time students have been as successful as full-timers in completing the
 programme, and part-time enrolment has proved advantageous to those already holding
 academic or industry posts elsewhere. Examples include an LIS student researching
 communication in professional firms and another investigating the information needs of distance
 learners, as well as a Journalism student who a member of academic staff at Cardiff University.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Eleven research-active colleagues have served as first supervisor during this REF period; first
 supervisors must have previously supervised or co-supervised at least one PhD student to
 completion and average a 3* or higher ARQM rating on their own research. In total, Journalism
 or LIS staff members supervised or co-supervised 34 PhDs to completion during the current
 REF period, including students not only without our own units but also those earning doctoral
 degrees in Computer Science, International Politics, Law and Sociology.

 A majority of our PhD students are self-funded, but a small number in both LIS and Journalism
 have received University studentships; in LIS, one student has been funded by the British
 Library and another by an employer. All currently enrolled doctoral students in both areas are
 undertaking conventional PhD by research. One student in 2016 and another in 2017 were
 awarded professional doctorates. Two awards were made for PhD by prior publication to then-
 current members of Journalism staff in 2014 and 2015; this option has now been discontinued,
 and all PhDs must be based on research undertaken as part of the degree programme.

 The progress of students in both departments is monitored through an internal Research and
 Progress system, which enables students and supervisors to transparently record and comment
 on activities relevant to their pathway through the programme. Under the guidance of
 departmental Senior Tutors for Research, who represent the PhD programme at School level,
 the system ensures that students remain on track through the stages of their doctoral studies,
 from commencement of work to final submission of their thesis. SASS also has been proactive
 within City in implementing parental leave policies for post-graduate research students, ensuring
 such leave does not count against the overall suspension-of-study limits allowed by the
 University. An LIS doctoral student recently benefitted from a year of parental leave.

 Both departments also are committed to providing PhD students with training in the skills they
 need to succeed. In LIS, these include workshops through both City and the University of
 London’s Bloomsbury training consortium on general research methods, led by colleagues from
 institutions including Kings College London, LSE and SOAS; this provision has substantially
 expanded the amount of research methods training available to students. LIS students also
 receive hands-on support with software packages such as SPSS and NVivo, as well as
 opportunities to complete MSC modules in social research methods and MA modules in
 academic practice. In Journalism, new PhD students attend a required induction programme
 covering research methods. SASS also offers a series of training sessions on fundamental skills
 in qualitative and quantitative methods, research ethics, thesis writing, viva preparation and
 more. These are augmented by specific impact-oriented sessions, including media engagement
 training led by Journalism colleagues.

 City PhD students receive additional support, guidance and training through the University
 Doctoral College, which offers workshops on everything from research planning to presentation.
 A key benefit of joining the University of London is that funds now flow back to City to strengthen
 post-graduate research; some of this money, awarded competitively, supports conference
 attendance, supplementing the £1,000 in School funding for LIS and Journalism doctoral
 students on studentships. This support has enabled PhD students to present their work at major
 academic conferences around the world. For example, a Journalism student attended
 International Communication Association conferences in Japan and the USA, and won the
 overall top paper award for work presented at the 2019 International Conference in Journalism
 and Mass Communication in New York. LIS students have presented work at global ASIST,
 CoLIS and ISKO conferences.

 Our PhD students also publish work from their doctoral theses and related research, both as
 sole authors and in collaboration with staff supervisors and mentors. During this REF period,
 their work has appeared in journals including Journalism Studies, Journal of Documentation and
 Journal of Information Science; three PhD theses have resulted in published books.

 Their success as students has helped those wishing to pursue academic careers after
 graduation to do so. PhD graduates during the current REF period currently hold academic posts
                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at institutions including City, Kingston, Sussex and Central Lancashire universities in the UK,
 Queensland University of Technology in Australia, the University of British Columbia in Canada,
 and Ibn Khaldun University in Turkey, among others. Other graduates have gone on to work at
 academic libraries or in senior media positions at such prestigious outlets as BBC News, BBC
 World Service and Al Jazeera English.

 PhD students who plan to become teachers as well as researchers also are supported in
 developing relevant skills. Journalism PhD students holding studentships may undertake up to
 180 hours of teaching-related work each academic year; this ranges from delivering classroom
 instruction, to providing support for tutorials or seminars, to assisting with assessment. Students
 not holding a studentship can gain teaching experience through a Visiting Lecturer appointment
 paid at the standard VL rate. LIS gives all PhD students who wish to teach the opportunity to do
 so on the department’s Master’s programmes; this activity runs the gamut from a single
 presentation to a full module, depending on student interests and proficiencies.

 In 2018, Journalism underwent a University review of its PhD programme, resulting in
 commendations for the calibre of staff supporting, and students enrolled in, the programme. Also
 highlighted were completion rates, employment outcomes and student research publications, as
 well as the reputation of the department in facilitating industry links to support research projects.

 Our master’s-level students also enjoy significant research success. In LIS, roughly half of the
 recently completed doctoral degrees were undertaken by students who previously completed a
 taught MA or MSc programme. LIS master’s students have had their work, co-authored with
 supervisors, published in journals including the Journal of the Association for Information
 Science and Technology, the Journal of Documentation, Global Knowledge Media and
 Communication, and Library and Information Research. Another example comes from
 Journalism, where four recent Erasmus Mundus MA alumni have had their co-authored research
 presented at international academic conferences; three conference papers have since been
 published in refereed journals.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our unit’s strategy has been to seek funding pragmatically from a wide range of sources,
 including industry and academic funders, and in small as well as large amounts. The success of
 this strategy is attested by the level of funding received from diverse sources, with a total of
 £852,458 reported to HESA during the current REF period. This reflects an average funding
 level of more than £48.7K per FTE.

 Sources of external funding encompass government bodies (European Commission,
 £301,059, Journalism, including £119,924 in Horizon 2020 funding for an ongoing collaborative
 project with colleagues in City’s Cass Business School); research councils (AHRC, £61,440,
 Journalism; £20,101, LIS); industry and academic entities (Google Digital News Initiative,
 £220,790 spent to date of a total award of £258K, Journalism and LIS, joint project; Association
 for Journalism Education, £1,425, Journalism); UK-based charities (Royal Academy of
 Engineering, £131,078, LIS; Friends Provident Foundation, £67,434, Journalism); and the British
 Academy (£49,132, Journalism).

 LIS researchers also shared in funding awarded to City’s Computer Science department during
 the current REF period and included in City’s B:11 submission, including £75,478 from Innovate
 UK (MacFarlane) and £125,753 from Cubic Transportation Systems (Makri). D:34 scholars
 have been successful in capturing additional monies to support public engagement activities,
 too; for example, Cooper was awarded £1736 to help her share her work through the ESRC
 Festival of Science. And our strong relationships with practitioners, highlighted below, have
 further benefitted our research initiatives. For example, the estate of leading 20th century
 information scientist Monty Hyams donated his archives to LIS, a resource that resulted in a
 Journal of Documentation publication co-authored by Robinson.
                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We additionally have competed successfully for internal funding to support our research. Pump-
 priming grants for early career researchers, totalling just under £19K, were awarded to four
 Journalism colleagues during this REF period; the funds went toward such REF2021 outputs as
 work by Abubakar on covering extremism and by Rodgers on reporting from the Holy Land.
 The university also offers Quality-Related Global Challenges Research Fund (QR-GCRF) money
 to enable researchers to build interdisciplinary collaborations and lay the groundwork for external
 funding applications; during this REF period, a total of £103,630 was awarded to six D:34
 scholars. Additional funds are available through the Higher Education Innovation Fund,
 administered through the Schools; during this REF period, Journalism colleagues received a
 total of around £32.1K in HEIF money to support initiatives related to our two impact case
 studies as well as other outputs and research-related projects.

 Both departments benefit from dedicated research support units within their respective Schools,
 along with resources available through the University Research and Enterprise Office, as
 described in our 5(a) submission. The Schools’ research support staff provide dedicated
 assistance in identifying and applying for external funding, as well as in managing funded
 projects. University support is provided for all software programmes used in our research,
 particularly for data analysis. City’s Interaction Lab, a human-centred design consultancy based
 at City, also has been useful for human-computer interface studies and for a Journalism PhD
 thesis study of virtual reality.

 In addition to its knowledgeable team of subject-specific librarians, the University library provides
 discipline-specific print and electronic resources in information science and journalism; these
 include databases and data sets as well as an extensive collection of books, e-books and
 journals, as outlined in our institutional environment statement. Through its ‘Read for Research’
 initiative, the library allows PhD students and research-active staff to order materials without
 departmental authorisation. City’s membership in the University of London consortium affords
 access to the vast holdings of its 17 individual institutions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Academic Engagement
 Contributions of unit researchers to the wider academic community are extensive and multi-
 faceted. Space permits highlighting only a few.

 Academic publishers: Two internationally prominent journals in our area are edited (Bawden,
 Journal of Documentation) or co-edited (Tumber, Journalism: Theory, Practice and Criticism) by
 members of our unit. Harb is co-editor of the Middle East Journal of Culture and Communication
 and associate editor of Journalism Practice. In this REF period, Makri served as guest editor for
 Information Research and Porlezza for Studies in Communication Sciences.

 City D:34 members serve on the editorial boards of leading journals across our disciplines.
 These publications include but are not limited to the Aslib Journal of Information Management;
 the Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication; the Journal of Applied Journalism and Media
 Studies; the Journal of Information Science; Information; Journalism: Theory, Practice and
 Criticism (for which Cooper serves as reviews editor); Journalism and Communication
 Monographs; Journalism & Mass Communication Quarterly; Journalism Practice; Journalism
 Studies; Media, War and Conflict; Publications; and Sci. In 2018, Singer received the inaugural
 Reviewer of the Year award from Journalism Studies.

 In addition to authored outputs, unit colleagues also serve as editors for major research texts and
 book series. In the current REF period, the latter have included Bawden and Robinson’s joint
 editorship of Facet’s Foundations of the Information Sciences series, Harb’s joint editorship of a
 Bloomsbury series on Political Communication and Media Practices in the Middle East and North
 Africa, and Singer’s role as inaugural series editor for an innovative joint publishing initiative
                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between Peter Lang Publishers and AEJMC. Edited texts have included The Routledge Companion
 to Media and Human Rights and The Routledge Companion to Media and Scandal (both
 Tumber and Waisbord, 2017 and 2019, respectively); Africa’s Media Image in the 21st Century
 (Bunce, Franks and Patterson, Routledge, 2017); Reporting the Middle East (Harb, Bloomsbury
 Academic, 2017); and Humanitarianism, Communications and Change (Cottle and Cooper, Peter
 Lang, 2015).

 Collaborations: Our researchers are active in a range of formal networks and partnerships.
 National examples include but are not limited to collaboration with the Sheffield iSchool in the AHRC-
 funded OATAP project, which investigates the theory and practice of open access (Bawden and
 Robinson); an academic partnership with First Draft News, a social media verification network
 (Cooper); and a collaborative doctoral studentship with the British Library (MacFarlane and Makri).
 In 2020, Singer served as Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Communications and Digital
 Committee, advising on policy related to the future of journalism in a digital world; Howell filled the
 same role for the committee’s 2014 inquiry into women in broadcast news. International network
 roles during the current REF period include but are not limited to Bawden and Robinson’s
 participation in the Erasmus+ ILO project to create a multi-lingual MOOC for information literacy;
 Bunce’s creation of the Humanitarian News Research Network, as described in one of our impact
 case studies; Harb’s role as executive trustee and board member of the Ethical Journalism Network,
 as well as an Ofcom content board member; and Robinson’s collaboration with King Abdul Aziz
 University in Saudi Arabia on knowledge management. Singer served as inaugural Journalist-in-
 Residence for Jurist, a legal news and commentary service based at the University of Pittsburgh.

 Additional opportunities for collaboration, networking and information-sharing with international
 colleagues come through our association with EU-funded Erasmus Mundus, which makes travel
 funds available to facilitate knowledge exchange. Among the City colleagues who have benefitted
 during this REF period, are Blumell (who visited Chile), Cooper (Australia), Franks (USA) and
 Singer (Germany). Rodgers and Singer also have organised and/or participated in research
 symposia for the Erasmus Mundus Journalism, Media and Globalisation programme.

 Keynotes and other research presentations: Colleagues routinely deliver research talks at other
 institutions, in the UK and abroad. Space does not permit listing even a meaningful subset of the
 hundreds of such talks over the current REF period, but examples of invited keynote lectures include
 those delivered to the British Swiss Chamber of Commerce and the Swiss Federal Media
 Commission (Porlezza, 2017 and 2018), the Kahn Liberal Arts Institute at Smith College and Global
 Studies Centre at Smith College in the USA (Harb, 2017 and 2018), the Kipling Society (Lonsdale,
 2015); the Universidad de Navarre (Singer, 2018), the University of Sussex (Franks, 2015) and
 Vilnius University (Robinson, 2018).

 Unit members also deliver keynote addresses to conferences and symposia around the world.
 Again, space precludes a comprehensive list, but examples in this REF period include keynotes
 to the International Society for Knowledge Organization (Bawden), the Media, Communications
 and Cultural Studies Association (Franks), the Intelligence History Association (Berlin
 Workshop; Lashmar), the InForum conference (Robinson), and the European Communication
 Research Association / German Association for Communication Research (Singer).

 Academic conferences: City researchers enjoy high visibility in all the key conferences in our
 fields, including ASIST, CoLIS and ISKO (LIS); and AEJMC, ICA, the European
 Communications Research and Education Association, and the International Association for
 Media and Communications (Journalism). Every year, colleagues present original, blind-refereed
 scholarship and participate on panels. In 2018 and 2019, Bunce won divisional top paper
 awards from AEJMC and ICA, respectively. Singer served during this REF reporting period on
 the AEJMC executive board, as well as chairing one of the organisation’s standing committees.

 Review of colleagues’ research: City scholars serve as external examiners of PhD and MA
 by Research work at institutions around the UK and the world. During the current REF period,
 this work has been undertaken at institutions including but not limited to Brunel University
                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Rodgers); the University of Cardiff and the University of Sydney (Tumber); the University of
 Copenhagen and the University of Ljubljana (Bawden); the University of Glasgow and the
 London School of Economics (Franks); Kings College London (Robinson); the University of
 Leeds (Singer); Northumbria University (Porlezza); Sheffield University (Bawden and Singer);
 and SOAS, University of London (Harb). We also regularly review grant applications for such
 funding bodies as AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, the Leverhulme Trust, the NWO (the Netherlands),
 and the SSHRC (Canada), among others.

 Research-informed teaching: Finally, it is worth noting that all research-active members of the
 unit on appointments of at least 0.5 regularly teach undergraduate and/or post-graduate
 students. City as an institution, and LIS and Journalism as disciplines, are committed to
 research-informed classroom teaching, and our scholarship is integral to interactions with
 students across all levels. Examples during this REF period of taught modules drawing directly
 on colleagues’ research include but are not limited to Reporting Science and the Environment
 (UG, Honigsbaum); Reporting Conflict (UG, Rodgers); The State of Humanitarian Journalism
 (UG, Cooper), International News (UG and PG, Bunce and Rodgers); Global Journalism (PG,
 Harb); Journalism Innovation (PG, Porlezza and Singer); Digital Forensics (PG, MacFarlane);
 Digital Libraries (PG, Robinson); and Cognition and Technologies (PG, Makri). A research-
 based textbook by Bawden and Robinson, Introduction to Information Science, has been
 widely adopted around the world.

 Industry Engagement
 In addition to our contributions to the academic community, City’s Journalism department is
 renowned for the breadth and depth of its engagement with the media industry. The department
 hosts dozens of events every year that bring leading news industry professionals to campus,
 usually in-person but also virtually. Almost all these events are open to the public and commonly
 attract audiences in their hundreds.

 Presentations, panels and special events: The James Cameron Memorial Lecture series,
 named in honour of the legendary BBC correspondent, is delivered annually by outstanding
 international journalists. Recent speakers include international writer and broadcaster Isabel
 Hilton, BBC Chief International Correspondent Lyse Doucet, Guardian editor-at-large Gary
 Younge, and Financial Times editor Lionel Barber, among others. Recently inaugurated Hugh
 Cudlipp and Marjorie Deane lecture series also showcase prominent media practitioners.

 Talks by key editors and other newsroom leaders take place throughout the year, hosted and
 moderated by a City academic. In 2018 alone, visitors included Guardian editor-in-chief
 Katharine Viner, Washington Post editor-in-chief Marty Baron; BBC political editor Laura
 Kuenssberg; long-time Sunday Times editor Sir Harold Evans; and Dow Jones CEO and former
 Daily Telegraph editor Will Lewis.

 An even larger number of panel discussions, covering contemporary topics of civic importance,
 are held throughout the year, with available spaces generally filled to capacity. Panel members
 typically include leading journalists and academics known for their topical expertise. A few recent
 panels illustrate the wide range of topics: media coverage of Brexit (2020), reporting on refugees
 and hate speech (2019), interviewing vulnerable witnesses (2019), the state of humanitarian
 journalism worldwide (2018), the deadly threats that reporters face (2018) and the experiences
 of undercover reporters (2018). Each of these topics relates directly to colleagues’ research but
 also is of interest and importance to students, practitioners and citizens.

 Innumerable other events, diverse in their nature and scope, add to the dynamism of our
 intellectual culture. Recent examples include a talk by a Hong Kong barrister and former
 lawmaker on freedom of expression under China’s shadow; a screening of the film ‘No Stone
 Unturned’, an investigation of the 1994 Loughinisland murders, followed by a discussion with
 journalists who covered them; a discussion of news publishing in the digital age, led by
 alternative press regulator IMPRESS; and a debate on whether journalists failed the residents of

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Grenfell Tower, bringing together journalists from BBC Newsnight and trade publication Inside
 Housing with a Kensington MP and a borough council member. In 2015, a series of talks
 convened by Harb and hosted at City in conjunction with the Ethical Journalism Network
 covered topics including the role of readers’ editors or ombudsmen; broadcast regulators’ effect
 on news decisions; and ethical journalism in an age of toxic information. Most events are
 scheduled in the evening, to accommodate members of the working public, but some are more
 extensive; examples in this REF period include a daylong Journalism Innovation Summit (2015),
 co-sponsored by MediaShift and focused on emerging content and business models; and a
 daylong conference of fact-checkers from around the world, co-sponsored by the Duke
 Reporters Lab and the International Fact-Checking Network (also 2015).

 Media engagement: Colleagues appear frequently in the media, facilitated by our own
 extensive contacts as well as those of dedicated School-level communications officers. Our
 researchers also regularly deliver talks to an enormous range of industry bodies and
 organisations, Examples include but are not limited to Al Jazeera International, the European
 Federation of Journalists, the Frontline Club, the Media Society, and the Pulitzer Center for
 Crisis Reporting. In addition, we judge a host of media industry awards (the British Journalism
 Awards, the One World Media Awards, the Orwell Journalism Prize and the Royal Television
 Society awards, among others). Both LIS and Journalism maintain active departmental Twitter
 accounts, with more than 18,000 followers between them. And in 2019, Blumell and Cooper
 launched the KnowHow podcast, enabling researchers and professionals from around the world
 to discuss the challenges of covering contemporary political and social issues.

 The European Journalism Observatory – a network of independent non-profit media research
 institutes in 14 countries that seeks to bridge journalism research and practice, and to foster
 professionalism and press freedom – relocated from Oxford to City in 2020, under the auspices
 of Porlezza. Until 2019, City also was home to the UK offices of The Conversation, an
 independent source of news and views written by academics with an intended audience of
 members of the educated public. Research-active Journalism colleagues wrote frequently for the
 Conversation during this REF period; a small sampling of topics they covered includes the
 BBC’s extension of soft power through its World Service expansion (Abubakar); media
 coverage of the #MeToo movement (Blumell); communication strategies to combat
 disinformation spread by anti-vaxxers (Honigsbaum); and the negative effects of surveillance
 technology on disclosures in the public interest (Lashmar).




                                                                                          Page 13
