Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Lancaster University

 Unit of Assessment: 3 FHM

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 In 2008 Lancaster University took a strategic decision to make a significant investment in health
 and medicine as a transformational project. The Faculty of Health and Medicine (FHM) has now
 matured into a thriving, integrated, multi-disciplinary academic community of laboratory-
 based scientists and applied health and care researchers who deliver world leading work
 focussed on making a real difference to individuals and communities.

 Our submission to REF2021 has grown to 101 (92.51 FTE - category A) colleagues as a result
 of sustained investment since REF2014 when we submitted 70 (64.6 FTE) staff. This
 expansion has increased the critical mass in our themes, which represent FHM’s research
 excellence and areas of societal need. This growth trajectory has been realised because health
 and medicine continues to be an institutional priority for Lancaster University (LU), and because
 we have achieved a significant growth in our student body (up by 39%) who want to
 receive their education from our internationally leading research-active staff.

 In the REF period there has been significant capital investment in the building of a £41M
 Health Innovation Campus. We have also built a culture that attracts and retains the very best
 academics, with investment including 14 appointments at professorial and reader level and
 7 promotions to professor in the REF period.

 Evidence of our strong research performance during this REF period in comparison to our
 previous submission, includes a:

       98% increase from £20M to £39.6M in research awards

       86% increase in Post-Doctoral Research Associates

       117% increase in graduating Post-Graduate Research Students

       144% increase in the volume of outputs; 1970 papers, 47 books and 112 chapters

 Our needs-led research is driven by working across disciplinary boundaries and in
 partnership with patients and the public, local health and care trusts, regional networks and
 bodies (e.g. Northern Health Sciences Alliance, National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
 North West Coast Applied Research Collaboration (ARC), Healthwatch, North West Cancer
 Research), national agencies and groups (e.g. Scientific Pandemic Influenza subcommittee
 (SPI-M) of the Government’s Scientific Advisory Group on Emergencies (SAGE), Health
 Research Data UK, British Society of Gerontology, Alzheimer’s UK, Macmillan Cancer Support),
 and international networks (e.g. European Association of Palliative Care, International Health
 Economics Association, Alzheimer’s Europe, World Health Organisation [WHO]). Our strong
 research position makes a significant contribution to our rankings, for example, we are in
 the top 10 for Biosciences and Medicine in the Guardian University Guide (2021) and Times
 Good University Guide (2019) respectively.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research Structure

 Our research is organised in five cross-cutting themes that span departmental boundaries and
 disciplines, and represent critical mass of research excellence at Faculty level:

     Ageing
     Mental Health
     Health Information, Computing and Statistics
     Infectious Disease Transmission and Biology
     Social and Economic Inequality in Public Health
 These themes were refined following a post-REF2014 review through which we sought to
 enhance the alignment of research strengths and interdisciplinary potential with major societal
 challenges. The themes exemplify how our research spans the spectrum from bench to bedside;
 and from molecular science to patient-orientated solutions. As such, they represent a wide
 variety of research methodologies from experimental to social sciences, acting as
 engines to enhance interdisciplinarity.

 The themes provide a focus for galvanising activity, sharing expertise and ideas, and for
 providing support, particularly for colleagues earlier in their careers. Each theme has a lead
 who facilitates regular meetings and seminars with internationally recognised speakers. There
 are no restrictions to membership and colleagues can be members of more than one theme. The
 themes also provide a space to connect academics around grant opportunities and for engaging
 with external partners and members of the public. Whilst activity is organised around these
 themes, there is considerable engagement across themes, and from academics across
 the University. These themes are presented below, with further evidence of their vitality in
 subsequent sections.

 1.2.1 Ageing (lead: Milligan)

 This theme includes innovative and ground-breaking research conducted by psychologists,
 nurses, laboratory scientists, applied health researchers, and social scientists on mechanisms,
 care and preventative interventions related to healthy ageing, quality of life, and age-related
 diseases. Included is research on model organisms and neurodegenerative disorders, cancer,
 supportive and palliative care, and health and well-being of ageing populations.

 1.2.2 Mental Health (lead: Jones)

 The mental health research portfolio focuses on the development and evaluation of innovative
 approaches to the assessment, support and treatment of people with bipolar disorder and
 psychosis across the lifespan, including carers. Additional work in organisations has evaluated
 workplace interventions to reduce stress, trauma and burnout in a range of occupational
 settings.

 1.2.3 Health Information, Computing and Statistics (lead: Knight)

 The work of this theme operates at the interface of statistics, epidemiology and health
 informatics. It provides a focus for applied quantitative biology as well as methodological
 research into longitudinal and spatial data arising from biological and health studies. As such it
 spans geospatial statistical methods, infectious disease models and methods, and health
 informatics and digital health.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.4 Infectious Disease Transmission and Biology (lead: Hamilton)

 Infectious disease research includes microbiology, virology and parasitology, and ranges from
 insect transmitted diseases to environmental and gastrointestinal microbiology. Research
 includes laboratory and field-based experimental work conducted nationally and internationally,
 as well as statistical and computational analysis of many aspects of disease biology,
 epidemiology and diagnosis.

 1.2.5 Social and Economic Inequality in Public Health (lead: McDermott)

 Research in this theme explores the extent of health inequalities across populations locally,
 nationally and internationally, to better understand the mechanisms which produce these health
 inequalities, and develops the evidence base to inform action to tackle these issues through
 community engagement.



 1.3 Research Strategy 2014-2020

 Our overall strategic aim was to develop the quality and volume of research with a particular
 focus on: developing critical mass in our research themes (see 2.1.1); growing inter-
 disciplinary research (see 1.5) through, for example, engagement with the University’s
 Research Institutes, NHS and industry; and enhancing the capacity and capability for
 enabling the translation of research into impact on international and national policy and
 practice (see 1.4 and 4.5 for examples of impact).

 Here we briefly illustrate how we have achieved the strategic aims in themes.

 1.3.1 Ageing

 Ageing research has received additional focus during the assessment period by the
 establishment of the Centre for Ageing Research (C4AR), a formally recognised LU Cross
 Faculty Research Centre, co-directed through FHM by Holland, which is part of the N8 Northern
 Ecosystem on Ageing and Multimorbidity, and is collaborating with McMasters University,
 Canada. End of Life Care is focussed through the International Observatory on End-of-Life Care
 (IOELC) hosted in FHM and led by Payne, Preston, and Walshe. A notable interdisciplinary
 project with Lancaster Environment Centre was the first description of the role of magnetite
 nanoparticles (from air pollution) on the brain resulting in a publication in the top 1% of citations
 in PubMed (Allsop); and a ground-breaking international study of a blood test that can help to
 distinguish between Alzheimer’s and dementia with Lewy bodies.

 1.3.2 Mental Health

 This theme includes The Spectrum Centre (Directors: Jones, Lobban), which has taken a
 leading role in developing and evaluating interventions delivered face-to-face and digitally, in
 group or individual formats through multi-centre randomised controlled trials (RCT). These
 projects have also innovated in digital trial methodology and the implementation of digital
 interventions in NHS settings. Major grants include: an online RCT to evaluate the clinical and
 cost effectiveness of a peer supported self-management intervention for relatives of people with
 psychosis or bipolar disorder (REACT: Lobban, Jones and Rycroft-Malone); a psychological
 intervention for suicide applied to patients with psychosis, the CARMS trial (Jones and Lobban)




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ; and the clinical and cost effectiveness of adapted Dialectical Behaviour Therapy (DBT) for
 Bipolar Mood Instability in primary care (ThriVe-B programme Jones).

 1.3.3 Health Information, Computing and Statistics

 Significant projects in this theme include funding from the Gates Foundation for methodological
 development in Neglected Tropical Disease (NTD) Modelling, the Task Force for Global Health
 for geospatial methods development and application to NTD control and elimination
 programmes, and an RCUK GCRF award for capacity building in Ethiopia, Kenya and Malawi
 (Diggle and Georgi). Work on infectious disease modelling has increased throughout the
 COVID pandemic with key publications being used to inform SAGE (22/01/20- ongoing). Both
 Read and Jewell are invited members of Scientific SPI-M, Read is also an invited member of
 the WHO COVID-19 modelling group (24/01/20-ongoing).

 1.3.4 Infectious Disease Transmission and Biology

 Fundamental globally significant research in parasitology and tropical disease has encompassed
 a wide range of parasites and the diseases they cause, and research into why individuals and
 groups are vaccine hesitant. This theme also includes research about the host factors that
 determine how viruses (including influenza viruses and coronaviruses) are transmitted from
 animals to humans. Significant achievements include the establishment of advanced smart
 diagnostic platforms for zoonotic, poultry and human viruses leading to their implementation
 against veterinary and medically important viruses including COVID-19 (Munir). Field studies
 showed that the large-scale application of synthetic sex pheromone with insecticide reduced
 infection incidence and leishmaniasis in the Brazilian domestic canine reservoir and offers a
 potential new vector control opportunity to reduce human cases (Hamilton).

 1.3.5 Social and Economic Inequality in Public Health

 Through the Liverpool and Lancaster Collaboration for Public Health Research (Popay) we
 became one of eight members of the NIHR School for Public Health Research (SPHR) in Phase
 1 (2012-17, £22 million) and bid successfully to be a member in the second quinquennium
 (2017-22, £21 million). Focussing on community participation in health inequalities, significant
 additional funds have been leveraged. For example, an investigation into LGBT young people’s
 mental health inequality (McDermott) and NIHR HS&DR funding to research early intervention
 mental health services, and a Wellcome Trust study which examined the impact of inequality on
 families of LGBT youth experiencing mental health issues.



 1.4 Impact Strategy 2014-2020

 Our strategic aim for impact was to strengthen and deepen effective engagement with key
 stakeholders that is aligned with our research themes to drive and support health
 innovation so that we would be in a position to open a new Health Innovation Campus, which
 we achieved in 2020.

 We targeted resources towards developing and deepening partnerships, placing particular
 emphasis on those relationships that help us shape our work and promote national and
 international impact. In the UK, this included the NHSE, PHE, other public sector organisations
 (e.g. councils), the third sector (e.g. hospices), businesses, and local communities and
 patient/carer groups. Internationally, this included, the European Association of Palliative Care,


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 WHO, Neglected Tropical Diseases [NTD] Centre of the Task Force for Global Health, and
 Gates Foundation.

 The development of impactful resources from research has also been supported and
 resourced (see section 3.4). Table 1 summarises our impact case studies, how they map onto
 research themes and approach to achieving impact.

 Table 1: Impact case studies mapped on to research themes and approach

  Case study                     Theme                      Approach to achieving
                                                            impact
  Dying well: improving          Ageing, including End-of   Building on an international
  international palliative and   Life care                  research programme,
  end-of-life care                                          extensive engagement,
                                                            included advisory roles with
                                                            WHO Eastern Mediterranean
                                                            Regional Office, Alzheimer
                                                            Europe, Age Platform and the
                                                            development of actionable
                                                            outputs – e.g. MOOCs (Payne
                                                            and Preston).

  Enhancing and expanding        Ageing, including End-of   Pioneering research by
  the scope, reach and           Life care                  Walshe, Preston, and Payne
  value of volunteers in                                    has established the evidence
  palliative and end-of-life                                base for volunteering. Impact
  care                                                      delivered through close
                                                            working links with National
                                                            Council for
                                                            Voluntary Organisations
                                                            Macmillan, various hospices
                                                            and patients, and the
                                                            development and
                                                            implementation of a
                                                            volunteers’ toolkit.

  Improving the lives of         Mental Health              Co-designed intervention
  people affected by bipolar                                research, and partnerships
  disorder through                                          with NHS England,
  improved access to                                        international guideline groups,
  psychological therapies                                   James Lind Alliance, MQ and
  and better understanding                                  patients, led by Lobban and
  of bipolar experiences                                    Jones, and the
                                                            implementation of digital
                                                            support toolkit.

  Informing the national and     Health Information,        Combined expertise of Jewell
  international government       Computing and Statistics   and Read in epidemic
  policy response to the         And                        modelling has led to novel
  2020 SARS-CoV-2                                           insights informing policy

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  pandemic through                 Infectious Disease            making. Impact delivered
  epidemiological                  Transmission and Biology      through membership of SPI-M
  intelligence                                                   of SAGE, Joint Biosecurity
                                                                 Centre (JBC), and PHE.

  Planning and delivering          Health Information,           Built on an international
  the control and                  Computing and Statistics      geospatial analysis techniques
  elimination of neglected         And                           research programme led by
  tropical diseases: The           Infectious Disease            Diggle and Georgi, and
  impact of model-based            Transmission and Biology      impact through practical
  geostatistics                                                  outputs such a risk maps, and
                                                                 close engagement with the
                                                                 WHO, NTD Centre of the Task
                                                                 Force for Global Health, Gates
                                                                 Foundation, and Sri Lankan
                                                                 Ministry of Health.

  Mobilising knowledge             Social and Economic           Based on a programme of
  from lived experiences to        Inequalities in Public        community led national and
  reduce social and health         Health                        international research led by
  inequalities                                                   Popay and Halliday, including
                                                                 engaging outputs such as
                                                                 storytelling, and strategic
                                                                 engagement in and with the
                                                                 School for Public Health
                                                                 Research, PHE, Public Health
                                                                 Wales, and WHO.

  Working towards                  Social and Economic           Research from the Learning
  elimination of health and        Inequalities in Public        Disabilities Public Health
  care inequalities                Health                        Observatory at LU led by
  experienced by people                                          Hatton has been put into
  with learning disabilities                                     practice and policy through
                                                                 close links, and advisory roles
                                                                 with for example, Equality and
                                                                 Human Rights Commission,
                                                                 NICE, and Social Care Sector
                                                                 COVID-19 Support Taskforce
                                                                 Learning Disability and Autism
                                                                 Advisory Group.


 1.5 Supporting interdisciplinary research 2014-2020

 Multi and interdisciplinary research has been at the heart of FHM from its inception. This
 is evident from its composition including bench scientists, statisticians, doctors, social scientists,
 clinical psychologists, computational experts, economists and data scientists. This distinctive
 blend of expertise is directed at finding solutions to societal challenges. Co-location has driven



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-operation naturally, but this is further enhanced by research resources co-ordinated at faculty
 level.

 Constituent departments and groups all have their own personality, but investment in
 appointments, infrastructure and equipment is always examined through the lens of facilitating
 critical mass and leveraging opportunities that lie at disciplinary interfaces (see Section
 2.2.1). Perhaps one of the best examples of this has been the establishment of Sports and
 Exercise Science (SES), underpinned by over £150k investment in a Human Performance
 Laboratory. Uniquely for the UK, SES is part of Lancaster Medical School but draws upon
 expertise and collaboration from across FHM, and is one of our most exciting new enterprises.

 In addition, FHM has partnerships with almost every other department in the University.
 University-wide Research Institutes and Research Centres help to catalyse engagement of FHM
 researchers with others to address Grand Challenges through an interdisciplinary lens. For
 example, RECIRCULATE is a GCRF project (£5.9M) focussed on providing safe and
 sustainable water in Africa, and is a collaboration across Environmental Science, Engineering,
 Management School, and FHM.



 1.6 Future Strategy 2021-2028

 Looking forward, we will continue our aspiration to deliver world leading research benefitting
 individuals and communities and establish FHM as a globally significant player. To do this we
 will focus on the inequalities affecting communities, including those local to us, ensuring that
 the post-pandemic recovery results in improved health outcomes and a narrowing of
 inequalities.

 We will also establish a greater number of international partnerships and research
 collaborations to extend the reach and significance of our research and impact.

 Specifically, we will:

        Embed partner organisations in our research structure by creating key strategic
         research partnerships through the newly launched Health Innovation Campus and
         engaging practitioners from the NHS, local authorities, third sectors and SMEs as
         integrated research theme members through greater use of honorary positions,
         internships and fellowships. We will strengthen our position as leaders in public
         involvement in research, continuing to coproduce beneficial research and developing
         the evidence base about partnership working.

        Develop research capacity with the NHS and care organisations through cementing
         Joint Research Office arrangements. This will improve governance and research delivery
         and facilitate identification and mentoring of early career clinical multi-disciplinary
         academics. This capacity building will extend to our partners in the third sector,
         local authority and SMEs, mentoring and supporting applications to new and emerging
         research training opportunities. Greater knowledge exchange will be achieved through
         the placement of our postgraduate students and researchers in partner organisations.

        Increase our interdisciplinary focus ensuring all FHM staff take up the opportunities
         that LU’s interdisciplinary Research Institutes (see Institutional Statement for more
         detail), and regional networks such as the N8 and Northern Health Sciences Alliance

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        [NHSA] offer. We will work to create and deliver incentives, through organisational
        processes such as promotion and sabbaticals, to facilitate and reward our academics for
        participation in, and leadership of, large interdisciplinary and cross-sectorial grants.

       To ensure sustainability, we aim to further diversify our research income, particularly in
        the context of global health and post-Brexit opportunities. Partnership working will
        provide new funding opportunities including research consultancy, investigator-led
        industry, and community funding.

 To ensure continued impact from our research we will build on existing mechanisms of proven
 effectiveness, and commit to a set of actions:

    1. Facilitating international partnerships and knowledge exchange.

    2. Providing co-location facilities and collaborative opportunities for businesses and other
       health and care organisations in the Health Innovation Campus.

    3. Developing a cohort of knowledge exchange fellows, interns, professors of practice and
       embedded researchers.

    4. Supporting activity through institutional impact funding.

    5. Developing a policy nexus for engagement and knowledge exchange.

 The delivery of the strategy will be co-ordinated through research themes, which we will review
 on a biennial basis to ensure continued relevance. The impact of the pandemic has been
 carefully considered in our strategic planning, including sharpening our thinking around
 inequalities. We are confident that our aims are achievable.



 1.7 Open research and reproducibility

 We actively support the 8 pillars of Open science, and have created a culture where research
 data is published alongside research outputs. 37 datasets have been deposited in the University
 data repository since 2015. The University’s Research Data Management (RDM) service
 checks Data Management Plans, including plans for curation. It validates datasets and metadata
 records, advises on licensing, metadata standards and repository choice. Engagement in data
 management has been promoted through ‘Data conversations,’ focussed on planning, storing,
 transferring, archiving and sharing digital objects. Our data-science researchers are now
 routinely providing linked access to code repositories within publications, exemplified by
 their recent high-profile work on Covid-19.

 FHM academics are also providing national leadership in this area. Diggle directs the Health
 Data Research UK-Turing Wellcome PhD Programme in Health Data Science, which has
 Reproducible Science as a core syllabus topic. Edge, in her role as Chair of the Emerging
 Applications Section of the Royal Statistical Society (RSS) is working with the UK Reproducibility
 Network to ensure RSS members are informed of advances in this rapidly changing field.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.8 Supporting research integrity and ethics

 The governance of research ethics is a critical element of our sustainable research culture. All
 research conducted by LU staff and students must adhere to the ethical standards set out in
 the University’s Code of Practice including adhering to funding and subject-specific
 professional body requirements. We operate mechanisms to ensure all research, especially
 studies involving human participants and personal data, are conducted in a way which respects
 the dignity, rights and welfare of participants. Additionally, use of animals or genetically modified
 organisms are assessed through the LU Animal Welfare & Ethical Review Body and Faculty
 Genetic Manipulation Safety Committee.

 All researchers, including doctoral students have to seek ethical review approval for both funded
 and non-funded projects. These reviews are managed by the FHM Research Ethics Committee
 (FHMREC) administered by a University-funded FHM Research Ethics Officer. The FHMREC is
 a sub-committee of the University’s Research Ethics Committee. The FHMREC also offers
 advice and training on ethics. For projects that involve NHS patients from other Faculties, the
 Deputy Chair of FHMREC and the Clinical Research Support Officer provide advice on
 applications and sponsorship arrangements prior to Health Research Authority assessment.

 The University, with assistance from FHM, has remodelled its faculty-based ethics committees
 based on our approach. The University and the Faculty RECs are now moving to an electronic
 system, with FHM playing a major role in this transition.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Approach to staffing

 During a period of sustained growth, we have developed a collegiate and vital research
 environment in which, irrespective of career stage or personal characteristics, our staff
 have the opportunity and support, to flourish. Our multi-disciplinary community is built on a
 foundation of respect and fairness, and it is these values that underpin our approach.

 We have developed policies and processes to ensure academic staff have the time, resources,
 and organisational support necessary to achieve excellence and impact from their research.
 This developmental context reflects the findings of the last staff survey in which 94% of FHM
 staff agreed that ‘LU is a good place to work’. We take a collective responsibility for
 developing and sustaining this supportive environment.

 2.1.1 Staffing Strategy and Profile

 Recruiting, developing and retaining excellent staff in areas of strength, and embedding
 research into all aspects of our organisation and practice are key strategic objectives. Our
 growth strategy has enabled us to recruit excellent researchers:

    1. to maintain and enhance strength in multi-disciplinary research themes,

    2. where there is strategic need, for example, succession planning,

    3. to develop new and emerging talent, and

    4. to strengthen clinical academic capacity.

 During the assessment period there have been 54 new academic appointments in FHM: 32
 Lecturers, eight Senior Lecturers, one Reader and 13 Professors from 38 UK HEIs, four
 international HEIs and eight from the NHS. The balance of recruitment across these levels, and
 the age profile of REF submitted staff (Figure 1) reflects our approach to ‘growing our own’
 underpinned by our support for earlier career academics through the Concordat and senior
 mentorship, and an environment reflective of Athena Swan Silver practices. We have an
 excellent retention rate with 63% of those returned in REF2014 still working with us, 27% of
 staff leaving for new appointments elsewhere, frequently for promotion, and 10% retiring. All
 category A staff are on indefinite contracts.




                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

              35

              30
                                                                           Female
              25                          13          17
                                                                           Male
              20
  Headcount




                             12

              15

              10
                                          18
                                                      16
                             13
               5                                                                  1
                                                                   8
                                                                                  4
                     0
                     1
               0                                                   0
                   21-30   31-40        41-50       51-60        61-65         65+

                                       Age range (years)



 Figure 1: Age profile and gender of FHM staff submitted to REF2021

 Consistent with our strategy, we have appointed to strengthen capacity in and at the
 boundaries of our multi-disciplinary research themes: for example, Health Information,
 Computation & Statistics (Jewell, Knight, Read, Sedda), Ageing (Holland), Mental Health
 (Hardy, Morris, Palmer-Claus), Infectious Disease Transmission & Biology (Isba, Munir,
 O’Shea, Unterholzner), Social & Economic Inequality in Public Health (Ahmed, Kaley, Janke,
 McDermott, Mateus). Our appointments include nurses, doctors, data scientists, biochemists,
 parasitologists, psychologists, forensic anthropology, and public health experts.

 We have also successfully appointed where there is strategic need. For example, high profile
 appointments in Black as University Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Engagement, President Royal
 Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland and member of FHM, and, Rycroft-Malone
 as Executive Dean of FHM, Director of the NIHR Health Services & Delivery Research
 Programme, and Chair, National Institute for Health & Care’s (NICE) Implementation Strategy
 Group.

 To support our drive in recruiting new and emerging talent we recognised the potential of our
 own PhD graduates in appointing Giorgi and Edge (Health Information, Computation &
 Statistics), and Kaley and Robinson (Mental Health) as Lecturers. The Anniversary Lecturer
 (AL) scheme, was a University-wide scheme to recruit the best international early to mid-career
 researchers. We appointed four ALs (Knight, Sedda, Janeke) on five-year contracts comprising
 100% research in the first two years, tapering to a minimum of 40% research by year five. Each
 AL has been prolific, publishing over 160 outputs between them, with at least 10 being evaluated
 as 3* and 4*. Significant individual achievements include Knight advancing to a Professorship,
 and being appointed as co-Director of LU’s Data Science Institute, one of Europe’s strongest
 single-institution data science community.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To reflect our strategic objective to grow our clinical academic community and collaborative
 working with health and care partners, we made five new clinical academic appointments. These
 posts are 50:50 FTE with the NHS Trusts and include: Emsley, Logue, Shelton, Nwosu, and
 Gadoud. 158 honorary appointments contribute to collaborative working between FHM and
 health and care organisations.

 2.1.2 Developing staff

 All research staff irrespective of their career stage have protected time to undertake
 research and have access to a wide range of support and resources tailored to their
 needs. FHM policies and practices are aligned with the European HR Excellence in Research
 Award, which we have retained since 2011. During 2014-20 FHM invested £380,243 in
 supporting researchers’ and PhD students’ development needs. FHM academic staff undertook
 1,243 internal training or development activities during this period, which included 56.6%
 undertaken by females.

 All staff identify individual training needs as part of the annual Performance Development
 Research (PDR) process, which is an opportunity to review progress, identify challenges and
 target support, including setting personal development objectives. Engagement in this process is
 excellent with an average 95% of FHM academic staff completing annual PDR during this
 period. Staff receive mandatory training in equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), wellbeing and
 mental health, and in ‘Recruiting the best’, which is reviewed annually in PDR discussions.

 LU’s Organisation and Education Development team provide formal training opportunities in
 researcher development, leadership and personal effectiveness. Leadership programmes
 include LU’s Bonington Programme that is designed to develop the next generation of senior
 leaders. External development is accessible via ELEMENTA’s ‘Leading the Global University.’ A
 bespoke approach to development takes place in research themes, through for example, writing
 retreats, methods workshops, and convening investigator teams for funding opportunities. LU
 Research Institutes support large and multi-disciplinary funding applications and foster peer-led
 learning opportunities.

 FHM is fully committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers to which LU is a signatory. This commitment is underpinned by a code of practice
 which sets out the roles and responsibilities of principal investigators, research staff and the
 University, which we have embedded in FHM policy and practice. We are currently analysing
 data from the Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey which will
 enable us to co-create a new FHM concordat action plan to further improve our environment.

 Personal support through mentorship and coaching is available to all staff. For example, all
 new staff are assigned a mentor to support career pathway development, and focussed research
 mentorship is available through senior faculty providing advice, co-authoring opportunities, and
 co-applicant and co-principal investigator support. Focussed input on career and work goals is
 provided through coaching.

 2.1.3 Developing those at the beginning of their research careers

 Those who are earlier in their career have lighter teaching loads to help them in developing
 an independent research profile, and the space to integrate into their research group. New
 lecturers undergo three years’ probation in which they are supported to meet milestones through
 annual PDR discussions and senior academic mentorship, including encouragement to access


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University development opportunities (more detail in institutional statement). Post-doctoral
 researchers and fellows benefit from being integrated into research programmes, themes and
 laboratories, and from support and mentorship by senior faculty, and involvement in FHM’s
 Researcher Career and Development group (RCAD).

 RCAD is a self-organised group with a membership list of over 40 researchers, which meets
 monthly to provide a supportive forum for researchers to discuss career development
 challenges and opportunities. RCAD also organises events with financial support from FHM,
 including group coaching, a workshop to inform the lone researcher working policy, and an event
 to share knowledge about different employment models. RCAD members are represented on
 several Faculty-level committees, for example Faculty and Divisional Research Committees,
 Human Resource Committee, Equality Enhancement Committee. Membership of these bodies
 provides a mechanism for researchers to participate in strategic decision making about policies
 affecting employment practices and career progression.

 RCAD produced a report for FHM and the University (2016) on improving work-life balance and
 the integration of contract researchers into the academic faculty. Their recommendations have
 influenced our approach. Specifically, we introduced a Career Bridging Scheme to allow
 continuing employment between grants. To date, we have supported 17 researchers (65%
 female: 35% male) on grades 7-9 who have used the time to apply for funding, and for writing
 and submitting publications. We also established a Small Grants Scheme for those earlier in
 their career to help pump-prime applications for external funding (see section 3.2).

 To build up experience that will benefit career progression, ECR lecturers and post-doctoral
 researchers are supported to deliver teaching, are eligible to participate in the University’s
 Associate Teacher Programme, and are expected to gain Associate Fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy. Post-doctoral researchers are included in the annual PDR process. As
 evidenced above, we actively encourage early career staff to take up positions of responsibility,
 integrating them into FHM and enhancing their work profile.

 2.1.4 Supporting dedicated research time

 All academic staff can apply for Academic Research and Education Leave (AREL) after
 seven terms of qualifying service to spend uninterrupted time on focussed academic goals. A
 total of 238.2 sabbatical months were taken by 24 (12 males, 12 females) academics during
 the REF period. Achievements include, for example, winning a first UKRI grant by an earlier
 career researcher, cementing new industry contacts and in-kind funding, developing new
 collaborations, and significant increases in output productivity.

 2.1.5 Supporting exchange

 Numerous resources and structures support exchange with external organisations. In
 recognition of the importance of this activity and our role as a Civic University, FHM introduced a
 new role; an Associate Dean for Engagement (Isba) to take leadership and oversight of our
 approach to engagement and exchange. We also have forums for supporting exchange, for
 example, the Partnership Forum works strategically to increase collaborative research and
 knowledge exchange between LU, industry, health and social care across the region. The Work
 and Health Forum connects academics, health professionals, policy leaders, council leaders
 and local citizens to develop new evidence-based approaches towards enabling people with
 long term conditions to maintain or enhance work productivity.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 FHM’s Staff Development Fund supports individuals and teams to engage in opportunities that
 enhance networking and knowledge exchange. Dedicated funds enable exchange between
 researchers and non-academic partners, and have been beneficial in setting up collaborations
 (see sections 3 and 4). LU has made a significant investment in infrastructure (see section 3.3.1)
 to support exchange through the development of the Health Innovation Campus’ business
 engagement team. These investments should lead to a step change in future collaborative
 working.

 Supporting our engagement with the NHS community, and aligned to the strategy for growing
 our clinical academic community, we are awarded four Academic Clinical Fellowships and
 Clinical Lectureships per year through the NIHR Integrated Academic Trainee Scheme.
 Awardees have gone on to join us as permanent staff (for example, Shelton). Additionally,
 Health Education England commissions us to provide supervision for Public Health (PH)
 Registrars training to take up senior PH roles, including two FTE 12-month placements each
 year. Building up these schemes is central to our ambitions to continue to grow practice-
 academic capacity.

 2.1.6 Reward and recognition

 Promotion processes are transparent and accessible. In 2015/16 FHM introduced a promotion
 support programme which includes tailored support to those interested in applying for
 promotion. Individuals are assigned a promotion mentor, participate in preparation workshops
 and receive support with writing their case. FHM Promotions Committee members provide
 feedback on all applications before submission to the University Promotions Committee.
 Introduction of the support programme has resulted in a 75% increase in success rates
 across all grades and equal distribution between females and males.

 LU’s promotions criteria have clear routes to recognising achievement through promotion and
 celebrating success. Promotion can be achieved through research and teaching impacts, and
 through engagement with business, government, civil society and wider community. The annual
 Dean’s Awards celebrate valued work practices, including excellence in research and
 engagement.

 Our administrative and specialist technical staff are included in all FHM activities as part of our
 research ecosystem. Issues of relevance to their working environment are discussed in an
 annual away day and a dedicated technicians’ website has been developed and launched
 (Lancaster Technicians Development website). FHM’s Chief Technician led a project that
 resulted in LU receiving an award for its progress in recognising the contribution of technicians
 to scientific research from the Technician Commitment.



 2.2 Recruitment, training and supervision of Post-graduate Research (PGR) students

 Over the REF period FHM’s doctoral programme community has grown significantly. This
 included 631 registrations, up from 270 in the previous REF, and 291 completions, up
 from 134. We align doctoral programmes and admissions with research themes to enable
 students to study with internationally excellent supervisors in research-intensive environments.
 We have a pioneering blended learning PhD programme that provides an accessible route to
 doctoral study for those working in health and care.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.1 FHM’s approach to the recruitment of research students is open and inclusive.

 Recruitment of PGR students is in line with best practice guidance and recommendations from
 the UKRI ‘Equality, diversity and inclusion in research in innovation: UK Review’ (2019). This
 includes writing carefully constructed advertisements that promote opportunities to a diverse
 range of applicants. Advertisements are scrutinised for the use of gendered terms, and ensuring
 images, where used, represent actual students and staff, and the diversity of their cohort.
 Throughout all stages of the recruitment process applicant numbers are checked against
 protected characteristics. The make-up of our doctoral community is illustrated in Figures 2, 3,
 and 4.

                 100%


                        40%   47%      29%        40%        40%        46%         37%
                 75%
   % Headcount




                 50%


                        60%   53%      71%        60%        60%        54%         63%
                 25%



                  0%




                                          Academic Year
                                                                        Female     Male


 Figure 2: Gender profile (%) of FHM PGR students, 2012-2020




                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                                   Unknown
                                                     3%




                               BAME
                                30%
                                                       White
                                                       67%




 Figure 3: Ethnicity profile (%) of FHM’s PGR students, 2014-2020




                                      Notified
                                      disability
                                        13%




                                                       No known
                                                       disability
                                                         87%




 Figure 4: Percentage of FHM’s PGR students with/without disabilities, 2014-2020

 Studentships are funded from a variety of sources: ESRC North West Doctoral Training Centre
 (ESRC/DTC), CLARHC/ARC, Charites, Morecombe Bay NHS Trust, and through self and LU
 funded studentships.

 2.2.2 Training and support for PhD students

 Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework (RDF) is used to map training needs. All students
 are members of the University’s Doctoral Academy ensuring research training aligns with the
 RDF.

 At induction, all doctoral students are required to undertake a Development Needs Analysis
 (DNA), to assess their training needs. This is reviewed in annual progress meetings. Students
 benefit from training available at programme, Faculty, University and wider regional levels in

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialist, for example, lab-based skills and particular methods, and generic research skills,
 such as knowledge exchange and career skills. Research ethics training is mandatory in FHM.
 The University Library provides PGRs with training (including the possibility of one-to-one
 consultations), on information retrieval, referencing and data management. The Doctoral
 Academy provides a focal point for engagement with wider development initiatives via, for
 example, the ESRC/DTC, and MRC Doctoral Training Partnership. All PGRs have access to a
 suite of on-line modules, which are of particular benefit to our part-time and distance learning
 students. Team supervision, including at least two supervisors meeting their student every
 month, leads to a more collaborative and diverse student experience.

 Mechanisms to ensure that students integrate into FHM’s academic community include:

        Supervisor and student being embedded in research themes.

        Research events and seminars that foster students’ research and presentation skills in a
         supportive environment.

        Being part of writing teams and encouraging students to write for publication during their
         studies, which has resulted in over 350 co-authored peer reviewed publications during
         the REF period.

        Supporting engagement of part-time and distance learning students using video-
         conferencing, virtual chat rooms and webinars.

        Funding to support attendance at conferences, including 58 students presenting at
         national conferences, and 71 students presenting at international conferences.

        Participation in both LU and FHM’s PGR annual research symposiums.

 To prepare students for life after their research degree we provide courses on career options
 inside and outside academia, and on effective CV preparation. We also provided placement
 opportunities.

 Of the 95 PhD graduates who responded to a destination of leavers questionnaire, all but one
 was in employment within six months of graduating, typically working in health care (Figure 5).




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            Other (e.g.,
       government, individual
         & family services,
          social care, etc)
                12%
    Pharmaceuticals
         4%


                        Research
                          5%



                      Mental Health Care                 Hospital & Health Care
                             8%                                   53%




                                Higher Education
                                      18%




 Figure 5: Employment destinations of FHM PGR students, 2014-2020



 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 2.3.1 FHM’s progress and commitment to EDI is recognised by our Athena Swan Silver award
 (2018). Our commitment to the Disability Confident scheme and Stonewall Global Diversity
 Champions Programme, also ensures that best practice is embedded in our structures and
 processes. Feedback from Athena Swan panel commended the evidenced personal
 commitment and shared responsibility across FHM on EDI issues. The gender profile of REF21
 submitted staff is balanced (Table 2).

 Table 2: Gender profile (headcount) of FHM staff submitted to REF2021

                         Lecturer       Senior     Reader        Professor        Total
                                       Lecturer
  Male                      23           16          0               12             51
  Female                    20           16          1               15             52
  Total                     43           32          1               27            103
  Ratio (M:F)              1:09            1:1      0:1            1:1.25         1:1.02

 Leadership and oversight of EDI is managed via FHM’s formally constituted Equality
 Enhancement Committee (EEC), which is co-chaired by an academic (the Dean) and a
 professional services staff member (Faculty Manager), and reports to FHM’s executive group.
 Diversity training is mandatory for all staff. FHM are implementing the Silver award action plan to
 realise our ambition to apply for a Gold award in our next submission.



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There has been an increase in women being promoted to senior lecturers and professors (Table
 3) through the promotion support programme (section 2.1.6).

 Table 3: Number and percentage of successful promotions cases by gender, 2014-2020

 Cases                     Grade 7 & 8          Grade 9        Reader & Chair            Total

                            M        F        M         F          M       F        M            F

 Total submitted           12         9       12        16         1        9       25           34

 No. successful            10         9        8        10         1        7       19           26

 % success                 83       100       67        63      100        78       76           76

 The 54 new academic appointments over the REF 2021 period include a good gender balance:
 13 Professors - 8 female, 5 male; one Reader - female; eight Senior Lecturers - 4 female, 4
 male; 32 Lecturers - 16 female, 16 male.

 Reflective of the balance within LU, 84% of FHM academic staff are White, 10% BAME, and 6%
 unknown. In autumn 2020, FHM’s EEC commissioned a review of race equality and set up an
 FHM Race Equality Task & Finish Group. This group will be delivering an action plan in
 Summer 2021 that will accelerate our progress on this agenda, which to date has included
 decolonising the medical curriculum. FHM’s actions align with LU’s intention to commit to the
 Race Equality Charter in 2021.

 Our commitment to wellbeing is evident in our policies and practices, which has been given
 even greater focus during the pandemic. Oversight is managed through FHM’s Safety, Health
 and Wellbeing Committee, chaired by the Deputy Dean. Additionally, we established a Staff
 Wellbeing Engagement Sub-Group with members from across FHM including those with
 academic expertise in health, wellbeing and mental health, to ensure an evidence base for our
 approach. A combination of initiatives characterise this approach:

        26 members of FHM staff have undertaken training to become Mental Health First
         Aiders, and their accessibility made known through an electronic badge.

        Topic specific awareness and support workshops, for example about menopause in the
         workplace, depression in older people, change management in advance of moving to
         Health Innovation Campus.

        Access to specific wellbeing sessions, for example mindfulness, remote working
         support, desk yoga.

        Collation and signposting of wellbeing resources in an easily accessible format.

        Encouraging the use of personal wellbeing action plans.

        Mental health as a mandatory training requirement.

        Access to free 24/7 employee assistance, including counselling.

 We foster a healthier work-life balance through a 7pm to 7am and weekend no email policy,
 and scheduling meetings between 10am and 4pm to support those with family commitments. We
 have working from home guidance and offer flexible working without detriment. During the
 REF period 184.5 months of maternity, adoption and shared/parental leave was taken.

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During COVID, we have operated within a caring responsibility framework to be even more
 flexible in support of colleagues.

 We provide disabilities support for long-term physical and mental health conditions through
 occupational health services and adaptations to workload. We provide a supported return to
 work in a suitable role to enable individuals to thrive, working with a staff member’s health
 support team if requested. We provide technology, training and coaching support for those with
 dyslexia and related disabilities.

 Our bullying, harassment and sexual misconduct, safeguarding and lone worker policies protect
 both our staff and collaborators. We promote an environment free from bullying, harassment
 and sexual misconduct. FHM’s policies complement formal University reporting and resolution
 processes, offering a route to rapid resolution through personalised support.

 EDI considerations – REF submission

 Consistent with the University’s REF Code of Practice, all those leading on REF received
 additional EDI training. The output selection was conducted solely on the predicted output rating
 using transparent evaluation processes. Regardless of any protected characteristics of individual
 staff members, outputs with the highest rating were selected for inclusion. Statistical analyses
 were conducted to examine whether any unconscious bias might have influenced the selection
 process. These indicated no significant effect on selection.




                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding
 Strategic investment in our research themes and facilities, whilst growing our critical mass, has
 resulted in FHM research awards doubling from £20M in REF2014 to £39.6M in this REF
 period; a 98% increase.

 This represents a mean total awarded per year of £5.7M with an increase in annual awards from
 £4.55M in 2014, to £9.58M in 2020 (Figure 6). With the growth in FTE over this REF period,
 this is an increase of 47% in awards per FTE/ year; from £70.4k/ FTE in 2014 to £103.8k/
 FTE in 2020.

       45.0
       40.0
       35.0                                                                 9.6

       30.0
                                                                  6.4
       25.0
       20.0                                             5.2
  £M




                                              3.2
       15.0                                                                 30.0
                                    6.1                           23.6
       10.0                                             18.4                          20
                           4.6                15.2
        5.0                         9.1
                 4.6       4.6
        0.0
               2014      2015      2016      2017      2018      2019      2020      REF
               (42)      (32)      (42)      (39)      (49)      (49)      (52)      2014
                                                                                    TOTAL
                                     Year (number of awards)

                   Previous year total (cumulative)      Awards for year (£M)

 Figure 6: Research award value per year and cumulative, number of awards per year
 2014-2020 and total income REF2014

 Our strategy of aligning research strengths and interdisciplinary potential with major societal
 challenges across our research themes has resulted in a doubling of research award value due
 to a focus on larger, multi-disciplinary grants, targeting major research funders. Our grant
 awards per FTE/ year have decreased from 0.65 in 2014 to 0.56 in 2020, whilst award amount
 has increased, reflecting this collaborative approach.

 Our research is diverse, and often interdisciplinary, and our funding profile reflects this,
 with prestigious funding awards from all major health-related research funders. The
 growth of our clinical academic numbers, and strategic development of partnerships with health
 and care providers, has allowed us to achieve our aim of increasing NIHR funding; which
 now represents our largest funder with £16.6M of awards over the period. Other notable
 funding sources include the Wellcome Trust (£4.3M), EU (£2.8M), and UKRI (£6.5M across
 MRC, BBSRC, EPSRC and ESRC) (Figure 7). This excellence is reflected across all our
 research themes (see Table 4).


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                           £M and Number of grants
              Source of funding         0      10         20 30 40 50 60 70              80    90

          NHS & Other Health Bodies                                                 70
                                                           £17.7M

      UK Charities (open competition)                                                     80
                                                £8.0M

             Research Council Grants                                  43
                                                £6.5M

                European Union CEC             6
                                             £2.8M

                   UK Charities other                                42
                                             £2.4M

  Non-EU Charities (open competition)           7
                                            £0.64M

              UK Central Government                  11
                                            £0.55M

                       Non-EU other                  11
                                            £0.33M

                     Non-EU Industry         2
                                            £0.26M

                            EU other          4
                                            £0.23M

                 Lancaster University                     15
                                            £0.11M

                         UK Industry            6
                                            £0.04M

                       Royal Society         2
                                            £0.03M

               UK Local Government             4
                                            £0.02M

     Knowledge Transfer Partnerships         1
                                            £0.01M

                         EU Industry         1
                                            £0.01M


                                            Number of grants         Value of grants (in £M)

 Figure 7: Distribution of FHM research award funders, 2014-2020




                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 4: Examples of project grants led by FHM investigators across research themes

  Theme          Principal      Grant title                        Funder     Dates     Total
                 Investigator                                                           award

  Ageing         Froggatt       The Namaste Care                   NIHR HTA   2016-     £508k
                                intervention to improve the                   2019
                                quality of dying for people with
                                advanced dementia living in
                                care homes

  Infectious     Benedetto      Integrated multiomics of host-     BBSRC      2020-     £742k
  Diseases                      bacteria interactions during C.               2024
                                elegans gut infections

  Health         Black          H-unique: In search of             EU         2019-     £2.17
  Informatics                   uniqueness - harnessing                       2023      million
                                anatomical hand variation

  Inequalities   Popay          What are the health and health     NIHR PHR   2018-     £704k
                                inequalities impacts of the Big               2021
                                Local community
                                empowerment initiative in
                                England?

  Mental         McDermott      Identifying and evaluating         NIHR       2019-     £956k
  Health &                      mental health early                HS&DR      2021
  Inequalities                  intervention services and self-
                                care support for lesbian, gay,
                                bisexual and transgender
                                young people: A mixed
                                methods study




 3.2 Strategy for generating research income

 Our strategy for securing research funding has 8 elements:

    1. We work to enhance grant application quality through rigorous pre-submission peer
       review and by early engagement with the University’s Research Development Managers
       and other technical and professional support staff, including use of the NIHR Research
       Design Service North West (RDS NW) which is hosted within FHM. FHM has a
       dedicated professional Research Development Officer who supports the financial and
       logistical aspects of grant preparation.

    2. We have increased support for new and earlier career academic staff. All are line-
       managed by their research theme leader or Head of Department and have an academic
       mentor within a broader culture of providing support for grant applications, papers and
       mock panel interviews. Our support for ECRs has increased the number of
       prestigious early career fellowships held by department members from four at the

                                                                                        Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        last REF to 10 during this REF period, including three NIHR fellowships awarded to
        our growing cohort of clinical academic trainees (Table 5).

 Table 5: Funders and value of FHM’s personal research fellowships for earlier career
 researchers

  Theme                       Funder (n)                 Total value

  Ageing                     MRC (1), NIHR (1)           £716k
  Infectious Diseases        Wellcome Trust (2)          £905k
  Health Informatics         MRC (3)                     £694k
  Inequalities               MRC (1)                     £250k
  Mental Health              NIHR (2)                    £490k
          Total Fellowship funding (10 awards)           £3.6 million

    3. Our research themes act as the catalyst for larger grant applications. Often through
       the cascade of opportunities from research development managers, theme leaders
       identify large grant opportunities and task key colleagues with developing bids,
       bringing in others as multi-disciplinary co-investigators. For example, in response to an
       NIHR Health Technology Assessment call for efficient study designs, Lobban (Mental
       Health) developed a successful application (£636k) with Hollingsworth and Jones as
       co-investigators, with Mateus and Sellwood joining the team post-funding. This trial of a
       peer supported self-management intervention also underpins an impact case study, and
       has developed academic careers; the trial manager is now a Lecturer in the mental
       health theme (Robinson).

    4. We have prioritised support for participation in prestigious regional collaborations
       (Table 6) including the NIHR North West Coast Collaboration for Leadership in Applied
       Research & Care (CLAHRC) and subsequent Applied Research Collaboration (ARC),
       totalling funding of £4.3M for FHM during this period, allowing us to conduct high impact
       applied health research with regional partners.

 Table 6: Major collaborative grants awarded to FHM since 2014

  Grant title                       CI         Funder      Dates          FHM Total award

  NIHR School of Public Health      Popay      NIHR        2017-2022      £1.2 million
  Research
  NIHR Research Design              Hatton     NIHR        2015-2023      £3.8 million
  Service North West
  NIHR North West Coast             Popay      NIHR        2014-2018      £1.7 million
  Collaboration for Leadership in
  Applied Health Research &
  Care
  NIHR Applied Research             Walshe     NIHR        2019-2024      £2.6 million
  Collaboration North West
  Coast
  Health Data Research UK           Knight     HDR UK      2020-2023      £165k
  North



                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    5. We use pump-priming to stimulate research. In this REF period, we have made 19
       internal pump-priming awards, totalling £120,485 (~£6k per project). In each case this
       provided a platform for larger bids to major funders. These have been awarded across
       FHM, with the greatest impact in laboratory research, allowing pilot work to be conducted
       to enhance grant submissions. One such example is Urbaniak (Infectious Diseases):
       awarded £4,781 internal funds in 2014, which supported a successful MRC grant
       application in 2015 (£527k) to study the Trypanosoma brucei cell cycle. A further £4,805
       of internal funding in 2017 then led to an award of £405k from BBSRC in 2020 to study
       iron sensing in trypanosomes.

    6. We have diversified our research income and built relationships with local funders
       to make us more resilient to changes in funding patterns. We received grants from 126
       different funders during this REF period (Figure 7). Our NIHR awards are split between
       infrastructure and project funding, covering all funding streams, and we have received
       substantial funding from all research councils except NERC. We received 28% of our
       research funding from charities, making us susceptible to decreases in charity income
       such as during the pandemic. To reduce the risk of dependence on any one charity, we
       applied widely and have funding from 60 different organisations.

    7. We have developed close and successful relationships with three charity funders
       that serve our region. The largest of these is North West Cancer Research which has
       awarded researchers in our Ageing theme over £1.9M during this period, including £441k
       (Allinson) to fund a Lecturer, Research Fellow and two PhD studentships. Much of this
       funding has been to earlier career researchers including Jackson-Jones for work on
       cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (£106k) and Mort for research on a preclinical
       model for UV exposure and early melanomagenesis (£251k). We have also targeted
       local foundations for small grant funds for development and pilot studies. The Dowager
       Countess Eleanor Peel Trust awarded small grants for ageing research in Lancashire,
       which totalled £72k to FHM in this period. A second, the Sir John Fisher Foundation has
       awarded FHM £442k since 2014, including £77k to Gadoud to explore the use of health
       informatics to improve the quality of end-of-life care.

    8. We have diversified of our research areas allowing diversification of funding
       sources. For example, alongside the expansion in clinical academics leading to
       increased NIHR funding, the development of Sports and Exercise Medicine has led to
       new collaborations and funding opportunities. Sport England have funded a team of FHM
       researchers (£301k), led by Holland, working in partnership with Lancashire County and
       Blackburn with Darwen Borough Councils, to conduct a mixed-method whole system
       evaluation of the delivery pilot of ‘Together an Active Future’.



 3.3 Facilities and equipment

 During this period, we have invested significantly in our accommodation and facilities. This is
 exemplified by a £41 million investment in the Health innovation Campus as well as
 investments in specialist research equipment and core facilities.




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3.1 Health Innovation Campus

 Completed in April 2020, the Health Innovation Campus provides office, meeting and
 engagement space for FHM academics and state-of the art teaching facilities for our medical
 school, alongside office space for health-focussed local industry and third sector partners
 (Figure 8). The total investment of £41M comprised £17M Local Growth Deal Funding from the
 Lancashire Local Enterprise Partnership, £8.5M from European Regional Development Fund
 (ERDF) with the remainder invested by Lancaster University. As well as physical space, the
 EDRF funding supports a team of partnership development and business support managers to
 connect researchers in FHM, and the wider University, with industry and other potential
 collaborators. Going forward, the Health Innovation Campus will act as the catalyst for the
 delivery of our future strategy (section 1.6), especially “embedding partner organisations in
 our research structure” to deliver future research impact.




 Figure 8: Health Innovation Campus

 3.3.2 Facilities and equipment for laboratory sciences

 FHM’s research in the infectious diseases and ageing themes is dependent on world-class
 laboratory facilities. As such, we have continually invested over this REF period to ensure we
 maintain research profile and outputs, including in the following ways:

    1. Biomedical and life sciences research is equipped with the advanced technological
       facilities expected of a world-class research department, facilitating interdisciplinary
       and multiscale research. The research laboratories associated with individual research
       groups, as well as the multi-user facilities, are “well-founded” with all the standard
       laboratory equipment researchers in these areas require. Equipment necessary for
       routine preparations (for example, centrifugation, plate reading, cell handling Class 2 & 3
       Bio Safety cabinets, CO2 incubators, -80C freezers) associated with genetic, biochemical
       and cell biology research is standard, and with a programme of renewal.


                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Improved facilities include an upgrade of the specialist animal physiology laboratory
       and introducing three Containment-Category 3 microbiology laboratories and fly
       laboratories. These support our core research in ‘Ageing and neuroscience’, ‘Cancer and
       genome stability’ and ‘Microbes, pathogens and Immunity’ and represent a £200k
       investment over the period, building on the 2012 £12m laboratory refurbishment.

    3. Increased scope of research. The tools and resources necessary to expedite
       measurement and analysis are available across all the major categories of research,
       ranging from modelling, data handling and analysis, through to advanced molecular
       measurements at the single cell and whole organism levels. This means the ability to
       handle molecular preparations and analysis is available for each of the classes of
       macromolecule.

    4. Improvement in biological imaging to ensure that for cellular studies we have
       available:

           a. Several advanced imaging modalities facilitating live cell measurements
              microspectrofluorimetry confocal platforms (Zeiss Airyscan), as well as several
              additional optical analytical tools such as live cell fluorescence-based tools (on
              Zeiss and Leica platforms) including FRET and FRAP.
           b. More specialised imaging modalities include Confocal Raman and single
              molecule/particle applications.
           c. With plasmonic systems (both SPR and imaging) for living cells analysis and
              molecular microarrays directed at rapid and sensitive molecular profiling for
              disease management and detection in continuous development.
           d. Recently replaced instruments namely:
                  i. the Fluorescence-activated flow cytometer cell sorter - £205K, University
                     capital equipment fund;
                 ii. the Laser Scanning Confocal at a cost of £375K funded by the EPSRC
                     laboratory improvement allocation.

    5. Our Human Performance Laboratory is a specialist testing facility for Sports and
       Exercise Science research, finalised in 2019, it includes facilities for testing in the
       psychological, physiological and biomechanical domains. Exercise equipment includes
       an HP-Cosmos treadmill, Monark and Lode static bikes and a Biodex dynamometer.
       Analytical equipment includes Galvanic Skin Response equipment, a Cortex online gas
       analyser, Pasco force platforms, Optojump gait analysis and facilities for blood analysis.
       This represents a £150k investment in the research careers of four new lecturers in
       Sports and Exercise Science.

    6. Improved data analysis. High End/Performance Computing (HEC) is available as a LU
       campus resource, with data archiving locally and cloud-based. This facility offers 10,000
       cores, 49TB of aggregate memory, 24 Tesla V100 GPUs, 230TB of high-performance file
       store for general use and 4PB of medium performance file store for GridPP data. The
       computing facilities cater for analysis of molecular interactions through to Big-Data
       research questions across University Faculties, as well as to external partners.

    7. Cross HEI access to facilities. Where larger scale analyses are required, we have, for
       example, engaged with the BBSRC Earlham Institute, Manchester Institute of


                                                                                            Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Biotechnology, and NASA. We have engaged in supply and receipt of material to/from
        University of North Carolina’s germ free and transgenic mouse model facilities, we have
        supplied embryonic sand fly tissue to, and exchanged and received cell lines to/from the
        Tick Cell Biobank at Liverpool University. Researchers have used our facilities from the
        Institute of Molecular Medicine (iMM) at Lisbon University, the Sapienza University of
        Rome, and the University of Eastern Finland.

 3.3.3 Facilities and equipment for applied health research

 We have also ensured investment and maintenance of infrastructure and facilities for our applied
 health researchers, including:

    1. Private rooms to conduct research interviews and focus groups within our new
       purpose-built Health innovation Campus, including integral audio and filming equipment.

    2. Institutional licences for research survey software (Qualtrics), along with a faculty
       pool of digital recording devices and an institutionally negotiated contract for
       transcribing, creates an efficient approach to conducting qualitative studies.

    3. Installation of ESRC-funded ‘SafePods’ in the Library in 2021, which will provide a
       facility for researchers to access sensitive governmental data ranging from welfare to tax
       records (£25k/ pod)

 3.3.4 Faculty access to research equipment funding, includes:

    1. An annual call for the FHM Equipment Fund (£265k spend 2014-20) allowed all
       researchers to make equipment requests, which are strategically prioritised for support
       by a committee chaired by the Dean. Examples include: a bio-analyser, air handling
       units, personal alarms for personnel carrying out interviews off campus, glucose
       monitors, ultra-low freezers, centrifuge rotors and tablets for data collection.

    2. The annual University Capital Fund allowed FHM to bid for larger investment in
       equipment. For example, a new flow cytometer/cell sorter was purchased (£205k) and
       used by laboratory researchers across the infectious diseases and ageing.

    3. A University matched funding scheme for capital equipment in research proposals.
       For example, Crest X-light v3 Spinning disc scan head and DigitalPixel 200M
       Environmental chamber (LU/£57k and NWCR/£50k); plate reader (LU/£20k and
       BBSRC/£20k), and microinjection platform (LU/£11k and Wellcome Trust/£11k).



 3.4 Supporting the generation of impact

 Since 2014 we have made significant inroads into embedding an impact culture within FHM
 including for established and earlier-career staff, and PGRs, which has been enabled through
 the following actions:

    1. Investment in dedicated FHM Impact Development Manager (IDM) and Impact
       Support Officer to provide tailored expertise, guidance, and support at all stages of the
       research cycle.




                                                                                          Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Delivery of three FHM Impact Conferences (2015, 2017 & 2019), including
       presentations on impact from internal and external speakers, alongside workshops on
       developing and evidencing impact from experts.

    3. The introduction of an annual impact census to identify emerging and maturing
       examples of research impact, and activities that would benefit from additional support.

           a. From the census we developed a ‘pool’ of impact cases. Using this, our REF
              steering group, supported by the IDM, was able to select and further support the
              cases that have been submitted.
           b. During internal peer-review of grant applications we provided advice and
              improvements to impact statements required by UKRI, and other funders.
           c. Support research theme based impact activity included training to encourage the
              sharing of best practice, engaging external advisors and signposting researchers
              with impact and knowledge exchange capabilities to relevant support teams.

    4. FHM managed a dedicated fund for accelerating potential impact through the
       Research Committee, which distributed £44k over the REF period. The funding has
       enabled researchers to further their engagement with beneficiaries, specifically:

           a. it has supported 20 FHM projects, which has generated the seven case studies
              being submitted to UoA3 with others being developed further for REF 2028 (see
              section 4.5)
           b. to engage external speakers on impact, fund meetings with non-academic
              stakeholders, and engage stakeholders early in projects to ensure impact for new
              projects.




                                                                                          Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 To allow us to deliver world-leading research, we have placed engagement at the heart of our
 strategy. True co-production with patients, the public and other stakeholders throughout
 the design, delivery and dissemination of our research is the key to our success.

 4.1 Supporting effective collaboration nationally

 FHM has an Associate Dean for Engagement and a further Engagement Lead in each
 department, to drive the implementation of our academic-led engagement strategy. A full-time
 Partnership Development Manager facilitates engagement with stakeholders including the
 NHS, local authorities, third sector, government agencies and industry to develop opportunities
 for effective and responsive research collaborations.

 Recognising that collaboration is a vital part of research excellence, FHM is a member of
 several high-profile national academic research collaborations, with in-kind or financial
 contribution from the University to support our membership. These provide the infrastructure and
 resources for FHM academics across research themes to work in partnership and generate
 internationally significant research with impact, for example:

    1. We continue to be a key partner in the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC)
       North West Coast in its transition from a Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health &
       Care (CLAHRC). The ARC has 13 FHM academics named on the award and Walshe is
       the Equitable Place Based Health and Care Theme lead. Engagement in the
       CLARHC/ARC over the REF period has led to greater regional cross-sector working and
       user-centric research, including a recent example led by FHM; Dear Diary: Life under
       Lockdown recorded by people across the North West.

    2. We played a significant role in the Connected Health Cities Project (Emsley and
       Knight) through our membership of the NHSA, building capacity though four funded
       PhDs in collaboration with NHS clinicians. One example was the development of an early
       warning system for chronic respiratory disease admissions with the vanguard
       Morecambe Bay Respiratory Network Integrated Care Partnership (ICP). Additionally, we
       have been developing an exemplar of the use of informatics in integrated care with Bay
       Health Partners. As a result of this collaboration, the ICP’s clinical lead joined FHM as a
       substantive Clinical Senior Lecturer (Gatherall), allowing us to strengthen our research
       into innovative care pathways with local health partners.

    3. FHM is a partner in the Health Data Research UK (HDRUK) North Better Care
       partnership (2020) including universities and health trusts in Liverpool, Sheffield, Durham
       and Newcastle combining expertise from our ageing and health informatics themes, with
       Associate Director (Knight), Patient, Practitioner and Public involvement (Preston), and
       Implementation lead (Rycroft-Malone) roles. This places us in the National HDRUK
       network, which includes practitioners and academics from all regions in the UK,
       providing a platform for future collaborative opportunities and investment.

    4. We co-direct the Liverpool and Lancaster Universities Collaboration for Public Health
       Research (Popay and Hollingsworth) one of eight academic members of the NIHR
       School for Public Health Research working collaboratively to build research capacity in
       public health and funded since 2011. Whilst led by our Social and Economic Inequalities


                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        in Health theme, membership has facilitated academics from across FHM and the
        university to collaborate in major UK public health research projects. This includes
        leading significant studies on community engagement and empowerment, informing
        NICE guidance.



 4.2 Supporting effective collaboration internationally

 Our collaborative reach links to research themes and international health priorities, for
 example:

    1. Payne and Preston in the Ageing theme provide UK leadership for multiple EU
       FP7/H2020 grants in palliative care including collaborations with 15 partners over 6
       countries. These include the ACTION trial of advanced care planning, the MyPal trials
       of patient reported outcome (PRO) systems and EURO IMPACT educational and
       research training network aimed at monitoring and improving palliative care in Europe,
       including Italy, Denmark and Belguim. Holland was UK and work package lead for the
       European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing, a highly successful
       programme resulting in 13 publications, including international position statements. FHM
       (Dawson) was a partner in the H2020 “Neurologic and Psychiatric Disorders: from
       synapses to networks”. This network including the Universities of Lisbon, Eastern
       Finland, Rome La Sapienza aimed to promote multidisciplinary research and the mobility
       of researchers, with LU hosting the third network event and a funded PhD student.

    2. Members of the Health Informatics and Infectious Diseases themes are partners in many
       highly productive international research networks, including with the University of
       Florida and US Center for Disease Control on several influenza epidemiological studies
       (Jewell); and with the NTD Centre of the Task Force for Global Health on studies
       supporting disease control programmes in Africa (Giorgi, Diggle). Knight is a member
       of the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, International Consortium for the Genetics
       of Inflammatory Disease, and the International Consortium of the Genetics of Blood
       Pressure leading to many outputs including in Nature. Capitalising on LU’s investment in
       its Ghana Campus, Pickup leads 2 work packages in LU led ESRC funded
       RECIRCULATE project, providing innovation in water supply whist working partnership
       with local academic and communities in Nigeria and Ghana to build capacity across
       Africa.



 4.3 Public participation in research

 Patients and the public are involved in the full research cycle in FHM. We support several
 public and patient involvement (PPI) groups in ageing, palliative care, mental health, and a
 generic public panel in Lancaster Medical School. These panels work with us to co-produce
 our research proposals, join as co-applicants, and input into running studies and co-
 design of dissemination activities. For example, the Spectrum Centre employs a peer-
 researcher with lived experience as a team member who coordinates Spectrum Connect, their
 patient involvement group. The Centre for Aging Research partner with Continuing Learning
 Group a senior learners’ society, supporting them to access undergraduate lectures and space
 to hold meetings, to which they invite researchers and students to share their work. One


                                                                                          Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 member has an honorary University position and the group supports the centre through co-
 research, advising PhD students, and supporting public engagement events.

 We provide leadership to other researchers, and the wider health and care community on
 public and community involvement in research. For example, Popay led an MRC Methodology
 Research Programme funded project to develop a Public Involvement Impact Assessment
 Framework with members of the public. Alongside her work on the lottery-funded community
 empowerment initiative, Communities in Control, this formed a body of evidence used to form
 the 2016 NICE guideline (NG44) “community engagement: improving health and wellbeing
 and reducing health inequalities”. Morbey is a PPI advisor for the NIHR North West Research
 Design Service and contributed to the development of the NIHR’s “A brief guide to public
 involvement in funding applications” and provides advice to researchers across the North
 West about best practice in public involvement.



 4.4 Public engagement

 We have an extensive record of facilitating public understanding and dissemination of our
 science through public engagement and Citizen Science. 31 FHM presenters made 249 radio
 appearances including in the BBC Radio 4 Today programme, BBC 5Live and local stations
 - reaching a total audience of 107,426,823. We have had 20 presenters making 278
 appearances on 18 different national and international TV stations, including the BBC and
 ITV, and international stations such as Aljazeera, Turkish television and other European
 channels. FHM academics are regular contributors in The Conversation, generating 13 million
 reads of 81 articles, with Taylor, A and Gatherer the top publishers at Lancaster University, with
 a combined 11 million reads.

 Members of our Infectious Disease Transmission and Biology theme have an active media
 profile. For example, Gatherer’s media work related to Zika research led to 10 BBC radio and
 TV interviews. Media activity which has increased further since the start of the COVID-19
 pandemic. Gatherer and Munir have appeared over 400 times on national and international
 broadcast channels. Read appeared on the BBC4 Inside Science programme (23/07/20)
 discussing the role of pre-prints over peer review during the pandemic. Researchers in this
 theme also have an innovative public engagement programme. For example, Dillon
 develops artwork for public engagement events for groups that may not usually have
 opportunity to engage with scientists, such as homeless groups. This interdisciplinary activity
 with colleagues from the Lancaster Institute of Contemporary Arts focuses on microbiology,
 creating workshops for artists as part of arts festivals and bring them into the labs in Lancaster
 for arts science projects. This included the 2018 Wellcome funded Parasiteseeing and the
 Endosymbiotic Love Calendar .

 Our anatomy academics are experts at public engagement. Black is internationally renowned for
 her best-selling non-academic books; All that Remains (2018) Saltire book of the year
 (2018) and Written in Bone (2020). She frequently gives public lectures on her work, for
 example, How Does Forensic Anthropology Help Solve Crimes? at the Royal Institution in 2019,
 and makes regular appearances in the media, most recently in The Big Scottish Book Club on
 BBC Scotland (2020).

 FHM has contributed to Lancaster University’s Campus in the City since 2015. Led by Taylor,
 A, our staff and resources from the Clinical Anatomy Learning Centre give the public a tour of

                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the inside of the human body. More than 1,000 members of the public have engaged with this
 project. Taylor, A led a study to find out what the public knew about the human body, using the
 results to inform curriculum design and delivery for medical students. The pilot study led to a
 research collaboration with Oxford University and the Zooniverse, world leaders in citizen
 science. The collaboration is the world’s largest study into what the public know about their
 bodies.

 In the Ageing theme, Allsop and colleagues have worked extensively on developing treatments
 for dementia. To fund this work, Allsop and Foulds launched the Defying Dementia campaign in
 2015. This fundraising campaign was one of the first University-based crowd-funding
 schemes raising £300,000 to date. Significant impacts from this fund include supporting people
 living with dementia in the region via ‘Dementia Hubs’, a network of regular events led by FHM
 researchers, which brings together third sector organisation, academics, people living with
 dementia and their families. The hubs have been running since 2016 and have reached around
 2,500 people living with dementia. The Centre for Ageing Research (led by Holland) has run an
 annual “Town and Gown” event at Lancaster Town Hall since 2015 that receives considerable
 wider interest. This brings together academics, practitioners, city councillors and members of the
 public to hear about the latest developments in ageing research and practice. These have
 included Dementia and the Imagination: Arts and Design for Health (2017; 106 attended, 86
 non-academics), Technology to Support Health (2018; 104 attended, 74 non-academics),
 Community models and technologies to support healthy ageing (2019; 63 attended, 55 non-
 academics) and Maintaining Health in Older Age (2020; 79 attended, 57 non-academics).



 4.5 Wider contributions

 Beyond our impact case studies we have been responding to national and international priorities
 in multiple ways, for example:

 Young person’s mental health and suicide: In response to National Suicide Prevention
 Strategy, The Queer Futures study led by McDermott and funded by the DHSC PRP
 Programme produced the first national evidence on LGBTQ+ youth, suicide, self-harm and
 help-seeking. The results have been used as evidence by the UK Government National Suicide
 Prevention Strategy Advisory Group, House of Commons 2016 Suicide Prevention Inquiry, and
 the UK Government Equalities Office.

 Multiple long-term conditions [MLTC]: Working in partnership with regional NHS and
 industrial partners as the Lancashire Care Innovation Alliance (LCIA) Milligan led one of seven
 ‘Testbeds’ awarded competitive funding by NHS England. This pioneering programme focused
 on testing the effectiveness of targeted combinations of existing health technologies to improve
 self-management of older patients with MLTCs. Findings showed these technologies made no
 difference to hospital service usage with costs exceeding savings; thus providing important
 evidence to discontinue the ‘Testbed’.

 Menstrual symptoms and menopause in the workplace: Hardy’s research has been
 informing industry practice (e.g., Aviva) and guidance for general practice (e.g., British
 Menopause Society). She is also called on for expert advice: Public Health England’s
 Reproductive Health Systems Leadership Forum, UK Parliament’s Menstrual Health Coalition,




                                                                                           Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Cross-Government Policy Group on Pregnancy Loss and Death of a Baby and the European
 Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Resilience Taskforce.

 Parkinson’s disease: Working with the charity Parkinson’s UK, Simpson and Eccles
 developed and validated a new scale: Parkinson’s UK Scale of Perceived Control. The scale
 is being used by the charity in nationwide surveys (>2000 respondents) and results used to
 inform their campaign activities. It is included in their First Steps programme for the newly
 diagnosed and was incorporated into a membership survey about experiences of COVID-19
 helping them shape their pandemic response.

 COVID-19: There has been a wide response to the pandemic across FHM beyond our impact
 case study (Jewell and Read). Munir, Worthington and Jackson-Jones are developing a
 vaccine, which can be delivered nasally, and is recognised by WHO as a vaccine candidate.
 Munir, in collaboration with Brunel University and the University of Surrey, has also developed a
 rapid COVID-19 test, Virus Hunter 6 (VH6), designed for use in mass testing programmes. It
 has received Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) approval, has a
 CE marking, and is currently undergoing further validation.

 Funded by the MRC and in collaboration with 68 care homes Knight and Preston are
 conducting innovative mixed methods research into the effects of the pandemic on care home
 residents to inform future policy. Due to her expertise, Knight is a member of the
 Government’s SAGE Social Care Working Group.

 FHM has also played a civic role through the pandemic. We worked with colleagues in
 Morecambe Bay Foundation Trust to establish a PCR diagnostic testing laboratory using
 FHM equipment, our staff worked with NHS staff to provide diagnostic testing on a seven-day
 basis until national testing capacity was sufficiently increased. We worked with our local Primary
 Care Network to set up a first wave vaccination centre in the Health Innovation Campus,
 where people have been receiving vaccinations since December 2020.



 4.6 Contribution to and recognition by the research base

 Our staff have made significant contributions through service to health, care, and medicine,
 nationally and internationally over this REF period (Table 7).

 Table 7: Number of researchers engaged in academic activities

   Funding committee       Journal editorship/      Keynote lectures        Visiting academic
      membership          associate editorship                                   positions

           30                      23                      39                      15

 Our commitment to peer-reviewed science involved 23 academics acting as editors or
 associate editors on international peer-review journals (Table 8), with an additional 11
 editing special issues. This includes editorship of the highest quality international journals, for
 example, Walshe is Editor of Palliative Medicine (highest ranked journal in Palliative Care), and
 Hollingsworth is Co-Editor of the journal Health Economics (the journal of the International
 Health Economics Association).




                                                                                             Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 8: Examples of FHM Roles in International Journals

 Journal                                Name              Role               Date

 Palliative Medicine                    Walshe            Editor             2011-present

 Journal of Applied Research in Hatton                    Editor             To 2018
 Intellectual Disabilities

 Health Economics                       Hollingsworth     Editor             2019-
                                                                             present

 Health Economics Letters               Hollingsworth     Editor             2013-2018

 BMC Palliative care                    Preston           Section Editor     2016-present

 The Sport and Exercise Scientist       Bampouras         Section Editor     2019-present

 The Neurohospitalist                   Emsley            Associate Editor   2019-present

 BMC Palliative Care                    Hughes            Associate Editor   2015-2019

 Annals of Palliative care              Preston           Associate Editor   2020-present

 Frontiers in Microbiology              Robinson          Associate Editor   2019

 BMC Molecular and Cell Biology         Robinson          Associate Editor   2019

 International Journal       of   Health Rycroft-Malone   Associate Editor   2013-present
 Policy & Management



 FHM researchers have held 30 positions on research funding committees. For example, the
 Alzheimer’s Society (Allsop: chair 2006-2017; Swarbrick: 2019; Hawkes: 2019 onwards),
 Wellcome Trust Sustaining Health Committee (Diggle: 2013-2017). Newton Fund Biological and
 Medical Sciences (Taylor, A: chair 2017-present; Mateus 2018-2019), NIHR Health
 Technology Assessment (Logue: 2016-2020), NIHR Research for Patient Benefit (Emsley:
 2016-present, Hatton: 2018-2020), NIHR HS&DR Prioritisation Committee (Walshe 2016-
 2020). Diggle (2012-2016) was Chair of the MRC Strategic Skills Fellowships Schemes Panel,
 and Rycroft Malone (2014-present) is Programme Director and Chair of the NIHR HS&DR
 Programme and funding committee, and during the pandemic has played a key role in the
 delivery of COVID-19 research funding including membership of the Urgent Public Health
 Oversight Group, member of the UKRI/NIHR Rapid Response Panel, and Deputy Chair of the
 UKRI/NIHR Mental Health, and UKRI/NIHR Long COVID funding committees.

 We provide leadership for research, scholarship, and clinical practice by undertaking key
 positions in subject associations/societies (examples in Table 9).




                                                                                       Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 9: Key leadership positions in subject associations and clinical practice

  Committee; role                                        Name             Date

  NICE Implementation Strategy Group; Chair              Rycroft-Malone   2012-present

  Joint Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights;         Hatton           2019
  Special Advisor

  NICE bipolar Guidance Development Group, Bipolar       Jones            2012-2014
  Disorder; member

  NICE Guideline Development Group, Mental health        Hatton           2019
  in people with learning disabilities, member

  Communities and Local Government committee             Holland          2017
  evidence enquiry on Housing for older people, panel
  member

  World Health Organization, Influenza Incidence         Read             2018-present
  Analytics Group

  Public Health England; honorary academic               Hatton           2017-present

  Independent Advisory Committee for the Global          Hollingsworth    2014-2018
  Burden of Disease, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation;
  member

  National Peer Support Worker Task & Finish Group,      Lobban           2019-present
  Health Education England; member

  International Health Economics Association; Director   Hollingsworth    2010-2017

  World Obesity Federation; Health Services              Logue            2018-present
  Committee

  Royal Statistical Society; President                   Diggle           2014-2016

  Chartered Royal Anthropological Institute, President   Black            2018-present

 FHM academics are making extensive contributions to the international research base. Our
 academics have delivered over 700 presentations at international and national meetings,
 including 39 keynotes given by research leaders from across the themes (Table 10). 24
 researchers were members of scientific committees for international conferences, including for
 major international events such as International Health Economics Association, ISPOR Europe
 (Mateus), Infectious Disease Dynamics (Read) and the European Association for Studies in
 Science and Technology (Goodwin). Holland has been appointed as Chair of the British
 Society of Gerontology Annual Conference to be held in Lancaster in 2021.

 We collaborate with partners across 34 countries. We have acted as external examiners for
 114 PhD/MSc external candidates across the world including in Auckland, Rome, Melbourne,
 Toronto, and Malaysia. We have welcomed 68 international visitors to FHM for periods



                                                                                         Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ranging from a few days to a year, and our staff hold 15 visiting academic positions in non-
 UK Universities.

 Table 10: Illustrative Keynote Addresses given by members of FHM, 2014-2020

  Event                                                 Date   Speaker       Place

  Royal Statistical Society Presidential Address        2015   Diggle        London

  John Stuart Hunter Lecture                            2015   Diggle        UAE

  Royal College of Psychiatrists Faculty of             2015   Hatton        Newcastle
  Intellectual Disabilities Annual Conference

  British Association for Behavioural and Cognitive     2015   Jones         Warwick
  Psychotherapy Annual Conference

  Norway Early Intervention Psychosis conference        2015   Lobban        Oslo

  Smart Ageing Cities Masterclass: World Cities         2016   Holland       Singapore
  Summit

  MIND national conference                              2016   McDermott     Bristol

  Royal College of Emergency Medicine Annual            2017   Isba          Liverpool
  Scientific Meeting

  GEOMED 2017                                           2017   Read          Porto

  Annual Conference of Taiwan Academy of                2017   Walshe        Taipei
  Hospice Palliative Medicine

  International Association for the Scientific Study    2018   Hatton        Glasgow
  of Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities 16th
  World Congress

  International Society for Bipolar Disorders           2018   Jones         Mexico City
  Conference

  Alzheimer’s Europe Conference                         2018   Swarbrick     Barcelona

  Colin White Lecture                                   2018   Diggle        Yale

  13th European Congress on Epileptology                2018   Emsley        Vienna

  International Symposium on Youth Suicide              2019   McDermott     Melbourne

  Global Implementation Conference                      2019   Rycroft-      Glasgow
                                                               Malone

  American Association of Anatomists                    2019   Taylor, A     Orlando




                                                                                         Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.7 Prizes, awards, and honours

 There has also been significant external recognition for FHM academics’ contributions during
 this REF period, including:

 Dillon: Microbiology in Society Award (2020) for the Endosymbiotic Love Calendar
 (http://slyrabbit.net/endosymbiotic-love-calendar/).

 Hardy: National Research Award for Excellence in Occupational Psychology (2019) by the
 British Psychological Society.

 Taylor, A: Basmajian Award from the American Association of Anatomists (2019), the first
 academic outside North America to receive this prestigious award.

 Payne: EAPC Cicely Saunders Award (2020) for lifetime contribution to palliative care.

 Diggle: Royal Statistical Society Barnett Award (2018) for Environmental Statistics.

 Rycroft-Malone: Thomson Reuters Highly Cited Researcher (social sciences) (2016) in
 recognition of ranking among the top 1% of researchers for most cited in their specific field.

 Black: Dame Commander of the most Excellent Order of the British Empire (2016); Honorary
 Doctorate by the Law School at the University of Aberdeen (2019); Elected fellow of the
 British Academy (2020); appointed to the House of Lords as a crossbench life peer (2021).




                                                                                             Page 38
