Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of Oxford

Unit of Assessment: 26B Linguistics

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Introduction
The Unit comprises the Faculty of Linguistics, Philology, and Phonetics, which was created in 2008
and has since become Oxford’s focal point for the study of human language in all its aspects. The
Faculty is an environment in which research and teaching about the structure and history of
individual languages and language-families inform, and are informed by, research in all major
domains of linguistic theory, namely phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics. A
central role in these interactions is played by our laboratories—the Language and Brain Laboratory
and the Phonetics Laboratory—which are open to any member of the Faculty and used by many.
         This is the first time that Oxford’s Faculty of Linguistics, Philology, and Phonetics has made
a REF submission separate from the Faculty of Mediaeval and Modern Languages, a fact that
reflects our distinctive identity and our pride in our achievements. During the assessment period,
the faculty has secured the full endowment of the Chair of Linguistics in perpetuity, laying a firm
foundation for the future of the subject in the University, and we constantly promote undogmatic
openness to new ideas and methods in all aspects of our work. In 2014, the combined UoA
asserted its strategy of allowing no subdomain of linguistics and philology to be an ‘island’. It also
aimed to maintain its distinctive profile in ‘providing research students with an environment where
a strong philological tradition is sustained while all core areas of linguistic theory are supported’,
while also enhancing ‘its cognitive orientation by expanding into teaching and research on
psycholinguistics and neurolinguistics’. It is through commitment to the pursuit of these strategic
aims that the Faculty is now able to support an independent submission to REF2021.
         We seek to make our research a means of cultural and social transformation, for instance
via our work on endangered languages. We insist that theories should be illustrated by, and tested
on, hard linguistic data, whether obtained through psycholinguistic and phonetic experimentation
in our laboratories, through our linguistic fieldwork, through the historical, philological, and
comparative linguistic study of ancient and modern languages, or through any combination of
these approaches. Some members of the Faculty favour particular theoretical stances (for
example Lexical Functional Grammar, or theories of morphological autonomy), but we ensure that
no single view is ever imposed and that a spirit of intellectual openness is always encouraged. We
offer a welcoming, stimulating, supportive atmosphere to researchers at all levels and from all
backgrounds, and seek to promote research of exceptional quality and the highest standards of
intellectual rigour.
         It is an essential part of our identity that many of our researchers hold posts shared with
other Faculties (Modern Languages, English, Classics), and we have energetically argued for the
continuation and reinforcement of these posts, as well as for posts solely associated with our
Faculty. In the review period we have created a new post in Syntax (Mycock) and filled our
recently vacated post in Semantics (Altshuler). Positions vacated in French linguistics and in
Russian and Slavonic linguistics due to retirement have both been filled (Wolfe and Eckhoff). The
Faculty’s share of the Russian and Slavonic linguistics post has been increased to 50%. We have
created a new post in Hispanic Linguistics (Acedo-Matellán). The newly appointed Jesus
Professor of Celtic (Willis), based in our Faculty, is a historical linguist and syntactician. These
new colleagues refresh and expand our expertise in syntax, semantics and general historical
linguistics, as well as in the study of the history and structure of individual languages and language
families.
         We continually review our teaching to make sure that it reflects the broad span of our
research. We have in the past eight years established joint degrees in Modern Languages and
Linguistics, and in Psychology, Philosophy, and Linguistics. At graduate level we have created a
new one-year Master’s research degree in Linguistics. We have also recently obtained approval
to establish a joint Master’s degree with Experimental Psychology. These courses provide
precisely the evidence-based broad training needed to pursue the Faculty’s research goals. The


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


publications submitted for the current REF show how we span sociolinguistics, semantics, syntax,
morphology, phonology, phonetics, and psycholinguistics, drawing on detailed and rigorous
knowledge of a wide range of languages and of their histories. The breadth and depth of our
research is inspired by the informed diversity of approaches and interests that we foster.
       All the Faculty’s research projects are subject to rigorous ethical control and approval as
governed by the protocols of the Central University Research Ethics Committee and overseen by
the Faculty Research Committee. The University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration
on Research Assessment (DORA).

Range of languages that inform our research
Our research in linguistics is defined by extensive knowledge of the structure and history of
language, and we cover as wide a range of languages as possible. In the REF period we have
strengthened comparative-historical research into individual languages and families of languages,
while encouraging a highly productive breadth in less familiar varieties. For example, our research
in Germanic languages, (Hoge, Jones, Lahiri, Sytsema) covers not only German but also
Yiddish, Dutch, and Norwegian; our work on Slavonic languages (Eckhoff, Fellerer, MacRobert)
covers Ukrainian, Czech, Polish, Bulgarian, and Old Church Slavonic as well as Russian; in
addition to our interest in Ancient Greek, we are conducting research on modern Greek (Baltazani,
Coleman); Celtic languages such as Breton, Irish, and Welsh are also investigated (Kennard,
Temple, Willis); our work on Romance languages (Acedo-Matellán, Bach, Cappellaro, Maiden,
Paoli, Wolfe, Temple, and others) covers all the Romance languages from Romanian to
Portuguese, including endangered languages and dozens of dialectal varieties. The Faculty also
has expertise in Classical and Indo-European Philology, in the work of De Melo, Probert, Vatri,
and Willi, focusing principally on Latin, Greek, and Anatolian. Research on ancient Indo-Iranian
languages, particularly Sanskrit, is conducted by Lowe and Petrocchi. Among modern languages
of India, there is work by Lahiri on Bengali and Payne on Hindi. Classical, medieval, and modern
Armenian is the focus of Meyer’s research. Outside Indo-European languages, recent research
projects conducted or supervised by members of the Faculty have explored, for example,
languages of Australasia (Dalrymple, Hemmings, Bach) and Indonesia (Dalrymple, Bach),
Finno-Ugric (Maiden), Japanese (Frellesvig), and others. A part of this work is exemplified in our
Impact case-studies on endangered languages. Our range of languages is also reflected in our
DPhil research topics. Some of these span whole families of languages, and at a conservative
estimate we cover at least fifty languages across Eurasia and Australasia.

Research objectives
During the REF period the Faculty has built up its research capacity in syntax and semantics by
creating a community of researchers in the disciplines and encouraging collaboration. No
particular theoretical stance is imposed, but several of these researchers share an interest in
Lexical Functional Grammar. For example, Dalrymple, Mycock, and Lowe have recently
authored The Oxford Reference Guide to Lexical Functional Grammar. Interest in syntactic theory
overlaps with the description of ancient languages in the Leverhulme-funded project Uncovering
Sanskrit Syntax led by Lowe, which uses corpus data to explore the interclausal syntax of Sanskrit.
The (morpho)syntax and semantics of Romance languages (Ibero-Romance with Catalan, Italo-
Romance, and Gallo-Romance) is at the centre of the research activities of Acedo-Matellán,
Paoli, Wolfe. Hoge researches the syntax of Germanic languages; Willis works on the syntax of
Celtic. Research from a psycholinguistic perspective into semantics and into the syntax-semantics
interface is carried out by Husband.
        Much of the Faculty’s research in phonology and phonetics centres around the Language
and Brain Laboratory and the Phonetics Laboratory. The Language and Brain Laboratory actively
covers phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics. Research members in this laboratory are
engaged in theoretical as well as experimental research covering a variety of psycholinguistic and
neurolinguistic methodologies. The phonetics group at the Phonetics Laboratory is investigating a
wide variety of research themes related to speech and language, including speech synthesis,
computational phonology, the neurology of speech production, vocal tract imaging, and the
analysis and modelling of intonation.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        Morphology—especially from a diachronic perspective—is also a major research topic not
only for members of the Language and Brain Laboratory but also for several members of the
community of Romance linguists within the Research Centre for Romance Linguistics and in the
associated Romance Linguistics Seminar. Our research in Romance linguistics aims to cover all
branches and periods of the Romance languages, with particular emphasis on little-known
varieties (notably at present Istro-Romanian). In addition to morphology (e.g., Bach, Cappellaro,
Maiden), researchers are currently working on the phonology (Watson, Payne) and the syntax
(Acedo-Matellán, Paoli, Wolfe) of Romance languages. One strand of the AHRC-funded
collaborative Open World Research Initiative (OWRI) project Creative Multilingualism,
investigating the interconnection between linguistic diversity and creativity and mainly located in
the Faculty of Medieval and Modern Languages, has been assigned to the Faculty of Linguistics
and examines mutual intelligibility across Romance languages (Cappellaro, Maiden).
        Work in sociolinguistics is largely carried out by Cameron and Temple, and there is a
sociolinguistic element in the philological research of Willi and of Willis. Cameron works
particularly on language ideologies and language and gender studies. She is currently a co-
investigator on the NIHR-funded research project Qualitative Analysis of Remote Consultations,
based in the Department of Primary Care Health Sciences. Focusing on medical consultations
conducted via Skype or FaceTime, it seeks to understand the effects of the medium on doctor-
patient interaction and produce guidance for clinicians on using it effectively. Temple works on
phonetics/phonology and variationist linguistics and the interface between them, with reference
particularly to French, English, and Welsh.
        Our involvement with corpus linguistics has recently been boosted by the contribution of
Eckhoff, whose research includes construction of diachronic text corpora for Russian and Church
Slavonic, within a wider initiative to build such resources for early attestations of the major Indo-
European branches. Eckhoff also works on computational topics related to practical corpus-
building work. Willis’ AHRC-Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft project will have a significant
corpus-building element.

Research support and impact strategy
The Faculty benefits from the research support offered by the central University, which supports
bids for funding from a wide range of external funders as well as our impact activity. During the
assessment period, our researchers made over 60 grant applications, to bodies as diverse as the
AHRC, ERC, EPSRC, ESRC, Alzheimer’s Research UK, and National Institute for Health
Research, covering a range of subjects including: Latin grammar; technology-mediated
communication in the treatment of illness; Indian linguistics; language typology; the history of
intonation; the semantics of individuation. Building on research originally funded by a proof -of-
concept grant from the ERC, the Faculty has obtained support in the development and promotion
of its cutting-edge work in automatic speech recognition (FlexSR) from Oxford University
Innovation, an organization which assists University researchers who wish to commercialize their
intellectual property.
         The Faculty also allows postholders and postdoctoral researchers to claim up to GBP500
per year in personal research expenses (e.g., for travel to conferences).
         We proactively support open access for all our research. Faculty members are encouraged
to lodge all of their research outputs online via the Oxford Research Archive. We ensure that
provision is made in all grant applications to fund accessible digital archiving or research. The
Faculty has already produced, or has funding to produce, publicly accessible sites and databases
such as the Oxford Online Database of Romance Verb Morphology, the ISTROX website on Istro-
Romanian, and now hosting the Tweetolectology website which investigates the spread of
morphosyntactic innovations in English using social media. Members of the Faculty have been
actively engaged in wider discussions about how to ensure open access. For example, our Fellows
of the British Academy have contributed to the Academy’s input to Science Europe’s Plan S (which
aims to ‘accelerate the transition to full and immediate open access to scientific publications’).
Lahiri brought her voice to a meeting in collaboration with Oxford University Press at the Taylorian
Library (autumn 2018) with other heads of learned societies to discuss open access issues of



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


journals such as the Philological Society; she particularly emphasized the need to protect the
interests of early career researchers in the implementation of open access.
         As part of our strategic support for impact, we embrace opportunities for knowledge
exchange and public engagement in all our research. For example, we have ensured that the
Faculty is formally supported by a Knowledge Exchange Officer and have energetically sought
engagement with TORCH (The Oxford Research centre in the Humanities – Oxford’s centre of
intellectual energy for the humanities, which facilitates the development of new ideas and
collaborations both within academia and beyond). Baghai-Ravary held a TORCH Knowledge
Exchange Fellowship to develop software which can analyse a telephone questionnaire, searching
for the characteristic signs of a range of medical conditions that can severely impair the ability of
sufferers to communicate. Cappellaro was awarded a TORCH Knowledge Exchange Fellowship
(2017) with the project Linguistic Fieldwork and Collective Memory aimed at a creating a
sociolinguistic archive and a permanent exhibition of the unusual, and threatened, dialect of a
community in rural Italy. Also in collaboration with TORCH, members of the ISTROX project on
the Istro-Romanian language have presented their work as part of the public ‘Library Lates’ series
Babel – Adventures in Translation at the Bodleian Library; subsequently Maiden gave a public
lecture on Istro-Romanian and its speakers. TORCH has also assisted the ISTROX project by
publicizing the launch of its online interactive platform in association with Zooniverse.

Intellectual development through seminars and workshops
A major engine for the intellectual involvement of our researchers at all levels is the Faculty’s
intensive programme of seminars and workshops. These include Master’s students, DPhil
students, Postdoctoral Researchers, and permanent postholders, and involve lively dissemination
and discussion of new ideas and methods in linguistics in a friendly and informal atmosphere that
ranges across all areas of our activities. Speakers are drawn from across the full career range,
from Master’s students to senior established academics, and we offer funding to invite speakers
from outside Oxford (and frequently from outside Britain, for example William Labov in 2015). Most
of the permanent seminars occur weekly, and in at least two out of Oxford’s three teaching terms,
so that there are at least sixteen of each of our seminars every year. The regular series comprise:

General Linguistics Seminar — covering an extensive range of topics in general linguistics, from
philology to theoretical syntax or phonology.

Romance Linguistics Seminar — covering comparative and historical work on all Romance
languages and dialects and the interfaces between Romance linguistics and general linguistic
theory: these seminars are held jointly by the Faculty of Linguistics and the Faculty of Modern
Languages

Comparative Philology Seminar — on the linguistics and philology of ancient Indo-European
languages and spanning the Faculties of Linguistics and of Classics.

The Faculty also supports occasional seminar series, such as the Endangered Languages
Seminar, and the Introducing Ancient Scripts Seminar involving members of the Faculties of
Classics and Oriental Studies. The Developmental Seminars in Experimental Psychology,
organized by the Department of Experimental Psychology, and the Applied Linguistic Seminar,
organized by the Department of Education, also frequently discuss topics in Linguistics.
        We attract many visiting academics who present their work at special one-off seminars and
workshops (for example, Leverhulme Visiting Professor Anita Mehta (2018)). The Faculty also
organizes ‘blue sky thinking’ discussions, where colleagues are encouraged to present their
emerging research ideas in a completely informal and constructive atmosphere. These were
established to ensure that early career researchers had access not only to a wide range of senior
colleagues to help crystallize possible research proposals but to provide support beyond our
formal mentoring scheme. The result is an unconstrained and productive airing of research ideas
and suggestions.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2. People

The current composition of the Faculty is:

Statutory Professors                   5   ( 04    FTE)
Associate Professors                  16   (12     FTE)
Departmental Lecturers                 5   ( 03.65 FTE)
Research Associates                   17   (15.7 FTE)

The Faculty strives to recruit, support, and enthuse its members—from the earliest postdoctoral
colleagues to senior professors—in all the areas in which we conduct research. Our policies and
staffing strategy are governed by the University’s Code of Practice. We encourage our members
to employ all the structures and facilities provided by the University to seek funding for innovative
and original research, playing close attention to national and international priorities and initiatives.
Regular sabbatical entitlement is one term for every six worked, in line with University policy. The
Faculty supports externally-funded research leave applications.

Access to research facilities and involvement in research activities
We promote and facilitate access to all our research facilities, including our laboratories and
libraries (described in Section 3 below). We enthusiastically support various training programmes
for postgraduate research and postdoctoral members of the Faculty, such as the advanced Core
Training in Linguistics programme and training and collaborations with other universities.
Postgraduate research students may each claim up to GBP500 every year to enable them to
attend appropriate specialist training courses or workshops, or conduct independent fieldwork (for
which they receive specialist training and guidance, for instance in ethical clearance and research
integrity).
         Our strategy is to make the most effective use of our expertise in different domains of
linguistic theory or across a range of languages by ensuring that our postgraduate research
students are formally supervised, whenever appropriate, by more than one person. Faculty
members have collaborated with colleagues in the Universities of Helsinki, Kristiansand,
Nijmegen, Konstanz, Zurich, Padua, among others, in the supervision of graduate students.
         The involvement and support of early career researchers is crucial, and we actively apply
to all available sources in order to fund them. The funding sources of our current 20 early career
researchers are as follows (two researchers receive funding from more than one source):




Our early career researchers are offered mentoring, are formally represented on the Faculty
Board, are offered training funds, and receive funding each year to enable them to organize
workshops or similar events on topics of their choice or to acquire new training on skills which they
had no opportunity to learn earlier. We place our Departmental Lecturers on 12-month contracts
in order to enhance their capacity to conduct research during the summer vacation period. We are
committed to equal opportunity in the recruitment and support of ECRs and graduate students,
and to supporting those with children through nursery provision and flexible working.


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       We enable postgraduate researchers and early career researchers to acquire and refine
new skills, which they are then able to pass on to others. Some examples are:

•RAs in the Language and Brain Laboratory learn how to conduct EEG experiments, and to
analyse and interpret the brain-imaging data.

•Recently graduated DPhil students have been involved in and trained in the documentation and
presentation and evaluation of material evidence of our research activities.

•Postdoctoral fellows regularly attend training sessions on the latest statistical methods or on
Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging.

•We have facilitated Charlotte Hemmings’ ongoing programme of events, funded by Wikipedia,
to give researchers the skills to edit Linguistics-based Wikipedia articles. Since 2018, eight of
these ‘editathons’ have taken place, editing Wikipedia entries on over 30 linguistic topics.

•We were the first Faculty in the Humanities Division to fund and run a Software Carpentry
workshop to provide researchers with coding skills, particularly in R.

•We regularly fund a linguistics writing bootcamp used extensively by our postdocs and PGRs.

•We encourage our PGRs to make use of the facilities provided by the Oxford Foundry
(https://www.oxfordfoundry.ox.ac.uk/), the university’s hub for student entrepreneurship.

•We facilitated Antonia Ruppel’s organization of a series of Endangered Language film screenings
with accompanying workshops.

•We facilitated and partly funded the Indo-Iranian Philology day, at Wolfson College, Oxford (with
our then DPhil student Robin Meyer as co-organizer).

Recruitment, diversity, and inclusion
The Faculty’s strategy is to recruit and retain the very best available applicants for its posts. It is
committed to promoting inclusivity and encouraging the diversity of our applicants. At present, just
over half of our postholders are female, as are two of our five statutory professors and
approximately 60% of recent early career researchers and postdoctoral fellows. Posts are
advertised nationally and internationally, and every person appointed is supported by a mentor
who is independent of the formal probation and assessment process. Of our Category A staff
whose citizenship could be identified, 15 are UK citizens, 12 are EU or EEA citizens, 4 are US
citizens, with 1 Korean and 1 Indian citizen.

 Some indicators of our recruitment, diversity, and inclusion strategies in action are:

•The Faculty is seeking to entrench and enhance the very best practice in gender equality through
its current preparations for an Athena Swan Bronze Award. The Faculty has demonstrated its
commitment to this initiative by buying-out Husband from his teaching to lead the application, and
through the establishment of a self-assessment team of 9 postholders, 3 postdoctoral researchers,
2 staff, and 2 student members. The team has been actively working to understand what gender
equality issues persist across the whole of the career pipeline and are working towards an action
plan to address those issues. This team has also been active in advising the Faculty Board on
relevant aspects of COVID-19 measures.

•Faculty members are mentored for the internal ‘Recognition of Distinction’ exercise: since 2014,
three such awards have been made (to Probert, De Melo, and Asudeh).




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•Robin Meyer piloted an Equality and Diversity course for Early Career Researchers that is now
being rolled out across the Humanities Division. This not only made researchers better able to
support the next generation of academics, but also provided invaluable support for their own
needs.

Staffing Strategy
We strive to maintain our capacity to span the broad range of areas that the Faculty encompasses,
such as the creation of a joint post with Modern Languages in Hispanic linguistics to cover both
Spanish and Portuguese. Given our interests in Psycholinguistics, we have recently proposed a
new joint post with the Faculty of Experimental Psychology. Posts at Associate Professor level are
enhanced by the benefits of a college association or tutorial fellowship: Acedo-Matellán (Oriel
College), Altshuler (Jesus College), Eckhoff (Lady Margaret Hall), Mycock (Somerville College),
Wolfe (St Catherine’s College).
        We are substantially reinforcing the Faculty’s investment in research by obtaining
endowments of Chairs and Lectureships. In 2018 we secured the full endowment of the Chair of
General Linguistics. The holder of the newly endowed Jesus Chair of Celtic, a distinguished
researcher in general historical linguistics, is principally associated with our Faculty. The Diebold
Chair of Comparative Philology is already fully endowed. In the near future we shall seek a
successor to Professor Lahiri in this Chair, and it is our policy to seek a scholar who, like her, will
combine theoretical expertise with experimental ability. We are currently prospecting for ways of
fully endowing the Chair of the Romance Languages.

Graduate researchers and ECRs
Since 2014, 57.6 doctoral degrees have been awarded in Linguistics. The profile by year and
number of degrees awarded is:




Our doctoral graduates and postdoctoral researchers have been very successful in establishing
themselves in research-related careers. These career paths reflect the range of our research
activities, and typically lie at the intersection of general linguistic theory and the study of particular
languages or language-families.

Examples among our recent DPhil students are:

•Esher is now permanent CNRS researcher in morphology and historical linguistics. Formerly at
the unit CLLE-ERSS, Université de Toulouse Jean Jaurès, she has recently moved to the LabEx
EFL programme in Paris;




                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•Two postdoctoral Postdoctoral Research Fellowships in the Surrey Morphology Group, at the
University of Surrey (Kaye, Sims-Williams);
•Team-leader position at Amazon, Berlin, working on Natural Language Understanding within
Alexa AI. (Schuster);
•Junior Research Fellowships in Oxford colleges awarded to three of our doctoral graduates
(Cappellaro, Esher, Bach), all three working on issues of morphological theory with reference to
Romance languages.

Further examples among our recent postdoctoral researchers:

•Althaus is Lecturer in Psychology in the School of Psychology at the University of East Anglia;
•Arora became a Researcher at Amazon (USA, Boston), and is now Assistant Professor in the
Department of Electrical Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur;
•Kotzor is Lecturer in Linguistics at Oxford Brookes University;
•Findlay has been appointed to a three-year postdoctoral research fellowship at the University of
Oslo;
•Lowe is Associate Professor in Sanskrit in the Faculty of Oriental Studies at Oxford;
•Meyer is Associate Professor in Historical Linguistics at the University of Lausanne;
•Wetterlin is Professor of Linguistics at Agder University, Norway.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Members of the Faculty are continually informed and advised about research funding opportunities
by the Divisional Research Facilitator with responsibility for Linguistics, as well as by the Faculty’s
own Director of Research. Those interested in applying for funding are strongly encouraged to
discuss their plans, however embryonic, with the Research Officer and the Research Director. The
UoA has carefully and diligently used internal sources of funding to pilot work that has then been
submitted successfully to external funders. For example, since 2014 we have won 15 awards from
the John Fell Fund (supported by an annual transfer from the university press), 2 Vice-Chancellor’s
Innovation Awards, 2 awards from the REF Strategic Support Fund), and we pursue and obtain
funding across the full span of our disciplines — from philology and the historical study of individual
languages, to general theoretical linguistics and psycholinguistics — from funding bodies such as
AHRC, British Academy, Endangered Language Fund, Leverhulme, ERC, and UKRI.

Our total external research income between 2014 and July 2020 was GBP6,806,826, averaging
around GBP1M per year. Our most prominent sources of funding are the AHRC, the British
Academy, the European Commission, and the Leverhulme Trust.

Details are set out below:




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




External funding: numbers of applications vs numbers of awards by funding body:

          70

          60

          50
                                                                             Number of
          40                                                                 applications

          30                                                                 Number of awards
          20

          10

           0




                          External funding: number of successful applications per year
      7


      6


      5


      4


      3


      2


      1


      0
               FY 13/14     FY 14/15   FY 15/16   FY 16/17   FY 17/18   FY 18/19   FY 19/20   FY 20/21




                                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




               External funding: value of amounts awarded per year in pounds sterling


     1400000


     1200000


     1000000


      800000


      600000


      400000


      200000


          0
                 FY 13/14 FY 14/15 FY 15/16 FY 16/17 FY 17/18 FY 18/19 FY 19/20


                 External funding: proportion of funding according to funding source




                                                                             EU Government
                                                                             Research Councils
                                                                             UK Charity (QR)
                                                                             Non-EU charity
                                                                             RDEC
                                                                             Health Research
                                                                             Other Sources
                                                                             Non-EU Other
                                                                             UK Industry (QR)




                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Since 2014, Faculty researchers have made 54 applications for internal funding for research
support from the Humanities Division, of which 36 were successful (a success rate of 67%). The
total value of the funding obtained was GBP806,759. In addition to applications to the University’s
John Fell Fund for major projects, there have been successful applications for funding to support
Collaboration and Partnership, Early Career Researchers, Knowledge Exchange, and REF
preparation.

Details are as follows:

                   Internal funding: number of applications vs number of awards
      25




      20




      15




      10




       5




       0
            Collaboration &   Early Career SupportKnowledge Exchange   Major Project   REF Support
              Partnership                              & Impact

                                    Number of applications     Number of awards




                                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                   Internal funding: value of applications vs value of awards

      £800,000


      £700,000


      £600,000


      £500,000


      £400,000


      £300,000


      £200,000


      £100,000


           £0
                   Collaboration &      Early Career           Knowledge         Major Project        REF Support
                     Partnership          Support          Exchange & Impact

                                           Value of applications       Value of awards




                          Internal funding: value by year and by funding source
      350000


      300000


      250000


      200000


      150000


      100000


       50000


          0
                  FY 13/14      FY 14/15        FY 15/16      FY 16/17        FY 17/18     FY 18/19       FY 19/20

               Collaboration & Partnership      Early Career Support              Knowledge Exchange & Impact
               Major Project                    REF Support




                                                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Infrastructure
The principal elements of our infrastructure supporting research are:

The Language and Brain Laboratory
The Phonetics Laboratory
The Research Centre for Romance Linguistics
The Libraries

i. The two Laboratories
Professor David Poeppel, Director of the Department of Neuroscience at the Max-Planck-
Institute in Frankfurt, described the Language and Brain Laboratory (in an email to Prof. Lahiri of
February 2018) as ‘a marvelous [sic] lab and precious resource for Oxford’ and observed that
‘[t]here are very few departments/labs that have managed to construct such a well integrated
facility at the intersection of the humanities/linguistics and the
sciences/psychology/neuroscience’. Our Language and Brain Laboratory and our Phonetics
Laboratory are a major part of the Faculty’s contribution to research in psycholinguistic,
neurolinguistic, phonetic, and phonological research. They will be a central part of the Faculty’s
provision in the new GBP150M Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities building, expected to
open in 2024/5.

The Language and Brain Laboratory was established in 2008 and covers all aspects of linguistics,
including phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics. Researchers are engaged in theoretical
as well as experimental research using psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic methodology. The
Language and Brain laboratory is an integral part of the Faculty and provides state-of-the-art
research facilities for a variety of behavioural, eye-tracking, speech production, and neurolinguistic
experiments, including recording equipment for making high-quality voice recordings. The
neurolinguistics laboratory is equipped to support a wide range of psychophysiological
experiments and provide the ‘cleanest’ possible brain wave recordings. The eye-tracking
laboratory is used in areas as diverse as psycho- and cognitive linguistics and psychology,
oculomotor research, and the visual system. Examples are the study of reading processes, speech
production, and language comprehension, face and motion perception, and hand-eye
coordination. The Psycholinguistics laboratory is equipped with bespoke hardware and software
for a wide variety of behavioural experiments (e.g., lexical decision tasks, or timed forced choice
experiments) across different modalities. The hardware is transportable and can be used to run
as many as 16 participants at once in a classroom situation for large fieldwork studies. In recent
years, experiments have been conducted by our postdocs, under the direction of Lahiri, in India,
Germany, France, Sweden, China, and South Korea. In the speech recording laboratory audio
recordings (e.g., to create stimuli) can be made using analogue microphones and digital recorders.
This equipment can also be used for speech production studies which measure the time taken for
someone to plan an utterance.

The Laboratory’s most recent major project (2011 to 2016) was WORDS: Asymmetry, change and
processing in phonological mental representation, funded by an ERC Advanced Investigator
Award (PI Lahiri). The project combined approaches from historical linguistics, psycholinguistics,
neurolinguistics, phonology, and computational modelling to examine the abstract representation
of words. This research has been followed by another ERC-funded project, again led by Lahiri,
called MORPHON. Resolving morpho-phonological alternation: historical, neurolinguistic, and
computational approaches. It combines expertise in theoretical and typological linguistics, brain-
imaging methods, and computational modelling to shed light on questions about the existence and
cross-linguistic incidence of morpho-phonological alternations, their diachronic profiles, their
processing, and their mental representation. The Laboratory has received two ERC ‘Proof of
Concept’ grants, one building on the WORDS project, leading to the development of a FLEXible
new approach to automatic Speech Recognition based on linguistic principles, the other for a
project called MorSR to see whether using morpho-phonological principles could improve speech



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


recognition. Research conducted at the Laboratory has recently resulted in two international
commercial patents for a ‘Method and apparatus for automatic speech recognition’.

The Phonetics Laboratory's resources are mainly used by linguistics students, especially graduate
students in Linguistics and in other departments working on speech. Hardware for physiological
study includes electroglottography, labial electromyography, measurement of airflow, ultrasound
tongue imaging, anatomical models, and tube models. The audio recording provision includes two
small studios with high quality microphones and digital recording. The studios are equipped with
specialized software for the presentation of visual and/or auditory stimuli. As well as excellent
provision for research in speech physiology and acoustics, the computing infrastructure of the lab
is outstanding: in addition to Linux and Windows/Netware computer networks, there is an
extensive collection of software for speech analysis and synthesis. The Laboratory hosts a wide
range of ongoing phonetics-related projects, spanning the audio edition of the Spoken British
National Corpus (Coleman and others), to the Ancient Sounds project seeking to show how words
sounded in the distant past (Coleman, in collaboration with the University of Cambridge), to
Prosodic Variation in Indian Englishes (Payne in collaboration with the University of Melbourne),
to the Greek in Contact project on the intonational patterns of Greek (Baltazani). The Laboratory’s
library contains a large collection of working papers from other labs, and a collection of journals,
books, conference proceedings, theses and offprints; on-line dictionaries, papers, theses, and
course notes; speech corpora; audio and video tapes.

iii. The Research Centre for Romance Linguistics
The Centre (hosted jointly by the Faculty of Linguistics and the Faculty of Medieval and Modern
Languages) brings together the many staff and graduate students (26 at present) associated with
the Faculty whose research touches on the history and structure of Romance languages. It has
also attracted a number of Romance linguists from abroad to spend time working in Oxford. It
seeks to keep its members abreast of research in all Romance languages, especially via its
programme of seminars, emphasizing the particular contribution that detailed knowledge of the
Romance languages can make to current debates in general linguistic theory. Members of the
Centre have generated about 100 publications over the past seven years, and research conducted
by members of the Centre has contributed substantially to the Faculty’s impact-oriented work on
the southern Italian dialect of Bocchigliero, as well as to the ISTROX project on the severely
endangered Istro-Romanian language.

iv. The Libraries
In addition to the central Bodleian Library—which houses a large collection of books relevant to
our discipline and a unique range of manuscripts and documents important to our philological
activities—and the Sackler Library, a major repository of works in Classical linguistics and
philology, the Taylorian Library contains the great bulk of our collection of books in general
linguistics, and on the history and structure of medieval and modern European languages. All
these libraries, each situated within a few minutes’ walk of the Faculty, are fully accessible to, and
extensively used by, our researchers. Oxford’s total library holdings in general linguistics number
tens of thousands of titles (approximately 25000 in general linguistics alone: our holdings in the
linguistics and philology of individual languages are very substantial but difficult to calculate
precisely). It is, for example, the Taylorian Library’s extensive holdings on Italian and Romanian
dialects which provided the initial stimuli and support materials for Cappellaro’s work with
speakers of the Calabrian dialect of Bocchigliero, or the work led by Maiden (the ISTROX project)
on the dying Istro-Romanian language.
         Faculty members have collaborated in the supervision of graduate students with
colleagues in the Universities of Helsinki, Kristiansand, Nijmegen, Konstanz, Zurich, Padua,
among others. Oxford Linguistics scholars (Wolfe, Paoli) were actively involved in activities
leading to the recently signed memorandum of understanding between the Universities of Oxford
and Padua.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Introduction
The Faculty contributes intensively, both nationally and internationally, to promoting and
supporting research in linguistics and philology.
     The Faculty’s activities have repercussions well beyond the confines of academia on many
fronts. A prime example is the major practical application of the FlexSR speech recognition
programme (submitted as one of our Impact Case Studies). Another related case is our work with
schools on promoting awareness of the historical relation between languages and cross-linguistic
intelligibility as part of Oxford’s Creative Multilingualism project. Such projects, and the results of
fieldwork in the case of the endangered languages, have further inspired research in the Faculty
through internal talks and seminars. Examples of some of these activities follow:

Our research projects and their wider contributions to society and the research base
Endangered languages
Our work on the structure and history of languages goes well beyond well-known standard
languages. Across the Faculty there are several projects on endangered languages which
transcend pure linguistic description and analysis in seeking to engage with the community of
speakers in ways that seek not only to preserve and document these languages but also to involve
the surviving speakers in the process and give them the means to transmit knowledge of them to
younger generations. Some of this work is presented in two of our Impact case-studies (Linguistic
archiving and collective memory: building the Bocchigliero museum project on a southern Italian
language; and Preserving and revitalizing endangered languages covering work respectively on
Breton, Enggano, and languages of Northern Sarawak). The Bocchigliero project has real and
locally acknowledged potential to benefit the local economy. A further project, ISTROX, funded by
Oxford’s John Fell Fund, draws on the Hurren Donation, an extensive and generous gift to the
Faculty of unpublished audio recordings and other material from the 1960s on the dying Romance
language Istro-Romanian. The surviving members of the community (in Croatia, the US, and
elsewhere), will be (partly online) in the analysis and interpretation of material which is part of their
recent linguistic history and all of which will eventually be made freely available to them. The
significance of this research has already led to two presentations at the Bodleian Library for the
general public, under the auspices of TORCH.
        The endangered languages projects were often originally sparked by our interest in
phenomena of significance to phonological, morphological, or syntactic theory found in the
languages explored. Thus, our work on languages of Northern Sarawak originates in research into
information structure in those languages. Our work on Breton emerges from a study of the
relationship between metrical structure, gender, and mutation. Our work on Enggano was
stimulated by several typologically unusual features of that language. Our work on Bocchigliero
arose from interest in the peculiar interaction of number-marking with gender in that dialect. Our
work on Istro-Romanian is rooted in interest in the relation between gender and number-marking,
in the peculiar morphology of aspect-marking, and in the genesis of novel inflexion classes, in that
language. Beyond these particular projects, various strands of our research focus on aspects of
endangered languages (e.g., Occitan, Francoprovençal, Romansh, Ladin, Friulian, Megleno-
Romanian, Frisian). There have also been three series of Endangered Languages Seminars
(2016, 2017, and 2019), organized under the aegis of the Bodleian Library, bringing together
researchers interested in this topic from across the University, and covering some 20 different
languages ranging from the northern Americas to Australia. The seminars have included talks on
the general theory and methodology of language preservation. The series have also been
accompanied by book displays and by the screening—organized by one of our early career
researchers—of subtitled films in some of the languages presented.

FlexSR




                                                                                                  Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The research associated with this speech recognition project has really major potential social and
commercial benefits in addition to the innovative applications to language-learning systems
presented separately as one of our impact case studies. Our strategy is to maximize this potential.
The fundamental underlying components of FlexSR are lightweight and consume very little storage
space, and do not require network connectivity. This is a particularly important feature for use
where it is critical that the system continue working in a wide variety of geographical locations,
such as command-recognition systems. Our system can be used in cars to control the
entertainment system, climate control, etc., as well as in home assistant systems (e.g., turning
on/off lights). FlexSR's acoustic model can be combined with a constrained grammar of commands
that can be instantiated quickly and easily for any new language. Manufacturers are under
increasing pressure to support a wider variety of languages, given the rapidly-growing market for
example in India, where dozens of different languages are spoken. Corpora, especially of speech
recordings, are not only expensive but relatively sparsely available for these languages, so that it
is disproportionately expensive and time-consuming for manufacturers to train appropriate models
using the current commercial approach. Since the phonological systems of the many languages
of the world, even those that are under-resourced, are well studied, the requisite transcriptions
can be made very quickly and cheaply. FlexSR can accommodate under-resourced languages
easily, regardless of the availability of suitable training data. Two patents have been obtained on
technical aspects of the prototype systems described above, and a third is in progress. The
prototypes have also been used to provide demonstrations to a variety of potential investors,
clients, and industry partners, including Tata Motors and IBM, as well as OUP.

Intonation and diachrony: how language contact shapes intonational patterns
This ESRC-funded project, led by Mary Baltazani (with Joanna Przedlacka and John Coleman)
looks at how long-term language contact shapes the intonation of communities through past
multilingualism, by looking at the history of Greek varieties in contact with other languages. It seeks
actively to involve members of the speech communities involved (Greek, Turkish, Venetian) in
their own linguistic history, for example through the exhibition Echoes of the Past: Turkish,
Venetian, and Greek organized at the Hellenic Centre in London in October 2019.

Wordovators
The Wordovators project, led by Pierrehumbert, has the goal of discovering the fundamental
mechanisms that support the complexity of the lexicon in human languages. It combines
mathematical modelling with large-scale experiments in the form of computer word games. Hosted
on the web, the games recruit players from all over the world. Single-player games will explore
cognitive factors in the creation and processing of novel words. Multiplayer games using a futuristic
space-exploration scenario will investigate the interaction of cognitive and social factors in the
development of shared vocabularies.

British National Corpus
Coleman continues his involvement with publication of the British National Corpus and is involved
in a project to crowdsource corrections to the corpus from ‘citizen scientists’. The Corpus has been
used by dictionary publishers (e.g., Longman, Chambers, OED) to add value to their products; it
provides text and audio models of English usage and pronunciation for English-language teachers
world-wide; the OCR examinations board has been using extracts of conversational material
originally recorded in Oxford’s Phonetics Laboratory as part of its examination matter for analysis
of natural English conversation; BNC is used a source of data for natural languages technology
and speech processing (e.g., the Infochimps company).

Ancient Sounds
In collaboration with the University of Cambridge Statistical Laboratory, Oxford’s Phonetics
Laboratory, led by Coleman, has developed the Ancient Sounds project (supported by funding
from AHRC and EPSRC) which aims to answer the question ‘What did words sound like in the



                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


past?’, by developing methods to triangulate backwards from contemporary audio recordings of
simple words in modern Indo-European languages to regenerate audible spoken forms from
earlier points in the evolutionary tree. Since 2015 audio demonstrations have been made available
to the general public via Twitter feeds and in a blog.

Services to the discipline
The Faculty actively seeks ways in which it can help the study of linguistics and philology to
flourish, nationally and internationally. Faculty members are warmly encouraged and supported to
shape and guide scholarship in linguistics through memberships of editorial boards and reviewing.
We now have involvements in several dozen journals and book series across the field.
   We are active on the editorial or advisory boards of over 30 different journals or publication
series across linguistics and philology (14 in general linguistics; 1 in phonology and phonetics; 3
in classical philology; 2 in historical linguistics; 1 in south Asian linguistics; 1 in psycholinguistics;
5 in Romance linguistics; 2 in semantics; 3 in sociolinguistics; 1 in Celtic linguistics). Among these
journals and series are Language (Willis), Journal of Linguistics (Börjars, Dalrymple, Willis);
Oxford Guides to the World’s Languages (Maiden as co-general-editor); Phonology and Phonetics
(Lahiri, series editor). Three members of the Faculty (Maiden, Dalrymple, and Probert) have, in
succession, served on the board of Delegates of Oxford University Press, with special
responsibility for publications in Linguistics. We have also served as publication referees
(sometimes on multiple occasions) for a range of major journals and major publishers of linguistic
and philological studies. These include refereeing book and chapter proposals for major academic
publishers (10 publishers, among them Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press,
John Benjamin), and publication proposals for some 80 journals, among them: Acta Classica,
Folia Linguistica Historica, French Studies, Glotta, Journal of Historical Syntax, Journal of
Linguistics, Journal of Phonetics, Journal of Sociolinguistics, Language in Society, Language,
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory, Neuropsychologia, Phonology, Cognition, Revue
romane, Semantics and Pragmatics, Slavonic and East European Review.

National and international dissemination of our ideas
We encourage members of the Faculty to present their research in national and international fora,
and our contributions are much in demand. For example, we have, collectively, delivered over 100
keynote or plenary invited lectures in 25 countries, in Europe, north and south America, Australia,
India, Japan, and New Zealand. These have included a number of lectures explicitly presenting
and explaining our research to the general public (e.g., Cameron in Hong Kong, New Zealand,
the UK, USA; Coleman in the UK; Husband in Canada). Among the internationally prestigious
public lectures delivered have been: the Annual Jenny Cheshire Lecture in Sociolinguistics, Queen
Mary University London (2017, Cameron); Anna Morpurgo Davies Lecture, Joint Lecture of the
British Academy and the Philological Society (2015, Lahiri); invited plenary lecture at conference
Penser l'Europe, organized on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Romanian Unification,
Bucharest (2018, Maiden); Gray Lectures, Faculty of Classics in Cambridge (Probert 2020). Our
various lectures and presentations on documenting endangered languages in Indonesia and in
south-east Europe (the former by Dalrymple in the UK and in Indonesia and the latter by Maiden,
on Istro-Romanian, in the UK and France) have particular importance in diffusion of public
understanding of language endangerment and the preservation of endangered languages,
        We have contributed widely to advanced graduate training through presentations,
workshops, and extended lecture courses in our various subject areas (for example, Dalrymple
in the UK, Japan, Singapore; Maiden in Czech Republic, France, Italy, Romania, Switzerland,
USA; Paoli in Sweden; Probert in UK and Netherlands; Wolfe in UK, Italy).

Our contributions through visiting professorships and fellowships
We seek to foster international scholarly collaboration by welcoming visiting scholars to Oxford,
and encourage our members to take up professorships and fellowships abroad. For example,
Wolfe held a visiting professorship at the University of Padua where he presented his ideas on
parametric theory and Romance languages, collaborated with colleagues on a grammar of old
Venetan, and gave an internationally broadcast seminar on the Verb Second phenomenon; as


                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


part of a visiting professorship at the University of Naples he discussed historical French syntax,
collaborated in research on old Sardinian word order. Maiden held a visiting professorship at
Institutul de Cultură al Universității din București, in Bucharest (2017), during which he had highly
productive exchanges of ideas with Romanian experts on issues in Romanian historical
morphology, leading towards a forthcoming jointly authored volume: The Oxford History of
Romanian Morphology (OUP 2021). Dalrymple was able to develop and present her research in
Lexical Functional Grammar and on language endangerment as guest professor at the Laboratoire
de Linguistique Formelle, Université Paris Diderot, Ngee Ann Kongsi Visiting Professor at the
National University of Singapore, visiting researcher at the Department of English Language and
Literature, National University of Singapore, visiting fellow at the Centre for Advanced Study of the
Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, and visiting professor at Universitas Pendidikan
Indonesia, Bandung, Indonesia. Probert held a Spinoza visiting scholarship in the Classics
Department of the University of Leiden (2019), including collaborative research on ancient
grammatical thought in the Graeco-Roman tradition. She is busy maintaining and reinforcing the
productive links with scholars at the University of Leiden. Payne has received a Leverhulme
International Academic Fellowship, which will involve her being based for long periods in India and
Australia. This will involve collaboration with the University of Melbourne School of Languages and
Linguistics phonetics laboratory, as well as with its Research Unit for Multilingualism and Cross-
Cultural Communication and also with the University of Hyderabad and with the Speech and
Language Processing Laboratory, at the English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad.

The international academic visitors we welcome to Oxford are of various kinds. Professor Anita
Mehta (Leverhulme Visiting Professor; modelling of speech perception) came to us with external
funding and against strong international competition. Some of our visitors have benefited from
visiting fellowships offered and funded by Oxford colleges: Professor Cecilia Robustelli (Università
degli Studi di Modena e Reggio-Emilia; Visiting Fellow at Trinity College, Italian linguistics);
Professor Frans Plank (Konstanz, Senior Research Fellow in Linguistics at Somerville College in
morphology, syntax, typology, historical linguistics). Others have been externally funded by their
home institution or by national research funds: Dr Manuel Badal (Valencia, Spanish linguistics);
Professor Kyunchul Chang (Pusan, English and Korean linguistics); Professor Alexandru Nicolae
(Bucharest, Romanian linguistics); Professor Henning Reetz (Frankfurt, phonetics and
phonology); Dr Serena Romagnoli (Zurich, Italian linguistics); Dr Elena Siminiciuc (Neuchâtel,
Romanian linguistics and semantics).
         Many of these visiting scholars have enthusiastically contributed to our own research and
teaching by giving invited seminar papers, and these events have been major opportunities for our
early career researchers and graduate students to interact with them.

National and international profiles of our research
The influence and impact of our research, and our achievements in developing and promoting
linguistics and philology, have borne fruit in various honours, prizes, awards, and prestigious
appointments.
          Aditi Lahiri was made Commander of the British Empire in the 2020 New Year’s Honours
list for her distinguished service to the study of Linguistics. Martin Maiden was made Comandant
(‘Commander’) in Ordinul Național «Serviciul Credincios» (the National Order for ‘Faithful Service’)
of the Republic of Romania, by decree of the President of Romania, in 2014: the award cites
Maiden’s services to the study of the Romanian linguistics and to the dissemination of Romanian
language and culture in Britain.
          Three members of the Faculty received prestigious awards in recognition of the overall
quality of their research: Andreas Willi was awarded the German Forschungspreis der Alexander-
von-Humboldt-Stiftung (worth EUR60,000) for his outstanding achievements in research and
teaching; Aditi Lahiri won the 2018 Oxford Vice Chancellor’s Innovation Award for ‘inspiring
research; Janet Pierrehumbert received the International Speech Communication Association’s
Scientific Achievement Medal in 2020.
          An example of recognition of our work on the linguistic study of individual languages is
Maiden’s receipt (2018) of the Timotei Cipariu prize of the Romanian Academy for the most


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


distinguished publication in Romanian philology and linguistics of the year 2016, awarded for his
contributions to publication of The Syntax of Old Romanian (OUP). Maiden was made (2019) a
membro corrispondente of the Italian Accademia della Crusca, the most important and ancient
body for the study and dissemination of the Italian language and in the same year was elected an
Honorary Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge, in recognition of academic distinction. Our
success in encouraging research in the area of sociolinguistics is reflected in the award in 2014 to
Jamie Findlay (then a graduate student, now Departmental Lecturer) of the International Gender
and Language Association graduate student essay prize (for an article later published in the
Journal of Language and Sexuality).

Our defence, support, and leadership of research on the national and international stage
We continually promote, defend, and lead, research in linguistics, philology, and phonetics on the
national and international stages by maintaining a strong and active presence in learned societies,
funding agencies, and the like.
        A number of us have held presidencies of learned societies. Lahiri was elected UK
President of the Alexander von Humboldt Stiftung in 2015, President of the Philological Society
(Britain’s oldest and foremost learned society for the history and structure of languages) in 2017,
and Vice President (Humanities) of the British Academy in 2018. Maiden was elected in 2019
Vice-President of the Société de Linguistique et de Philologie Romanes (the world’s foremost
society for the study of the linguistics and philology of Romance languages), with the expectation
that he will become President of the Society from 2022.
        We are a presence in various learned societies. Four members of the Faculty are Fellows
of the British Academy (Dalrymple, Lahiri, Maiden, Willi), Willi having been elected to a
Fellowship in 2020. Lahiri is a member of Academia Europaea and three more members of the
Faculty have recently been appointed to it (Probert 2016; Dalrymple and Maiden 2018).
Pierrehumbert was elected to the American National Academy of Sciences in 2019, while
Frellesvig was elected a Fellow of the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters in 2019.
        For well over a century Oxford linguists and philologists have been a major presence on
the Council of the Philological Society. This tradition has been strongly upheld in the review period:
in addition to Lahiri’s presidency of the Society, six of us (Probert, MacRobert, Meyer, Maiden,
Wolfe, Willis) are or have been on the Council as ordinary members, another (Ashdowne) is
honorary secretary, and two of our former doctoral students (Robin Meyer and Zeprina-Jaz
Ainsworth) have served as student associates.

Support for research funding bodies internationally
We have been active in supporting international and national research funding bodies—as
referees, reviewers, and consultants. The national and international bodies we have served span:

Europe: European Research Council (Probert); European Science Foundation (Willi); HERA,
Humanities in the European Research Area (Fellerer)
Italy: Agenzia Nazionale di Valutazione del sistema Universitario e della Ricerca (Willi)
Austria: Scientific Advisory Board of the University of Vienna (Lahiri)
Belgium: Fonds voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (Lahiri, Willis)
Croatia: International Board for the Re-accreditation of the Philosophical Faculty, University of
Split, Croatia (Fellerer)
Denmark: Danmarks Frie Forskningsfond (Maiden)
Germany: Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Lahiri); Deutsche Akademische Austauschdienst
(Paoli)
Italy: PhD. Advisory Board, Università di Padova (Wolfe); Collegio di dottorato, Facoltà di
linguistica «Salvatore Battaglia», Università degli Studi Federico II, Naples (Maiden)
United Kingdom: Endangered Languages Documentation Programme; Newton Fellowships
(Maiden); Management Committee of the Joint Association of Classical Teachers Greek Summer
School (Probert). Numerous colleagues have participated in evaluations for AHRC and
Leverhulme.



                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


United States: National Endowment for the Humanities (Fellerer); National Science Foundation
(Husband; Lahiri)
Netherlands: Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek (Lahiri); Netherlands
Institute for Advanced Studies (Fellerer)
Poland: Narodowe Centrum Nauki (Willis)
Spain: Evaluation committee for the restructuring of the Instituto da lingua galega, Universidade
de Santiago de Compostela (Maiden)
Sweden: Vetenskapsrådet (Willi); Riksbankens Jubileumsfond (Hoge)
Switzerland: Swiss National Science Foundation Fellowship Awards (Maiden)




                                                                                          Page 20
