Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 25 (Area Studies)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The UoA consists of 16 researchers from the Humanitarian and Conflict Response
 Institute (HCRI), an interdisciplinary research institute that transcends the boundaries
 between humanities and STEM disciplines to address and critically examine the demands
 of the humanitarian, conflict and disaster response sectors. As befits the focus of area
 studies, HCRI’s research is geographically diverse and promotes ‘innovative approaches
 to contemporary and historical foci’ of global relevance
 [https://www.ref.ac.uk/about/blogs/a-disciplinary-perspective-on-interdisciplinary-research-
 area-studies/]. Founded in 2008-9 and housed in the School of Arts, Languages and
 Cultures (SALC), as a cross-faculty initiative between the Faculty of Humanities and what
 is now the Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health, HCRI was established with investment
 from the Tuixen Foundation (www.tuixen.org.uk) and the ESRC. HCRI responds to the
 research needs of what the United Nations now calls the ‘triple nexus’ – humanitarian
 response, development and peace – through close collaboration across education,
 research and practice. Its educational and professional training mission is delivered
 through PGT and PGR programmes, with approximately 220 registered postgraduates,
 and an undergraduate degree programme with 120 students per annum. In the past
 seven years, HCRI staff have published 13 monographs, edited books and special
 issues of journals and more than 110 peer reviewed articles and chapters,
 supervised 18 PGRs to completion (70% of whom hold academic positions), and
 won over £3million in external research awards.
 HCRI has grown to become the largest research institute of its kind in Europe, and is
 unique in its involvement of scholars from across humanities and STEM disciplines around
 the core staff returned in UoA25 (in bold): Education (MacCorkindale), Drama
 (Thompson), History (Burgard, Davey, Gatrell, Kelly, Taithe), Anthropology (Jasani,
 Roborgh), Geography (Haworth, O’Grady), Development Studies (Duffy, Hawkins,
 Jacoby, Howarth, Müller, Sou), Management and Disaster Studies (Fatoum, Shaw),
 Peace and Conflict Studies (Arthur, Fast, Mac Ginty, Read, Turner, Vogel), and Public
 Health, Clinical Medicine and Epidemiology (Cha, Dark, Lecky, Jafar, Redmond,
 Tomkow).

 1.1 Research structure
 REF 2021 is our first opportunity for a standalone UoA submission, reflecting our strategic
 plan since REF2014. As the British Academy commended, HCRI ‘bridges the Faculties of
 Humanities and Medicine in partnership with NGOs, and aims to help lead improvements
 in crisis-response on a global scale’ [http://www.blog.hcri.ac.uk/wp-
 content/uploads/2013/05/BApaperMay2013.pdf]. Our researcher profile has grown and
 diversified, with University appointments, joint ones with the National Health Service
 (NHS) and clinical lecturers funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR).
 HCRI’s growth reflects its significance for the University of Manchester’s cross-disciplinary
 research culture and social responsibility emphasis. HCRI is one of the core contributors
 to the UoM ‘Global Inequalities Research Beacon’ (university areas of excellence and
 interdisciplinary collaboration to tackle global challenges) and the University’s COVID-19
 response. HCRI’s humanitarian focus extends and impacts other REF units, such as
 History (UoA28, particularly its impact work), Classics (UoA29) and Art and Design
 (UoA32).
 In addition to staff returned in UoA25, HCRI draws on associate researchers returned with
 other REF units (Professors Dark, Gatrell, Jacoby, Lecky, Müller, Shaw, Thompson).
 Honorary and emeritus scholars further enrich our community, such as eminent
 humanitarian medical Professor Tony Redmond (hitherto deputy director of HCRI until
 2016) or Professor Mark Duffield, a leading theorist of humanitarian practice who joined in
 2018. HCRI brings in prominent humanitarian leaders such as Dr Rony Brauman (ex-

                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 President, Médecins Sans Frontières, MSF), Dr Caroline Abu Sa’da (Director, SOS
 Méditerrannée Switzerland), Gareth Owen (Head of Humanitarian Affairs, Save the
 Children, SCF), Dr Jane Cocking (previously CEO, Mines Advisory Group, MAG) and
 David Wightwick (CEO, UK-Med, fractional appointment in HCRI). This network of
 associates enhances our teaching, publications and grants, and the supervision of
 doctoral students.

 1.2 Research strategy
 Our strategy is to integrate research, learning and practice in real-world contexts. This
 strategy revolves around three core themes that transcend disciplinary boundaries and the
 United Nations’ triple nexus. Research themes are reviewed regularly in research-led
 dialogue with our partners.
       Theme 1: Health, wellbeing, and social justice
        Built on a rights-based approach to health encompassing physical, mental and
        emotional wellbeing and access to care, this theme focuses on disaster and
        conflict. It arose from research on access to health (Haiti 2010). It addresses how
        access to health care has been denied as part of political or military agendas
        (Dark, Duffy, Redmond, Fast, Roborgh, Jafar), and how the struggle for social
        justice has proposed forms of direct action and solidarity as alternative frameworks
        for change (Cha, Duffield, Jasani, Taithe, Tomkow).
       Theme 2: Knowledge production in intervention and response
        This research theme interrogates the epistemologies of intervention, drawing
        attention to how knowledge production constrains and enables different responses.
        It includes work on the politics of data (Jafar, O’Grady), how data systems are
        designed to capture incidents of violence or monitor behaviour during warfare
        (Fast, Read, Roborgh, Taithe), or to promote development (Haworth). It
        considers qualitative representations of conflict or disaster in narrative and
        symbols, highlighting the power of representation and voice (Arthur, Howarth) and
        the ethics of field research (Vogel). We actively seek to diversify the research
        policy-makers and practitioners consult when developing interventions or
        responding to emergencies such as COVID-19 (O’Grady, Shaw, Sou).
       Theme 3: Spaces of peace, conflict, and crisis
        This research theme recognises the spatial and scalar dimensions of societies
        affected by crisis (Read, Vogel). It explores how people experience and navigate
        disasters, violence and emergency and how this impacts on their identities
        (Haworth), how they experience opportunities and challenges in displacement
        (Hawkins), and their roles as economic, social, and political agents (Burgard,
        Roborgh, Turner). Here we consider how physical and digital infrastructures
        influence the way individuals and institutions engage with each other in times of
        upheaval (O’Grady).
 Our research strategy has been designed to maximise global capabilities,
 interdisciplinarity, impact and knowledge transfer.
 Globalisation of our research strengths and the development of research capability
 abroad
       Theme 1: Our work on emergency medical teams has received support from the
        Hong Kong Disaster Preparedness and Response Institute (Hong Kong Academy
        of Medicine) and the European Commission. It enabled research on data
        production in emergency situations (Jafar) and the development of World Health
        Organisation (WHO) guidelines (Hughes, Redmond) to meet the research agenda
        of our WHO collaboration (2016-2020). Cha is part of a consortium of researchers
        on humanitarian intervention in North Korea involving Johns Hopkins University,
        Freie Universität Berlin, and the University of Korea.



                                                                                      Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Theme 2: Our consortium Researching the Impact of Attacks on Healthcare
        (RIAH), led by Fast, involves Read, Taithe, Roborgh and colleagues at the Johns
        Hopkins University, the Geneva Centre of Humanitarian Studies (University of
        Geneva), Chatham House, and Insecurity Insight (Switzerland). It exemplifies
        HCRI’s approach of developing alliances across research, policy and practice. The
        Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) funded this multi-year
        project with £2.5million in 2019. Its research agenda complements that of the
        WHO and International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC).
       Theme 3: Our work in this area involves regional collaborations such as Turner’s
        role in the Political Economy Project linking academics and development
        practitioners working in and on the Arab world. Based at George Mason University
        (Virginia) and the American University in Beirut, project members conduct
        research, publish and hold seminars and PhD training workshops.
 Across these three themes, our research engages with humanitarian and conflict
 response issues on all continents. In the Americas, our work addresses violence and artist
 engagement in processes of peace and conflict (Vogel); gangs in El Salvador (Howarth);
 access to health in Alaskan communities (Duffy); and disaster response in the Caribbean
 (Redmond, Sou, Taithe). In Africa it addresses Ugandan healthcare (Walter) and politics
 (Hawkins); Ebola in West Africa (Fast, Hughes); and peacebuilding in South Sudan
 (Read). In the Middle East, our research focusses on state building and the political
 economy of conflict in Palestine and Cyprus (Turner, Vogel); graffiti and conflict in Cyprus
 (Arthur, Haworth); and humanitarian medical response in Syria and Egypt (Roborgh). In
 Europe our work is focused on response and preparedness in general, and on conflict
 response in the Balkans and Ukraine (Shaw, O’Grady, Roborgh, Vogel). Our team’s
 research in South Asia examines the aftermath of violence in India (Jasani), conflict
 symbols in Timor Leste (Arthur) and ongoing conflict in Kashmir (Vogel). In the current
 review period our researchers have published on humanitarian response in Thailand and
 Cambodia (Taithe) and disaster management in Australasia (Haworth), with ongoing
 research on health and humanitarian response in North Korea (Cha).
 Enhancement of interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research and collaborative delivery sit at the core of HCRI’s work, as
 exemplified by the our project on graffiti in conflict zones involving Arthur, Vogel (Peace
 and Conflict Studies), and Haworth (Geography). We embed our interdisciplinarity
 through our co-teaching and our collaborative PhD supervisory teams. HCRI’s research
 events (eg Aid, Peace and Conflict in 2017, A Quest for Humanitarian Effectiveness? in
 2015) and our interdisciplinary research seminar series. Internal research funding of
 £10,000 per annum focusses on interdisciplinary projects that exemplify and promote our
 research themes.
 Our strategy is to enhance collaborative and interdisciplinary research links within the
 UoM and nationally. In UoM, we collaborate with the Centre for the History of Science,
 Technology and Medicine (CHSTM - Burgard, Taithe), the Manchester Institute of
 Education and Alliance Manchester Business School (Shaw, Fatoum, Vogel), and the
 Global Development Institute (GDI - Jacoby, Müller, Read, Fast), for research funding,
 supervision of doctoral students, and events relevant to themes 2 and 3. We run the
 regional History of Humanitarianism Network (theme 2, Burgard, Taithe), which involves
 scholars from Nottingham to Glasgow. Nationally, Redmond and Jafar developed a
 course on Essential Emergency Healthcare with the Royal College of Surgeons and Jafar
 coordinates a network of Clinical Academic Fellows across the Northwest (theme 1).
 Impact through engagement with wider society
 In addition to our Impact Case Studies, which detail broader societal contributions related
 to Emergency Medical Teams and the role of data in humanitarian and conflict response,
 HCRI’s work in disaster prevention resonates strongly among professional groups in the
 UK and abroad. For instance, O’Grady’s research led to the production of two reports for
 the Fire and Rescue Service (Getting the Most Out of Performance Monitoring and

                                                                                       Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Optimising the Use of Home Fire Safety Checks), that have since been adopted as the
 organisation’s policy on digital technologies. Turner advises UK parliamentary delegations
 organized by the Council for the Advancement of Arab British Understanding. We
 collaborate with UK-Med, Greater Manchester and the Fire and Rescue service in helping
 test UK resilience to disasters (O’Grady, Lecky, Dark), and supporting the City of
 Manchester’s response to COVID-19 (Shaw, O’Grady, Fattoum). HCRI is part of the
 FCDO-funded K4D Consortium with the universities of Birmingham and Sussex (Kelly).
 The Consortium’s helpdesk answers rapid, desk-based research questions related
 to governance, social development, conflict, and humanitarian topics for UK government
 policymakers. All reports are available online
 [https://opendocs.ids.ac.uk/opendocs/handle/20.500.12413/13022].
 Knowledge transfer and media presence
 Public dissemination and media engagement are aimed at different audiences: for
 instance, Sou’s After Maria is a graphic novel aimed at a young and wider public. It
 received attention in The Guardian and at cultural events such as the Blue Dot festival.
 Davey, Fast, Redmond, Taithe and Turner regularly deliver public lectures to learned
 societies. HCRI has generated over 60 research articles for national and international
 newspapers/TV/major news websites since 2014. This ranges from COVID-19 response
 at cabinet level (Shaw, O’Grady), expert comment in The Guardian on the refugee crisis
 or on attacks on healthcare in the COVID era (Roborgh, Fast), research on the use of
 Twitter in emergencies on Phys.org (O’Grady), live interviews on BBC Breakfast on
 disaster relief after Hurricane Irma (Sou) or ’Inside Story’ on Al Jazeera (Taithe). Haworth
 and Arthur’s conflict graffiti article in The Conversation, was covered in The Independent,
 The Wire, and MENAFN. We use our social media channels (combined following of
 8,000+) to independently disseminate our research. A recent research spotlight campaign
 profiling five academics resulted in over 30,000 impressions and 610 engagements.

 1.3 Research objectives beyond 2021
 Our objectives are to foster debates and exchanges among academia and practitioners,
 and to shape the research agendas of the global humanitarian and conflict response
 sectors through collaborations. To date these include research or training-focused MoUs
 with the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent (IFRC), Médecins
 Sans Frontières (MSF), Save the Children (SCF), the Humanitarian Policy Group (HPG),
 Mines Advisory Group, Plan International, and the Tata Institute for Social Science (TISS,
 India). Our priorities are:
 Globalisation of our research strengths and linkages
 We will build upon research in our thematic areas. For example, under theme 1, we will
 research the impact of attacks on healthcare in armed conflict with partners in
 Afghanistan, Colombia, Nepal, and Ukraine, and examine the relationship between health
 and peace with the WHO. We intend to develop new collaborations around trauma
 epidemiology and medicine, with UoM colleagues in the Faculty of Medicine and in
 collaboration with the NHS through Health Innovation Manchester, and the University of
 Sheffield. To achieve this we will leverage productive collaborations with existing
 colleagues abroad (Geneva Centre of Humanitarian Studies, Johns Hopkins University,
 Jindal University in Delhi, TISS, the Peace Research Institute Oslo, and University of
 Korea).
 Furthering our interdisciplinarity
 In collaboration with other research groups at Manchester (the Manchester Centre for
 Crisis Studies and Mitigation, the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research) we will
 examine the impact of climate change on disaster-affected populations (Haworth,
 O’Grady, Sou, Turner). With SCF and UKMed we will examine the disaster response and
 humanitarian implications of climate change in advance of the UN Climate Change
 Conference in Glasgow 2021. With UK-Med we recruited two PDRA in January 2021. We
 will further develop our collaboration with the Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research to


                                                                                       Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 understand health consequences of refugee status and ageing in refugee groups
 (Tomkow).
 Making our research more impactful
 We launched a research-led policy brief series in 2020 to further our collaborations with
 think tanks, such as the Centre de Réflexion sur l’Action et les Savoirs Humanitaries
 (MSF), the Humanitarian Affairs Team of Save the Children (SCF), the Active Learning
 Network for Accountability and Performance (ALNAP), and the Humanitarian Policy Group
 (HPG) of the Overseas Development Institute. Our policy focus aligns with the
 Policy@Manchester platform, which seeks to enable researchers to effectively engage
 with policymakers and showcase Manchester research. We will continue to develop
 flagship publications such as the Journal of Humanitarian Affairs
 [https://manchesteruniversitypress.co.uk/journals/journal-humanitarian-affairs/] and our
 Manchester University Press ‘Humanitarianism Key Debates and New Approaches’
 book series, in which we have 12 volumes so far.

 1.4 Impact Strategy
 Our impact strategy contributes to the research agendas and priorities of key
 humanitarian, disaster and conflict response actors, including United Nations agencies
 (the WHO, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs), and world leading
 NGOs such as SCF, MSF and others. We accomplish this goal by hosting practitioners at
 HCRI, such as Dan Smith OBE (former Secretary General of International Alert) who
 joined us on a University Simon Industrial Fellowship in 2017 and Dr. Darryl Stellmach, a
 former aid worker who joined us on a University Simon and Hallsworth Fellowship in 2019.
 These individuals work with our researchers and PGRs and develop grants (Wellcome
 award to Fast and Stellmach). Additionally, our joint publications with NGOs and think
 tanks (Fast, Taithe, Turner), with government actors (K4D helpdesk) and policy makers
 (Fast, Read, Shaw, Kelly), our involvement in key high-profile debates (within MSF, at
 ALNAP and the UN World Humanitarian Summit) grant us access to influence global
 policy developments in humanitarian and conflict response.
 HCRI’s researchers share a belief in applied research underpinned by a social
 responsibility ethos that challenges inequalities and engages diverse communities.
 Our impact case studies exemplify this policy engagement. Our collaboration with the
 WHO sets up a framework for international interventions in times of disaster via the
 guidelines for and validation of emergency medical teams (EMTs; Redmond, Jafar
 Taithe, Hughes). This enabled the UK to develop its EMT through UK-Med and HCRI to
 participate in validating the Chinese government EMT. Our second impact case study
 examines how and why data are collected and used by those intervening in conflict zones.
 It examines UN peacekeeping data (Read, Mac Ginty, Taithe) and data about attacks on
 healthcare and their impact (Fast, Read, Roborgh, Taithe). The research has shaped
 key debates and informed advocacy and policy development in the humanitarian sector.
 Our research is predicated on producing impactful outcomes. We collaborate with local
 organisations to research peace indicators and trade in Sudan, Kashmir, the Balkans
 (Mac Ginty, Read, Vogel); access to food in Venezuela (Duffy) and Islamic healing
 among diaspora groups (Jasani). Our work with the Athabascan Nation in Alaska on
 community health and wellbeing expands previous research on grassroots organisation
 among indigenous populations (Duffy). We have used internal and external funding - UoM
 knowledge and cultural exchange bursaries, UKRI Impact Accelerator Accounts,
 Wellcome Trust and British Academy Small Grants - to advance these partnerships. As
 well as accessing School and Faculty financial support, HCRI annually allocates £35,000
 of its core budget to support impact engagement with external partners.




                                                                                      Page 5
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     1.5 Open research environment
-    An open research environment is essential to the sectors with which we interact most, and
     for which paywalls constitute major impediments. We co-produce an Open Access (OA)
     research journal with Manchester University Press, the Journal of Humanitarian Affairs.
     Our book series (Taithe), established in 2013, aims to produce a majority of OA
     publications in future; 25% of our book series publications are available on Green Open
     Access following UoM guidelines. One of our monographs was published with UoM OA
     support (Taithe).
     Within the university, we promote dialogue among Research IT, IT, Information
     Governance, Data Management, and others to improve institutional technological support
     across UoM, to enhance compliance with research ethics and develop legal data
     management guidelines (Roborgh).
     To contribute to public debate, our research events are open to the public and promoted
     via public sites, partner organisations and social media. Since 2019 all our events have
     been converted to podcast format, and we have live-streamed high profile events on the
     Ebola outbreak, Syria uprising and 2015 Paris attack.

     1.6 Research integrity
     HCRI is particularly involved in developing strong ethical research practices and risk
     management (Fast). We participate in UoM debates on research integrity processes by
     having staff serve on (Cha) or chair (Sou) SALC and UoM Ethics committees. Working
     closely with our research partners and NGOs means that we are still able to place
     researchers and doctoral students in extremely challenging contexts (e.g. South Sudan,
     Syrian border, Ukraine, Egypt) despite sector wide anxieties on shrinking research
     opportunities in conflict zones. We are consistently engaged in reforming and enhancing
     ethical processes to enable research with the highest standards of integrity.
     Section 2. People
     Staffing strategy and development
     HCRI’s growth has emerged from a process of continual development and adaptation. As
     a young research institute many of our colleagues began their careers on temporary
     appointments, and were made permanent in this REF period (Duffy, Howarth, Hawkins,
     Jasani and Vogel). New permanent appointments were made from 2016 (Read,
     Haworth, O’Grady, Burgard, Roborgh). Fast and Cha were appointed at SL level in
     2018, while Davey was promoted to SL in 2018. We have recently made joint
     appointments with the NHS (Walter 2017) and NIHR (Jafar and Tomkow - 2020). Our
     senior team comprises two FT professors (Taithe, Turner) and fractional professorial
     appointments of UoM staff: these provide leadership in clinical/medical issues (Lecky and
     Dark in replacement for Redmond) and disaster management (Shaw). All senior staff lead
     on engaging ECR colleagues with NGO partners, UN and state actors, introducing and
     involving them in long established partnerships.
     The HCRI strategy during the REF period focussed on developing a permanent team
     while maintaining flexibility to respond to external events and engage across STEM and
     humanities subjects. We have prioritised employing practitioners (Cha, Walter) and ECRs,
     some of whom have trained with us (Vogel). Having a substantial number of ECRs has
     presented greater opportunities for interdisciplinary dialogue in shaping common research
     agendas and impact strategy. Staff who have departed HCRI have moved to prestigious
     positions in leading institutions or aid organisations around the world (Howell/Rutgers
     University; Peterson/University of British Colombia; Mac Ginty/Durham University;
     Noor/SIDA in Sweden; O’Driscoll/SIPRI in Sweden etc.).
     We actively seek applicants from all contexts, looking always to attract the best staff
     available. Our staff represent 10 nationalities and 5 continents and 25% of our academic
     staff are from BAME backgrounds. We aim to increase the proportion of senior staff via
     promotion from within, while maintaining our gender balance as detailed below and

                                                                                         Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 strengthening our BAME representation. All staff are involved in the planning and
 implementation of our staffing strategy, and recruitment panels involve ECRs and reflect
 our diversity.
 Sustaining a supportive research environment
 Our strategy has been to continue to build and sustain a research culture that is both
 productive and supportive of career development. We have been able to build confidence
 and competence, especially among ECRs, and have encouraged innovative research
 initiatives as well as helping all researchers target high-calibre research outlets. We will
 continue to develop a culture in which research is debated and discussed collegially. Our
 focus on mentoring and supervising has been recognised internationally. For instance,
 Turner was recognised for her outstanding contribution to mentoring women by the
 International Studies Association’s Women’s Caucus.
 HCRI implements a strategy that involves the development of common spaces and
 informal support for research and writing (a writing group is led by Fast, reading groups
 are led by PGR students). Our programme of research-based social activities involve all
 staff and students throughout the year, even during the periods of COVID-19 lockdown.
 ECR colleagues benefit from reduced teaching and administration in the first three years
 in post (75% load in year 1; 80% in year 2 and 85% in year 3). ECRs have access to
 SALC grant capture workshops and funding initiatives that specifically support ECR
 development. All new staff are paired with an experienced mentor with whom to discuss
 publication plans, funding and strategic planning of their careers. Mentors can be recruited
 in partnering sections of the university: for instance, colleagues in CHSTM mentor
 Burgard. All staff receive research and career planning advice from the Faculty’s
 Humanities New Academics Programme (HNAP, accredited by Advance HE) and annual
 Personal Research Expectations Plan (PREP) meetings.
 Our support for ECRs enabled several to secure funding, fellowships and lectureships:
 Read, a lectureship in HCRI; Schemper, a lectureship at the University of Vienna;
 O’Driscoll a post at SIPRI/Stockholm; Duursma a senior researcher post at the Center for
 Security Studies/University of Zurich; and Bertolucci, a postdoctoral position at the
 Université d’Auvergne.
 All staff benefit from a flexible institutional research leave (IRL) policy of one semester’s
 leave in every seven. IRL has recently been complemented by a SALC competitive
 Supplementary Research Leave Scheme (Vogel, 2019), and external funding. IRL is
 granted subject to a viable research plan: post-leave reports are circulated among the
 wider team and colleagues returning from leave are invited to share their findings in
 research seminars.
 All research staff, including PDRAs and research fellows have access to an HCRI
 personal research allowance of £1,000 per annum and can access another £1,000 from
 SALC and further funding from SALC research and development funds. Staff planning
 large grant bids have access to a range of support from the SALC research support office,
 including grant writers who assist with developing grant applications, from idea to
 submission.
 Staff exchange programmes
 HCRI offers postdoctoral exchange visits of up to 18 months: we have hosted visiting
 fellows from the Universidade Federal de Uberlândia (Aureo Toledo), University of
 Belgrade (Nemanja Džuverović), the Holocaust Memorial Fund, the Swiss National Fund
 (Dr Desgrandchamps, who worked with Taithe), and visitors from Australia (Dr. Stellmach,
 MSF and University of Sydney worked with Fast) and from industry (Smith, SIPRI).
 Doctoral students from other institutions have been welcomed for short periods and we
 have opened our doors to colleagues from Lund University in Sweden and Stanford
 University (USA) who have been interested in our institutional model.



                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues have been invited to take up fellowships at the University of Notre Dame, USA
 (Mac Ginty), the Graduate Institute in Geneva (Taithe, Pinaud), Wollongong University
 (Haworth), and UoM strategic partner, the University of Melbourne (Sou).
 Impact and knowledge exchange support
 During voluntary annual reviews (P&DR) and research planning discussions (PREP), staff
 develop their strategic plans with senior colleagues and receive advice on how to develop
 impact aspects of their research. These processes provide support and development
 space specifically beneficial for impact work, which requires sustained development. Our
 institute has two PS staff whose roles include knowledge exchange activities and who can
 guide staff in disseminating their research for the general public and in networking with
 external partners. They have recently been instrumental in highlighting HCRI COVID-
 related research [https://www.hcri.manchester.ac.uk/research/covid-19/].
 Arising from our research ‘away days’, groups working within a research theme are
 encouraged to begin with outreach activities, which develop into sustained relationships.
 In recognition of the fact that genuine research impact takes an investment of time over
 many years, colleagues share best practice in developing impact routes. Read and
 Duursma were awarded ESRC IAA grants to pursue connections with United Nations staff
 in Mali and New York (2016).
 Research students
 Since 2014 HCRI has recruited and trained 18 research students to completion (34,
 including ongoing students and 52 since 2009). These students have been recruited as
 part of the Development and Humanitarianism pathway of the ESRC North West Doctoral
 Training College, through industrial partnership studentships with Mine Advisory Group
 (MAG), Save the Children (Chapman, Schläpfer) and MSF (Atherton). HCRI has received
 funding outside the arts and humanities through EPSRC (Gittins). HCRI consistently
 attracts pre-doctoral projects in medicine. Some funding has come from governments
 such as the Malayan government funding (Hatta) or the Disaster Preparedness and
 Response Institute of Hong Kong (Jafar).
 97% of our PhD students have received external (47%) and internal funding (50%) from
 HCRI, School and Faculty (including impact funding). Our student profile is international,
 including students from Bosnia (Ramovic), Canada (Lepp), Denmark (Buer), France
 (Pinaud), Germany (Tschunkert), Japan (Nakagawa), Peru (Olafsson), Switzerland
 (Schläpfer, Matt), Spain (Avendaño), Sweden (Delgado), Syria (Khalaf), Turkey
 (Cetinoglu), and the USA (MacCorkindale). At any given time, up to 60% of our PGR
 cohort is composed of overseas students.
 Research students progression and development
 All PhD students are supported by a supervisory team of two supervisors (usually on a 60-
 40 split) with whom they meet fortnightly, and a third, experienced panel member who
 reviews progress at twice-yearly meetings in which submitted chapters and plans are
 discussed. Some have an additional mentor in a partner institution or NGO. The
 supervision process is supported by the University’s ‘eprog’ online system, which records
 expectations, results and the student’s training regime. All new doctoral students
 undertake Research Evaluation and Methods training tailored to their specific needs. They
 also receive training in order to operate as graduate teaching assistants (with many
 opportunities open to them) and visiting lecturers. This training leads to an Associate
 Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. We also run 6 seminars per year
 concentrating on post-graduate life (publishing, employment post-graduation, research
 ethics and fieldwork, applying for further funding). Our annual PGR conference offers
 opportunities to present work in a supportive public context. This training package has
 enabled students to develop their skills and develop events as well as generating research
 panels in international conferences (Cetinoglu at IHSA in 2018, Lepp at ISA). Our doctoral
 students have benefitted from opportunities to work on UKRI policy internship schemes
 with the Scottish government (Field) and FCDO (Gittins).


                                                                                       Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 HCRI PGR students are fully embedded in SALCs support systems and HCRI dedicates
 funding for reseach activities, such as travel, accommodation and registration at
 conferences: £300 in first year and £600 in the second and third years. Additionally,
 through SALC, all students have access to free printing, interlibrary loans and up to £400
 per student per year to support conference attendance. HCRI PhDs who are carers can
 access extra funds to enable conference attendance and research trips. The Carers’
 Network, run by the school’s postgraduate office, also assists and they benefit from
 adapted timetabling when employed as Graduate Teaching Assistants. The success of
 our training is evidenced by the prestigious destinations of our graduates: 70% our
 doctoral students have, for example, found positions in Conrad Grebel University
 College/University of Waterloo (Canada - Lepp), Exeter (Tudor), Keele (Polanska), UCL
 (Field), Coventry (Celestina), Wageningen (Cetinoglu), Bern (Shlapfer) Manchester
 (Ramovic, MacCorkindale, Jafar, Tomkow) and 30% now have key roles in Industry,
 policy or humanitarian organisations (Mullen, Jones, Tschunkert, Viney Wood).
 Equality and diversity
 HCRI’s staff have led on the equality and diversity agenda. Davey led SALC’s Athena
 Swan applications (2018-9), and SALC’s Equality and Diversity committee. HCRI has
 been working continuously to create a team that resembles our students and our research
 (75% of our online MSF students are from the global south). HCRI is committed to an
 agenda of diversifying and decolonising the curriculum, including revising course units,
 increasing non-western sources in reading lists, and collaborating with our students in this
 endeavour.
 Our staff profile is gender balanced (58% of staff are female), 25% of staff are of BAME
 origin. 50% are non-British. Our culture supports LGBTQI and other rights, holding public
 Zoom events around Stonewall and on BLM and racism. All major religions are
 represented (from non-conformist, Christianity, Judaism, Shia and Sunni Islam to Zen
 Buddhism). Our review of staff wellbeing in 2018-2019 highlighted the considerable
 challenges for ECRs and the need to manage workloads more transparently. We now
 have a Work Allocation Model run by a team of three but owned by the entire institute.
 Through it, we ensure that flexible working arrangements are in place for young parents
 and those whose health requires monitoring.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure, facilities
 Research Income
 Since REF2014 HCRI staff have brought in £3,004,055 in research awards (£1,447,231 in
 HESA-reported spend). Awards range from small individual grants to large collaborative
 ventures: Jasani (Co-I) was awarded British Academy Small Research Grant; Sou, a
 Royal Geographical Society award; Fast, awards from Wellcome Trust and the Research
 Council of Norway; Vogel (as Co-I) a large AHRC Research Grant, ‘The Art of Peace’
 (£739,000); Mac Ginty, Taithe a large ESRC Research Grant, ‘Making Peacekeeping
 Data work for the International community’ (£807,000); and in 2018 (Fast, Taithe, Read)
 received a consortium award of £2.5million (£1.5million value to HCRI) from FCDO for the
 project ‘Researching the Impact of Attacks on Healthcare’.
 We have received over £1million in other funding for our research. This includes charitable
 donations such as £521,000 for Research Development for Emergency Medical Teams
 Initiative and WHO Classification and Standards, from the Hong Kong Jockey Club
 Disaster and Preparedness Response Institute (Walter, Redmond), and £300,000 from
 the Tuixen Foundation (Taithe), as well as £150,000 from Philanthropic donor Peter
 Englander; and £88,985 from the University’s GCRF institutional allocation (Aubrey,
 Vogel, Walter).
 Research funding strategies
 Our diverse funding streams reflect the unique structure and pro-active grant capture
 agenda of HCRI. We contribute to the UoM strategy for the use of its Global Challenges
 Research Fund and its research responses to COVID-19. Colleagues are matched to
 relevant funding schemes and given support to bid for grants through the SALC Research
                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Support Office and peer review by senior staff. The institute aims to capture a range of
 awards, and to deepen collaborations with other Manchester based projects. We have
 strategically developed partnerships for example, with In Place of War, led by Thompson
 in UoM Drama, as a key collaborator in several project applications (Vogel, Aubrey). In
 response to COVID-19, HCRI led on major responsive research bids aiming at
 strengthening recovery worth £780,000 (Shaw, Fattoum and O’Grady) and collaborated
 on an award of £1.3million to explore the effects of COVID-19 in North Korea and four
 other countries (Cha). These awards have combined values of over £2million.
 Our research funding strategy enables our team to develop networks, secure funding,
 establish impact strategies, and grow their research profiles first as Co-Is or PIs of small
 grants. This funding strategy has underpinned the production of many of our REF2021
 outputs.
 Scholarly infrastructure
 UoM and the city provide an internationally excellent environment for sustaining our
 interdisciplinary research. Facilities include the University library (ULM), Manchester
 museums, and archives. The John Rylands Research Institute (JRRI) is widely considered
 to be the fourth most important archive (by collections size) in the UK. The University
 Library, one of only five national research libraries in the UK, has the largest collection of
 electronic resources in any university library in Europe: currently over 43,500 e-journals,
 500,000 e-books and a complete range of research databases (Section 4.2 REF5a). The
 University’s publication repository (PURE) Manchester enables researchers to deposit and
 disseminate their research outputs through open access.
 HCRI collaborates with the library on several projects. It has provided archival support to
 HCRI early career research staff (Burgard), and seed-corn funding to develop projects
 arising from its collections (Taithe). JRLRI sponsors and develops research projects in
 Digital Humanities, and this will prove a vital resource as HCRI expands its research
 capacity. In 2021, the library and HCRI launched a new archival acquisition strategy
 targeting specifically the preservation of the records of small humanitarian organisations
 (UK-Med, Eritrea mission, Saigon British mission 1966-1971) and at-risk personal
 archives (Elizabeth Wilson Archive, 1943-1999; Tony Redmond Archive 1988-2020). The
 official launch of this new ‘hub’ archive is planned for October 2021 using HCRI networks
 to pursue a strategic investment in collating at-risk documents that will support HCRI and
 other scholars’ research on humanitarian history and action in the future. HCRI is thus
 contributing to the development of scholarly infrastructure as well as benefiting from the
 library’s exceptional wealth of research material.
 HCRI also benefits from and contributes to collaborations with the Imperial War Museum-
 North (IWM-N). To date this has taken the form of pop-up events related to its Yemen
 exhibit (Howarth) involving staff and students. Fast serves on the advisory board of a
 current IWM-N exhibit (October 2020 – May 2021), focused on NGOs working in war
 zones.
 Organisational infrastructure
 Research policy is discussed within research themes, at institute level, with SALC
 Research Committee and at university levels with faculty leadership and with partners in
 the Global Inequalities Research Beacon (GDI). This enables a balance between
 individual endeavours and institute and school research strategies. Within SALC the
 research committee meets five times a year, reports to the School Policy and Resources
 Committee (SPRC), and is led by the SALC Director of Research. The HCRI Director of
 Research sits on the Committee and the HCRI Director is a member of the School
 Planning and Resource Committee and at university level the Inequalities Beacon and
 GCRF committees. The Research Committee implements the School strategic plan for
 research, including targets for research income, research output quality and academic
 impact, and is responsible for the allocation of SALC’s research budget. The School
 Research Support Office offers funding, supports the implementation of strategy and
 facilitates research collaborations, informs staff of funding opportunities, and assists in

                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 developing applications and managing awards. The Faculty of Humanities research
 infrastructure facilitates university-wide strategic initiatives and international
 collaborations. This is primarily achieved through the Humanities Strategic Investment
 Fund, which encourages production of world-leading research projects, impact and
 publications.
 Support infrastructure
 At both School and Faculty level, colleagues have had access to impact support funds.
 Social Responsibility funds have supported, for example, a Mapathon event to provide
 detailed maps of the Acholi region of North Uganda (Haworth). The University’s ESRC
 Impact Accelerator funding stream supports existing or new partnerships with
 organisations operating in a development assistance context to advance research projects
 (Read), to realise the potential of data that benefit low- and middle-income countries
 (Fast), and to disseminate research about the effects of COVID on LGBTIQ+ populations
 (Haworth).
 HCRI colleagues have access to well-developed Impact Support at UoA and school
 levels. SALC has an experienced Impact Support Officer and an academic lead for Impact
 (the Associate Director of Research: Impact), who offer advice and training for colleagues
 on maximising impact, working with external partners, and designing impact activity for
 external research grant bids. Our research has been supported by philanthropic donors
 since the inception of the institute and the university Division of Development and Alumni
 Relations has fostered opportunities for gifts supporting research students over the years
 as well as continued interactions with our alumni, many of whom are now working in the
 humanitarian field.
 Specialist shared research infrastructure and benefits-in-kind
 HCRI shares research resources with the Johns Hopkins University, University of
 California-Berkeley, and the Geneva Centre for Humanitarian Studies within the RIAH
 project. Our close collaboration with leading research institutes in our domain amounts to
 a global research network including universities or institutes in Norway, Sudan, Uganda,
 Ethiopia, India, and Hong-Kong. Our main benefits-in-kind for research have arisen from
 our collaborations with international NGOs which have enabled our researchers to benefit
 from their security management provisions and accommodation in a variety of research
 contexts.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society
 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 HCRI is part of a range of global networks and collaborations enriching the research base
 in disaster and humanitarian work: as a WHO Collaborating Centre (CC) since 2016,
 HCRI has a membership of a prestigious international network of researchers and
 practitioners in emergency health response. HCRI research has contributed to shaping
 WHO policy on applied methodological practice for emergency medical teams worldwide.
 In 2020, WHO renewed the HCRI’s CC mandate to work on the triple nexus and the
 impact of conflict on health, the first of a small handful such CC (for instance IRD in Paris).
 HCRI’s collaboration with UK-Med enabled the deployment of NHS staff during the Ebola
 outbreak of 2014-2015 and, more recently, in the current COVID-19 emergency, in
 directing the COVID-19 Manchester Nightingale hospital (Redmond). Work on COVID-19
 recovery led by Shaw involves municipalities in the UK (O’Grady), Palestine (Turner) and
 on 4 continents.
 Research generated by HCRI is used by and influences the International Humanitarian
 Studies Association (Davey, Taithe, Fast, Müller); leading think tanks such as the
 Overseas Development Institute’s Humanitarian Policy Group (Fast) and the Active
 Learning Network for Accountability and Performance (ALNAP) (Davey, Taithe, Fast).
 HCRI partners in research, postgraduate and continuing education with the International
 Federation of the Red Cross (IFRC, since 2014) and MSF (since 2016, via the joint
 Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine Leadership Education Academic Partnership
                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (LEAP) programme). It collaborates with Save the Children (2017), MAG (since 2019),
 Humanity & Inclusion, and International Alert, among NGOs of local, national and
 international significance. In 2016 HCRI both organised and collaborated in events that led
 to the United Nations World Humanitarian Summit.
 Large grants enable HCRI to develop research networks and collaborations. As a notable
 example, Read, an ECR who was originally involved in the Mac Ginty/Taithe 2014 ESRC
 award, set up a workshop at the University of Khartoum Peace Research Institute in 2015.
 This event brought together researchers from across Sudan, including Darfur, and led to a
 workshop in New York to share the project’s findings with representatives from UN entities
 (the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, Crisis Center, Human Rights section and
 the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs). Read coordinated themed panels
 at international conferences, including the 9th Pan-European Conference on International
 Relations September 2019, and the joint HCRI-Save the Children ‘A Quest for
 Humanitarian Effectiveness’ in September 2015. In March 2016, Read and Taithe
 organised a workshop in Addis Ababa together with MSF and the Centre Français des
 Études Éthiopiennes to debate with practitioners and scholars regional findings on
 humanitarian security issues. Thus, our research brings together local, regional and global
 networks in dialogue.
 Contribution to economy and society
 Our contribution is made through our collaborations with international NGOs of global
 significance. These partnerships are the bedrock of our collaborative research culture and
 a pathway to impact. We host and collaborate on research projects with UK-Med in a a
 reciprocal Memorandum of Agreement. The CEO of UK-Med (Wightwick) is a professor of
 HCRI (0.05FTE) and the director of HCRI (Taithe) a trustee of UK-Med. Through the UK-
 Med collaboration, HCRI colleague Dr Amy Hughes deployed during the 2014-2016 Ebola
 crisis. She was awarded an MBE for her work and designated the ‘200th Point of Light’ by
 then-Prime Minister, David Cameron. Our MoU with the IFRC includes research and
 training; our work with Save the Children led to doctoral collaborations on the
 contemporary history of British medical humanitarian aid (Chapman, 2019) and on the role
 of the private sector in humanitarian response (Schläpfer). HCRI researchers also worked
 with the Mines Advisory Group (MAG) on land use following de-mining in Cambodia
 (Mullen). HCRI and MAG share a MoA for collaborative research and Taithe is trustee of
 MAG. HCRI signed a research-centred MoU in 2018 with HPG that resulted in multiple
 policy publications (Fast). HCRI staff also work with the UK-Uganda health alliance to
 strengthen emergency care training (Walter) with local medical providers.
 Relationships with recipients of humanitarian aid to develop impact:
 We have a significant national and local, as well as global focus. HCRI staff have
 developed meaningful research partnerships with with local partners, supporting the
 research capacity of grassroots groups in the North West UK. In Greater Manchester, for
 example, we engage with disenfranchised groups and groups working for victims of torture
 (Tomkow). Our Greater Manchester work with Women Asylum Seekers Together (WAST)
 (Jasani, Lopez) is an example of how we co-produce research with disenfranchised
 groups who have no access to research results or research training. The project prioritised
 a Peer Ethnographic Evaluation Research (PEER) approach to defining and addressing
 core issues impacting destitute female asylum seekers via a sustainable and equitable
 community research programme. Ten WAST Peer Researchers completed their research
 training. Together they defined the core health and social issues impacting on the lives of
 asylum seekers from the perspective of those experiencing it. Funded by the British
 Academy and shortlisted for the University’s Making a Difference Awards for
 Social Responsibility, the project continues to produce workshop and training materials for
 early career healthcare professionals. From a more global perspective, our postgraduate
 LEAP programme developed with MSF, provides national staff from Congo to Yemen with
 access to research training and MA level educational opportunities.



                                                                                    Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Contributions to support peaceful relations:
 HCRI researchers work on gender, community-based and sub-national approaches to
 peace, humanitarian response, and development (the triple nexus). The Making
 Peacekeeping Data Work for the International Community (Mac Ginty, Taithe, Read;
 ESRC funded) project examined how the UN can better interrogate the data
 peacekeeping missions collect, comparing bottom-up narratives of conflict and local
 solutions and investigating how wider geopolitical or justice-based interventions may
 hinder justice and create conflict and insecurity. It analysed how global justice dynamics
 may produce detrimental developments on the ground. A recent HCRI collaboration with
 Imperial War Museum-North (IWM-N) led to an innovative digital installation exploring the
 humanitarian crisis and on-going armed conflict in Yemen. Created by digital agency
 FutureEverything in October 2019, with input from Howarth and Hawkins, the exhibit
 involved HCRI postgraduate students inviting the public to connect with the issues people
 face in Yemen through touch and voice-activated technology.
 HCRI researchers also explore the formation of economies in order to better understand
 how societies recover from war (Turner, Vogel). This includes research about the
 potential peacebuilding role of the private sector in post-war contexts (Vogel). HCRI was
 recently awarded an AHRC grant for a project examining how grassroots organisations
 can foster social change using art in conflict-affected societies. This project aims to
 understand how art can be used in local peacebuilding and evaluate and improve the
 effectiveness of the process (Vogel).
 HCRI researchers have written policy documents and participated or led in in international
 debates: for instance in drafting WHO guidelines on EMTs (Hughes, Jafar, Redmond);
 developing international standards on spontaneous volunteers and community resilience
 (Shaw); contributing to Humanitarian World Summit preparatory and policy documents
 (Mac Ginty, Read, Taithe); writing research reports and field manuals on humanitarian
 security management, local humanitarian action, and the protection of civilians (Fast).
 Turner served as Expert adviser to the United Nations Economic and Social Commission
 for Western Asia on economic development and aid in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.
 Her work has and continues to be fed into their reports. To highlight this work, HCRI
 launched its Policy Brief series in 2020.
 Engagement with education providers in Greater Manchester
 HCRI has designed programmes for secondary school students in Greater Manchester,
 delivered through the Schools Linking Network Model United Nation (SLNMUN) in
 Stockport and the Young People in Humanitarianism Conference. SLNMUN involved over
 500 students from a variety of schools throughout the five years that it ran. From 2016,
 HCRI engaged with local secondary schools through the creation of the Young People in
 Humanitarianism Conference. In 2017 over 150 students from 30 different local secondary
 schools attended the event which showcased HCRI research.
 Contribution to the sustainability of humanitarian studies in Area Studies
 HCRI is a key contributor to defining humanitarian studies as a field of research and
 stands as a British Academy recognized example of the interdisciplinary potential of area
 studies. It exemplifies the intellectual value of interdisciplinarity combined with responding
 to the realities of research and policy in this field. Our colleagues have won prizes for their
 research: Sou received the Rob Potter Prize, awarded by Royal Geographical Society,
 Jafar won the RCEM Rod Little Prize in 2018; Davey won the ISA Ethics Section and the
 Fondation de la Croix Rouge prizes for her monograph (2017) and Burgard the Society
 for the History of Childhood prize (2019).
 Evidence of our contributions can be found in our impact work (see above), but also in the
 specific nature of the other esteem indicators that have been awarded to our staff:
 Professor Redmond was appointed President of World Association of Disaster and
 Emergency Medicine, Honorary Colonel of 207 Field Hospital, and received the University
 of Manchester Medal of Honour (2018). He was elected President of Manchester Medical
 Society in October 2017. Davey was appointed to the Conseil Scientifique, Fondation

                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Croix-Rouge Française in 2018. She served on the Save the Children Centenary
 Conference advisory board in 2019. Jasani is a Trustee for Sisters for Safety and Women
 Asylum Seekers Together. Taithe (FRHisS) serves on the MSF-CRASH scientific
 committee, the board of the IHSA in 2017, and has been elected to represent academia
 on the steering committee of ALNAP (2015-2018). Between 2013 and 2020 he was a
 Member of Conseil Scientifique, Pôle Afrique, Ministère Affaires Etrangères, France.
 Shaw sits on the United Nations HABITAT and UNISDR and United Nations Economic
 Commission for Europe panel on gender in standards.
 Senior staff serve on grant panels of the British Academy (Davey), and review for UKRI
 (AHRC, ESRC, MRC), Leverhulme, Wellcome Trust, NIHR, ERC, Horizon 2020, and the
 Irish, Israel, Canadian, Australian, Swiss and US research councils (Fast, Lecky, Dark,
 Turner, Taithe). Colleagues are regularly asked to act as referees for publishers (Read,
 Fast, Taithe, Turner, Vogel), and work with publishers on editorial boards (Taithe for
 University of Manchester Press, Vogel as Assistant Editor for Peacebuilding, Taylor and
 Francis).
 Over the past ten years HCRI has organised over 80 research events of national and
 international significance, 3 major conferences and several ESRC funded seminars.
 Colleagues, including ECRs, have chaired major conferences and delivered plenaries at
 the Berlin Humanitarian Congress (Taithe) and Geneva Red Cross anniversary
 conference (Davey); chaired The Global Development Agenda Roundtable discussion,
 Royal Geographical Society Annual Conference (Sou); chaired the Working Group 5 on
 Community Resilience for the International Standards Organization, part of Technical
 Committee 292 on Societal Security (Shaw).
 In order to promote excellent research in our domain, HCRI publishes one of only two
 open access journals in our field, and publishes the largest book series in the UK on
 humanitarian affairs (which attracts contributors from the USA, Germany, France and
 Italy) with Manchester University Press. Its staff serve on journals as editors (Read, Sou,
 Taithe / Journal of Humanitarian Affairs), or members of editorial boards (Fast / Disasters,
 Taithe / European History, Turner / International Peacekeeping).
 In sum HCRI is a vibrant and growing institute at the heart of a dynamic and
 interdisciplinary field that it has had a significant role in shaping, particularly since 2014.
 Its research offers a sustained contribution to many disciplinary engagements with
 humanitarian affairs and actors. HCRI is internationally recognised for its productive
 collaborations with colleagues and peer institutions in Europe and North America, which
 ensure the sustained development of research that considers the fate of the hundreds of
 millions of people affected by disasters or conflict, and requiring a humanitarian response.




                                                                                        Page 14
