Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA32 - Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 Over the last 25 years the Art and Design Research Centre (ADRC) has nurtured quality research
 by both staff and doctoral students - by developing and supporting individual researchers, and by
 fostering collaborative and interdisciplinary projects. Research has focused on addressing
 challenges across domains - from the reconstruction of post-industrial regions, to voicing the
 under-represented nationally and internationally, to processes and practices that impact on
 everyday living.

 Progress during this period is evidenced through the scale and scope of the submitted outputs,
 the increase in the development of Professors and Readers through the unit’s mentorship scheme,
 and research income which has grown from £2.7m to £7.9m.

 During this census period there have been significant changes in research structures and
 management across the university, but throughout the ADRC has remained a core unit of the
 university’s research environment. The Lab4Living (L4L) initiative, noted in REF2014, has
 developed through ADRC’s strategic focus on Creative Practice in Health and Wellbeing, resulting
 in its formalisation as a strategic research centre within the new university structures, and
 evidenced by a £4m award through Research England’s Expanding Excellence in England (E3)
 scheme. Lab4Living is now led independently, but aligned with the ADRC, and together they
 constitute the submission for UoA32.

 The detail of the organisational changes across the university is explained in section 3 and in the
 Institutional Statement, while the local structure is illustrated below.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 From academic year 2020/21, ADRC will add Media into its title - becoming the Art, Design and
 Media Research Centre (ADMRC). This recognises the increasing contribution of researchers
 from that discipline to the standing of the centre for over 25 years.

 Strategy: Progress Against Objectives

 Our research strategy remains consistent with our 2014 submission and focuses on the origination
 and generation of ideas and knowledge through practice, reflection and dialogue. We remain
 committed to the dissemination of research to a wide community of stakeholders, including
 academics, cultural and commercial industries, end-users, governmental and non-governmental
 organisations, and practitioners.

 We have made significant progress against all of the objectives identified in our 2014 submission,
 and in many cases exceeded expectations. Achievements include:

    •   extending the dissemination of research to diverse communities at international and
        national level (e.g. Lab4Living through the Design4Health conference/journal);
    •   widening staff participation in research (leading the CHEAD initiative on Graphic
        Design Research and including Visual Communication staff in our submission);
    •   developing and delivering PGR training with a focus on interdisciplinarity (e.g. Method
        and Impact conferences, and core to Lab4Living’s E3 award);
    •   extending networks and partnerships with healthcare, practitioners, academics and
        industry (evidenced by Lab4Living’s engagement with the NIHR’s Collaboration and
        Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) programme and the
        Research England E3 award);
    •   further developing our impact agenda through greater exploitation of research outside
        academia, in collaboration with our knowledge transfer arm of the unit (Design Futures);
    •   formalising partnerships through collaborative research and knowledge transfer
        projects (increase in collaborative funding awards and substantial increase in KTP
        projects);
    •   maintaining diverse income sources (see section 3);
    •   promotion of sustainable and ethical approaches to/for research (Life-Saving
        Lullabies/O3877 and Ebola/O2972), greater exploitation of research for industry
        (recognised by Design Futures Packaging Awards and Lab4Living ICS), and the promotion
        of the Academic Career Framework (see section 2).

 Our researchg has influenced the shaping of the university’s three research and impact platforms:
 Enabling Healthier Lives, Driving Future Economies and Building Stronger Communities. Also our
 strategy is congruent with the UK GCRF international strategy ‘to transform lives through the
 creation of knowledge that generates social, economic and cultural benefits, working with others
 to ensure those benefits are wide-reaching’.

 Research Groups: Activities and Forward Strategy

 As noted in our 2014 submission, research activity was conducted within and across four broad
 groups, which continue to be underpinned by social inquiry, interdisciplinary engagement and
 recognition of the role of the arts in problematising accepted social/cultural norms and practices.
 Whilst there have been nominal changes, the overarching strategy remains the same. Over this
 census period we have mapped, developed and extended our research and international profile
 in: Creative Practices in Health and Wellbeing; Social, Cultural and Philosophical
 Narratives; and combined two groups into Physical and Digital Making: Theory and Practice.
 These areas of enquiry are permeable and do not represent strict manifestos. They are rather fora
 for the sharing of knowledge and the testing of new propositions within and across domains, as
 seen through the outputs documented in REF2. Areas of enquiry vary in scale from lone scholar
 to clusters and have all produced notable outcomes over the census period. These research
 groups are supported, where appropriate, by Design Futures.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers who contribute to Creative Practices in Health and Wellbeing (formerly titled
 Creative Practices in Healthcare) through our Lab4Living group, led by Chamberlain and Craig,
 successfully submitted to the Research England’s E3 scheme and in 2019 gained a £4 million
 award, matched by the University, for a research programme exploring the re-conceptualisation
 of the 100-Year Life and Future Home. The research aligns to the UK Industrial Strategy and the
 United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. This award has facilitated the
 employment of a Professor (Lloyd-Jones), two Readers (Koski and Tan Koon Boon), six RAs and
 12 PhDs to deliver the three-year research programme. This significant endorsement reflects the
 momentum of an area that has developed a critical mass of research-intensive staff and ambitious
 projects through this census period.

 Research has and continues to challenge for example: healthcare paradigms such as the
 geographical shift of care (HOSPITAbLe/O3901), the impact of the environment on our wellbeing
 through the redevelopment of the Rail Park in Pensyvania (Beacon/O3958), healthcare training in
 breaking bad news (Human Simulation/O3962), health products to enhance dignity exemplified by
 a bra for women undergoing breast cancer treatment (Support4All/O3986), and policy where
 research has been adopted by Alzheimers Scotland (Journeying Through Dementia/O2910). Co-
 design is integral to much of the work within the group (e.g. Starworks/O3801) - bringing together
 academia, industry, the NHS, and children and their families - to address market failure issues for
 child prosthetics. This research is referenced in Nature journal and is cited by Involve (NIHR) as
 an exemplar of how to undertake co-production.

 The establishment of the biennial International Design4Health conference, the Design for Health
 journal (Taylor & Francis), and delivery of a wide portfolio of research and consultancy projects,
 has facilitated a substantial growth in the reputation, capacity and ambition of this area. Besides
 the outputs in REF2 and the Lab4Living ICS (ICS3), significant achievements have been made by
 individuals who contribute to Lab4Living, showing the penetration of this group of researchers into
 the domain of creative practices for health and wellbeing. For example, Langley was the first non-
 medical recipient of a three-year NIHR Knowledge Mobilisation Research Fellowship.

 During the next census period we aim to increase the impact of our research in health, building
 on four existing interrelated themes of enquiry, fully aligned to the WHO Global Strategy on Ageing
 and the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. These are: Health Inequalities
 in developing frugal design innovations to support communities with high socio-economic need in
 the UK and the developing world (Craig, Lloyd-Jones, Reed, Swann); Industry, Innovation and
 Infrastructure building on research on the future home (Chamberlain, Reed), developing age-
 inclusive, affordable products and environments that support ageing through the life-course;
 Sustainable Cities and Communities, including soil health (Koski, Lloyd-Jones) and SMART
 technology (Chamberlain, Dulake), the latter exploring the use of design in creating healthy
 connected communities; Creative Practice as Knowledge Mobilisation (Langley, Tan) continuing
 to advance design and creative practice in building multi-sectoral partnerships through which to
 share knowledge, expertise and resources. Emphasis will be placed on the advancement of
 Lab4Living’s Design4Health global network, to extend the reach and impact of this work and upskill
 future generations of design researchers.

 Research conducted in the Social, Cultural and Philosophical Narratives group continues the
 tradition of social commentary and critique through two new themes, identified through mapping,
 which have gained momentum and pace over the census period.

 The Repositioning of Archives theme has developed to elicit new meanings and challenge
 audiences to critically engage with the past and its resonance for the present. Developing research
 in this area aims to reveal alternative social histories; provoke new perspectives on class,
 marginalised communities, gender stereotypes; and contest official histories. Exemplar enquiries
 in this theme include: issues of migration in 20th century Europe in relation to questions of culture
 and identity (We Are All Migrants/O2915), developed as part of a collaborative project at Utrecht
 University and later disseminated through HERA (Humanities in the European Research Area);
 the use of rare archive film to tell the story of what happened to an English town during the First

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 World War (Asunder/O2942); and exploration of historically omitted intersectional identities to
 highlight the work of gay socialist activist writer Edward Carpenter (Querying Queer
 History/O3970).

 During the next census period new research includes: Heath’s current collaboration with City
 University of New York, ‘The Constant Sinner’, looks at the legacy of Mae West as champion of
 women’s empowerment, tolerance and freedom of expression. British Council supported ‘Dust &
 Metal’ (Bụi và Kim loại) by Johnson lays new ground for the reimagining of, and accessibility to,
 rare international heritage film, sharing never-before-digitised archive materials between Vietnam
 and the UK. Petrelli’s ‘Polyvocal Interpretation of Contested Colonial Heritage’ investigates the
 decolonisation of audiovisual archives in Europe.

 This community of researchers has been strengthened through Cotterrell’s GCRF-funded project
 Empathy & Risk. This interdisciplinary initiative addresses issues of systemic failure in contexts of
 contemporary global crises. The project has fostered the development of a series of sustained
 international partnerships and facilitated the realisation of a wide range of precedents for policy
 interventions within multidisciplinary contexts, including the World Conference on Statelessness
 (Netherlands), Human Rights Arts Festival (Sri Lanka) and Ubumuntu Festival (Rwanda).
 Empathy & Risk has been acknowledged by the University as an area of strategic growth and in
 2019 was formally constituted as an interdisciplinary research cluster, including experienced and
 emerging researchers (Autogena, Butler, Cotterrell, Johnson; in addition to external partners from
 film, theatre, visual art, law, sociology and conflict studies). Research in this cluster builds on
 established strengths that forefront perspectives and co-production in the framing of international,
 national and institutional responses to global challenges, and the capacity of research in the arts
 to effectively influence policy development.

 This research group has produced exemplar outputs underpinning two of the ICSs from this period:
 Autogena's ‘Kuannersuit; Kvanefjeld’/O3936 (ICS1), and Heath’s ‘From Scotland with
 Love’/O2914 (ICS2).

 There has been a diverse range of outputs within the new research group Physical and Digital
 Making: Theory and Practice (formerly Advanced Making Processes and Theory), including the
 Digital Materiality Lab, which has emerged from applied research in digital media (REF2014); and
 recent research that forefronts Frugal Making, sustainably addressing issues recognised as global
 challenges, as well as national and sectoral challenges.

 Since REF2014, applied research in the Digital Materiality Lab has developed a Digital Heritage
 strand, supported by projects led by Petrelli (as PI or Co-I), worth over £1.6 million and funded by
 the EU, AHRC, KT and consultancies. These projects developed a network with national and
 international institutions: English Heritage and the National Trust in the UK, three UNESCO sites
 in Italy, and national museums in Italy and the Netherlands. The EU-funded meSch project/O3881,
 which aimed to co-design novel platforms for the creation of tangible exhibits at heritage sites,
 offering visitors new interactive experiences, received the accolade of Innovation for Cultural
 Heritage by the EU in 2018 and influenced the museology digitisation strategies of the Italian
 Government (Department of Cultural Heritage) in 2019. meSch outcomes also include a spin-out
 company in Germany (ThingsIO) and business innovation in Italy (Suggesto srl.).

 During the next census period the Lab will investigate the materiality of the digital, or digital
 materiality, and the phygital as raw material - aiming to create new expressions of identity. This
 research is being developed by Petrelli, Dulake, Zellweger and Koulidou and includes
 collaboration with Milano Politechnico and the University of Cambridge on the making of digital-
 material hybrids and materialisation of personal data as new expressions of identity and personal
 meaning.

 Frugal Making is an area of enquiry responding to the vacillations of global economic, social,
 environmental and technological imperatives - seeking to bring together academics united through
 their application of creativity, critical thinking, complex problem-solving and modalities of intelligent

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 making. This multi-disciplinary community of interest offers a critical space for practitioners and
 theoreticians from Fine Art, Jewellery, Design and Digital applications. Research outputs include
 bodies of work (Cigar Box Guitars/O3790), curated exhibitions (Hybrid Display Structures/O3863),
 artefacts (Domesticated/O2975, Copy/O3984, Calendar/O2973) and product development
 (Support4All/O3986, Ebola/O2972). The group has created notable outputs that support the
 GCRF international strategy, adopting nuanced making approaches for alternate cultural contexts
 (Making Links/O3903, Life Saving Lullabies/O3877). Further confirmed GCRF funding will
 continue the work of this theme through the next census period.

 Design Futures (DF), established in 1997 and the first non-STEM CIC (Centre for Industrial
 Collaboration), continues as the Knowledge Transfer (KT) arm of the unit, overlapping the
 research groups outlined above. Over this census period DF has worked with regional, national
 and international companies and has delivered Innovate UK funded programmes and Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships. An established strategy of the unit and university has been to support the
 economic development and sustainability of the region through R&D. ESIF/ERDF and GB funding
 established the ‘Sheffield Innovation Programme’ (SIP), a regional initiative which aims to
 stimulate business growth and promote the development of long-term relationships with SMEs
 through research and innovation-based consultancy. Since 2014, DF has engaged with 258
 SMEs/organisations, generating 356 new products to market. More recently DF has contributed
 to the new initiative ‘ScaleUp 360’ (part of the Northern Powerhouse strategy to support
 entrepreneurs and start-ups in the region), delivering 25 projects and currently working on a further
 15. Concurrent with the above, DF hosts a range of annual internships for our own and
 international students, some progressing as Research Assistants within the unit.

 This census period has seen a growth in KT-funded projects (seven in the census period).
 Examples include a patented medical-grade wearable health monitor with a Cambridge tech
 company, funded through a major IoT award, and the design of horse transporters with a regional
 company for the US export market. Both projects were assessed as outstanding by the funders
 Innovate UK. In addition, DF staff have been strategically named on externally-funded research
 projects. These include (NIV mask/O3987) and (Support4All/O3986), funded by NIHR i4i, and
 NESTORE (Thinking Through Things/O3902) and (meSch/O3881), funded through Horizon 2020
 - where their skills and expertise have maximised opportunities for the application and
 commercialisation of research.

 Broader forward-looking strategies other than those embedded in the groups include:

    ●   Development of those new to research to attain Significant Responsibility for Research
        (SRfR) through the new Performance and Development Review (PDR) and unit
        mentorship process.
    ●   Increase PhD completions across the unit.
    ●   Cross-university and external collaborations to support new large-scale funding bids, for
        example Advanced Wellbeing and Lab4Living, Social Policy, and Empathy & Risk.
    ●   The development of formal international collaborations to support the research groups, as
        exemplified by the Design4Health Global Network.
    ●   The relocation of the Arts Catalyst from London to Sheffield presents a unique opportunity
        to develop strategic partnerships. A senior research fellow will be appointed to support this
        partnership, focused on developing overlapping research inquiries in relation to the
        research groups within the unit.
    ●   Contribution to the academy through further dissemination of research, and the
        development and delivery of materials and training in preparing researchers working in the
        field of Design and Health.
    ●   Informing postgraduate curriculum development in the discipline of Design and Health.
    ●   Reflect on and refine support and initiatives to maximise impact.

 Facilitating the Achievement of Impact

 The unit has delivered against each of the strategic objectives noted in REF2014:

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   further extend our maturing approach to impact in Design across to Fine Art and Media;
    •   adopt a more pro-active approach to the use of social media and the ADRC website to
        help forge new collaborations and draw attention to impact activities;
    •   embed impact as a formal part of PGR training;
    •   extend opportunity for impact within healthcare through the five year NIHR CLAHRC Y&H
        programme, establishing links with industry, practitioners and patients.

 ICSs submitted from Fine Art (enabling dialogue on the risks of uranium mining in
 Greenland/ICS1), Media (how film acted as a cultural touchstone, enriching lives in diverse
 communities, From Scotland with Love/ICS2) and Design (enhancing dignity and quality of life for
 individuals with long-term conditions through products and policy, Lab4Living/ICS3) grounds the
 strategy to support and facilitate impact, as noted in REF2014. The embedding of impact in PGR
 training is noted in section 2. In support of this strategy, an Impact Blog was created in 2015
 (https://blogs.shu.ac.uk/c3riimpact/). This is consistent with the University's mission of ensuring
 areas of research contribute to the knowledge economy, whilst having a positive impact on quality
 of life for diverse and disadvantaged communities (see Institutional Statement). The unit’s
 leadership group ensures quality, rigour and ethics compliance; determines research policy
 issues; allocates internal research funds; and facilitates direct and indirect mentoring of staff.

 Through these activities the unit supports staff in accruing and developing impact from research
 outputs and attaining outwardly-facing positions on juries, peer review panels and advisory
 boards, where they help frame their individual disciplines. The ongoing strategy has been
 developed and refined through reflecting on and responding to the REF2014 outcomes and the
 guidance for this exercise. In 2015, a dedicated researcher was appointed to support the unit’s
 impact agenda (see section 3).

 More broadly the unit provides support through: purchasing equipment; short secondments and
 translation fees; teaching release; travel, accommodation, and payment of conference fees and
 workshop participation.

 Impact has been facilitated through a range of supportive initiatives that include: flexible working
 arrangements (Heath), purchasing of specialist equipment to undertake field research (Autogena),
 and IP and licensing support (Lab4Living). Funding has strategically been allocated through the
 ADRC for travel and production (Heath, Autogena) and through the university’s Creating
 Knowledge investment fund, for example the Impact Fellowship (Autogena) and Strategic Funding
 (Lab4Living, Empathy & Risk). Competitive external funding has supported impact (Heath,
 Lab4Living), and strategic partnerships - such as Arts Catalyst (Autogena), Sheffield Institute for
 Translational Neuroscience, Marie Curie and TalarMade (Lab4Living) - have been key in
 maximising it. Co-creation and interdisciplinarity have been adopted for much research across the
 unit. Engagement with end users, disciplinary experts, policy makers and industry, and developing
 fora for collaboration early in the research process, has been a strategy to enhance the impact of
 research.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 Interdisciplinary research has been fostered by the unit since the mid-nineties and the outcomes
 of this are exemplified by the Research England E3 award. This was underpinned by a body of
 interdisciplinary research which began with Chamberlain’s inquiry into tools for the care and
 education of children with severe sensory disabilities in 2000. More recently Swann’s Life-Saving
 Lullabies/O3877 (Design and Education), Autogena’s Vindskaber/O3931 (Fine Art, Computer
 Science and Atmospheric Science), and Cotterrell’s Thought Curfew/O3871 (Fine Art and
 Theatre) are fundamental in underpinning the unit’s research groups.

 Lab4Living has established wide-reaching pathways to support collaborative networks and the
 dissemination of research through its International Design4Health conference, the Design for
 Health Journal and the Design4Health Global Network. These mechanisms enable

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary research communities to come together to find a shared language to articulate
 research that transcends boundaries. The unit demonstrates the value of integrating knowledge
 from diverse fields to enquire into complex societal issues, e.g. Craig’s work in design and
 dementia, death and dying (Life Café/O3878) and Journeying Through Dementia (O2910). Tools
 developed to support interdisciplinary working, such as Initiate Collaborate (Craig, Chamberlain),
 have been adopted by the Ministry of Social Development, New Zealand. Researchers within the
 unit engage in, promote and interrogate what is meant by interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary
 research. Langley's research, for example, is cited by NIHR Involve as best practice in co-
 production in transdisciplinary research.

 The unit’s commitment to interdisciplinarity is evidenced by the recent appointment of Lloyd-Jones,
 whose post-disciplinary research forges collaborations between seemingly unrelated fields.

 Open Research

 Researchers within the unit subscribe to the principle that research data is a valuable asset and
 support the principles, set out in the Concordat on Open Research Data, which recognise that
 research data should, wherever possible, be made openly available for use by others; consistent
 with relevant legal, ethical, disciplinary and regulatory frameworks and norms. ADRC and
 Lab4Living follow the University guidelines with respect to Open Research, having a
 representative (Atkinson) on the cross-university Open Research Operations Group. This has
 been invaluable in ensuring Open Access and Research Data Management (RDM) policies have
 been developed, along with ‘Elements’, the new research repository software system, to take into
 account the particular requirements of art, design and media practice outputs and are not focused
 purely on textual outputs. Consequently, the repository now accepts stills and videos to allow
 images of three-dimensional artworks and exhibitions to be deposited, alongside documentary film
 and moving image artworks. With respect to RDM, space has also been provided within the
 university to store physical artefacts, where necessary, alongside the usual digital dataset storage.
 Through the Open Research Operations Group, Atkinson is also involved in the development of a
 network of Open Research Champions, which trains selected staff (especially ECRs) to widely
 promote the principles of Open Research to staff. Central funds are available for any fees involved
 in making published work open to all, for example through Gold Open Access routes, and these
 have been successfully accessed by staff within the ADRC. However, it was recognised by the
 centre that Open Access remains challenging for practice-based research outputs, where both the
 research methods and outcomes cannot be fully illuminated through textual commentary. It was
 for this reason that the centre championed an Impact Blog over four years ago and developed the
 method for digitally submitting our research outputs to this REF, so that it can later form the basis
 of a fully open art, design and media research archive.

 Research Integrity

 Our research addresses the quality of the research process, and maintaining standards of
 integrity, impartiality and respect for data, in line with university policy (see Institutional Statement),
 is essential. Much of the research conducted by the unit involves the participation of volunteers,
 often from the general public, and some necessarily involves groups of vulnerable people.
 Rigorously applying the ethics policy ensures that participants' interests are put first at all times
 and that researchers do everything possible to fully inform people who have consented to take
 part, and to ensure that care is always taken to provide confidentiality and anonymity. A risk
 assessment approach is encouraged, to safeguard the physical and psychological wellbeing of
 participants and researchers.

 All research at the university undergoes ethical scrutiny, to ensure it is conducted to the highest
 standards and to protect the integrity of our research. Sheffield Hallam’s research ethics policy is
 constantly reviewed to ensure that these high standards are met. Staff within the unit access and
 subscribe to a university-wide comprehensive governance system (including regularly reviewed
 and updated policies for research ethics, storage of data, GDPR, and health and safety). Staff are
 supported locally through the CCRI Research Ethics Committee and through regular project start-

                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 up and monitoring group meetings. A programme of staff development utilising Epigeum online
 training is available to all staff and provides courses on conducting ethical research. The university
 now has 510 researchers who serve as ethics reviewers. It was determined in 2017 that a way to
 upskill the community on matters of research integrity would be to broaden the reviewing pool,
 which had previously been confined to committees. Reviewer training is provided and new
 reviewers are initially supervised by experienced ones. It is the University's ambition that all active
 researchers (excluding pre-confirmation doctoral students) will become reviewers. All academic
 and doctoral research at Sheffield Hallam must undergo ethical scrutiny (more details are provided
 in the Institutional Statement). The review and approval process is managed through the
 University's online ethics review system and overseen by the University’s Head of Research
 Ethics.

 The unit has a number of academics trained to undertake ethical reviews and these researchers
 engage in debates at national and international levels, particularly in the context of the rapid
 expansion of technologies, ensuring that ethical standards continue to be fit for purpose. For
 instance, the EPSRC-funded research project Enabling Ongoingness, in collaboration with
 Northumbria University, led to the development of an ethical roadmap resource, created to support
 the discussion and enactment of ethical practices in research. It is currently being utilised by
 researchers across the UK and in Australia. This work has been identified by the EPSRC as a
 potential focus for the Observatory for Responsible Research and Innovation in ICT (ORBIT), an
 organisation commissioned by the EPSRC to promote responsible research and innovation in UK
 Information and Communications Technology research.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Within the ADRC, and the more recently established unit, several individuals (noted below) who
 joined the institution on fractional appointments have progressed to the professoriate during this
 census period, leading research in their particular fields. This has been key to the sustainability of
 and succession planning within the unit.

 The professoriate of the unit constitutes a group which is responsible for strategic leadership,
 management, staff development and research mentorship. The staffing strategy and development
 is framed by the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 which guides both the institutional policies and practice that are implemented by the unit’s
 leadership group.

 In REF2014 we submitted 30 staff members with a combined FTE of 24.46. Since the beginning
 of this census, 9.20FTE submitted in 2014 have moved on to other activities or institutions. Despite
 this movement of individuals, we have increased the FTE submitted to 31.25, with a headcount of
 39, through the development of individuals new to research (ECRs Stewart, Koulidou, Spence)
 and through E3 appointments. As part of the delivery of E3, funding has been allocated to support
 fractional secondments of staff from fine art, design and media (and the wider disciplinary base
 across the university), who are new to research, but whose enquiries will aid the project delivery
 and foster sustainability for the future. We will adopt this model in future research bids.

 Career Development

 The University has held the HR Excellence in Research Award throughout this REF period. Career
 progression is actively encouraged and career pathways for staff at all stages are set out clearly
 at the University level, supported by workshops and courses run by the University, and further
 supported by the unit’s mentorship scheme, where all staff are allocated a Professor or Reader as
 a research mentor. The unit adheres to the concordat principals and applies them in cognisance
 of our constituent sector. Our approach focuses on the recruitment, training, retention and career
 development of research staff within an environment that respects the diversity of all, supporting

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff to achieve their potential in contributing to the unit, the University and wider. This is achieved
 by alternative working arrangements e.g. part-time and flexible contracts, and promoted and
 underpinned by university gender, race and disability equality schemes, ensuring compliance with
 all relevant legislation.

 We are proud of the track record of support for the career development of academics within the
 unit. Only one external professorial appointment has been made in the census period, through the
 E3-funded project (Lloyd-Jones), whilst all others have been developed through and by the
 mentorship scheme operated by the unit. The following have progressed from Senior Lecturers or
 Readers to Professors during the census period: Wilson (2014), Heath (2014), Autogena (2014),
 Johnson (2017), Yoxall (2018), Craig (2020). During the same period Shaw (2015), Reeve (2018)
 and McCarthy (2015) have progressed to Readers. In common with our sector, the unit has always
 supported flexible and remote working (which has become the norm since COVID restrictions) and
 supports a number of fractional staff, who constitute 48% of the headcount of this submission.

 Not only is the development of the individual supported through mentorship and leadeship, but
 also in how the individual strengthens the sustainability and continuity, and challenges and
 refreshes the thinking and knowledge of the centre. Professors and Readers are key to this
 approach, setting a culture in which personal development is the norm and advancement is
 actively promoted through formal annual Performance and Development Review (PDR),
 mentoring, and informal advice and guidance. Peer mentorship and support also occurs through
 participation in the research groupings described above.

 Annual PDRs support staff research activities by recognising success, and identifying research
 needs and targets for the coming year and beyond. The process is supported by an online toolkit
 and guidance, which includes specific information on research objectives, as well as guidance on
 appraising researchers. This process is underpinned by a new Academic Careers Framework
 (ACF), which creates a recognition and reward structure for staff across four strands, one of which
 is Research and Innovation, also embedding impact as a recognised career path.

 The University REF Code of Practice defines our approach to identifying staff with Significant
 Responsibility for Research (SRfR) and Category A REF-eligible staff. The process for time
 allocation is integrated into the annual round of PDRs, led by the academic departments. Staff
 working towards SRfR can be allocated 'academic development' time and are supported in their
 trajectory towards independent research. Readers and Professors receive a minimum of 40.8%
 research time allocation per annum. However, QR and externally-generated income has been
 used strategically to extend this time to support staff.

 Ten staff with teaching and leadership roles have been supported with extra time allocated in their
 work plan to undertake doctoral study at Sheffield Hallam or at other institutions. This support
 builds a significant and sustainable research community, with achievements in this area including
 staff in this submission: Craig who gained her Doctorate in Design and Health (2014), Gent who
 completed a Film doctorate (2019), Levick-Parkin who completed a Design Education doctorate
 (2018), and Ling who completed a Fine Art doctorate (2017).

 Research Assistants/ECRs

 The unit is committed to the career development of Post-Doctoral Research Assistants (PDRA)
 and, as such, they are supported and mentored so that they remain on a trajectory to become
 independent researchers in their own right. PDRAs have been cited as co-authors on a number
 of outputs submitted (e.g. Life Café/O3878 and Starworks/O3801). Through securing further
 external funding we aim to transition these ECRs to permanent status, ensuring the retention of
 skills and expertise, or to prepare them for future careers elsewhere in the sector. PDRAs are
 offered generic training through Research and Innovation Services (RIS) in support of their career
 development, while subject-specific training and teaching experience is delivered through the unit
 as part of their academic development. Through the E3 programme, training and tools are being
 developed to support Design researchers working in the context of health.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff Exchange

 In addition, there have been inward and outward exchanges, for example: Ken Arnold (Head of
 Public Programmes Wellcome Trust) was invited to run a series of seminars supported by the
 university’s Creating Knowledge Impact visiting researcher scheme; Craig is visiting professor at
 Canberra University, Australia; and Wilson is on secondment as resident artist at the Graduate
 Centre, City University of New York, USA.

 Visiting Staff

 The unit has hosted a range of Visiting Professors from international institutions, for example: to
 provide staff with opportunities to collaborate (Milano Politecnico, Italy, and Canberra, Australia);
 secure co-funding (Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand); co-publication (Swinburne,
 Australia); mentorship, additional research leadership, and subject specific expertise (Tampere
 University, Finland; Kyoto Institute of Technology, Japan; China Academy of Arts, Central
 Academy of Fine Arts, and Shanghai Academy of Fine Arts, all China; University of Trento and
 University of Torino, both Italy); and PhD students who have engaged in collaborative research
 (University of Porto, Milano Politecnico).

 Development Funding

 The unit supports staff in the development and delivery of their research and its dissemination
 through an annual funding round, helping pump-prime and deliver outputs through travel,
 production, conference attendance and other research costs. Almost £500,000 was allocated
 during the census period, supporting 36 members of staff (not including five recently recruited
 staff), including established researchers, ECRs and staff new to research. Funds from the unit and
 the university’s Developing International Research Collaborations (DIRC) fund was also used to
 foster international partnerships and to promote the work of the centre at national and international
 events.

 Outputs from this initiative have included: (Cigar Box Guitars/O3790), (Querying Queer
 History/O3970), (Kos: Material Witness/O3882), (A Soft Rebellion in Detroit/O2906), (Graphic
 Design and the REF/O2940), (Mirror I: Hierarchy/O3867), (Sacred Spaces/O3959), as well as
 ECRs (e.g. Spence) and staff who are developing research profiles. This funding has also been
 significant in pump-priming major external funding applications, detailed in section 3.

 The Creating Knowledge Investment Prospectus was launched by the university in September
 2018. The prospectus committed over £1million of internal funding in 2018-19 across seven
 funding streams, to support researchers at all career stages to develop research and innovation
 activities and to stimulate activity that aligns with our research priorities. Examples of funding
 awarded include: Autogena, Platform Fellowship (£29,884) that supported the underpinning
 research that led to her ICS; Chamberlain, Strategic investment/capacity building (£52,872) that
 led to the successful E3 award; Atkinson, Impact Acceleration (£5,000) that supported the ‘From
 Scotland with Love’ ICS; Petrelli, Cluster funding (£1,715) in support of the Digital Materiality Lab;
 Cotterrell, Cluster funding (£2,000) to support the Empathy & Risk research theme.

 Postgraduate Students

 Postgraduate research plays a significant part in building a sustainable research community
 within the unit, and addresses the unit and University’s strategies. Our doctoral programme
 supports the development of new researchers, builds supervision capacity, develops new projects,
 and establishes rich research cultures within the unit and beyond.

 Supervision teams include a Director of Study and normally two co-supervisors and advisors
 drawn from relevant areas of expertise, to support the student’s inquiry and monitor progress; this
 team is supported by a postgraduate tutor who provides additional pastoral support. PGR training

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 can be described as three concentric circles. At the centre is specific training on practice-based
 research; then wider focused training for students across the research institute, taking in the
 different disciplinary needs of students in art, design, media and the wider humanities; and then
 University-level generic research skills training.

 The unit’s practice-based training focuses on the ways that practitioners engage with (and
 challenge) research conventions, as well as examining structures of practice-led inquiry;
 methodological heritage of practice-led research; exhibition as research; ethical issues for
 practitioners, especially concerning where authorship in collaboration is understood; the
 complexity of working across disciplines; and the relationship between the written and visual
 elements of submission. At the Institute level of training we use the cross-disciplinary community
 to challenge cultures, languages and methods of research.

 In 2014 we instigated the annual Method conference for postgraduate students. Instead of
 providing a forum to present successful outcomes, Method invites all students across the research
 institute to critically examine the methods and process of undertaking research. Method is the
 fundamental core of research all researchers must attend to, so it is a site of common ground and
 also profound difference in action and philosophy. Method requires a number of training events to
 ensure students are equipped to analyse their method. In the last three years we have alternated
 Method with Impact. For Impact we use the same approach of detailed examination of processes,
 but to explore how art and design researchers generate and evaluate their impact. These events
 have been opened out to the wider University doctoral community. As should be expected of good
 doctoral level education, we also engage the students in a critical conversation about the problems
 of the ways impact is measured and funded. A key delivery of the E3 programme is to provide
 training in Design for Health to support the sector.

 New VC Scholarships and Graduate Teaching Awards (GTA) have been introduced during this
 census period. Seven scholarships/awards were secured by the unit, with one recipient now
 employed as a post-doctoral researcher and another supporting an AHRC-funded project.
 Simultaneously the unit has also targeted externally-funded scholarships (e.g. E3). While these
 have been successful in increasing the number of PGR students to 34 currently aligned to the unit,
 completions in this census period have been impacted by COVID; however graduation numbers
 from REF2014 have been surpassed.

 Doctoral Collaborations

 Students are active in their disciplinary communities, organising exhibitions and conferences,
 publishing, and working with research students in other institutions. Recent projects include a
 student-led exhibition exploring the complexity of presenting ‘research’, a publication on ‘double-
 agency’ and a conference on Visibility. Research partners include S1 Artspace and the Site Gallery
 in Sheffield (our students have access to studio space at both), the William Morris Gallery and the
 V&A in London, and English Heritage. Students have been supported through the AHRC Heritage
 Consortium’s Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT), receiving a PGCert in Heritage Studies and the
 opportunity to undertake a placement with institutions, including the British Transport Museum and
 the National Trust. Sheffield Hallam hosted the 2018 Heritage Consortium Conference, bringing
 together student and academic presenters from across the Consortium. Membership of the
 Consortium has been significant for the unit in helping build an interdisciplinary network of
 academics and non-HEI partners in the heritage industry.

 Since 2017, the unit has achieved sector-leading student satisfaction scores in the national
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). In 2019, 94% of students said that overall
 they are satisfied with their experience on the programme, in comparison to a sector average of
 81%. This outcome reflects the unit’s strong commitment to enhancing student experience that is
 devised to draw people together and create spaces of dissemination in a pandemic context,
 including the development of ‘oHPo’, a digital radio station to broadcast from the art school,
 activating new forms of studio community.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and Diversity

 The University’s Equality Objectives 2017-20 are fully set out in the Instititonal Statement.

 The foci of the unit’s equality objectives are concurrent with the univeristy’s and these are: to i)
 bring about a step change in race diversity and equality; ii) continue to eradicate gender disparities;
 and iii) ensure an inclusive, accessible and open working and learning environment for all staff
 and students and share responsibility for equality, diversity and inclusion throughout the
 University. At Sheffield Hallam, every member of staff has an equality, diversity and inclusion
 objective as part of their annual appraisal and undergoes mandatory equality and unconscious
 bias training.

 The unit is comprised of 39 Cat A staff; 21 are female and 18 are male. Our professorial leadership
 group is comprised of 5 women and 7 men, all on permanent contracts. The wider cohort is
 currently comprised of 21 Professors and Associate Professors/Readers/Principal Research
 Fellows (12 female, 9 male). Lab4Living employs 7 headcount fixed-term staff (3 female, 4 male)
 and 10 fixed-term Research Assistants (5 female and 5 male). This has been strategic to develop
 more women leaders.

 When compared with the University as a whole, the unit has a significantly higher proportion of
 female staff members with SRfR (56%, as compared with 46%). This is even more considerable
 an achievement given the unit as a whole (SRfR and non-SRfR), which has a higher proportion of
 men staff (65, as compared with 51 women). The unit submits a higher proportion of staff members
 who have notified of a disability when compared with the University as a whole (5.13%, as
 compared to 4%). The majority of staff members in the unit with SRfR are of white ethnicity
 (71.79%). Statistically the ethnicity information for SRfR staff members in the unit is encouraging,
 with the majority of the unit’s non-white ethnicities being submitted.

 In the wider department, BAME staffing is 7%, which is comparable with the University as a whole.
 This compares poorly with 15% in the higher education sector and 16.1% in the working age
 population of Sheffield City Region (although it is recognised the academic recruitment market
 covers a national and international talent pool). There is an urgent need to support the recruitment
 and development of BAME academics. As with gender, this will be a focus of our recruitment
 strategy. Seeking opportunities to address equality and diversity, Ling has been appointed as a
 member of the Sheffield Race Equality Commission, and Sheffield City Council’s Decolonising
 Street Name, Statues and Monuments Group.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The unit’s internal mentorship scheme and investment in developing external partnerships has
 paid dividends, increasing income during this census period. The comparison of income from
 research sources noted on REF4 for the last census period was £2,748,001 and for this period
 stands at £7,986,427.

 We systematically apply for and have secured research funding from various bodies and schemes,
 ranging from European Union, AHRC, EPSRC, British Council, Innovate UK, NIHR, Health
 Foundation, GCRF and charitable funding such as Marie Curie. This has supported the
 development of a portfolio of outputs, as documented in REF2, and enabled the development of
 research active staff. Major awards have been secured, such as three NIHR i4i grants, leading to
 outputs (Support4All/O3986, NIV mask/O3987) and supporting ICS (Lab4Living); CLAHRC NIHR
 (HOSPITAbLe/O3901); and EU H2020 outputs (meSch/O3881, Thinking Through Things/O3902).

 Another key source of funding is non-HESA reported funding, which has been critical in supporting
 the delivery of research outputs and ICSs. For example, Heath alone has generated over £2m in

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support of her outputs (From Scotland with Love/O2914, Lift Share/O2916, We Are All
 Migrants/O2915) and ICS - from sources such as Creative Scotland, BBC, Screen Scotland,
 British Film Institute. Other non-HESA sources include City of Calgary Public Art (Shaw), HEC Art
 Contemporain (Kivland), Arts Council England (ACE) (McCarthy), National Coal Mining Museum,
 Heritage Lottery, ACE and Jerwood Arts (all Johnson).

 Infrastructure

 The University’s new research structure consists of Research Institutes, Research Centres,
 Strategic Research Clusters, operating alongside Departments, to encourage and support
 interdisciplinarity. The new model adopted by the university is aligned to the previous long-
 standing structure of the Cultural, Communication and Computing Research Institute (C3RI), the
 Art and Design Research Centre (ADRC) and, in 2019, the development of the Lab4Living
 research cluster into a research centre.

 Research leadership has changed over the last twelve months. Professor Chamberlain, who was
 former Co-Director of C3RI and Head of ADRC, is now Director of Lab4Living; Professor Cotterrell
 has been appointed the Director of the Culture and Creativity Research Institute (building on C3RI,
 with the addition of Humanities); and Professor Autogena has been appointed as Head of the Art
 and Design Research Centre (ADRC). The unit’s professoriate has representation across the core
 structures of the university, including the Senior Leadership Group (Chaired by the VC), Research
 Leadership Group (Chaired by Pro-VC for Research) and Creating Knowledge Committee
 (Chaired by the Dean of Research). Professor Swann has been recruited into a new role as
 Research Lead within the Department of Art and Design to support emerging researchers.

 Since restructuring in 2020, administrative support is led by Research and Innovation Services
 (RIS), which operates a hub and spoke model of service delivery, comprising a centrally-based
 facility providing overarching support and coordination, with delivery teams embedded in
 Research Institutes (RI). The UoA32 submission is supported by the Culture and Creativity
 Research Institute team (8FTE), who also provide support to UoAs 27, 28 and 34. This team
 provides support for events organisation, project administration, postgraduate research (student,
 supervisor and management support), servicing committees, health and safety, research
 surgeries, communications and online presence, accommodation management, contract research
 and consultancy activity, and management support. Each RI has an Innovation Manager to
 support connections with business and community groups, and consultancy and contract
 research. The Lab4Living Strategic Centre is supported by a dedicated Project Manager and
 Administrator (2FTE), who work closely with the Research Institute team. The unit also employs a
 full-time Research Associate, responsible for publications and events. To help develop and deliver
 our impact agenda and support ICSs over the census period, an Impact Researcher was
 appointed in 2015 to embed impact within the unit.

 The centrally-based Research and Innovation Services team provides support to the RI teams
 (see Institutional Statement). All external funding proposals go through a triaging and peer review
 process, which then engages staff with internal and external bid development support. A rigorous
 authorisation process is undertaken for sign-off by the Head of Research Centre, Head of
 Department, Head of Research Finance and the Associate Dean for Research and Innovation.
 Research project leaders are guided through start-up meetings to establish administrative,
 financial and management assistance, and ensure they are supported in project delivery. They
 are also supported through the Research Institute’s Project Support and Monitoring Group, which
 requires periodic reporting to management to track progress, identify barriers to delivery and,
 where appropriate, provide staff development and peer support to project leaders.

 Quarterly research monitoring meetings broadened their agenda to identify, share and consolidate
 support for the developing impact from the research being undertaken, as well as reviewing the
 possible impact from research conducted in previous periods. These monitoring meetings include
 the involvement of a RIS Intellectual Property Manager and a member of the university Business
 Marketing and Media team, to enable early IP protection and dissemination strategies for

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing knowledge. In addition, university staff development courses are available in
 developing and managing impact. These have been enhanced by subject-specific knowledge, led
 by senior researchers who have managed and developed impact, and who have experience of
 the wider application of knowledge within the unit. Currently all researchers have a ‘critical friend’,
 or mentor, assigned at the beginning of each research programme, whether the research is self-
 initiated, internally-, or externally-funded. Since 2013 this mentoring process has encompassed
 the impact agenda. Where appropriate, academic impact mentors can be sought from outside of
 the subject span of the unit, where the impact under review is not within the domain of our
 expertise.

 Supporting all of the above, RIS collates data on impact, capturing feedback from external clients
 about the benefits of our interventions. This feedback will support further REF submissions and
 also improve internal protocols and communication with the wide variety of external agencies
 utilising our research and that of the wider university.

 The University’s Library Research Support Team provides expert advice, training and support for
 matters such as Research Data Management, Open Access and a publications repository. The
 conduit to the ADRC and Lab4Living is through Professor Atkinson in his formal role as committee
 member of the Open Research Operations Group.

 Health and Safety (H&S) for the Institute is overseen by the College H&S Committee and
 supported by the specialist University H&S Service, with a senior ADRC academic (Yoxall) H&S
 Lead within the Institute.

 Facilities

 The unit operates from office, studio and specialist state-of-the-art production facilities, and as part
 of the E3 project, Lab4Living accessed a newly customised, refurbished city centre ‘showcase’
 and ‘test bed’ facility (see below), to engage with the community, aligning with both the university’s
 civic agenda and the aims and objectives of E3.




                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit has initiated collaborations for shared facilities through the Sheffield Robotics group, a
 formal collaboration with the University of Sheffield. An annual round of capital bids provides
 resources to support individual members of staff, research clusters and the development of
 specialist labs. Design Futures provides expert knowledge and cutting-edge facilities to support
 KT and consultancy work, as well as engage in and support research activity. Research
 undertaken within the unit draws on the extensive resources across the university, such as the
 simulation hospital used to train NHS nurses, which has been utilised on a number of projects
 including Lab4Living (Support4All/O3986).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships with National and International HEIs

 Through strategically targeting major funding bids, the unit has engaged in numerous
 collaborative networks across a range of disciplines and countries. As the only Design research
 team contributing to the national NIHR 5-year CLAHRC programme, Lab4Living worked closely
 with Sheffield University, Bradford University, and Hospital Trusts across Yorkshire and Humber.
 This led to collaborative work (Chamberlain, Craig) with the North London CLARHC NIHR
 programme, the British Geriatrics Society, NHS England Patient Safety, and the Royal College of
 Physicians. Langley was also the lead for Lab4Living on the NIHR D4D Med-Tech Co-operative
 and a founding member of the Technology and Innovation Transforming Child Health Network
 (TITCH), linking paediatric clinicians across the UK interested in child health innovation.

 Formal international collaborations have emerged through H2020 funded projects (NESTORE),
 (meSch); and with Auckland University of Technology, funded through the Royal Society of Arts
 New Zealand, exploring the design of dementia-friendly spaces (Craig and Chamberlain).

 The Narsaq International Research Station facility located in South Greenland
 (www.narsaqresearchstation.gl) has been established by Autogena through her research
 ‘Kuannersuit; Kvanefjeld’/O3936, noted in REF2. This Station is intended to facilitate and
 encourage cooperation across disciplines and provides a platform for researchers and
 organisations to learn from Greenland and its importance to the rest of the world.

 Over the census period we have been instrumental in initiating and developing the CHEAD
 Research Alliance, which is now chaired by Kaner and Manghani. This initiative by Roddis
 (Sheffield Hallam) and Seawright (University of Ulster), with Paula Graham-Gazzard, who was
 Policy and External Relations Director for CHEAD, led to CHEAD developing a programme of
 seminars and symposia dealing with research topics, including the Next Generation Leadership
 within the sector and responses to the REF consultations (see https://chead.ac.uk/research-
 alliance). As part of this initiative, ADRC co-funded with CHEAD an investigation into the comment
 in the REF2014 subject overview report noting: ‘a number of weaker discipline areas that, on the
 evidence of submitted outputs, appeared not to have developed since RAE2008. While there were
 high-quality exceptions, the intellectual and theoretical underpinning of graphic and
 communication design was thought to be generally weak’. The impact of this research can be seen
 in REF2 (‘The Challenges for Graphic Design in Establishing an Academic Research Culture:
 Lessons from the Research Excellence Framework’/O2940). The work has led to three national
 symposia organised by the Graphic Design Association, held at Sheffield Hallam, Loughborough
 University and the Royal College of Art. The work has also been presented at five conferences
 and invited talks (Sheffield Hallam, University of Limerick, Northumbria University, Ulster
 University and the CHEAD annual conference at University of South Wales).

 Engagement with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences

 It is a strategy of the unit to engage beneficiaries of the research in the research itself, to
 maximise uptake and adoption. End users are frequently involved and a community of lay
 researchers has been nurtured and trained over a number of years as co-researchers through

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lab4Living. The nature of much of the research and the diverse contexts and communities in
 which it takes place means there are wide-ranging beneficiaries. This includes a range of
 academic disciplines, the general public, government, business and industry. The creative skill set
 and working methods across the unit means there are a variety of formats and vehicles of
 dissemination adopted.

 Staff have disseminated research through monographs, films, music, audio works, exhibitions,
 journal articles, artefacts, conference presentations and theatrical performances to a diverse
 range of audiences including, the European Commission, Greenland government and Navajo
 Nation (Autogena), Maori Nation (Heath, Craig and Chamberlain), Scottish diaspora (Heath),
 stateless communities, and in developing countries including Vietnam (Johnson), Rwanda and Sri
 Lanka (Cotterrell). Research that gives voice to marginalised communities has been a feature of
 much of the research undertaken by the unit. Johnson’s AHRC funded ‘Alone Together/O2917’
 and ‘a ROLE to PLAY/O3537’ engage diverse communities in London and Bolsover, Craig’s work
 focuses on health inequalities and the elderly, while Langley’s work involves children with
 prosthetics.

 As part of Wilson’s artist-in-residence at CUNY, he helped deliver the New York leg of Wellcome's
 first fully international project ‘Contagious Cities’, in 2018. He is currently developing with
 Wellcome their next international project, with a mental health theme and youth focus, titled
 Mindscapes.

 To maximise the influence of the unit’s research, staff seek to influence key policy and decision
 makers. For example, Autogena presented at the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre
 (JRC) and COP24 2018 UN Climate Summit in Katowice; and Craig’s work is a key component in
 the delivery of the dementia strategy for Allied Health Professionals in Scotland, and has impacted
 policy in Scotland and is part of the West Wales dementia wellbeing pathway. Recent policy-based
 work has involved Cotterrell’s evidence on the contribution that research in the Arts can make to
 the fight against radicalisation, presented to the House of Commons British Council APPG (2017),
 and subsequent membership of the parliamentary Community of Practice on Preventing Violent
 Extremism (2018-20).

 Lab4Living held five international Design4Health conferences to date and in 2017 it was hosted
 overseas by Swinburne University, Melbourne, Australia. Plans were underway to host the 2020
 conference in Amsterdam, in partnership with the WAAG Society, University of Twente and
 University of Applied Sciences Amsterdam. However, although proceedings were published, the
 conference and exhibition were cancelled due to COVID.

 The Transmission initiative, developed and led by Kivland since its establishment in 2001, is now
 in its nineteenth year. This annual series of lectures, symposia and publications addresses the
 aesthetic and discursive forms of practices in the field of contemporary art and theory concerning
 sociality and subjectivity. Many in the Fine Art domain who have submitted to RAEs/REFs over
 this period have used the opportunities offered by Transmission to discuss, develop, debate and
 disseminate their research. In 2015 Kivland added to these opportunities for researchers with the
 establishment of her imprint MA BIBLIOTHÈQUE, which publishes and promotes experimental
 writing in the visual arts, emphasising reading and re-reading.

 Indicators of Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base

 Journal Editorships
 Developing and leading initiatives that engage the sector and wider communities has been
 instrumental in presenting opportunities for collaborative research for staff, as well as for the
 sector at large. Editorship of the Design Journal (Taylor & Francis) has been within the ADRC
 since 2014 and throughout the census period. Expanded now to six issues a year, it continues to
 shape discourse in the field and to engage staff with a range of external networks. The journal’s
 editor, Atkinson, was also President of the European Academy of Design (with which the journal
 is associated) from 2014-19, overseeing its international biennial conference. An AHRC network

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant led by Chamberlain, ‘The State of the Art of Design in Healthcare’ - working in partnership
 with the Royal College of Art, Glasgow School of Art and Coventry University - provided the
 business case for the establishment of the Design for Health Journal (Taylor & Francis). Edited by
 Chamberlain, Craig and Atkinson, and launched in 2017, its success led to increasing publications
 to three issues a year in 2020.

 In addition, staff undertake editorial roles for academic journals, for example Heath is an advisory
 board member of the Film Education Journal, and Kivland was Commissioning Editor for E.R.O.S.
 Journal between 2015-18.

 Participation in Committees, Panels and Boards
 Staff continue to influence the development of discourse within their disciplines through a wide
 range of positions held on international committees, panels and advisory boards, membership
 of peer review panels for grant awarding bodies and other activities. For example, Craig is Vice
 Chair of the Royal College of Occupational Therapy Research and Development Board, while
 Autogena is Artist Expert to the EU commission’s Science Policy Centre. Atkinson is Executive
 Committee Member of the International Committee of Design Histories and Design Studies
 (ICDHS) and involved in the organisation of its biennial conference. Chamberlain was panel
 member for the Performance Based Review Fund, New Zealand (2019); Chamberlain and
 Cotterrell panel members of the FCT Ministry of Technology, Portugal (2019); Lloyd-Jones is peer
 reviewer for the National Science Foundation, USA; and Petrelli is Expert Reviewer for the Italian
 Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) (2017-present) and the EU (2016-present).

 Keynotes
 The unit’s international profile is evidenced by invitations to speak at major international
 interdisciplinary forums. For example, Lloyd-Jones presented a keynote ‘Reimagining Precision
 Medicine through Design’ at Columbia University Centre for Precision Medicine and Society, USA
 2019; Craig ‘OT meets IT’ at the ENOTE conference Zagreb (2017); Heath ‘We Are All Migrants’
 at the HERA conference Imag(in)ing Europe, Utrecht (2016); and Autogena at the European
 Geosciences Union (2016).

 Prizes and Awards
 Design Futures packaging have won Packaging Design Team of the Year in 2015, 2017, 2019,
 2020 (they didn’t enter in 2016 and 2018). The award, open to all commercial ventures, is
 honoured by the UK Packaging Industry and judges have remarked ‘as well as design and
 development, Design Futures has a world-leading packaging research facility within its agency’.
 The team also won ‘Research Efficient Pack of the Year’ award in 2020. Research in this field
 continues to have influence and Yoxall is chair and convenor of Technical Committee 122 Working
 Group 9, looking at standards on accessible packaging.

 Research within the group has been recognised through national and international awards. For
 example, Swann's ABC Syringe won International Council of Societies of Industrial Design’s
 Biennial World Design Impact Prize (2014), and his Ebola: Bleach Dilution Gauge/O2972 won best
 design exhibit at the 3rd European Design4Health conference (2015); Reed and Chamberlain,
 ‘Most Innovative Design for Ageing’ in the UK’s Over 50s Housing Awards (2017); McCarthy, the
 Evelyn Williams Drawing Prize for COPY/O3984 (2019); Colley, the Itami International Jewellery
 Award for Re-Mains/O2939 (2019); and Autogena, the National Academies Keck Futures Initiative
 Award for art and science, engineering and medicine frontier collaborations (US).




                                                                                             Page 17
