Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Cambridge


 Unit of Assessment: 10 – Mathematical Sciences


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Cambridge Mathematics is a broad community of mathematical scientists, consistently ranked in the
 top 5 of QS world subject rankings throughout this REF period (the only non-US institution to achieve
 this). Since REF2014, significant strategic development of our research agenda has been
 accompanied by major new investment in people. Highlights include:

    1. Research Excellence
       Recognition of the research achievements of our staff at the highest levels, including eight
       elections to the Royal Society, one to the US National Academy of Sciences, a knighthood,
       two OBEs and more than 70 medals and prizes including a Fields Medal.

    2. Investing in academic appointments and training of postgraduate students
       New appointments to 44 permanent academic positions (12 senior chairs), with 18 being
       newly created posts. Our academic and postdoctoral researcher headcount has increased
       from 205 in 2014 to 254 in 2020 and postgraduate numbers expanded from 220 to >325, with
       substantial development of research in mathematics of information, statistics and soft matter.

    3. Addressing equality, diversity and inclusion within the Faculty
       Ten women have been appointed to permanent academic positions, with the current number
       of women more than double 2014 levels (from six to 13 including two new Lecturers arriving
       in 2020/21). We are proud to have staff and students from over 80 countries and have hosted
       Race Awareness, Black History Month, LGBT+ History Month, Women in Maths, Respect at
       Work and Unconscious Bias events.

    4. Increasing research income
       Grant income increased from £46M to over £142M, including 21 ERC grants held over this
       REF period (three Advanced, six Consolidator and 12 Starting Grants). Six new Research
       Centres have been launched (Cantab Capital Institute for the Mathematics of Information,
       Centre for Mathematical Imaging in Healthcare, Edwards Centre for Soft Matter, Winton
       Centre for Risk and Evidence Communication, Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery
       and, new for 2020, Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine) supported by £19M external funding.

    5. Maximising impact from research
       Appointment of Mathematics Knowledge Transfer and Research Facilitators, who have
       transformed our relationship with industry (developing links with more than 170 companies
       since 2014 including AstraZeneca, GSK and Aviva).

    6. Enabling interdisciplinary research
       Expanding emphasis on interdisciplinary research, with four new academic positions created
       in 2017 jointly with other physical science departments and increased collaboration within the
       University and with industry.




                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Faculty overview

 The Faculty of Mathematics in Cambridge comprises two closely-linked departments: the
 Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics (DAMTP) and the Department of Pure
 Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics (DPMMS), with the Statistical Laboratory as a sub-
 department of DPMMS.


                                                      Our community includes 120 academic and
                                                      teaching staff, 134 Research Fellows and
                                                      postdocs, 328 PhD students and 78 professional
                                                      and support staff, working across the whole
                                                      breadth of mathematics and its applications. The
                                                      Departments are housed together with the Isaac
                                                      Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences (INI)
                                                      and the Betty and Gordon Moore Library
                                                      (BGML), a research resource containing the
                                                      University Library’s holdings in mathematical
                                                      sciences, in the purpose-built Centre for
                                                      Mathematical Sciences (CMS).
  Centre for Mathematical Sciences aerial view


 A distinctive feature of Cambridge Mathematics is that an exceptionally broad range of substantial
 groups, from theoretical physics to statistics to experimental fluid mechanics, exists within the same
 structure, making us well-placed to respond to mathematical challenges.

 Together the departments actively seek to sustain breadth in research across a wide range of pure
 and applied mathematics, in theoretical physics and in probability and statistics. We aim to contribute
 to the most compelling areas of fundamental research, whilst extending our strong tradition in
 application areas. Our priorities are to reinforce and refresh areas of existing expertise, retaining
 international leadership of fast evolving fields as well as exploiting new areas of applications and
 fresh directions. We actively promote a stimulating research environment where researchers and
 students alike benefit from, and contribute to, a busy and broad programme of research seminars
 (more than 20 per week in term time, significantly enriched by our proximity to programmes run by
 the INI. We aim to compete for talent on the world stage and appoint individuals of the highest quality
 to academic posts. Since the last REF almost half of our permanent appointments have been from
 overseas institutions.

  Achievement of Strategic Aims:

  1.1 Research Excellence

 Key achievements in the REF period are highlighted by research groups and themes, which can
 span both Departments.

 DPMMS

 The Department has had an active recruitment programme over the period and numbers of academic
 and research staff have risen from 80 in 2013 to 107 currently. Recognition over the REF period has
 included ten invited speakers across the 2014 and 2018 ICMs, the awards of a Fields medal to Birkar 1
 and the COPSS Presidents' Award to Samworth, both in 2018. Grant income has been considerably
 strengthened (including 12 ERC awards). Thriving research groups in the areas of Mathematics of
 Information and General Relativity and PDEs reach across both Departments. New Research
 Centres in the Faculty have been launched following large industry and external grants and,
 alongside a strong connection with the Alan Turing Institute (ATI), these support collaboration within

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and outside the University. Research in the Department can be loosely organised into seven main
 themes.

 1Names in italics correspond to researchers submitted for this REF



 Algebraic Geometry: The REF 2014 priority was to make a lectureship appointment in this area.

 The REF 2014 priority was realised in the strategic
 appointment of Ranganathan (tropical geometry) in 2018. His
 appointment builds on the current strengths of the group.
 Birkar, promoted to Professor in 2015, was recognised as a
 world leader in the Minimal Model Program with the Fields
 Medal in 2018 and elected FRS in 2019 (£1.1M Royal Society
 Professorship). Gross, appointed as a Professor in 2013, is a
 leader in mirror symmetry (Clay Research Award in 2016,
 FRS in 2017, EPSRC Programme grant). Both Ranganathan Birkar with Fields Medal (Rio 2018)
 and Gross have close connections to symplectic topology
 (Smith and Keating). Grojnowski (geometric representation theory) completes the group.

 Analysis and PDEs: In 2014 we aimed to extend existing expertise in PDEs and Geometric Analysis
 by making further appointments in Analysis, including to Lowndean and Herchel Smith Chairs

 The appointment of Dafermos (Lowndean Chair 2015; EPSRC Programme grant with Warwick),
 Raphael (Herchel Smith Chair 2019) and Warnick in 2017 as an interdisciplinary Lecturer between
 DAMTP and DPMMS fulfilled the 2014 REF strategic priority. They join the other main members of
 the group who came to Cambridge as early-career Lecturers or Readers and are now Professors
 and world leaders in their sub-areas; Mouhot (ERC Starter and Consolidator Grants worth EUR2.7M)
 and Wickramasekera. Alongside Zsak, Becker-Kahn (2019/20) and Gajic (Research Fellow), the
 group closely interacts with others across the Faculty: differential geometry, probability, general
 relativity, and applied analysis via joint seminars, co-supervision of PhD students and the Centres
 for Doctoral Training. The 2019 appointment of Titi to a senior Chair in DAMTP in the area of applied
 analysis has further enhanced the strong interplay between the two departments.

 Combinatorics: A key REF 2014 objective was to enhance our expertise in this area and to
 strengthen connections to other research areas.

 In 2018, Wolf (additive combinatorics, model theory) joined the strong combinatorics group involving
 Gowers (additive combinatorics), Leader (Ramsay theory, combinatorics) and Thomason (extremal
 theory); Bollobás (Emeritus), who has had an immense impact in the area, remains as active as ever.
 Beyond the established strength in the analytic side of combinatorics, the REF period has seen the
 emergence of a new internationally leading group around Varju (ergodic theory and group theory),
 appointed in 2016 (promoted to Reader in 2019 and Professor in 2020; £1.9M Royal Society URF &
 ERC Starting Grant) and Breuillard (group theory and geometry; £1M ERC Consolidator Grant),
 appointed as Sadleirian Professor of Pure Mathematics in 2018. In these appointments, along with
 the upcoming appointment of Sahasrabudhe, we have achieved the objectives of enhancing the area
 and building stronger links with combinatorics across mathematics. The number of Research
 Fellows/College Teaching Officer (including Button, Rappoport and Wilkes), postdocs and PhD
 students has increased to more than 30.

 Differential Geometry & Topology: Reinforcing breadth and consolidating connections to adjacent
 areas (algebra, algebraic geometry, geometric analysis) were key strategic goals.

 The appointment of Keating (symplectic topology) in 2016 has reinforced the group which now has
 expertise across a wide range of subjects successfully interacting with other areas including analysis,
 algebraic geometry and number theory. The core group members are Kovalev (Riemannian
 geometry), Paternain (geometric inverse problems), Randal-Williams (algebraic topology, promoted
 to Reader in 2017 and Professor in 2020, EUR1M ERC Starting Grant/Leverhulme Prize),

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rasmussen (low-dimensional topology, promoted to Professor in 2018), Smith (symplectic topology,
 £1M EPSRC Fellowship), and Wilton (geometric group theory, promoted to Reader in 2017) as well
 as four new College Teaching Officers (Khukhro in 2018; J. Smith, Bradford, Chiodo in 2019) and
 Research Fellows (including S. Rasmussen, Dervan (RSURF 2020), Eskenazis, Heuer).

 Number Theory and Algebra: Rebuilding this area via new appointments was a key aim over this
 REF period.

 Three new appointments in this area have been made since 2014; Krieger (arithmetic dynamics,
 appointed as the new Corfield Lecturer in 2016), and from 2020/21 Fintzen (local Langlands and
 representation theory, RSURF 2020 and ERC Starting Grant) and Zhou (arithmetic geometry,
 Shimura varieties, and geometric representation theory). They join Thorne (Langlands programme,
 arithmetic invariant theory; ERC Starting Grant), promoted to Professor in 2018 and elected FRS in
 2020 (the youngest on appointment of all living Fellows), who is already a world leader, Fisher
 (computational number theory) and Scholl (arithmetic algebraic geometry and automorphic forms).
 In cognate areas, Gowers, Breuillard and Grojnowski are engaged with the group. There are also
 senior College staff active in different areas of representation theory and group theory (Camina,
 Martin, Lawther and Wadsley) as well as Research Fellows (Law and Walker).

 Probability, Applied Probability and Information Theory: The priority was to sustain growth in
 this area both in scale and depth, in its range of applications and connectivity with other parts of
 mathematics.

 Over the course of the REF period, we have been able to make very strong appointments at Lecturer
 and Reader level (Miller, Sousi, Bauerschmidt who have all since been promoted to Professor and
 Readers respectively). The recent appointment of Kontoyiannis to the Churchill Professorship, and
 a new Lecturer (Jog from Jan 2021), will see the emergence of a new group in Information Theory
 and related areas, having strong links to both the probability and the statistics groups. Research in
 the probability group addresses two related central themes: (i) the geometry of random structures,
 (ii) rigorous scaling limits in statistical mechanics. The REF period has seen major successes in both
 themes. Research has been funded by an EPSRC Programme Grant on Random Geometry (£1.5M;
 Grimmett, Berestycki, Norris), two current ERC Starting Grants (EUR2.5M; Miller, Bauerschmidt),
 and an EPSRC New Investigator Award (Sousi), supporting a series of postdocs and an Isaac
 Newton Institute Programme on Random Geometry. We have also benefitted from the award of three
 Research Fellowships (Hutchcroft, Gwynne, Qian) and participation in the EPSRC CDT in Analysis
 and the CMI CDT in Mathematics of Information. The appointment of a new Professor of
 Mathematical Statistics, following Grimmett, is a major opportunity.

 Statistics: REF2014 aims were strategic expansion including appointment to Chair of Statistical
 Science and development of this area, both in theory and applications.

 Over the REF period, the statistics group has made a number of powerful appointments including
 Aston (applied statistics, particularly in neuro-imaging and linguistics), Samworth (high-dimensional
 statistics and nonparametric statistics, appointed Chair of Statistical Science in 2017, winner of
 COPSS Presidents’ Award in 2018), Berthet (theoretical statistics, 2014-2019), Bacallado in 2015
 (Bayesian statistics) and Zhao (causal inference) in 2019. From 2021, the appointment of Loh (high-
 dimensional statistics) will add to the strength and profile of the statistics group joining Nickl
 (uncertainty quantification, promoted to Professor in 2016), Shah (large-scale data analysis,
 promoted to Reader in 2019) and Coca (nonparametric inference in 2018).




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                  The group has been awarded a Programme Grant
                                                 (Aston/Samworth/Shah), two Fellowships (Aston
                                                 and Samworth) and a New Investigator Award
                                                 (Shah) from the EPSRC alongside an ERC
                                                 Consolidator grant (Nickl) totalling £4.1M.

                                                 Long-term collaborations with other Departments
                                                 include the appointment of Mandel (ERC
                                                 Consolidator      Grant),     an      Astrostatistics
                                                 Interdisciplinary Lecturer with the Institute of
                                                 Astronomy in 2017, links to the Applied
                                                 Computational Analysis group in DAMTP (Aston and
                                                 Nickl with Schönlieb and Fawzi) and research with
     Samworth COPSS Presidents’ Award            Psychology as an integral part of the Winton Centre
                                                 for Risk and Evidence Communication led by
 Spiegelhalter (retired in 2018).

 DAMTP

 Research in DAMTP is centred on the major themes of applied and computational analysis (including
 the mathematics of information, AI and machine learning, often, though not exclusively, with
 applications in health care), continuum mechanics and soft matter (with wide applications in the life
 sciences, the environment and industry) and theoretical physics (gravitation, high energy physics,
 astrophysics, cosmology). Strength in these broad themes has continued, with significant evolution
 and development which has been driven by 18 new hires (eight of which are to newly-created
 positions and another five of which are long-term proleptic replacements of colleagues still in post)
 since the last REF. Research in DAMTP is loosely structured around eight research themes, in many
 cases with substantial overlap and with some colleagues being affiliated with more than one theme.

 Applied & Computational Analysis (ACA): The priority since 2014 has been to grow substantially
 in this area, and to extend the volume and reach of our interdisciplinary engagement.

 Strategic academic appointments and promotions growing this area include Schönlieb (promoted to
 Professor in 2018), Titi (appointed in 2018 from Texas A&M), van der Schaar (appointed in 2018
 from Oxford, joint with Engineering and Public Health), Shadrin (promoted to Reader in 2018), Fawzi
 (appointed 2016 from MIT), Hansen (URF and promoted to Reader in 2017), Fokas (EPSRC
 Established Career Fellowship). The group also includes a number of independent researchers;
 Ashton (College Lecturer), Liang (Leverhulme Early Career Fellow), Roman (Senior Research
 Associate, SRA) and Kreusser (College Research Fellow).

 The focus of the ACA group is in applied and computational PDEs, inverse problems, applied
 harmonic and functional analysis, machine learning, approximation theory and optimisation, with a
 diverse range of interdisciplinary research projects in the areas of biomedical imaging, AI in
 healthcare, remote sensing and cultural heritage. ACA has connections to many other groups
 including fluid mechanics, mathematical biology, quantum information as well as analysis, probability
 and statistics.

 ACA contributes strongly to research programmes spanning both departments, which include the
 Cambridge Centre for Analysis (an EPSRC CDT, led by Norris and Peake), the EPSRC Centre for
 Medical Imaging in Healthcare (led jointly by Aston and Schönlieb) and the Cantab Capital Centre
 for the Mathematics of Information (CCIMI, led by Schönlieb) and its associated CDT programme
 (CMI, co-led by Nickl and Schönlieb).

 The CCIMI, founded by a benefaction of £5M from Cantab Capital Partners LLP in 2016, provides
 the coherent setting for both departments’ efforts to place mathematics at the heart of work in big
 data. The new Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery (C2D3), an interdisciplinary hub to bring
 together researchers from across Cambridge, with Aviva as a founding partner (£2.5M investment)

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 moved to CMS in 2019, with Schönlieb as co-Chair. DAMTP also hosts the Cambridge Centre for AI
 in Medicine (CCAIM) (directed by van der Schaar) supported by AstraZeneca and GSK with a £7M
 investment (2020-2024).




   Four new Research Centres launched with £15M Industrial and EPSRC grant funding, placing the
  Faculty at the heart of image and data analysis as well as AI and machine learning within Cambridge


 Astrophysics: Since 2014 our goal has been to consolidate strength in this area, focusing efforts in
 expertise in accretion discs and planet formation, and to further develop collaboration with other
 groups within and outside DAMTP.

 Rafikov (recruited from Princeton 2015, promoted to Reader in 2018), along with Latter and Ogilvie,
 leads analytical and computational studies of astrophysical fluid dynamics, magnetohydrodynamics
 and gravitational dynamics applied to accretion discs, planet formation and exoplanets. The group
 includes five STFC-funded research associates and two Research Fellows, with ongoing strength in
 atomic and solar physics (led by Del Zanna and Loi, with continued engagement of Mason OBE and
 Proctor FRS).

 Within DAMTP the group has significantly strengthened scientific overlap with other groups, including
 Fluids (especially since the arrival of Kerswell FRS in 2017) and Relativity and Gravitation (e.g. in
 black-hole astrophysics and gravitational waves). Beyond DAMTP, there are major connections with
 the Institute of Astronomy and Cavendish Astrophysics, which, together with DAMTP, have founded
 the Cambridge Exoplanet Research Centre, forming a world-class grouping with expertise in
 observation, instrumentation, theory and modelling. The Kavli Institute, another interdisciplinary
 initiative between DAMTP, Astronomy and Physics, also supports activity in this area.

 Fluids: This continues to be a defining activity of DAMTP. The group’s overarching strategy has
 been to diversify its expertise both in reach and methodology as well as strengthening links to related
 groups.

 A number of new appointments have been made that diversify and strengthen activity both in and
 surrounding the core fluids group; Kerswell FRS (from Bristol in 2017 to the GI Taylor Professorship,
 a key aim from the last REF), bringing new expertise in high-Re fluid dynamics and Bruna (from
 Oxford in 2019) as a Lecturer who works in stochastic particle systems, a new direction for the group
 reaching across to the Soft Matter group.

 The ACA appointments of Titi (applied analysis of Navier-Stokes equations) and van der Schaar
 (machine learning), and the Soft Matter appointments of Cates FRS (statistical mechanics in complex
 fluids and active matter) and Adhikari (low-Re flows) bring fresh expertise to enhance the group.
 Independent researchers include Ayton (EPSRC Early Career Fellow), Le Fauve and Ming
 (Leverhulme Fellows), Kowal and Peng (College Research Fellows), Oliveira (Herchel Smith Fellow)
 and SRAs (Etzold, Spivak, Rath-Spivak).

 Research is carried out across the spectrum ranging from low-Re number micro-hydrodynamics
 (Lauga & Lister), stochastic particle dynamics (Bruna) and quantum fluids (Berloff); through high-Re
 number flows and turbulence (Cowley, Kerswell FRS, Peake); to environmental flows (Caulfield,
 Dalziel, Haynes FRS, Linden FRS & Taylor) and geophysics (Neufeld & Worster), and is supported
 by the GK Batchelor Laboratory (Director Dalziel) which can measure flows from nanometre through
 to metre scales.

 There are seamless connections with surrounding groups specifically, ACA (Titi), Soft Matter
 (Adhikari, Cates), Mathematical Biology (Goldstein) and Astrophysics (Latter, Ogilvie & Rafikov)

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which mean that as a whole, DAMTP has a group of over 100 researchers of fluid dynamics (staff
 and students). As well as establishing the Cambridge Fluids Network spanning Engineering,
 Chemical Engineering & Biotechnology, Chemistry, the Institute of Astronomy and the BP Institute,
 there is a well-established link with Schlumberger and developing links to DeepMind, Google and the
 St Barts Heart Centre.

 The group has received over £11.8M in support during the assessment period (£6.7M EPSRC,
 EUR3M ERC, £1.3M NERC, £0.8M Royal Society) and participates in a number of CDTs: Cambridge
 Maths of Information (CMI), the `C-Clear’ NERC DTP and the AI for the Study of Environmental Risk
 UKRI DTP.



 General Relativity and Gravitation: The priority for this area was to sustain the ability to make
 pioneering advances across a broad range of cosmology and gravitational theory.

 Several appointments have been made at Lecturer level. In 2017: Warnick (from Imperial, jointly
 with DPMMS, hyperbolic PDEs in general relativity); Sherwin (from Berkeley, Cosmic Microwave
 Background, awarded ERC Starting Grant, 2019). In 2018: Pajer (Professor, University of Utrecht,
 the interface of cosmology, string theory and particle physics); and Wall (from Stanford, black hole
 thermodynamics and quantum gravity, winner of the Breakthrough New Horizons in Physics Prize,
 2019). The group is currently seeking to make a world-class appointment to the inaugural Stephen
 Hawking Chair of Cosmology, funded by a gift of $6M from the Avery-Tsui Foundation.

 The group has expertise in black hole theory (Dunajski, Reall, Santos, Wall, Warnick), numerical
 relativity and gravitational waves (Sperhake, Agathos, Noller), and cosmological theory (Challinor,
 Fergusson, Pajer, Shellard, Sherwin). The group currently has five independent researchers, Baldauf
 (Stephen Hawking Fellow), Macpherson (Herchel Smith Fellow), Noller (Ernest Rutherford Fellow)
 and Ganguly, Namikawa (College Fellows).

 The group’s activities are closely intertwined with the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology (CTC),
 founded by Stephen Hawking in 2007, to bring together world-class researchers studying the extreme
 universe. CTC supports senior Research Fellows, hosts visitors, and organises topical workshops
 and major international conferences in theoretical cosmology and gravitation, including “Gravity and
 Black Holes” marking the 75th birthday of Hawking in 2017.

 The group is very well connected with the DAMTP High Energy Physics group, with groups in
 Astronomy and Physics, and is a major participant in the Kavli Institute for Cosmology. The group
 maintains excellent supercomputing facilities through close industrial collaborations (Intel) with
 grants for their COSMOS supercomputer totalling over £3M since 2010, and in 2017 as launch
 partner with Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) for their first Superdome Flex server.

 High Energy Physics (HEP): Maintaining the strength of this area and extending key STFC funding
 were priority objectives for this REF period

 Two appointments in particle phenomenology have been made: Ubiali (from Cambridge Physics in
 2017, ERC Starting Grant, 2020) and McCullough (from CERN in 2018), and there is a further
 opportunity to recruit a new Professorship of Mathematical Physics (due to the retirement of Davis)
 to enhance the world-class strength in HEP research. Faculty members include Allanach, Dorey,
 Dunajski (since 2018 employed jointly as a University and College Lecturer, promoted to Reader in
 2020), Evans, Manton, Quevedo, Santos (promoted to Reader in 2018), Skinner, Stuart, Thomas
 (promoted to Reader in 2020), Tong and Wingate (promoted to Reader in 2015). The group includes
 five independent researchers Day, Hofmann, Melville, Reid-Edwards (College Fellows) and
 Chakraborty (Leverhulme Early Career Fellow), seven postdocs funded on an STFC consolidated
 grant and a Simons Investigator Award, as well as 25 PhD students.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The HEP group pursues research in many areas of fundamental physics, unified under the umbrella
 of quantum field theory, including the search for new particles beyond the Standard Model, nuclear
 structure, condensed matter phenomena, cosmological particle physics, and quantum gravity.

 HEP has strong overlap with the General Relativity and Cosmology Group, including with Santos,
 Quevedo and Wall. The group has substantial Consolidated Grants from STFC (£4.1M in the REF
 period) (Allanach is PI) which also supports the Cavendish HEP theory group, with whom they have
 strong links (including a joint seminar series and joint postdoc positions).

 Mathematical Biology: A REF 2014 objective was to consolidate the strength being built in this area.

 Simons (statistical mechanics of model stem cell development, Royal Society E.P. Abraham
 Professor) joined DAMTP in 2018 from Cambridge Physics to strengthen further activity in this group,
 which has many interconnections to other research in the mathematics of life both within DAMTP
 and the broader University. Permanent staff include Goldstein FRS (Schlumberger Professor of
 Complex Physical Systems) who conducts both theoretical and experimental research on problems
 of evolutionary biology and is well-connected with Lauga’s theoretical modelling of the flow of
 complex fluids and small-scale hydrodynamics; Eglen (computational neuroscience, promoted to
 Reader in 2015 and Professor in 2020), Gog OBE (mathematics of infectious diseases, promoted to
 Professor in 2017, a key participant in the independent Scientific Pandemic Influenza-Modelling “SPI-
 M” group advising Government on the current pandemic). The group currently has three Research
 Fellows (Gomez, Haas, Kissler) and two SRAs (Leptos, Pesci).

 Eglen (and Micklem) play a major role in the Cambridge Computational Biology Institute (CCBI) a
 cross-School initiative, hosted in DAMTP, to bring together the strengths of Cambridge in medicine,
 biology, mathematics and the physical sciences. Eglen is the Director of the MPhil in Computational
 Biology based in DAMTP (100 students over REF period). At doctoral level the group is part of the
 Wellcome Trust PhD programme in Mathematical Genomics and Medicine (run jointly with the
 Sanger Institute).

 Soft Matter: Making a world-class appointment to the Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics was
 a main 2014 REF objective. In achieving this we have fulfilled another strategic goal, which was to
 establish a major new presence in soft matter research.

 The arrival of Cates FRS as Lucasian Professor in 2015 (from Edinburgh) was followed by two new
 Lectureships - Adhikari in 2016 (from IIMS Chennai) and Jack in 2017 (from Bath), the latter a joint
 hire between DAMTP and Chemistry. The resulting new Soft Matter group hosts three self-funded
 Research Fellowships (Fodor, Pietzonka, Scalliet) with others postdocs and students funded via ERC
 Advanced, Royal Society Professorship and Unilever Grants.

 Current research focuses on active matter, glassy/granular systems and biophysics, using stochastic
 thermodynamics, large deviation theory, and computer simulation methodologies. This group has
 significant connectivity with the fluids group (Lauga and Bruna), with mathematical biology (Goldstein
 and Simons), and across the University via the Edwards Centre for Soft Matter Research (a virtual
 laboratory founded by Cates).

 Centre for Quantum Information and Foundations (CQIF) A 2014 REF objective was to enrich
 this group via new appointments in this area of current very high scientific importance and
 technological impact.

 New appointments of Datta as a Lecturer in 2017 (promoted to Reader in 2018), and Beri (from
 Birmingham in 2017, promoted to Reader in 2020) complement and enhance activity of Jozsa FRS
 (Leigh Trapnell Professor of Quantum Physics) and Kent. Beri’s joint appointment with Physics
 strengthens further the group’s links with cognate theoretical and experimental work. The group
 currently hosts three Research Fellows (Strelchuk (RSURF), Bausch and da Silva).



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within this richly cross-disciplinary area, there is world class expertise in the mutually interacting
 principal sub-areas of quantum algorithms and computational complexity, quantum cryptography,
 quantum entropies and information theory, quantum foundations, and topological phases of matter.


  1.2 Investing in academic appointments and training of postgraduate students

 Permanent academic appointments have been an obvious priority and the Faculty has filled 12
 high profile named Chairs and Professorships since the last REF:

 ●   Aston (from Warwick) as Professor of Statistics in 2014, with key roles as co-director of two
     research centres between DAMTP and DPMMS prior to secondment to the Home Office as Chief
     Scientific Advisor in 2017. Elected to the Harding Professor of Statistics in Public Life from 2021.

 ●   Cates FRS (from Edinburgh) as Lucasian Professor in 2015, building major new activity in soft
     matter, including the subsequent appointment of two new University Lecturers, Adhikari from
     Chennai and Jack from Bath.

 ●   Dafermos who joined the DPMMS as a Lecturer in 2004 and was appointed in 2015 as the
     Lowndean Professor of Astronomy and Geometry (1749), provides a strong link to DAMTP with
     expertise in hyperbolic partial differential equations in general relativity.

 ●   Abrahams (from Manchester) appointed to the posts of NM Rothschild & Sons Professor of
     Mathematical Sciences and Director of the Isaac Newton Institute for the Mathematical Sciences
     (INI) in 2016.

 ●   Kerswell FRS (from Bristol) as GI Taylor Professor of Fluid Mechanics in 2017, bringing world-
     leading expertise in high Reynolds number flows and applications in geophysical and
     astrophysical flows.

 ●   Breuillard (from University of Münster) in 2017 to Sadleirian Professorship in Pure Mathematics,
     is connecting combinatorics, geometry, ergodic theory and number theory.

 ●   Samworth, the current Director of the Statistical Laboratory, to the Chair of Statistical Science in
     2017.

 ●   van der Schaar (from Oxford and UCLA) in 2018 as the new John Humphrey Plummer Professor
     of Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence and Medicine, joint between DAMTP, Engineering and
     Public Health, developing a major new effort in applications of mathematics in healthcare.

 ●   Simons (from Cambridge Physics) as Royal Society Research Professor in 2018, working jointly
     between DAMTP and the Cambridge Gurdon Institute on the mathematical and physical
     modelling of stem cell development.

 ●   Titi (from Texas A&M) as Professor of Nonlinear Mathematical Sciences in 2018, strengthening
     our expertise in applied analysis and providing a further strategic link with DPMMS.

 ●   Raphael (from Université de Nice Sophia-Antipolis) as Herchel Smith Professor of Pure
     Mathematics, a strategic appointment in mathematical analysis in 2019.

 ●   Kontoyiannis in 2020 to the Churchill Professorship to develop a centre of excellence in
     information theory and machine learning, with links to DAMTP and Engineering.

 ●   Tillman from 2021 as the next Director of the Isaac Newton Institute


 Alongside these Professorships, 32 other academic appointments have been made since 2014 at
 Readership (1) and Lectureship (31) levels. Postgraduate research student numbers have increased
 from 220 in 2014 to >300 in 2020 due in part to increases in grant funding and leveraging of industrial
 collaborations.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  1.3 Improving equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) within the Faculty

 Increasing the proportion of women at all levels from undergraduate to Professor is an ongoing
 challenge embraced by the Faculty. Significant progress has been made since 2014, particularly in
 academic roles, with ten women newly appointed in this period (nine at Lectureship level, including
 to a newly created Director of Taught Postgraduate Education position, and one at Professor).
 Women make up 29% of the permanent Lectureship appointments over this REF period. This has in
 part been achieved via the creation of new positions:

 ●   In 2016, the Corfield Lectureship (joint between DPMMS and Murray Edwards College) was
     endowed via a new donation. The objective was to recruit a pure mathematician with not only
     excellence in research but also active involvement in activities to raise the profile of women in
     Mathematics.

     The job advert included the following: ‘The post involves research and other activities aimed at
     promoting women's participation and achievement in Mathematics. The successful candidate will
     have a genuine interest in and commitment to developing the role of women in Mathematics, and
     an interest in establishing evidence-based programmes that will target women at all levels (school
     and college, University and beyond). In addition, the successful candidate will need to
     demonstrate the potential to be a strong role model to female mathematicians.’

     This post was advertised simultaneously with two other Lectureships and an intensive search
     was carried out for strong candidates, including inviting a number of potential candidates to visit
     the Department and College. The two regular Lectureships received 179 applications (18.4%
     women) with the Corfield attracting 95 candidates (50% women, a notably high percentage for
     the subject). Overall, ten candidates were shortlisted for the three positions (40% women) and
     two women (Krieger, Keating) and one man (Varju) were appointed.

 ●   Two additional University Lectureship positions with different Colleges have been introduced
     using the Corfield model (which has subsequently been adopted in other Cambridge
     departments). Outstanding women appointed with Newnham (Ubiali) and Churchill (Bruna), as
     well as a College Teaching Officer post with Murray Edwards to support the Corfield Lectureship
     (Khukhro).

 ●   A further two women have recently been appointed at Lectureship level (Fintzen and Loh) to
     arrive in 2020/21.

 A Faculty EDI Committee (chaired by Davis now Cates), formed in 2013, drives progress against
 action plans covering all protected characteristics, supported by the senior administrator in DPMMS
 (who was previously an EDI consultant within the University) (see also Section 2).

  1.4 Increasing research income

 ●   Our grant income has increased significantly from £46M held over the last REF period to £142M
     held over this period (see Section 3).

 ●   Our strategic initiatives to develop relationships with key partners has resulted in a number of
     significant new income streams: David and Claudia Harding Foundation (£5M), Cantab Capital
     (£5M), Nick Corfield (£2.5M), Aviva (£2.5M) and GSK/AstraZeneca (£7M). The development of
     a major programme in the mathematics of information has been a strategic goal for some time,
     first started with the appointment of Schönlieb in 2010 and Hansen in 2013. However, the
     benefaction from Cantab Capital has allowed us to accelerate significantly, with two lecturer
     appointments (Fawzi, Coca) and a well-funded environment of PhD studentships, postdoctoral
     positions and visitor programmes. The maintenance of this effort, and indeed expansion, by
     leveraging further funding is a key ongoing objective.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ●   The Winton Centre was endowed by a generous donation from the David and Claudia Harding
     Foundation in 2016, and aims to ensure that quantitative evidence and risk is presented to people
     in a fair and balanced way. Under the leadership of Spiegelhalter, the Centre combines strength
     in statistics with expertise in psychology (Marteau, Skylark and van der Linden). Winton
     researchers engage with the NHS, Public Health England and medical professionals across the
     country as well as legal professionals, law students, forensic experts, press officers, journalists,
     government departments, evidence-based policymakers and social scientists.


  1.5 Increasing measurable impact from research

 Facilitating impact has been a key priority in both Departments. Departmental funding has been
 used to create 3 new posts consisting of our first Knowledge Transfer Facilitator (Stephanie North),
 appointed in 2014 to identify new opportunities with industry, a Research Facilitator (Milla Kibble),
 appointed in 2018 to provide high-level support for colleagues preparing grant applications and a
 Placements Coordinator (Arti Sheth-Thorne) to launch an industry supporters club for summer
 internships (see Section 4).

 Our key policies to facilitate the development of impact include:

 Providing a flexible working environment. Colleagues are encouraged to develop strong links with
 outside agencies, and are given leave from their normal duties to facilitate this. For example, Gog
 was granted a full year of sabbatical leave which provided relief from teaching and examining to
 further her research and work with the BBC in modelling pandemics, leading to an Impact Case
 Study (ICS) on influenza vaccination. Aston was given a three-year secondment to the Home
 Office as Chief Scientific Advisor, and his work there on SAGE together with Gog’s work on SPI-M,
 for which she was given further leave, has led to an ICS on advice to Government during the
 current pandemic. Substantial secondments have also been given to several colleagues to work
 at the Heilbronn Institute, leading to several classified ICS.

 Securing large industrial funding. We have targeted large grants from industry (e.g. Cantab
 Capital, and AZ/GSK), which have played a pivotal role in the creation of new research centres
 (CCIMI and CCAIM) which are now at the heart of our strategic development of strong, mature ICS
 over the next REF period. We have also prioritised the continued maintenance of long-standing
 industrial relationships, including between the CTC led by Shellard and Intel and HPE, leading to an
 ICS on the co-development of super-computer architecture and visualization; Kelly’s work on
 networks (joint with a colleague in Computer Science) in collaboration with a number of companies
 including Apple, and leading to an ICS on a switching algorithm integral to more than 1 billion
 iPhones.

 Emphasising       the      importance     of    public
 communication. This has been a key element of the
 culture in Cambridge Mathematics for many years,
 with much of it facilitated by our major investment in
 the Millennium Mathematics Project (see Section 4).
 We have submitted an ICS on Hawking’s
 extraordinary record in outreach, and the CTC is
 building strongly on his legacy for the future. This
 includes a major new series of documentaries, The
 Universe Unravelled, a flag-ship component in launch
 of the Discovery Channel’s streaming service, in                    Hawking outside the CMS
 which members of DAMTP explain cutting-edge topics
 in cosmology to a global audience.

 We have also submitted an ICS on Winton Centre research focussing on the use of statistics in
 public communication, with their contributions including revolutionising the way that clinical risk is
 communicated to patients (see Section 4).

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  1.6 Increasing Interdisciplinary Research

 The School of Physical Sciences created nine new interdisciplinary University Lectureships in
 2017, with the holders having joint appointments shared between two of the eight departments within
 the School. We successfully bid for four of these; in General Relativity and PDEs between the two
 Maths Departments (Warnick), Astrostatistics with the Institute of Astronomy (Mandel), Statistical
 Mechanics and Soft Matter with Chemistry (Jack) and Quantum Complexity with Physics (Beri). The
 potential benefits in terms of widening our activities and accessing new funding sources are very
 exciting. They join more established interdisciplinary posts appointments with Engineering (Peake),
 Astronomy (Challinor), Earth Sciences and the BP Institute (Neufeld, Caulfield) and Genetics
 (Micklem).

 Both Academic and Research staff are extensively involved in a range of Cambridge Research
 Clusters:

 ●   Cates founded and leads the Edwards Centre, a virtual laboratory for Soft Matter Research with
     membership drawn from academic departments across the University of Cambridge, including
     Physics, Chemistry, DAMTP, Materials Science and Chemical Engineering.

 ●   The Cambridge Centre for AI in Medicine (van der Schaar, Caulfield) is a virtual University Centre
     which brings together ten Cambridge research groups for cross-disciplinary research and
     development of AI for medicine, biomedical science and health care. It will support 25 co-
     supervised PhD students as well as postdoctoral data and computer scientists to develop
     software tools for the health sciences.

 ●   Caulfield and Neufeld are Faculty members of the BP Institute for Multiphase Flow, an
     interdisciplinary research institute with a focus on fluid mechanics and surface science, endowed
     by BP in 1999. Together with the Cambridge Fluids Network, it brings together approximately
     100 academics and over 300 PhD students from DAMTP, Chemistry, Chemical Engineering,
     Engineering and Earth Sciences.

 ●   The Cambridge Exoplanet Research Centre is a collaborative instrument for Cambridge
     researchers conducting research activities related to exoplanets and life in the Universe with
     Faculty including Latter, Ogilvie and Rafikov.

 ●   The Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery (C2D3) brings together researchers from
     across the University to address challenges presented by our access to unprecedented volumes
     of data and spans all six Schools of the University (Schönlieb, Caulfield, Kelly and Mandel on
     the steering committee).

 ●   The Statistics Clinic run through the Statistical Laboratory and the Imaging and AI clinic run
     through CMIH are demonstrative of our interdisciplinary collaborations and commitment to
                    enabling impact.

                     ● The Faculty is one of the three key partners in the Kavli Institute for
                     Cosmology, Cambridge (KICC) with Shellard, Sherwin, Sperhake and Mandel all
                     active in leadership roles. The endowment of KICC now stands at £15M,
                     compared to £7.5M in 2014, and the income funds five- and three-year
                     fellowships (some based in DAMTP e.g. Agathos) as well as funding a wide
                     range of workshops and other research and outreach activities.

 ●   Eglen and Micklem are part of the Cambridge Computational Biology Institute (CCBI). The CCBI
     and the MPhil facilitate very strong outside links including Tavaré FRS (retired as Director of the
     Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute in 2019), and Colwell (Chemistry). Eglen also belongs
     to Cambridge Neuroscience alongside Aston and Fokas, a multi-disciplinary endeavour linking
     principal investigators from over 60 different departments and institutes across the University.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ●   The Cambridge Image Analysis group, led by Schönlieb, is truly interdisciplinary with active
     collaborations not just within STEMM subjects but also in the arts and humanities via
     Mathematics for Applications in Cultural Heritage. This draws on the expertise of art historians,
     conservators, classicists and medievalists as well as of mathematicians to provide a step change
     in the use of mathematics for art history, conservation and archaeology.

  Future strategic research priorities

  Development of key research areas, impact and philanthropy

 ●   Mathematics of Information is a key emergent area for development, with clear demand within
     the University and externally, and we are in an excellent position to build on the considerable
     progress made since the last REF, including the Cantab Capital Institute for the Mathematics of
     Information, the Centre for Mathematics in Healthcare and the Winton Centre for Risk and
     Evidence Communication, as well as strong external links with the Alan Turing Institute.

     We aim to lead in the Mathematics of Information and Big Data, including the mathematical
     foundations of Data Science. This cuts across several more traditional branches including statistics,
     analysis (pure, applied and computational), probability, geometry and topology, with many important
     areas of applications. The success of recent appointments is evident, but great potential for growth
     still exists. CCIMI is an excellent example of joint activity between DAMTP and DPMMS. We wish to
     build on this by expanding research activity in this broad area, developing and strengthening links
     with other University Departments, particularly Computer Science, and various application areas in
     Health Sciences.

     The Winton Centre serves as an outreach arm regarding the use of data in the public domain
     and has a considerable potential for impact. In the coming years, this will expand into other areas
     under a new Harding Professor of Statistics in Public Life (Aston). New appointments in the
     Statistical Laboratory will include the Chair of Mathematical Statistics and a Lectureship in
     probability. Links to the Heilbronn Institute will be enhanced by the appointment of Grimmett as
     Director from 2020.

 ●   Analysis and Partial Differential Equations is another area in which growth is being actively
     pursued jointly across the two departments, given its fundamental importance in both pure and
     applied modern mathematics, and there is a great future in the study of hyperbolic PDEs such as
     those arising in General Relativity and Theoretical Physics.

     For example, our research arc in General Relativity – spanning from Dafermos, Raphael and
     Warnick working on analysis, through Reall, Santos and Wall working on theoretical physics,
     Sperhake working on computation, all the way to Shellard and Sherwin working on cosmological
     data – provides an immensely powerful grouping able to make significant interdisciplinary
     progress. The recent arrival of Titi in DAMTP extends our interests, for the first time, into analysis
     of the Navier-Stokes equation and offers the opportunity to build a similar research arc, from pure
     analysis all the way to experimental mathematics. A future aspiration is to expand into geometric
     analysis which would complement our existing strengths and support growth.

 ●   Number Theory already has a strong tradition at Cambridge and two new UL appointments from
     AY20/21 will provide support for Thorne. We will also look to fill the Kuwait Professorship in
     Number Theory and Algebra when Scholl retires in 2023.

     Algebraic Geometry is a central area in pure mathematics and will benefit from increased
     support in the near future, as will Combinatorics (a UL appointment is anticipated from
     AY21/22). Following Gowers’ appointment to the Collège de France in 2020, a new leadership
     appointment will be sought by filling the Rouse Ball Chair. Further appointments related to
     discrete analysis and the research interests of Varju and Breuillard are part of the ongoing
     strategy. Strategic appointments in Differential Geometry and Topology would consolidate


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     interactions: K-theory (topology / algebra), geometric flows (topology / analysis), complex
     geometry (topology / algebraic geometry).

 ●   Mathematics of Health, Life and Sustainability: Building on pre-existing diverse strengths, we
     are planning significant growth in the application of fundamental mathematical insights to
     understanding pressing research challenges in health care and the life sciences, expanding and
     redirecting our focus on Mathematical Biology.

 ●   This overarching, and inherently multi-disciplinary research activity combines rigorous
     mathematics, physical modelling and data-driven analyses, and naturally has points of
     intersection with our burgeoning expertise in the Mathematics of Information. van der Schaar
     leads data-driven approaches of AI and machine learning applied to medicine (CCAIM), which is
     ripe for significant collaborative expansion around its founding partnership with AstraZeneca and
     GSK. The Centre for Mathematical Imaging in Healthcare (CMIH) led by Schönlieb is also
     growing and extending its reach and impact in the application of mathematics to research
     challenges in “quantitative health”, and recruitment to the vacant Chair in Applied Mathematics
     (ex Markowich) will enhance this activity.

     We also intend to strengthen our activity in computational biology, in particular in the modelling
     of various aspects of infectious diseases. Gog leads a multi-institution UKRI-supported
     consortium in epidemic modelling, and there is a clear potential for even more connections with
     the proliferating activities in the Soft Matter group, led by Cates and Adhikari.

     Disease transmission is also a challenging problem in Fluid Dynamics, with major ongoing
     experimental and modelling expertise being led by Linden and Dalziel, leveraging the
     opportunities to exploit connections between mathematics and experimental fluid mechanics.
     Such connections can also draw in the groups of Lauga, Goldstein, Simons and Taylor in cognate
     areas of the physics and fluid mechanics of life. A healthy society is inextricably linked to ensuring
     sustainability, adaptability and resilience in a changing climate, and DAMTP intends to build on
     its traditional strengths in environmental and geophysical fluid dynamics (Haynes, Lister,
     Worster) to address key modelling challenges for the energy transition, resilience and
     sustainability (Caulfield, Neufeld) in a changing climate.


     Our GK Batchelor Laboratory will play a central role in understanding applications in both the
     life sciences and sustainability, and is a crucial counterpoint to our expertise in high
     performance computing and Applied and Computational Analysis, so recruiting colleagues
     with a passion for world-class experimental and computational research will be a top DAMTP
     priority over the next decade.

 ●   We also plan significant developments in Theoretical Physics in order to maintain our historic
     strength whilst working on the most important and exciting problems in the field. First, we will be
     recruiting two senior Chairs: the inaugural Stephen W. Hawking Professorship of Cosmology,
     and the Professorship of Mathematical Physics (1967). In parallel, we have launched an appeal
     (with a target of £20M) to fund further significant activity to commemorate Hawking. This will
     include 12 new fully-endowed PhD studentships for students working on theoretical and
     mathematical physics, two endowed Advanced Fellow positions to work between DAMTP and
     the Kavli Institute, and an endowed new Lectureship in DAMTP in gravitational-wave physics.

 ●   Another priority area is the fundamental mathematical underpinning of field theories, as we wish
     to play a leading role in the ongoing renaissance in the application of sophisticated mathematics
     in different branches of physics. As part of that overarching objective, the retirement of Jozsa in
     2021 gives us the opportunity to make a senior appointment to the Leigh Trapnell Chair of
     Quantum Physics in the broad area of quantum information and computation. We also aim to
     enhance efforts in data science and scientific computation in theoretical physics, building on the
     pioneering work of the COSMOS Intel Parallel Computing Centre and our new relationship with
     HPE. We also wish to further exploit the recent STFC Doctoral Training Centre in Data Intensive

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Science (run jointly by DAMTP and Astronomy), which has established connections with a
     number of high profile companies, including Shell and Microsoft.


 ●   Work will continue to increase the number and range of collaborations, in particular working with
     pharmaceutical companies and clinicians to extend impact, via the four research centres led by
     Schönlieb and van der Schaar. There are tremendous opportunities for data-driven mathematics
     in the discovery and development of new medicines, diagnostics and treatments - as appreciated
     by the significant industrial investments. We have identified a number of case studies for this
     REF exercise that required more time for impact to be measured. These include impact in clinical
     trials, food safety, medical imaging, energy efficient cooling and water supply in desert locations.
     Gog will continue to lead epidemic-modelling efforts that feed directly into policy decisions.

 ●   It is important to identify new funding sources in order to maintain and increase our activity, and
     philanthropic support is one area in which we have been successful and will continue to direct
     effort. The two Departments work together and in close partnership with the Development and
     Alumni Relations Office to secure philanthropic donations and develop a range of offers and
     possibilities that will be attractive to potential donors. There is scope for expansion with
     fundraising for Masters (Part III) and PhD level scholarships as a priority, particularly to address
     the potential impact of Brexit on EU student numbers. We are also seeking support to establish
     a prestigious Statistics Fellowship (to run alongside the Herchel Smith Fellowship in Pure
     Mathematics).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

  Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our overall academic strategy is to attract, promote and retain high calibre researchers to support
 and advance our contributions to research. The responsibility for the strategic development of
 research lies with the two Strategy Committees, chaired by the Heads of Departments and made up
 of senior members of staff representing the various research themes across the Departments. They
 oversee the continued health of existing research strengths as well as identifying new and growth
 areas. Extensive consultations are made with staff members and recognised experts from the
 international community. In 2017, a systematic review of research was conducted, identifying
 strengths, weaknesses and opportunities in each of the main research areas. This resulted in an
 updated action plan to progress the Faculty’s strategic priorities.

 The number of opportunities identified for new permanent appointments surpass University
 resources currently available to the departments. We have therefore made every effort to use our
 existing resources to maximum effect and worked hard to obtain new resources:

    ●   Appointments created following large donations (e.g. Corfield Lectureship, Krieger)

    ●   Departmental funds to support a limited number of established positions, for example the
        appointment in Quantum Information Theory (Beri) and five joint academic posts with
        Colleges (Bruna, Ubiali, Datta, Dunajski, Khukhro). The ability to do this relies on a healthy
        external income stream from teaching, grants and philanthropy. In order to attract candidates
        of the very highest calibre, we must offer permanent University positions which include the
        opportunity for promotion.

    ●   A small number of appointments at the Reader level (Thorne, Miller, Mouhot) have been
        highly successful, enabling the Faculty to compete at the highest level for outstanding early-
        career staff.

    ●   Proleptic appointments have been deployed for a number of University Lecturer posts (for
        example Cowley, due to retire in 2023 replaced with Fawzi appointed in 2016; and Quevedo,
        due to retire in 2024 replaced with Pajer appointed in 2018). This has allowed considerable
        flexibility and, we believe, is a very good way of allowing us to reshape the research portfolio
        of the departments in a strategic way.

 New academic staff are supported with start-up funds (for travel, postdocs, equipment etc) and new
 Lecturers have reduced teaching and administration loads from the standard one undergraduate
 and one masters/graduate level course annually and examining/sitting on committees. They are
 assigned mentors (a more senior academic in a similar subject area) who, alongside the Head of
 Department, provide support during the probation process and for promotion. Feedback on teaching
 is provided via peer review of lecturing (for all staff) and advice is provided to support grant
 applications (including in many cases matched Departmental funding).

 Evidence of successful career development support is demonstrated by the promotion record of
 academic staff, who have the opportunity to apply for promotion in annual rounds. During the REF
 period there were two successful promotions to Senior Lecturer, 22 to Reader and 16 to Professor.
 In total, there were 49 applications from the Faculty and the success rate of 82% (83% women, 81%
 men) is significantly higher than the University five year average of 68%.

 Academic staff are awarded one term of fully paid sabbatical leave that can be dedicated exclusively
 to research, for every six terms served. This is an important aspect of the long-term careers of
 academic staff which allows them periodically to refresh and renew their research activity. Since



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2015, 50 individual members of staff have taken sabbatical leave (equalling over 100 terms of
 leave). In addition, reduced teaching loads are also granted to those with large grants or fellowships.

 The relationship between the University and the Colleges is fundamental to the teaching and
 research environment in Cambridge. The interdisciplinary nature of the Colleges is a major stimulus
 to teaching and learning as well as providing an enhanced quality of experience for students and
 staff through College membership. Academic and research staff can benefit from facilities, stipends,
 teaching opportunities and interdisciplinary contacts afforded via College affiliations.

  Support for early career researchers

 All new members of staff are given an induction with key information on the Faculty and wider
 University with additional practical help provided by the HR team. Research staff have appraisals to
 discuss career progression and a great deal of informal discussion takes place year round.
 Researchers are given opportunities to teach should they wish to (from lecturing in Part III to taking
 part in small group teaching). The impact of career development support for postdocs is evidenced
 by the number who have attained academic positions elsewhere or been supported in their
 applications for independent fellowships. From 2014-19, 60% of postdocs left Cambridge to directly
 take up a Faculty position in the UK, EU or overseas, reflecting the quality of appointments as well
 as career development and mentoring support at Cambridge.

 The Faculty provides significant financial support for a broad range of seminar series and
 distinguished visitors. During term time there are >20 weekly seminars for researchers to choose
 from as well as high profile annual lectures (Mordell, Rouse-Ball, Peter Whittle, Dirac, GK Batchelor)
 leading to a vibrant environment for the exchange of ideas and development of research
 collaborations.

 Our research is greatly enhanced by many Research Fellows who have won funding on the basis of
 their demonstrated research potential and research plans. The Faculty encourages both internal and
 external candidates and researchers are offered application support and mock interviews. The
 Faculty has been very successful in open funding competitions (>100) (see Section 3). Cambridge
 College Research Fellowships are highly competitive and attract international fields of applicants,
 with more than 50 College Fellows hosted in the Faculty since 2014. The Centre for Theoretical
 Cosmology offers Hawking Research Fellowships and the Isaac Newton Trust offers co-funding for
 applications for Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowships as well as internal schemes directed
 towards new Lecturers.

 The Faculty also recognises the vital role played by Teaching Officers employed by the Colleges and
 has introduced a College Teaching Officer (CTO) Scheme involving a financial agreement with
 individual Colleges to buy out teaching time, allowing CTOs to spend more time on their research
 within the Department.

 The Postdoc Academy, founded in 2013, advocates at the most senior level of the University for
 postdocs and supports the postdoc community before, during and after their time in Cambridge. The
 Academy’s aims and activities are aligned with the UK Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and the University retains the HR Excellence in Research Award
 from the European Commission. In addition in 2018, the two departments were among the first in the
 University to sign up to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) as a
 commitment to researchers to assess their work on merit rather than journal impact factor prior to
 the University and Cambridge University Press signing in July 2019.

 We promote the professional development, entrepreneurship and industry collaborations, leadership,
 pastoral services and mentoring support for postdocs offered by the Academy. Our researchers have
 particularly benefited from the key worker homes with subsidised rents at Eddington, a new district
 in North West Cambridge, within walking distance of the Faculty.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 We have become increasingly active in engaging more with external partners from industry. The new
 roles of Knowledge Transfer Facilitator and Research Facilitator have played a key part in the
 development of impact case studies and regularly engage with early career researchers. The
 Research Facilitator has supported over 60 grant submissions, created an annual calendar of calls,
 sends targeted emails about relevant funding calls and has gained insights into funder remits, priority
 areas and future developments to support future applications.

 Cambridge Enterprise helps the University’s researchers and academics to commercialise their
 ideas and supported seed funding for RiverLane, a quantum computing software development
 company founded by Steve Brierley, a former Senior Research Fellow in Applied Mathematics.
 Cambridge Enterprise has also supported the filing of a number of patents including an algorithm for
 medical imaging software and noise control devices for wind turbines.

  Research students

 The number of new postgraduate research students in the Faculty has increased with 75 new
 students in 2020/21 compared to 50 in 2015/16 (with an increase in total numbers from 220 in 2014
 to >300 in 2020). The Faculty at present accepts ~25 new PhD students per year in DPMMS and 50
 students in DAMTP, funded by a mixture of Research Council doctoral training funds (EPSRC, STFC,
 NERC), industry sponsorship, various University/external scholarships and Departmental reserves.
 Postgraduate issues are overseen by Departmental Postgraduate Education Committees. We are
 aware of the need to identify and attract strong female candidates for PhD places and due to the
 flexibility in making offers, underwriting from Departmental funds has been key to securing
 outstanding female applicants. The Cambridge Centre for Analysis (CCA) CDT (final cohort started
 in 2018) has admitted 56 students over the course of five years. Building on the experience of the
 CCA, a new CDT in the Mathematics of Information had its first intake in 2019 with financial support
 provided by CCIMI (31 students across the first 2 cohorts).

 The Faculty offers a tailored researcher development programme which, alongside core University
 training covering writing and presentation skills and time management, includes training in
 supervisions, grants and fellowships, industry seminars, computer training and public engagement.
 There is a wide range of skills development and employment preparation support at University level
 via the Careers Service and Researcher Development Hub. Around £0.5M has been provided to
 support research-related activities that students may undertake during the course of their studies, for
 example conference attendance and workshops, research visits, summer schools and fieldwork.

 Progress is monitored via termly supervisor reporting with formal assessments in years one and two.
 As well as their principal supervisor, all PhD students have a graduate advisor, usually from the same
 research area, to provide academic support and the students also actively engage with the
 administration team in the dedicated Postgraduate Office. PhD completion rates currently stand at
 76% completing within four years (85% in DAMTP, 71% in DPMMS) with an overall 93% completion
 rate. Wellbeing advisors are available to provide pastoral care alongside College support.

 Students can apply for an intermission from their programme of study with a concurrent extension of
 their submission date. Intermissions can be medical or non-medical and include for example illness,
 maternity, parental or adoption leave, family circumstances or courses/fellowships/placements which
 are not intrinsic to their research. In 2020, students were supported by extensions to reduce the
 negative impact of the COVID lockdown.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research Integrity

 The Faculty promotes Research Integrity and the Good Practice Checklist, highlighting the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity as part of the induction for new staff with research
 responsibilities. The Code of Practice for Research Students sets out what students should expect
 during their study in terms of supervision, support and assessment, as well as what the University
 expects of research students. Researchers are made aware of individual funder codes of conduct.
 The Betty and Gordon Moore Library, targeting researchers on the CMS site, run events in managing
 research data, being an ethical researcher and working openly and reproducibly as part of their
 research skills programme. These run alongside the University series of Research Integrity Training
 with both online and face to face courses which our researchers are encouraged to complete.

 Where required, appropriate approvals are sought from the DAMTP, School of Physical Sciences or
 collaborating Department Research Ethics Committees. The Cambridge University Ethics in
 Mathematics Society was set up in 2016 to discuss and promote awareness of ethical issues faced
 by mathematicians and mathematics graduates in their working life via a series of lectures, online
 material and events.

  Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 The Faculty is committed to a pro-active and inclusive approach to equality, which supports and
 encourages all under-represented groups, promotes an inclusive culture, and values diversity. The
 aim is that staff and students from all backgrounds feel confident in their ability, feel empowered to
 be themselves and can achieve their best in the Faculty. The Faculty recognises that diversity
 promotes innovation and creativity, and provides exposure to a wider range of ideas, skills and
 experiences which benefits all, as well as helping attract and retain the best talent from around the
 world.

 The Faculty is a member of the LMS Good Practice Scheme and has held an Athena SWAN Bronze
 award since 2013. The Faculty EDI Committee meets termly and includes both Heads of
 Department leading to a regular review of our action plan and identification of new actions directed
 across all protected characteristics. There has also been a substantial financial commitment from
 the departments over the last five years (~£10M endowment) to fund positions with a specific remit
 to support women in maths and widening participation (Faculty Admissions Officer, University
 Lectureships, College Teaching Officer) as well as providing resources for EDI events.

 There has been significant progress over the last five years in the proportion of women in academic
 and researcher staff populations. In particular, the number of women academics has increased since
 2013 from six (three Lecturers, two Senior Lecturers/Readers, one Professor) to 13 (seven Lecturers,
 two Readers and four Professors). This is in part due to three joint lectureship appointments with
 Colleges all with specific remit to support Women in Mathematics (Krieger, Bruna, Ubiali). During the
 REF period three women academics retired (Pitts, Mason and Davis). However, the number of
 women in senior positions has increased due to successful promotion (Datta, Gog, Schönlieb, Sousi)
 and new recruitments (van der Schaar, Krieger, Keating, Bruna, Ubiali, Wolf, Fintzen, Loh). In
 addition, personal circumstances have been taken into account in supporting successful applications
 for academic promotion for both women and men in the Faculty.

 DPMMS has developed a distinguished visiting professorship scheme to bring senior women
 mathematicians to Cambridge, supporting Faculty collaboration as well as strengthening the
 Cambridge maths community by inviting engaging, dynamic speakers to visit for an extended period.
 Visitors to date include Sara van de Geer (ETH Zurich) and Nathalie Wahl (University of
 Copenhagen). Schönlieb is an International leader for Women in Mathematics as Ambassador, IMU
 Committee for Women in Mathematics (CWM) (2016) and Convenor, European Women in
 Mathematics Association (2016). The proportions and numbers of women at Research
 Associate/Research Fellow level have also increased from 10% in 2012 (eight) to 25% (29).


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Since the last REF there have been changes to Faculty policy and practice impacting on E&D in
 recruitment including:

    ●   all staff involved in recruitment are required to complete the University's online E&D training
        as well as face-to-face recruitment training which includes awareness of Unconscious Bias

    ●   addition of wording to advertisements to encourage women and BAME applicants

    ●   adverts are posted on women in maths national and international mailing lists

    ●   applications from appropriately qualified under-represented groups are actively sought via
        collaborator networks and by contacting potential candidates to encourage their application

    ●   promotion of varied role models continues with changes to the website including
        new 'Women in Maths', EDI and Black Mathematicians webpages as well as increased
        diversity in the images used.


 Outreach targeting women students has increased via both Faculty and Colleges. This included
 hosting the 'Women of Mathematics throughout Europe' portrait exhibition with a launch event
 and panel discussion on issues affecting women in mathematics open to the public. Additional
 articles, videos and podcasts were featured in Plus magazine.




                   Cambridge Women in Mathematics portraits on display since 2017



 The Faculty is committed to achieving the University's aim to improve racial equality by driving
 cultural and organisation change to ensure that we excel in attracting and supporting Black, Asian
 and Minority Ethnic staff and students, while creating an environment that is conducive to openly
 discussing race-related issues and challenging racism (Race Equality Charter Award 2019 Action
 Plan). We currently have staff and postgraduate students from over 80 countries. An event to
 celebrate Black Mathematicians as part of Black History Month was organised by the Faculty in
 October 2019 along with a series of posters created celebrating Cambridge mathematicians. Race
 Awareness: Whiteness and being a White Antiracist Ally and Active Bystander training is ongoing. In
 addition, Quevedo was awarded the 2021 APS John Wheatley Award ‘For sustained commitment
 and achievement in the advancement of physics and science in developing countries’.




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Banner on permanent display highlighting a
  code of conduct for promoting a welcoming       The Faculty is also actively engaged with
          and inclusive environment.              University EDI initiatives including the Breaking the
                                                  Silence Campaign, which addresses harassment
                                                  and sexual misconduct. The Faculty expects all
                                                  staff to complete the EDI training as well as face-
                                                  to-face training on Respect at Work (160 attendees
                                                  over three sessions to date).

                                                  An inclusivity@maths email address and
                                                  anonymous reporting postboxes have been
                                                  introduced alongside focus groups so that
                                                  concerns and suggestions can easily be
                                                  communicated to the EDI Committee. Our
                                                  induction information also includes a message from
                                                  the Heads of Department regarding expectations of
                                                  behaviour and key links to E&D information and
                                                  support.

                                                  Professor Anne Davis was the University Gender
                                                  Equality Champion (2015-2018), sits on the LMS
                                                  Women in Mathematics Committee and was
                                                  awarded the Richard Glazebrook Medal and Prize
                                                  (2019) for her outstanding support and leadership
                                                  in physics, particularly for women and those from
                                                  non-traditional backgrounds.

                                                  Maths is the first Faculty in the University to have a
                                                  dedicated LGBT+ Action Plan. While many of its
                                                  actions are applicable to other protected
                                                  characteristics, such as race, gender and disability,
                                                  some are specifically aimed at supporting the
                                                  LGBT+ community. These include trans
                                                  awareness training, events promoting LGBT+
                                                  awareness (including during LGBT+ History
                                                  Month), updated signage for gender neutral toilets
                                                  (the majority of facilities in the Faculty) and
                                                  providing the environment and resources for our
                                                  local LGBT+ student network to flourish. The
                                                  Faculty has also set up its own mailing list
                                                  specifically on LGBT+ issues.

                                                  Resources have been provided to support this
                                                  network as well as funding for the Emmy Nöther
                                                  Society, which promotes women studying
                                                  mathematical sciences.


 The Centre for Mathematical Sciences is accessible for wheelchair users. There are multiple disabled
 toilets in every Pavilion and induction loops are available in all 10 lecture theatres for those with
 hearing impairments. Assistance dogs for the visually impaired are welcome. Arrangements for
 members with Specific Learning Difficulties are on an individual basis, in conjunction with the
 University Disability Resource Centre.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                          We have encouraged our staff to apply for the University’s
       “A successful application          Returning Carers’ Scheme which supports researchers and
      Returning Carers Scheme             academics returning to work following leave for caring
    provided 4 months RA support,         responsibilities. All applications from the Faculty (three
    which was extremely helpful in        women and one man) have been successful and supported
     continuing with scheduled lab        by matched funding from the departments, when full funding
    and fieldwork ... the work [was]      was not awarded by the University. The support has enabled
    published in a leading journal”       attendance at conferences, by covering childcare costs or
             RCS recipient                travelling with a carer, as well as postdoc (RA) support.


 The University offers a range of support which is highlighted at induction and which our staff regularly
 benefit from. These measures include:

    ●     Relocation support via the accommodation service, a shared equity scheme to provide
          financial assistance with the purchase of living accommodation to qualifying new members
          of staff as well as a visa loan scheme.

    ●     Employees are rewarded for outstanding contribution through a number of regular pay
          progression schemes. For example, since 2016, 32 postdocs have benefitted from the
          researcher-specific scheme (31% women).

    ●     We offer an employee benefits scheme (CAMbens) for University employees.

    ●     Family friendly policies are promoted by our Faculty HR team which include:
           ● maternity, adoption and shared parental leave entitlement of 18 weeks full pay
           ● emergency family care support via My Family Care;
           ● Five days’ paid emergency leave for unforeseen emergencies involving dependants
           ● highly regarded workplace nurseries
           ● childcare vouchers, a childcare salary sacrifice scheme and a high quality holiday play
             scheme
           ● a career break scheme and additional flexible working policies for all other staff
           ● the SPACE parents and carers network

 The Faculty has ten Wellbeing Advocates who act as points of contact as well as actively promoting
 the physical and mental health support offered by the University and Colleges (including counselling,
 occupational health and the University’s Sport Centre). The Faculty offer local wellbeing events
 including mental health awareness and activities as part of the annual University Festival of
 Wellbeing. The level and variety of support offered has increased significantly over the COVID
 lockdown period.


        “I feel fortunate to work in a Faculty that is so supportive of my family needs. For example,
        I usually leave the Department at 3pm to collect children from school. Colleagues are very
         supportive of this, and have never objected to when I ask for meetings to be scheduled to
         finish before 3pm. Likewise, my lecturing duties (mostly at the graduate level) are flexibly
                               scheduled not to clash with the daily school-run.”
                             Academic (M) promoted twice during REF period




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Funding strategies

  3.1. Grant income

 The total amount of current research grants held by the UoA is >£87M. In total, the Faculty has held
 >£142M in grants over the REF period which represents a significant increase in the figures from the
 last REF (~£46M).

 We have been awarded some notable grants over recent years – these include:

 ●   Twenty-one ERC Advanced, Consolidator and Starting Grants (>EUR23.1M) held (Lauga, Tong,
     Cates, Linden, Goldstein, Baumann, Nickl, Mouhot (x2), Thorne, Varju, Miller, Randal-Williams,
     Breuillard, Raphael, Reall, Sherwin, Bauerschmidt, Fintzen, Ubiali and Mandel)

 ●   Maths in Education: CMEP (Hyland) and MMP/NRICH (Barrow)(Total £7.8m)

 ●   Five consolidated grants from STFC (Allanach and Shellard), two in astrophysics and three in
     theoretical particle physics (joint with the theory group in Physics). Overall, these grants (£7.5M)
     alongside STFC grants for Hawking (£1.2M) and Manton (£1.1M) provide important stability for
     activities across these areas

 ●   EPSRC CDTs in Analysis (Norris and Peake) (£7.2M)

 ●   Linden’s EPSRC Programme and Grand Challenge Grants (£6.5M)

 ●   Royal Society Professorships for Birkar, Cates, Gowers and Simons (£5.1M)

 ●   Aston and Schönlieb’s EPSRC Centre for Mathematical Sciences of Healthcare and the new
     EPSRC Hub for Mathematical Sciences in Healthcare (£3M)

 ●   Goldstein’s Wellcome awards (£3M)

 ●   Large collaborative grants with Lancaster (Aston/Samworth/Shah), Warwick (Dafermos) and
     Imperial (Gross) respectively (Total £3M).

 ●   Grimmett’s EPSRC Programme Grant in Probability (£1.5M)

 Over 100 competitively-funded fellowships held over the REF period include:

 ●   EPSRC Fellowships for senior academics: Goldstein, Fokas, Berestycki, Samworth and Smith
     (£6.2M)

 ●   Royal Society University Research Fellowships (13, £6.2M; including Bruna, Varju, Hansen,
     Strelchuk, Fintzen and Dervan)

 ●   EPSRC Career Acceleration, Early Career and Postdoctoral Fellowships (19, £4.8M)

 ●   STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowships for Davison, Hiller, Lee and Noller (£2.3M)

 ●   Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (14, £1.2M)

 ●   Five Royal Society Wolfson Merit Awards

 ●   Five Marie Sklodowska-Curie, ten Herchel Smith, two Dorothy Hodgkin and seven Alan Turing
     Institute Fellowships




                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pursuing and winning large grants and fellowships will continue to be a big part of our effort, as will
 developing large multi-investigator projects. Applying for funding, especially for large grants, takes a
 great deal of PI time and effort, and the finance officers in both Departments, provide detailed
 financial information and support for applicants.

  3.2 Philanthropy

 The departments are quite distinctive in the breadth of the research undertaken and have a range of
 very attractive philanthropic opportunities. Our students (undergraduates, Part III and PhD) and
 postdocs are outstanding and highly sought after by employers. Cantab Capital Partners (now part
 of GAM) is an excellent example, being populated by several former graduates, and their
 philanthropic intentions also stem from a genuine interest for the well-being of the discipline. The
 outreach programmes (e.g. the Millennium Mathematics Project) also generate lots of interest, as do
 the departments’ connections with Big Data, the Alan Turing Institute and strong presence in
 Statistics and Mathematics of Information. Relationships with donors are cultivated and nurtured over
 long periods (e.g. Corfield, Harding and Kuwait Foundation) and new ones are approached with the
 same enthusiasm, regardless of where specifically the interest of the donor lies. This approach has
 produced substantial donations.

 These projects required a degree of creativity and substantial collaboration between Departments in
 identifying and matching needs with opportunities. Funding has been provided to support the
 development of an Alumni Newsletter which was launched in 2017, with additional videos and case
 studies added as features on our website. DAMTP has initiated an ambitious programme to raise
 £20m in gravitation wave physics to extend the legacy of Stephen Hawking.

 Small donations for certain projects also have a significant impact. A good example is the Cambridge
 Mathematics Placement (CMP) Scheme that provides opportunities for undergraduate and Masters
 students to get practical research experience outside the CMS. The Scheme is primarily funded by
 philanthropic donations but a new Industry Supporters Club, launched in 2018, has already
 secured donations (~£300k) from a range of industry partners, most notably Symmetry Investments,
 GSK and BP for the next three to five years (see also Section 4).

  3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

 CMS provides a high-quality built
 environment for mathematical research,
 designed for collaborative working.
 Offices are situated in seven pavilions
 (four occupied by DAMTP, three by
 DPMMS) arranged around a central core
 containing a large common room, with
 lecture theatres and cafeteria facilities
 open to undergraduates as well as
 research students and staff. Individual
 pavilions also have common room space,
 plus one or two further lecture theatres.     The Centre for Mathematical Sciences designed for
 All common space is regularly used for          mathematicians as well as energy conservation
 informal mathematical discussion.              connection to the outdoors via natural ventilation




                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The site is regularly used to host conferences with participants coming from all over the world.
 Between 2015 and 2019 >175 events/conferences were hosted at the CMS with ~13,000
 participants. This included the 2015 joint BMC/BAMC with 600 participants. Once every two years
 the Faculty runs an open day during the Cambridge Science Festival, in which several thousand
 people attend mathematical talks and demonstrations at CMS.

 Since 2014, the majority of professional and support staff work in Faculty shared services teams
 which includes HR as well as undergraduate and postgraduate offices. We have a dedicated on-site
 IT team who respond to computing needs from research computing and bespoke maths systems to
 supporting day to day operations. The site is supported by an outstanding facilities team who work
 closely with the Departmental Administrators and colleagues in the Isaac Newton Institute and Betty
 and Gordon Moore Library.

 Since its foundation in 1964, the GK Batchelor Laboratory has carved out a strong international
 reputation for experimental research in fluid mechanics and is the most significant such facility in a
 UK mathematics department. At 820m2, the Laboratory has the scale and flexibility to maintain a
 critical mass of researchers and technicians for broad swathe of research. While its origins are in
 geophysical, geological and environmental fluid mechanics, the research portfolio has expanded to
 include building ventilation, biological physics, microfluidics, flow chemistry and granular flows,
 undertaking not only world-leading research, but developing innovative technology and unique
 diagnostics of value to the international community.




                                                                                 Images
                                                                              celebrating
                                                                             the diversity
                                                                              of research
                                                                             carried out in
                                                                                the GK
                                                                               Batchelor
                                                                              Laboratory.




 Since REF 2014, significant new endeavours have included inner city air quality (EPSRC), stratified
 turbulence (ERC), natural material innovation (Leverhulme), decontamination processes (DSTL),
 tissue biomechanics and physical aspects of marine biology (Wellcome), attracting over £19M of
 funding during the REF period by Linden, Dalziel and Goldstein alone. In addition to this directly
 funded research and the resources it brings with it, the Laboratory has benefitted from a substantial
 investment from the University in the last five years to expand the core pool of research equipment
 and capabilities of the workshop. The six technicians and a technical officer are very much part of
 the team, supporting both funded and unfunded research. The flexibility of experimental research in
 the Laboratory is illustrated by the COVID-19 related experiments on the ventilation of hospitals,
 public transport and understanding the emissions from musical performance rapidly starting in June
 2020.

 Our research also benefits from cross-HEI collaborative infrastructures with many researchers
 spending time at CERN (McCulloch, Allanach, Ubilai), LIGO (Sperhake, Agathos) and studying
 cosmic microwave background (CMB) using the Atacama Cosmology Telescope (Sherwin).




                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Mathematics Faculty provides an excellent environment for research computing based around
 the heterogeneous 90Tflops ‘Fawcett’ system with a low latency high bandwidth network connecting
 CPUs and GPUs, including a `fat node’ with 7TB shared-memory; there is also a desktop-based
 network with over 250 cores for serial jobs. The Fawcett platform represents a major investment
 (>£1m) by the Faculty during the assessment period and allows researchers to rapidly prototype and
 run highly parallelised and vectorised codes for later deployment on larger Tier-2 (3 PFlop Cambridge
 University CSD3/Wilkes supercomputer system which is free to access) and Tier-1 HPC facilities for
 large scale production runs (via University and national resources e.g. ARCHER and DiRAC). A full-
 time research software engineer assists with code development and a longstanding collaboration
 with Intel and HPE has resulted in the Faculty hosting an Intel Parallel Computing Centre since 2014
 and an Intel Graphics and Visualization Institute since 2020.




                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


  4.1 Academic Collaboration

 Our academics have active research collaborations with mathematicians all over the world. Since
 2014 we have recorded over 350 specific visits by collaborators to the CMS.

                                                              A major collaborative role is also
                                                              played by the Isaac Newton Institute
                                                              and the Newton Gateway to
                                                              Mathematics (formerly Turing Gateway
                                                              to Mathematics) as an interface
 between academia and industry, enhancing the Cambridge Mathematics environment. The Institute
 runs scientific programmes varying in length from 4 weeks to six months. At any particular time there
 are typically two to three programmes running, with workshops, satellite meetings and other special
 events are organised as part of the programmes.

 Over the REF period the Institute has organised 48 programmes, with >2300 programme participants
 and >6300 workshop participants. Participants include 30 Fields Medallists, 13 Nobel Laureates, 12
 Abel Prize winners, 25 Wolf Prize winners and over 50 Clay Senior Scholars. We look forward to
 the arrival of Ulrike Tillmann FRS as the new INI Director from October 2021.

 Although the INI is a national resource, a number of synergies naturally occur with the activities of
 the Departments, and joint events have included showcase events, an industrial engagement day
 with Unilever, and a series of engagement events for Cantab Capital Institute. There have been more
 than 150 Cambridge Maths participants at INI events, including programmes and workshops, and
 eight Cambridge Maths staff involved as organisers. Of INI event participants surveyed, 54% also
 attended seminars at CMS, 70% participated in informal discussions with CMS colleagues, and 17%
 went on to set up collaborations with CMS colleagues. The additional funding announced for the INI
 in January 2021 will provide increased opportunities for joint activities.

  4.2 Industrial Collaboration

 Our Knowledge Transfer Facilitator (KTF) has helped us to develop our impact strategy and
 improve our research impact through interaction with industrial end users. The KTF works directly
 with academics across both Departments and has established a significant range of industrial
 contacts, many of which have provided research funding. Her work includes the following areas:

 ●   Making initial contacts with new companies, identifying opportunities for engagement and
     nurturing these relationships over time

 ●   Contributing to a range of engagement activities between industry and members of Cambridge
     Mathematics at all levels. This includes: showcase events, an industry seminar series, aimed at
     undergraduate and postgraduate students upwards; supporting student and postdoc industrial
     placements and research projects.

 Since 2014, the KTF has developed ~500 contacts with ~170 organisations. These are from a diverse
 range of sectors spanning global players to SMEs. Engagement events are held regularly with
 external businesses and organisations. The objectives are an exchange of research challenges and
 ideas between industry and academics to identify potential joint projects or other areas of
 collaboration. Connections made at these sessions also have the benefit of initiating relationships
 that may develop into collaborations in the longer term.




                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Companies that have participated include AstraZeneca, Aviva, BP, Cantab Capital, Cognizant,
 DSTL, GlaxoSmithKline, Faraday Predictive, Hitachi, Iconal, Landesbank Baden Württemberg
 (LBBW), National Physical Laboratory (NPL), PepsiCo, RiverLane, Schlumberger, Sellafield,
 Siemens, Thales, Unilever and Xaar.

 Awards for impact via the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) schemes include:

 ●   a follow-on fund for development of a mobile EEG device
 ●   an IAA Partnership Development award with Unilever investigating mathematical image analysis
     to improve safety in food production
 ●   a Knowledge Transfer Fellowship with Biddle for the development of air curtains
 ●   a postdoc placement scheme with AstraZeneca to improve accuracy in determining
     bioavailability.

 European Study Groups with Industry (ESGI) is a well-established knowledge exchange event for
 the mathematics community, where organisations from industry and other sectors submit real
 problems for academics to address over the course of a week. Hosted at Cambridge in 2019, a
 record ten industrial problems were submitted from eight organisations and over 160 delegates
 attended from national and international institutions. At least two of the companies are now proposing
 funding further PhD projects with Cambridge in addition to a range of CASE industrial studentships
 currently in place with partners such as Arup, Intel and NPL.

 Students and industry
 To develop relationships with industry and enhance understanding of research outside academia,
 researchers from business and industry are invited to speak in the Industrial Seminar Programme
 (35 seminars between 2015 and 2020). These are targeted at postgraduate students and Part III
 students, but open to all. CDT students have taken part in week-long workshops with the Smith
 Institute with expertise in modelling, algorithms design and analysing complex real-world scenarios.
 First year CDT PhD students can undertake an external research project with a record 50 industrial
 proposals received from companies in 2019/20.

 The first iteration of what is now the Cambridge Mathematics Placements (CMP) programme was
 launched in 2013. CMP enables students to find funded summer research placements in industry,
 other University departments or other organisations via the Faculty’s wide interdisciplinary network
 of University, industrial, business, governmental and academic partners. In the REF period, the
 programme facilitated 185 academic and industry placements and, alongside our internal summer
 placements, has provided bursaries (~£410k) for 265 students both within (177) and outside CMS
 (88) to gain research experience. Placements have increased (from 11 projects in 2013 to 35 in
 2019) due both to the impact of the student’s research and relationship development with industry.
 The CMP aims are for the students to develop transferable skills, for the hosts to engage talented
 mathematicians and to create a knowledge exchange community. The CMP Supporters Club is
 supported by a part-time administrator funded by the University EPSRC IAA and now DPMMS (13
 members to date from individuals to large multinational corporations).




                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  4.3 Academic Leadership

 We promote a stimulating research environment where academics, research staff and students
 benefit from, and contribute to, a busy and broad programme of lectures and seminars. We appoint
 individuals of the highest quality to academic and research posts, providing mentoring,
 encouragement and support so that throughout their career their own research evolves to follow, and
 indeed define, profitable new areas of inquiry.

 This approach has supported our staff in producing exceptional research contributions and receiving
 >70 awards and prizes which include:

 ●   Adams Prize (Mouhot 2016, Samworth 2017)
 ●   Alexander Graham Bell Medal (Kelly 2015)
 ●   AMS Moore Prize (Birkar 2016)
 ●   ASTRA Ramanujan Prize (Thorne 2018)
 ●   Bingham Medal, US Society of Rheology (Cates 2016)
 ●   Breakthrough New Horizons in Physics Prize (Wall 2019)
 ●   Calderon Prize (Schönlieb 2019)
 ●   Clay Research Award (Gross 2016, Miller 2017)
 ●   COPSS Presidents' Award 2018 (Samworth)
 ●   David Crighton Medal (Kelly 2015, Abrahams 2017)
 ●   De Morgan Medal (Gowers 2016)
 ●   Dirac Medal, Institute of Physics (Barrow 2015)
 ●   Fields Medal (Birkar 2018)
 ●   Forder Lectureship (Gog 2016, Wolf 2020)
 ●   Franklin Medal and Prize of the Institute of Physics (Goldstein 2016)
 ●   G.K. Batchelor Prize, IUTAM (Goldstein 2016)
 ●   IMA Prize in Mathematics and Applications (Hansen 2018)
 ●   IMS Medallion Lecture (Samworth)
 ●   IUPAP Young Scientist Prize (Santos 2014, Bauerschmidt 2015, Wall 2017)
 ●   L’Oréal-UNESCO UK and Ireland For Women in Science Fellowship, Women of the Future
     Award (Bruna 2016)
 ●   Mahler Lectureship (Krieger 2019)
 ●   Michael Faraday Prize and Lecture (Spiegelhalter 2020)
 ●   Philip Leverhulme Prize (Samworth 2014, Randal-Williams, Schönlieb & Hansen in 2017, Birkar,
     2018)
 ●   Philippe Meyer Prize (Wall 2018)
 ●   Prospects world top thinker (Birkar 2019)
 ●   Royal Astronomical Society Gold Medal (Barrow 2016)
 ●   Royal Astronomical Society Annie Maunder Medal (Mason 2018)
 ●   Royal Society Rosalind Franklin Award and Lecture (Gog 2020)
 ●   Sylvester Medal (Gowers 2016)
 ●   Whitehead Prize (2014-2020): Birkar, Miller, Mouhot, Randal-Williams, Varju, Gog, Schönlieb,
     Bruna, Krieger and Wilton
 ●   William Hopkins Prize (Birkar 2018)

 Fellows elected to Learned Societies since 2014 include:
 ●   Eight to the Royal Society (Markovic and Grimmett 2014, Gross 2017, Jozsa 2019, Haynes and
     Birkar 2019, Thorne and Osborn 2020)
 ●   American Statistical Association (Aston and Samworth)
 ●   American Mathematical Society (Dafermos)
 ●   American Physical Society (Caulfield, Lauga, Sperhake, Dalziel)
 ●   Foreign Member, US National Academy of Sciences (Cates)



                                                                                         Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Thirty-seven members of staff have served on National and International Committees including
 London Mathematical Society (LMS), Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (IMA), Institute of
 Mathematical Statistics (IMS), REF (2014 and 2021), UKRI (EPSRC and STFC), Royal Society,
 Royal Statistical Society, American Physical Society, Alan Turing Institute, Smith Institute, Bernoulli
 Society and the London School of Geometry and Number theory.

 Twenty-one Faculty have been members of >40 Scientific Advisory Boards worldwide including
 ICMS, Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics, Max-Planck-Institute, Penrose Institute, Delta Institute
 for Theoretical Physics, Istanbul Center for Mathematical Sciences and the African Institute of
 Mathematical Sciences. The majority of Faculty have organised National and International
 conferences/programmes including ICM, BMC/BAMC, EUROMECH, Sampling Theory and
 Applications, AQIS, PASCOS, APTS, JMM, ECM.

 Keynote lectures:

 Ten invited speakers at the International Congress of Mathematicians (2014: Grimmett, Gross,
 Dafermos, Breuillard and Raphael and 2018 Birkar (Fields Medal Lecture), Miller, Mouhot, Smith and
 Thorne). Plenary speakers at the European Congress of Mathematics (Mouhot, 2014 and Titi, 2020).
 A selection of other keynote and plenary lectures include: GK Batchelor Lecturer, Australian Fluid
 Mechanics Conference 2016 (Linden); Loo-Keng Hua distinguished lecture, Tsinghua University
 2019 (Birkar); Séminaire Bourbaki Paris 2019 (Randal-Williams); First Annual Endowed Lectureship
 in Fluid Mechanics, 2015 (Worster); IOP HEPP keynote 2015 (Allanach); Society of Rheology Annual
 Meeting (Plenary Prize Lecture) 2017 (Cates); Keynote speaker at FoCM: Stewartson Memorial
 Lecture at BAMC 2019 (Kerswell); Plenary talk, Euromech Fluid Mechanics Conference, 2018
 (Lauga); Frenkiel Award Keynote Lecture, 68th Meeting of the APS/DFD, 2015 (Lauga).

 Editorial Boards:
 Our staff have held over 125 appointments as Editors, Associate Editors and Editorial Board
 members across 65 journals spanning the whole spectrum of the mathematical sciences. The
 Journal of Fluid Mechanics (Worster), Annals of Statistics (Samworth), Advances in Combinatorics
 (Gowers), and J. Algebraic Geometry (Birkar/Gross) are led from Cambridge.

  4.4 World-leading mathematics education and outreach

 ●   The Millennium Mathematics Project (MMP) is a maths education and outreach initiative for
     ages three to 19 and the general public. The MMP is a collaboration between the Faculties of
     Mathematics and Education, and is active nationally and internationally. In the 2018/19 school
     year MMP web-based mathematical resources attracted over ten million visits from users
     worldwide and more than 35 million page views; around 10,000 school students and more than
     4,000 teachers were involved in face-to-face activities and events.

 ●   Underground Mathematics developed web-based teaching resources to enhance post-16
     mathematics education via a £5.5m grant from the Department for Education (led by Martin
     Hyland).

 ●   The Winton Centre for Risk and Evidence Communication is becoming a leading global hub
     for the transparent communication and improved public understanding of risk, statistics and
     evidence. Spiegelhalter, the Academic Director, is one of the Institute for Scientific Information’s
     highly cited researchers (>122K citations) and has an extremely strong media presence, regularly
     appearing on TV and radio in response to scientific headlines involving statistics and risk.

 ●   Krieger has almost 9 million views to date for her free educational mathematics videos for a
     general audience via the Numberphile YouTube channel. She also runs outreach activities to
     raise the profile of women in Mathematics.



                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ●   Tong has over 2 million views for his lectures on Quantum Fields including the 2017 Royal
     Institution lecture.

 ●   In 2016, Mason, awarded an OBE for her work in Higher Education and to Women in SET,
     became an STFC Public Engagement Fellow and was awarded the Annie Maunder Medal by
     the Royal Astronomical Society in 2019 for bringing the excitement of solar physics to the wider
     public.

  4.5 Response to COVID pandemic

 The Faculty continues to make contributions in response to the global pandemic:

 ●   Gog has been providing advice to the Government through the Scientific Pandemic Influenza
     Group on Modelling (SPI-M), that feeds into SAGE, the Scientific Advisory Group for
     Emergencies. She was awarded an OBE in 2020 for services to academia and the COVID-19
     response.

 ●   Aston, as Home Office Chief Scientific Advisor (2017-Dec. 2020), has been advising on all
     aspects of Home Office policy with respect to the COVID pandemic as well as bringing statistical
     expertise to SAGE.

 ●   Spiegelhalter has appeared via multiple media outlets discussing the statistics of the coronavirus
     pandemic. He leads the Winton Centre which has produced a whole series of resources
     providing clear explanation and analysis of COVID numbers. In addition, the Winton team have
     run a series of international surveys exploring risk perception of COVID around the world and at
     how levels of trust in government and the media have changed over time.

 ●   Cates devised the Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic (RAMP) initiative and chaired
     its Steering Committee on behalf of the Royal Society. It was set up as a national voluntary effort
     April-July inclusive, and involved hundreds of active volunteers reinforcing existing modelling
     teams and creating new ones.

 ●   Linden co-leads a major RAMP Task Team ( 70 people) working on Environmental and Aerosol
     Transmission of COVID-19. A paper in J. Fluid Mech. with Dalziel looks at the effects of
     ventilation on the indoor spread of the virus and the pathways of airborne particles. Two new
     grants have been awarded in this area.

 ●   The van der Schaar Lab has played an active role in the academic and clinical response including
     developing and implementing tools such as Cambridge Adjutorium to enable clinicians to
     predict utilisation of scarce resources, such as ventilators and ICU beds and creating Policy
     Impact Predictor (PIP), a machine learning tool developed to guide government decision-
     making around measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19.

 ●   Schoenlieb’s group are developing an open-source artificial intelligence tool that combines chest
     imaging data, clinical and laboratory data to support the diagnosis, triaging and treatment
     planning for COVID-19. This includes participation in DRAGON: A new international project
     funded by IMI and supported through the Horizon 2020 Framework.

 ●   Adhikari enlisted a team of around 20 (including Jack and a team from JP Morgan) to develop
     PyRoss, a codebase and platform for Bayesian parameter inference and model comparison
     among compartmental epidemic models, a type widely used by SPI-M teams to model COVID.

 ●   Gowers participated in DELVE: Data Evaluation and Learning for Viral Epidemics convened by
     the Royal Society.




                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 ●   Kontoyiannis, Kent, Samworth, Shah, Zhao, Bacallado and Grimmett have all published on a
     range of aspects of COVID including Public Health Policy and Effective Mass-Testing Rates,
     Counting the costs of COVID-19, Models for transmission and for the mobile phone test/trace
     app, highlighting bias in early analyses, and role of asymptomatic carriage in COVID-19
     transmission.

 ●   Providing emergency packages of resources to support learning from home, the NRICH website
     attracted up to 1.25 million page views a week during lockdown, with up to 724K page views from
     the UK each week. In addition, NRICH also collaborated with the BBC to provide resources
     supporting BBC Bitesize's online daily homeschooling lessons. Work is now continuing to help
     schools address the ongoing effects of educational disruption caused by the pandemic including
     large-scale interactive student webinars.




                                                                                         Page 32
