Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Plymouth (UoP)

 Unit of Assessment: UoA7 (Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) Unit context and structure

 The University of Plymouth (UoP) has a long-established, integrated and dynamic group of
 research staff with common interests in Earth and Ocean observation, detection and
 quantification of environmental processes. This is underpinned by experimental approaches to
 understanding global change drivers and subsequent elucidation of underlying mechanisms,
 leading to novel theories on how Earth and Ocean systems function and integrate. The
 continuity and enhancement of our research has been achieved by a long-term, coherent policy
 supporting research groups within the following:

 •   Biogeochemistry Research Centre (BGC) exploring the environmental behaviour, fate and
     impact of nutrients, metals and pharmaceuticals;
 •   Centre for Research in Earth Sciences (CRES) investigating geological processes, from
     plate tectonics to modern surface processes to the evolution of life on Earth;
 •   Coastal and Ocean Science and Engineering Research Centre (COSE) understanding
     and predicting the functioning of coastal and ocean systems;
 •   Marine Biology and Ecology Research Centre (MBERC) investigating marine biology,
     conservation, ecophysiology and ecology.

 These research centres represent the chemical, geological, physical and biological components
 of the UoA7 subject area respectively. They are four key themes in the University’s Marine
 Institute (led by MBERC’s Professor Richard Thompson FRS, OBE for Services to Marine
 Science), and Sustainable Earth Institute (led by CRES’s Professor Iain Stewart, MBE for
 Services to Geology and Science Communication). These multidisciplinary institutes bring
 together diverse research interests from across the University including science, engineering,
 arts, humanities, health and business. This interdisciplinarity is of key importance to ensuring the
 impact and broad reach of Plymouth’s UoA7 research in delivering cutting-edge science to
 address global challenges. The University’s Marine Institute is the first and largest such institute
 in the UK, representing 3000 staff, researchers and students (180 staff, 250+ PhD/PDRA
 researchers and around 2600 students).

 Each of the four research centres has a lead academic who liaises with the constituent research
 group leaders and represents their research centre at School Research Committee (SRC). SRC
 is attended by the Head of School, chaired by the Associate Head (Research) and includes
 Early Career Researcher (ECR), Post-Graduate Researcher (PGR) and Post-Doctoral Research
 Associate (PDRA) representation. SRC feeds into Faculty Research Committee chaired by the
 Associate Dean (Research) which in turn feeds into the University’s Research and Innovation
 Committee chaired by the DVC(R), with the Institute leads being on both the Faculty and
 University level committees.

 UoA7’s unifying philosophy maintains that like-minded staff within research groups are the
 engines of innovative research within their specialist fields, and that strategic planning and
 investment in the four research centres maximises opportunities for developing world-leading
 research. The constituent research groups, comprising academic and technical staff, PDRAs
 and PhD students, typically meet weekly through scheduled meetings to share research ideas,
 results and plans, so creating a strong and supportive research community.

 UoA7 is traditionally UoP’s largest and strongest research area, ranking 10th in the UK for
 research power in REF2014. To provide continuity and build on this strong REF2014 outcome,
 the structure and philosophy of the unit has been maintained with expansion to 61.5 FTE staff
 (an increase of 37%) mainly due to the recruitment of talented new staff at Lecturer grade. There

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are 65 cat A staff (and 5 cat B staff) included, currently working with 25 PDRAs, 72 PhD
 students and 20 technicians, plus 212 Masters students across our seven Environmental
 Masters degrees, giving a research team of 400 staff and postgraduates across UoA7.

 Over the REF2021 period, Plymouth UoA7 staff published 1410 peer-reviewed papers with
 28,800 citations and a field weighted citation index (FWCI) of two, i.e., twice the number of
 citations expected according to the global average. Almost a quarter (24%) of these papers are
 among the top 10% most cited worldwide and 56% are in the top 10% journals. The most
 prominent topics are: microplastics (96 papers, FWCI = 6.20); beach processes (94 papers,
 FWCI = 2.45) and ocean acidification (73 papers, FWCI = 2.12), (Elsevier SciVal, 27/01/2021).
 Research income has increased 66% over the REF period from £1.76 M/year in 2013/14 to
 £2.92 M/year in 2019/20, with almost half (45%) coming from BEIS Research Councils, mainly
 NERC. Continuing this upward trajectory, over £6.3M of research income was awarded to
 Plymouth UoA7 on new large grants from August 2020 to March 2021 (see Section 3).

 b) Research and impact strategy

 The REF2014 UoA7 submission outlined six key priorities. Addressing these in the current REF
 period, we have successfully:
 1. Supported the research objectives of the four constituent research centres through focused
     resource maintenance and acquisition. The four UoA7 research centre leaders are now
     members of the Marine Institute Strategy Team, thus ensuring seamless support throughout
     the School/Faculty/Institute research structure.
 2. Maintained and enhanced the excellent infrastructure and instrumentation base for obtaining
     high quality environmental measurements. The University invested £4.65M in its waterfront
     Marine Station, which opened in 2014, providing a base for several new research vessels,
     laboratories and ocean-view teaching rooms.
 3. Further enhanced our supportive environment for ECRs, for example by ensuring their
     integration and representation throughout the research structure at research group, centre
     and institute level. Internally school-funded studentships and seedcorn funds are often
     targeted specifically to ECRs.
 4. Targeted funding from a diversity of sources, including the EU, UKRI and industry (see
     Section 3).
 5. Re-certified our four ISO 9001 laboratories to the ISO 9001:2015 standard (from ISO
     9001:2008).
 6. Expanded existing strengths by encouraging more staff to actively engage in external
     professional activities, including serving on national and international committees,
     professional bodies and editorial boards of high impact journals (see Section 4).

 The city of Plymouth has an internationally leading and innovative marine science community
 comprising the University of Plymouth, Marine Biological Association (MBA) and Plymouth
 Marine Laboratory (PML). These organisations provide an exceptional critical mass of marine
 expertise, together with high quality education and training, and specialist facilities for marine
 science and technology. Collectively they have published more marine research outputs than
 any other UK city in the last 10 years, with over half of these papers coming from Plymouth
 UoA7 staff.

 Across Plymouth UoA7, in the current REF period, there were 92 co-authored papers with the
 MBA, involving 55 co-authors, with 2300 citations and a FWCI of 2.62. Plymouth UoA7 staff
 have a similarly strong collaboration with researchers at PML: 96 co-authored papers, involving
 81 co-authors, with 3000 citations and a FWCI of 3.19, (SciVal, 27/01/2021). To capitalise on
 this, NERC has pump-primed a 3-year project to establish Marine Research Plymouth which
 aims to ‘further strengthen the partnership between UoP, MBA and PML to grow marine science
 and technology in Plymouth through the sharing of resources, the coordination of marketing and
 knowledge exchange and the exploitation of complementary research skills and facilities’.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Looking forward, the post-2021 5-year strategic vision for the University’s UoA7 research is to:
 1. Invest in our established internationally-leading research areas, whilst also developing, via
    the University Institutes, new multi-disciplinary research areas to tackle national and global
    challenges.
 2. Further strengthen collaboration between UoP, MBA and PML, using Marine Research
    Plymouth as a springboard, to produce more world-leading and impactful research.
 3. Maintain and develop our collaborations and contribution to the research base, economy and
    society, and continue to increase the impact of our research in terms of the breadth and
    significance of its reach.
 4. Maintain our ‘one team’ philosophy whereby all academic and technical staff, PDRA’s and
    PhD students work together and support each other in developing the highest quality
    research and impact.
 5. Grow PhD numbers by capitalising on our new status as a full partner of the NERC ARIES
    (‘Advanced Research and Innovation in the Environmental Sciences’) DTP and developing a
    new DTC across the Marine Research Plymouth partners.
 6. Continue to seek new sources for funding high-quality research, as exemplified by recent
    large grants from UKRI GCRF and the Garfield Weston Foundation, a grant-making trust,
    part of the Bertarelli Programme in Marine Science (see Section 3).

 UoA7 research areas are prominent in UoP’s new strategy ‘The University 2030 – A Future of
 Excellence’ (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/strategy), which aims to build on: (i)
 ‘established areas of excellence; notably earth and environmental science, particularly marine,
 and health’; (ii) ‘the culture and heritage of its outstanding coastal location’; and, (iii) ‘the collegial
 nature of its workforce’. The broader context is a focus on ‘marine and maritime environments
 and societies’ as Plymouth’s internationally-understood areas of excellence. This ties in with: (a)
 the vision, initiated by UoA7’s Attrill, for Plymouth to be the UK’s first National Marine Park,
 (https://plymouthsoundnationalmarinepark.com/), an initiative supported by UK Government and
 an initial grant from the Marine Management Organisation, (Marine Policy, 103,160-171); (b) the
 UK Government’s Maritime 2050 strategy
 (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/maritime-2050-navigating-the-future) to establish a
 ‘maritime innovation hub’ at a UK port by 2030 to accelerate the pace of innovation in Britain’s
 maritime sector; and, (c) the United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable
 Development (2021-2030) (https://www.oceandecade.org/) that aims to ensure ocean science
 underpins the future sustainable development of the world’s oceans, e.g. via our new UKRI
 GCRF ‘One Ocean Hub’ project (Howell).

 The four UoA7 research centres (BGC, CRES, CCOSE and MBERC) were formed following
 RAE2008, so enabling them to develop long-term plans and flourish. Each research centre
 houses an integrated team of researchers, demonstrated by 50% of the REF2021 selected
 outputs having more than one author from a given research centre. These research centres
 contribute to the overall UoA7 strategy and vision as outlined below:

 Biogeochemistry Research Centre (BGC)
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/biogeochemistry
 Current staff in UoA7: Centre Lead (Fitzsimons); Marine Biogeochemistry (Belt, Fitzsimons,
 Lengger, Manners, Milne, Ussher); Chemicals in the Environment (Tappin, Turner A);
 Environmental and Fluid Modelling (Laudone); with 7 PDRAs, 16 PhD students, 6 technicians
 and 2 cat B staff (Emeritus Professors Worsfold and Rowland).

 BGC’s environmental research is focussed in UoA7, mainly in the Marine Biogeochemistry area,
 exploring nutrient cycles in contemporary ecosystems, and the development and application of
 molecular biomarkers to identify past and present environmental processes. BGC has upgraded
 its extensive analytical portfolio of instruments, for example, applying state-of-the-art pre-
 concentration and separation methods to advance understanding of phytoplankton-produced
 volatile gases and their contribution to climate regulation, especially in the climate-sensitive
 Southern Ocean. BGC’s work on the reactivity of micro-nutrients has revealed key controls on
 concentrations of dissolved iron in the ocean, directly impacting primary production. Work on

                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 carbon fixation has identified the hitherto unknown contribution made by ammonium-oxidising
 bacteria to the carbon budget in hypoxic areas of the deep ocean, influencing the expansion of
 nutrient-fuelled `dead zones’ in the global ocean. BGC continues to be a world leader in the use
 of source-specific biomarkers as tracers of past climate events, most notably changes in sea ice
 extent and open ocean primary productivity in both the Arctic and Antarctic.

 Environmental and Fluid Modelling is a sustained area of expertise for Plymouth, including the
 study of pollutants (e.g. cable oil) and nutrients in soil. Similarly, BGC has a strong track record
 researching Chemicals in the Environment, particularly the environmental occurrence of metal
 and organic contaminants, now expanded to include microplastics, and their chemical
 composition and environmental fate. Our Consolidated Radio-Isotope Facility (CORiF) has
 supported world-leading research on micro- and nano-plastics through organism exposure
 experiments in collaboration with MBERC.

 Post REF2021 BGC will: (i) advance understanding of climate effects on marine ecosystems by
 expanding its dataset on volatile amines and integrating into regional sea models; (ii)
 demonstrate how engineered soils can provide a sustainable and climate-resilient substrate for
 food security; (iii) continue to contribute to core UK and international biogeochemical
 oceanographic programmes, expanding capabilities to determine trace-level iron and conducting
 sensitive multi-elemental analyses on marine samples; (iv) expand the use of source-specific
 biomarkers to identify marine food web responses to climate change in both polar regions; (v)
 develop its expertise to measure and track indicators of plastic pollution in the environment,
 through addition of a pyrolysis facility to its analytical infrastructure.

 Centre for Research in Earth Sciences (CRES)
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/earth-sciences
 Current staff in UoA7: Centre Lead (Harris); Formation and Deformation of Earth Materials
 (Anderson, Gebelin, Harris, Morris, Stephen); Active Tectonics and Geohazards (Cole,
 Manzella, Mildon, Stewart); Earth History and Palaeoclimates (Balthasar, Grimes, Price,
 Watkinson); Modern Landscapes and Climate Change (Boulton, Smart, Stokes M); with 6
 PDRAs, 12 PhD students, 4 technicians and 2 cat B staff (Dijikstra and Menegon).

 CRES seeks to understand the drivers of change in the Earth system, from plate tectonic
 processes to past climates and the response of modern environments to climate change. Since
 REF2014, CRES has grown stronger and more diverse with six new ECR appointments
 (Balthasar, Gebelin, Harris, Manzella, Mildon, Stephen).

 Advances in the Formation and Deformation of Earth Materials area benefit from strong
 engagement with the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP), and the International
 Continental Scientific Drilling Program (ICDP). CRES palaeomagnetism research has revealed
 hitherto unrecognised first order structures in the Troodos ophiolite, provided new perspectives
 on magmatic processes in the Oman ophiolite, and demonstrated how oceanic detachment
 faults can be inverted to initiate new subduction zones (Morris, Anderson). Geochemical tracers
 of fluid flow at mid-ocean ridges have revealed the controls on fluid pathways and fluxes and
 identified the necessity of deep hydrothermal circulation in the lower crust (Harris).

 In Active Tectonics and Geohazards, numerical modelling of earthquake hazards has quantified
 the role of Coulomb pre-stress as a factor in earthquake triggering, improving our ability to
 reproduce historical earthquake locations (Mildon). In Earth History and Palaeoclimates,
 research in high latitudes during the Mesozoic greenhouse world demonstrated that current
 climate models underestimate past marine temperatures, questioning their ability to predict
 future warming (Price, Watkinson). In Modern Landscapes and Climate Change, research
 identified structural controls on rapid river gorge formation during unexceptional floods,
 challenging established models of gorge formation and landscape evolution (Stokes M).

 Post REF2021 CRES will: (i) quantify fluid/rock reactions in the lower oceanic crust and develop
 understanding of the role of fluids during magnetisation of the crust via a new NERC project ‘The

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3D anatomy of magma transport at fast-spreading ocean ridges’; (ii) develop multi-scale
 integrative modelling of a range of geohazards to meet the needs of society via two newly-
 funded projects, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship ‘Quake 4D’ and NERC ‘SENSUM’; (iii) adopt
 inter-disciplinary approaches to study active tectonic processes, including developing expertise
 in cosmogenic isotope research; (iv) pursue quantitative understanding of how future warming
 will be distributed between the oceans and atmosphere and explore new approaches to studying
 past climate; (v) explore the interplay between climate and tectonics on landscape development
 using an integrated remote, field and geochemical approach.

 Coastal and Ocean Science and Engineering Research Centre (COSE)
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-coastal-and-ocean-science-and-engineering
 Current staff in UoA7: Centre Lead (Russell); Coastal Processes Research Group (Conley,
 Davidson, Masselink, O’Hare, Poate, Russell, Scott, Shapiro, Stokes C); Marine Physics
 Research Group (Bass, Gales, Hosegood, Manning, Nimmo-Smith, Schwarz, Vlasenko); with 6
 PDRAs, 9 PhD students and 5 technicians.

 COSE integrates the University’s long-established research strengths in physical oceanography
 (Coastal Processes Research Group and Marine Physics Research Group in UoA7) and coastal
 engineering (Coastal Engineering Research Group ‘COAST’ in UoA12), making one of the
 largest coastal science and engineering groupings in Europe. COSE’s mission is to measure,
 understand and predict the functioning of coastal and ocean systems in support of appropriate
 management of resources and activities.

 COSE has an international reputation in recording and predicting coastal behaviour through
 pioneering fieldwork and developing ground-breaking numerical models, for example inputting
 into the EA’s National Flood and Coastal Erosion Risk Management Strategy with its operational
 real-time storm impact model for regional coastal flooding. Multiple scientific breakthroughs have
 enabled COSE’s coastal research to have direct practical application leading to the creation of a
 research-informed consultancy Coastal Marine Applied Research (CMAR) in 2015. COSE hosts
 the UK's only operating two station HF wave radar and utilises the University’s Coastal Ocean
 and Sediment Transport (COaST) wave tank laboratories for physical model tests and marine
 renewable energy research.

 In marine physics, COSE specialises in dynamical physical oceanography, flocculation
 dynamics, particle imaging, turbulence microstructure and non-linear internal waves. Work on
 bio-physical interactions brings together COSE’s physical oceanographers and MBERC’s marine
 biologists, showing how currents, frontal dynamics, turbulence and numerical modelling can be
 used to enrich biological knowledge of species ranges and food web interactions. In
 collaboration with MBERC, COSE is looking at a vast array of these interactions, working with
 species from microscopic plankton to the ocean’s top predators, in environments ranging from
 coastal surface waters to the deep sea floor. COSE also hosts the Plymouth Ocean Forecasting
 Centre that creates cutting-edge regional ocean models for a range of end-users.

 Post REF-2021 COSE will: (i) apply its internationally-leading research on predicting shoreline
 change (e.g. Davidson Nature Sci Rep 10, 2137, 2020) to facilitate coastal management as sea-
 levels rise in a changing climate; (ii) develop satellite-calibrated models for the prediction of
 coastal evolution world-wide; (iii) examine how coral islands respond to sea-level rise using
 planned new field measurements on islands in the Indian Ocean (e.g. Masselink Science
 Advances 6, 24, eaay3656, 2020); and, (iv) capitalise on combined COSE/MBERC expertise to
 provide further breakthroughs in the understanding of bio-physical interactions and contribute to
 ensuring sustainable use of the oceans.

 Marine Biology and Ecology Research Centre (MBERC)
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/marine-biology-and-ecology-research-centre
 Current staff in UoA7: Centre Lead (Rundle); Marine Ecophysiology Research Group (Bilton,
 Ciotti, Cunliffe, Rundle, Spicer, Tills, Truebano, Turner L); Marine Conservation Research Group
 (Attrill, Davies, Edwards, Embling, Firth, Foggo, Hall-Spencer, Howell, Ingram, Knights,

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 McQuatters-Gollop, Reid, Sheehan, Wilson A, Wilson W); International Marine Litter Unit
 (Thompson); with 6 PDRAs, 35 PhD students, 5 technicians and one cat B staff (Parmesan).

 MBERC encompasses three research groups: Marine Ecophysiology, Marine Conservation and
 the International Marine Litter Unit (IMLU). Since REF2014, MBERC has expanded, with the
 formation of the IMLU and 12 staff appointments across Marine Ecophysiology (Ciotti, Cunliffe,
 Tills, Truebano, Turner L) and Marine Conservation (Davies, Firth, Knights, McQuatters-Gollop,
 Sheehan, Wilson A, Wilson W). In recognition of the pioneering work on microplastics and their
 environmental impacts, led by Thompson’s IMLU team, the University received its third Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize in 2019.

 MBERC research has focused on the following areas:

 1) The influences of environmental change, fisheries and pollution on marine biodiversity,
    including: (i) the impact of fishing and other physical disturbance on the seabed; (ii) sources,
    fates and biological effects of microplastics in marine habitats; (iii) the effects of ocean
    acidification, ocean warming and hypoxia on species’ eco-physiology, calcification,
    community composition and ecosystem level effects; and, (iv) the effects of other forms of
    pollution (light and noise).

 2) The use of large-scale temporal and spatial data for the understanding and management of
    marine biodiversity, including: (i) habitat mapping for assessing the effectiveness of Marine
    Protected Areas (MPAs) and impact of marine renewable energy; (ii) the use of long-term
    plankton data for identifying regime shifts; (iii) the importance of changes in range size and
    phenology; and, (iv) the influence of fronts and small scale hydrodynamics in influencing the
    distribution of marine vertebrates.

 3) The development of new approaches for biological assessment, including the use of: (i)
    novel phenomics technology for the automated measurement of stress responses in marine
    embryos; (ii) underwater video methodology designed at UoP for habitat mapping and
    surveys, including using artificial intelligence for processing video; (iii) ‘–omics’ approaches
    for measuring biodiversity; and, (iv) acoustic telemetry for monitoring mobile species.

 MBERC research has contributed substantially to the understanding of how marine biodiversity
 is responding to environmental change and has informed management decisions at regional,
 national and international levels. MBERC’s marine conservation research has influenced
 government policy through the 25-year Environment Plan and helped change the way seas are
 managed through marine protected areas and marine conservation zones.

 Post REF2021: Within the context of the pressing need to understand, mitigate and manage the
 effects of climate change, fisheries and pollution in the marine environment, it is envisaged that
 MBERC’s work in the three key areas listed above will continue to grow. For example, the new
 ‘Embryo Phenomics’ laboratory is building novel approaches for more rapid and thorough
 assessment of environmental impacts on biodiversity in the field, facilitated by the award of a
 new, 7-year, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to Tills.

 Interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinary research is encouraged across the four UoA7 research centres, and at a
 broader scale across the University’s three strategic research institutes (Marine, Sustainable
 Earth and Health; https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes). For example, COSE coastal
 scientists, with their expertise on waves, currents and sediment transport, routinely work with
 engineers in marine renewable energy research. MBERC marine biologists work with engineers
 developing sustainable construction practices for sea defences, with medical scientists to
 develop new antibiotics from deep-sea sponges and with psychologists to study human
 behaviours relating to plastics pollution. CRES geologists work with social scientists to
 understand the communication of risk. The broad mix of subject areas contributing to our

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research outputs is illustrated in Figure 1, with 24% of the subject matter from Earth and
 Planetary Sciences, 23% from Agricultural and Biological Sciences (mainly reflecting our Marine
 Biology research), 23% from Environmental Sciences and various smaller contributions from
 Engineering, Chemistry etc.




  Figure 1: Subject areas contributing to Plymouth’s REF2021 UoA7 outputs (Elsevier SciVal, 27/01/2021)

 Open research environment

 The University Research Data Policy, in accord with the Concordat on Open Research Data,
 provides thorough guidelines for good practice in research data management and open access
 to research data as an integral part of high-quality research. Implementing this policy, all the
 published UoA7 papers, not just those submitted for REF, are available (or will be available,
 when embargo is complete) through the University’s open access research repository, PEARL.
 PEARL is also used as an open access repository for research datasets, both ‘stand-alone’ and
 connected to published papers. For example, our EPSRC ‘Waves Across Shore Platforms
 (WASP)’ dataset in PEARL has a CC-BY licence and a standard and quality of metadata that
 allows for ease of discovery and reuse https://pearl.plymouth.ac.uk/handle/10026.1/9105.
 Repositories such as the British Oceanographic Data Centre (BODC) are used to provide open
 access to datasets from other research council-funded projects. Our internal process of peer
 grant development and review specifically ensures all research proposals conform to the
 University’s Data Management Policy.

 Research at UoP is conducted according to the principles of integrity, academic excellence,
 accountability, inclusiveness and professionalism. All research must follow appropriate ethical,
 legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards. The University’s Research Ethics
 Policy and the Code of Good Research Practice conform to the principles laid out in other
 relevant policies, guidelines and codes of conduct, including those of the research councils and
 Universities UK’s Concordat for Research Integrity. All UoA7 research activities are subject to
 the approval of the Ethics Committee (where appropriate) and our internal process of peer grant
 development and review ensures all research is supported by, and contributes to, a culture of
 research integrity.

 Impact strategy

 Impact and innovation are at the heart of Plymouth's research culture and the impact strategy
 outlined in REF5a applies across UoA7. The development of impact is supported by an impact-
 training programme that delivers events, workshops and 1-2-1 sessions on planning research
 impact, developing pathways, impact generation, writing & corroborating impact, impact software
 usage and showcasing research impact. This is supplemented with a range of online impact
 development tools and resources, such as the cloud-based software ‘VV-Impact Tracker’ that
 helps researchers plan for and evidence social, economic and environmental impact. The
 University’s Research Impact and Quality Officer supports staff in engaging with the impact-
 training programme to develop and maximise the impact of their research.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All Uo7 academics are fully engaged in the impact agenda and routinely consider how to
 maximise the impact of their research. Academics produce Personal Research Plans that
 include impact as part of their annual Performance Development Review (PDR). Impact is
 further developed as an integral part of external and internal research proposals. All funding
 proposals go through a formal peer grant development and review procedure that requires
 reviewers to evaluate the potential impact from the research and the actions to deliver that
 impact. With nearly half of Plymouth UoA7’s grant funding coming from the research councils,
 impact is fully embedded as a requirement of those proposals. As a result of the embedded
 impact culture, there were many more than the five required impact case studies potentially
 available across this UoA.

 The UoA7 experience is that particularly significant and far-reaching impact is often achieved in
 research areas supported by a series of related research council grants over a long period. This
 ensures the impact is built on internationally-leading science and it applies to all five of UoA7’s
 selected impact case studies. For example, the selected impact case studies on coastal
 resilience and beach hazards were developed in collaboration with the ‘South-West Partnership
 for Environment & Economic Prosperity (SWEEP)’ project (total £4M over 5 years), funded
 under NERC’s Environmental Science Impact Programme that specifically aims ‘to translate
 excellent NERC-funded research into actions or policies that improve performance, resilience
 and sustainability, and support local growth.’ This is facilitated by two staff (Poate and Stokes C)
 who have 0.5 PDRA posts on SWEEP and with COSE’s Coastal Applied Marine Research
 (CMAR) research-informed consultancy.

 On a broader scale, EDRF Marine Business Technology Centre (MBTC) (2018-21)
 (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/esif-funded-projects/marine-business-tech) and Marine-i
 (2017-22) (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/institutes/marine-institute/marine-i) projects link
 businesses with academics to support the development of new products, provide access to
 model testing facilities and support business growth through direct access to UoP’s marine
 research. So far, MBTC and Marine-i projects have worked directly with 45 separate companies
 securing over £3.1M in new marine research, development and innovation project value to UoP.
 Example projects include developing Reef Cubes that also provide marine habitats with ARC
 Marine (Firth) and developing the Tidal Revival App to document plastic pollution in the marine
 environment world-wide with Evidence Plastic CIC (Thompson). Four new research fellows on 2-
 year (2020-22) posts have been funded through Marine-i to work with academics and
 businesses in UoA7 research areas such as coastal processes, remote sensing and marine
 plastics, utilising the COaST wave tanks and HF wave radar facilities.

 UoA7’s research impact has been recognised by two NERC impact awards (‘Societal Impact
 Award’ and ‘Overall Winner’) for microplastics research (Thompson) and an EU Horizon Impact
 Award for societal impact world-wide of the ‘Innovative technologies for safer European coasts in
 a changing climate (THESEUS)’ project, a collaboration between Plymouth UoA7 ecologists
 (Firth) and UoA12 coastal engineers.

 2. People, including:

 a) Staffing strategy and staff development

 The UoA7 bid has expanded significantly with 65 academic staff (headcount), 61.5 FTE,
 (compared to 44.9 FTE in REF2014). Our staffing strategy is to maintain a good balance
 between experienced Professors, mid-career staff and lecturer-grade staff, whilst simultaneously
 supporting progression through this structure, and enhancing vitality with new appointments
 mostly at Lecturer grade. Our philosophy is that all staff contribute to both research and teaching
 through a ‘one team’ approach. A key characteristic of our research environment is that the
 academic staff are integrated with the PDRAs, PhD students and technicians in research groups
 to create a vibrant research community.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA7 staff profile (Figure 2) is characterised by staff being mainly on permanent full-time
 academic contracts, with a normal distribution across the age ranges, equally distributed
 between Professors, Associate Professors and Lecturers. This profile provides long-term
 stability, balance and sustainability to the unit.

 Grade                  %          Age group        %                 Contract         %
 Professor              31         25-34            7                 Permanent        98
 Associate Professor    29         35-44            30                Fixed-term       2
 Lecturer               34         45-54            37                                 %
 Research Fellow        6          55-64            24                Full-time        94
                                   65+              2                 Part-time        6

          Figure 2: Staff profile across Plymouth UoA7, based on grade, age-profile and contract

 Staff retention is high, with only five staff from REF2014 having left for other Universities and
 research laboratories: Bennett, Calosi, Kirby, Lohan and Pagli. In addition one retired (Munn)
 and five became Emeritus Professors (Burkhill, Griffiths, Hart, Rowland and Worsfold).

 In keeping with the principles of REF2021 and inclusivity, 89% of academic staff across the two
 constituent Schools (School of Geography Earth and Environmental Sciences and School of
 Biological and Marine Sciences) are on AEF3 (teaching and research) contracts and are
 therefore REF2021-returned, with only 8% of academic staff in these Schools being on AEF1
 (teaching only) contracts, and the remaining 3% being on AEF2 (research only).

 Staff development

 Plymouth UoA7 research relies on the quality of the staff and the stimulation brought about by
 the recruitment of new staff, PDRAs and PhD students. A vibrant research culture is promoted
 by creating an environment in which new ideas can flourish with interaction across the unit. We
 continue to focus on the recruitment, mentoring and development of ECRs. New academic staff
 are rapidly embedded within an active research group, assigned a more experienced colleague
 as a mentor and give a research seminar at the earliest opportunity. They are initially given light
 teaching loads and start-up funds are provided to help them establish their research careers.
 New staff attend lecturing and staff development courses run by the University. ECRs are also
 prioritised for funding internally, with PhD studentships and seedcorn funds.

 The commitment to succession planning, supporting and developing new talent and equal
 opportunity is illustrated by the appointment of 24 new academic (AEF3) staff during the REF
 period, mostly at Lecturer level, of which 13 are female and 11 male, distributed across the four
 research centres as follows:
 • BGC: Laudone, Lengger, Manners, Milne;
 • COSE: Gales, Poate, Scott, Stokes C;
 • CRES: Balthasar, Gebelin, Harris, Manzella, Mildon, Stephen;
 • MBERC: Ciotti, Davies, Firth, Knights, McQuatters-Gollop, Sheehan, Tills, Truebano, Turner
     L, Wilson A.

 The progression of staff in this REF period is shown by six staff being promoted to Professor
 (Anderson, Conley, Fitzsimons, Howell, Price, Rundle) and eight staff being promoted to
 Associate Professor (Boulton, Cole, Cunliffe, Ingram, Knights, McQuatters-Gollop, Menegon,
 Ussher).

 Plymouth holds the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award presented to
 universities that uphold the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Annual Performance Development Review (PDR) procedures for the career
 development for all staff are underpinned by Personal Research Plans nested within broader
 individual and group strategic five-year research planning. Staff in the UoA also benefit from


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researcher development programmes delivered by the University’s Research Support
 Programme and from a Research Leadership Programme provided by the consultancy firm
 Barefoot Training that is specifically targeted at mid-career staff and researchers.

 High priority is given to supporting and integrating individuals into the research culture of the
 unit. This is evidenced by one–third of the REF-submitted papers including authorship by a
 Plymouth PDRA. Many of our previous Masters and PhD students have gone on to become
 excellent PDRAs, and many of those have gone on to successful academic positions. Examples
 of such staff in the current bid are: Manners, McQuatters-Gollop, Poate, Scott, Sheehan, Stokes
 C and Tills.

 McQuatters-Gollop’s 2-year secondment to Defra is an example of exchange between academia
 and outside organisations, which is encouraged and facilitated, usually by adjusting workload at
 the University. Other examples of this exchange are the close ties between MBERC and the
 MBA, which include joint appointments (Cunliffe, Edwards, Reid, Wilson W) and a joint MRes in
 Marine Biology (led by Cunliffe) that has run since 2003. This both reinforces existing research
 collaborations (e.g. McQuatters-Gollop with Reid, McQuatters-Gollop with Edwards and Cunliffe
 with Hall-Spencer, all of which are evidenced by joint publications) and stimulates new research
 through joint supervision of MRes projects. The annual Plymouth Marine Science and Education
 Foundation (PlyMSEF) conference brings together PhD students from across UoP, MBA and
 PML and acts as a showcase for Plymouth’s marine expertise.

 Plymouth UoA7 recognises and rewards staff for carrying out research and achieving impact
 with: (i) development funds available from the School strategic research account that all staff can
 apply for (based on their research record and justification); (ii) an annual allowance to spend,
 without needing to apply for further justification, for staff who have directly-allocated time on
 grants of 5-10% for 3 years; (iii) access to a competitive 6-month sabbatical leave process to
 supplement research time and further develop impact; (iv) workload planning that explicitly
 includes research workload, so other teaching and management commitments are balanced
 accordingly; (v) all staff on teaching and research contracts having 40% of their time allocated to
 research; and, (vi) successful research areas targeted for investment in infrastructure and
 facilities, e.g. New ‘International Marine Litter Unit’ and ‘Embryo Phenomics’ laboratories.

 b) Research students

 Postgraduate research students (PGRs) are central to our research environment and are fully
 integrated into it, as evidenced by one–third of UoA7 REF-submitted papers including authorship
 by a Plymouth PhD student. We have an excellent record of attracting high-quality PGRs to
 Plymouth, and of recruiting excellent PGRs from our seven Masters courses in Applied Marine
 Science, Environmental Consultancy, Environmental Geochemistry, Hydrography, Marine
 Biology, Marine Conservation and Marine Renewable Energy.

 Across Plymouth UoA7 there were 94 PhD completions in the present REF period compared to
 70 completions in REF2014. The potential for future increases in completions is illustrated by the
 72 students currently undertaking PhDs across the UoA and our plans to develop a new DTC
 with the Marine Research Plymouth partners post REF2021.

 PhD Training Partnerships

 Plymouth is a full member of the NERC ARIES (Advanced Research and Innovation in the
 Environmental Sciences) DTP, launched in 2018. ARIES draws together expertise from five
 universities, nine research labs and over forty other research-users. The partnership has a
 mission to equip PGR students with the skills to become 21st Century Scientists: leaders in the
 science and sustainable business of the natural environment. ARIES is supporting a minimum of
 75 fully funded PhD studentships over five student cohorts, the first of which started in October
 2019. A total of six ARIES PhD students registered at UoP in 2019, two of these being based at


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the MBA, and one at the British Geological Survey, further cementing our collaborations with
 these institutions. The remaining three students are registered and based at UoP.

 From January 2020 UoP became a partner of the GeoNetZero CDT (Centre for Doctoral
 Training in Geoscience and the Low Carbon Energy Transition) that aims to train the next
 generation of geoscientists needed to meet the UK Government target of net zero carbon
 emissions by 2050. Through this CDT, UoP is recruiting one PhD student/year.

 In terms of international PhD collaborations, UoP was a full partner in the EU MARES Doctoral
 Programme on Marine Ecosystem Health and Conservation, funded by Erasmus Mundus, where
 PhD students studied at two partner institutes across Europe, USA and Australia. Three UoA7
 PhD students graduated from this scheme during the REF period.

 Recruitment, monitoring and support of PhD students

 The success of our PGR training is attributed to supportive and rigorous selection, training and
 monitoring procedures. All PhD positions are widely advertised and short-listed by a mixed-
 gender panel on the basis of excellence of their academic qualifications, relevant experience
 and quality of the planned research. Short-listed candidates are then interviewed by the same
 panel, following the University’s normal interview procedures.

 UoP has a policy of support, training and supervision for PGR students that is well-respected
 across the sector. Each student has a Director of Studies and a team of 2-3 supervisors who
 oversee the direction of research and offer welfare support. All PGR students are carefully
 supervised and supported from their first day until graduation, and thereafter into employment.
 This is achieved by integrating PhD students into our active research groups, providing peer
 academic and social support, and by regular meetings with supervisory teams.

 PGR activities are managed by the University’s Doctoral College to ensure PhD students have
 an experience that is both successful and enjoyable. In each school a senior member of staff
 pays special attention to the administrative needs of its PGR students and liaises directly with
 the Doctoral College on their behalf. PGR students record notes on supervisory meetings and
 submit ‘milestone forms’ using software called GradBook that supervisors also use to check
 deadlines, set up formal meetings and approve milestone forms, providing a formal way to
 monitor progress.

 The Doctoral College has a Research Development Programme supported by UKRI, Vitae and
 employers of researchers. All our PGR students regularly attend these courses, which are
 divided into four domains:
 • Knowledge and Intellectual Abilities, e.g. Advanced R, LaTeX, Matlab, Python, thesis
     production;
 • Personal Effectiveness, e.g. Working with feedback and setbacks, Transfer process,
     Preparing for the viva, Careers;
 • Research Governance and Organisation, e.g. Research integrity, Applying for ethical
     approval, Intellectual property, Funding opportunities, Project management, GradBook;
 • Engagement, Influence and Impact, e.g. Using the media to publicise research, Introduction
     to podcasting and panopto, Designing an effective research poster, Getting published,
     Impact, Leadership, Three Minute Thesis competition.

 In addition, advanced training is provided within the research community, and through the NERC
 ARIES DTP. The ARIES training focusses on five skill areas linked to the vision of the 21st
 century scientist, and, space-permitting, these courses are available to UoP PGR students
 outside of ARIES, as well as those doing ARIES PhDs:
     (i) Developing understanding and skills in the management and use of big data;
     (ii) Impact, innovation and engagement in commercial and non-commercial environments;
     (iii) Development of multi-disciplinarity;
     (iv) Transferrable skills training;

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (v) Completion, careers and employability.

 New PGR students in Plymouth UoA7 can also take taught Masters modules to provide specific
 training. In order to gain presentation skills and obtain feedback from peers, they present their
 work regularly, internally to their research group, and externally at conferences such as the
 Young Coastal Scientists and Engineers Conference (YCSEC) and the Plymouth Marine
 Science Education Foundation (PLYMSEF) annual conference.

 In addition to the Researcher Development Programme, the Doctoral College runs University-
 level inductions for new PGR students, providing cohort development, networking opportunities
 and mentoring, as well as training sessions for supervisors and examiners. PGR students are
 represented on School Research Committees and on Research Institute Strategy Teams. PGR
 students have dedicated desk space with ICT provision and generous access to appropriate
 laboratory facilities and technical support.

 From PhD destinations data, 51% of our PhD graduates continued in careers in higher
 education, mainly as lecturers and postdocs. Many PhD graduates from the geological and
 chemical sciences obtained employment in industry (e.g. AECOM Engineering). Other PhD
 graduates went into commercial consultancy (e.g. Met Office), work for charities (e.g. RNLI) or
 hold government-related posts (e.g. Geological Survey). Examples of prizes awarded to our
 PhD students include: the Crown Estate Seabed Innovation Award (to O’Shaughnessy, 2017),
 the Marine Conservation Society Wakefield Memorial Award (to Napper, 2017), the EGU
 Outstanding Student Poster and PICO (OSPP) Award (to Vickers 2016) and the British Science
 Association Charles Lyell Award (to Gibson, 2015).

 c) Equality and Diversity

 Equality and diversity are embedded in our approach, both formally, via a mandatory staff
 training course, and as an integral component of day-to-day research activities in accord with the
 University’s equality, diversity and inclusion policy, https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-
 us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion

 Our commitment to equality and diversity is recognised through Bronze Athena SWAN awards to
 the two contributing Schools: School of Geography Earth and Environmental Sciences (housing
 BGC and CRES) in 2017 and 2020; and, School of Biological and Marine Sciences (housing
 COSE and MBERC) in 2020. 31% of Plymouth UoA7 staff are female, 50% of the 154 REF-
 submitted papers have UoP female co-authors and 2/5 (40%) of the impact case studies are
 female led. Our PhD completions are 48% female and 69% white. The low % BME of the
 Plymouth UoA7 staff (96% white) reflects both the subject area and that of the South-West
 region as a whole (95% white at the last census), and is a metric we seek to improve, supported
 by the University submitting to Advance HE's Race Equality Charter by 2022.

 All staff across the University undertake regular training courses in equality and diversity,
 unconscious bias, mental health awareness, health and safety and general data protection
 regulation (GDPR). There is additional training for interview panel members and panel chairs. All
 appointment panels, promotion panels and internal funding panels are gender balanced and
 adhere to the University’s equality and diversity policy, as testified by our Athena SWAN awards.

 Complementing the priority for its employees to have a good work-life balance, the University
 offers various staff support, https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-
 areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion/staff-support. Full support is available to staff, PGRs, and
 their family members during periods of pregnancy. The University has a range of supportive
 policies including ones on maternity, paternity, and parental leave, which often go beyond the
 statutory requirements. A comfortable and private room is provided for nursing mothers. The
 Freshlings’ Nursery offers childcare, and childcare vouchers are available. There is a flexible
 working policy aimed at supporting those caring for children or others. Staff can request reduced


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hours, varying working patterns, timetable constraints or to work from home. Staff submitted in
 UoA7 have taken up these options with great success.

 Staff suffering illness are given support either to recover fully or to properly manage their
 condition. Arrangements are made to facilitate return to work following illness with the option of a
 phased return. The collegial ‘one team’ philosophy across the UoA means colleagues are ready
 to cover for each other. Beyond this altruism between colleagues, the University has specific
 structures and resources in place to support staff health and well-being. These include the
 University Medical Centre, which provides access to doctors and nurses, and the staff
 counselling service. There is also an established system of staff networks funded by the
 University, where staff meet to support each other. These include the LGBT+ Staff Forum, the
 Women’s network and a network for staff with disabilities. The Sports Centre possesses a well-
 equipped gym and offers a range of classes, such as yoga, aimed at improving staff well-being.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a) Income

 Grant income spent across the UoA over the REF period was £13.3M (Figure 3), up from
 £12.1M in the last REF. This represents ‘pure research income’ only, so excludes income for
 assets (such as a building, or large equipment, like boats) and also excludes income from
 consultancy, knowledge transfer and commercially funded research of public benefit.

 The largest funding source was the Research Councils (predominantly NERC) with 45% of total
 funding, followed by EU Government bodies (18%), UK Charities and UK Government bodies
 (both 11%) and UK Industry and non-EU Charities (both 5%).

                                                          2013/14    2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20 Total Income £ Total %
 Source                                                  Income £ Income £ Income £ Income £ Income £ Income £ Income £
 BEIS Research Councils                                      959,384   688,596   547,556 1,028,764 1,011,087   816,215   913,930    5,965,533 44.8%
 UK-Based Charities (Open Competitive Process)                33,685   100,511   183,998   221,527   100,968   392,778   499,120    1,532,585 11.5%
 UK-Based Charities (Other)                                   10,058    16,108     8,590    15,585         0     1,918     1,172        53,430   0.4%
 UK Central Gov. Bodies/Local Auth,Health & Hosp Auth.       242,260    47,090    11,522   369,371   224,943   204,749   331,479    1,431,413 10.7%
 UK Industry, Commerce & Public Corporations                  41,026    75,651    57,335   117,418    86,211   187,868    91,779       657,290   4.9%
 UK Other Sources                                                  0      -124         0       126       103       415         0           520   0.0%
 EU Government Bodies                                        328,272   439,825   213,224   436,743   288,295   412,915   325,919    2,445,192 18.4%
 EU-Based Charities (Open Competitive Process)                49,904    17,213     1,801     3,093     5,258     6,969     1,064        85,301   0.6%
 EU Industry, Commerce & Public Corporations                       0         0         0         0         0       944       186         1,130   0.0%
 EU Other                                                     90,518    66,806     5,630    -5,518     3,644     1,549       516       163,144   1.2%
 Non-EU-Based Charities (Open Competitive Process)                 0         0         0    10,094       167    36,045   654,684       700,990   5.3%
 Non-EU Industry, Commerce & Public Corporations                 131    10,984    22,811       493     8,196     3,685         0        46,299   0.3%
 Non-EU Other                                                  1,077     4,796    24,370    20,872    50,818    41,204    96,901       240,039   1.8%
 TOTAL                                                     1,756,315 1,467,455 1,076,835 2,218,569 1,779,690 2,107,254 2,916,751   13,322,868 100.0%


                     Figure 3: Breakdown of Plymouth UoA7 pure research income by funding source
                                     and University finance year (1 August – 31 July)

 Examples of our NERC grants include: (i) ‘South West Partnership for Environment and
 Economic Prosperity (SWEEP)’ (2017-22, £776k to UoP) that is facilitating the two selected
 impact cases studies on coastal resilience and beach hazards; (ii) ‘Biological and Lithological
 Underpinning of Evolution of Coasts (BLUE-coast)’ (2016-21, £753k to UoP); and, (iii) ‘Artificial
 Light Impacts on Coastal Ecosystems (ALICE)’ (2019-23; £712k to UoP).

 European funding was from: European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (6 projects, collectively £1M
 to UoP); FP7 (e.g. SEA-on-a-CHIP, £224k to UoP); H2020 (e.g. Clean Energy From Ocean
 Waves, £180k to UoP); and, Interreg (e.g. Preventing Plastic Pollution, £331k to UoP).



                                                                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UK Government funding was from Natural England, DEFRA and the Environment Agency. The
 Leverhulme Trust funded three projects and smaller amounts of research funding were received
 from industry, charities and professional societies, including Blue Marine Foundation, EDF
 Energy, European Association of National Meteorological Institutes, Offshore Shellfish Ltd, PDF
 Ltd, Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation, RNLI and the Total Foundation.

 The IMLU’s microplastics research was supported by a diverse array of funders including UNEP,
 EU, NERC, Defra, National Geographic and Exxpedition (all-women voyages), facilitating the
 production of both high quality research outputs (e.g. three papers with > 500 citations in Marine
 Pollution Bulletin, Water Research and Royal Society Open Science) and impact (microplastics
 impact case study).

 The annual income totals from Figure 3 show an upward trend over the REF period (Figure 4).
 The most recent year, 2019/20, shows the highest income as spend began on new large grants
 such as: (i) UKRI GCRF ‘One Ocean Hub’, (2019-24; started Feb 19; UoP £949k) and (ii)
 Garfield Weston Foundation (Bertarelli Programme in Marine Science) ‘Oceanographic drivers of
 ecosystem variability in the Chagos archipelago (British Indian Ocean Territory, BIOT)’, (2018-
 22; started Sept 18; UoP £922k).

                                   3.5
                                    3
                 Research income




                                   2.5
                   (£ millions)
                     per year




                                    2
                                   1.5
                                    1
                                   0.5
                                    0
                                         2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20
                                                University finance year (1 August - 31 July)


                Figure 4: Plymouth UoA7 pure research income over the REF2021 period

 Continuing this recent success in securing funding, from August 2020 to March 2021 over
 £6.3M in other substantial grants have been awarded to Plymouth UoA7, including:
 • NERC Highlight Topic, ‘Biodegradable plastics as emerging environmental pollutants’, 4-year
    project, £1.4M to UoP (Thompson);
 • UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Award, ‘Quake 4D’, 4-year project to generate a new multi-
    disciplinary way of calculating earthquake hazard, £1.1M to UoP (Mildon);
 • GCRF ‘A systems analysis approach to reduce plastic waste in Indonesian societies’ with
    Brunel and other UK HEIs, £1M to UoP (Thompson co-lead with Austen in UoA14);
 • EU Interreg, ‘Investigating the movements of key fish species and their preferred habitats
    (FISH INTEL)’, €4M international project led by UoP, £881k to UoP (Sheehan);
 • NERC ‘The 3D anatomy of magma transport at fast-spreading ocean ridges’, £790k to UoP
    (Morris);
 • Garfield Weston Foundation, for a further 2-year project investigating the oceanographic
    drivers of ecosystem variability in the BIOT, £500k to UoP (Hosegood);
 • NERC Constructing a Digital Environment Programme, ‘Smart SENSing of landscapes
    Undergoing hazardous hydrogeological Movement (SENSUN)’, £400k to UoP (Manzella);
 • NERC ‘Lost at Sea - where are all the tyre particles?’ £328k to UoP (Thompson).

 Our approach to research grant capture is managed through robust grant preparation and
 support processes. Research ideas and grants are developed through strategic 5-year research
 planning, supported by annual Personal Research Plans. We support the development of cross-

                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research centre special interest groups, where research plans, ideas and grants can be openly
 formulated, discussed and developed. All external grant applications undergo rigorous internal
 peer review by nominated research specialists that includes financial scrutiny to ensure
 appropriateness of resources requested. Development of applications is supported by UoP’s
 dedicated research advisors, with specialists across different funding sources who provide
 further peer-review and advice on financial and legal aspects of research.

 b) Infrastructure and Facilities

 Since REF2014, the use of new University facilities at the £4.65M waterfront Marine Station and
 £19M Marine Building have significantly enhanced research capabilities.

 The Marine Station provides enhanced facilities for teaching and research, with ocean-view
 teaching rooms, a sector-leading diving facility, wet laboratory, aquaria, berths for vessels and
 equipment storage facilities to support boat-based activities. The range of vessels now includes
 a 14m catamaran ‘RV Falcon Spirit’, a 13m sailing yacht ‘Take the Helm’ (useful for marine
 mammal and other noise surveys), an 11m catamaran ‘Wavedancer’, a 10m dive support vessel
 ‘JoJo’ and three 6m powerboats. In addition, there is a growing fleet of Uncrewed Surface
 Vessels (USVs), including a new £250k C-worker 4m CETUS and in-house developed
 catamarans, configured for a variety of survey tasks.

 The three-storey Marine Building houses the Marine Institute, Plymouth Coastal Observatory
 (PCO) and state-of-the-art Coastal Ocean and Sediment Transport (COaST) wave tank facilities,
 consisting of a 35m x 15.5m x 3m Ocean Wave Basin and a 15.5m x 10m x 0.5m Coastal Basin.
 The Ocean Basin builds on a growing research base in marine renewable energy, designing and
 testing wave and tidal energy devices. The Coastal Basin provides a physical model capability
 complementing Plymouth’s internationally-recognised strengths in coastal field measurements.
 These facilities are heavily used, through the £1M ERDF Marine-i initiative, designed to help the
 local marine technology sector grow through research, development and innovation, and through
 the EU H2020 Marinet2 project, whereby free access is provided to the COaST lab for
 researchers from across Europe through a series of competitive calls. A £605k wind generator is
 presently being added to facilitate applications such as the testing of offshore wind farm models.

 Coastal and Ocean Science and Engineering Research Centre (COSE) research is
 underpinned by the development of new sensing systems (e.g. bed-level sensing, particle
 imaging) and sampling methodologies (e.g. fully-integrated coastal survey from aerial drones
 and USVs), supported by a team of internationally-leading technicians. This includes a ‘Rapid
 Coastal Response Unit’ that is unique in the UK for measuring coastal impact during extreme
 storms. COSE has over £1M of coastal measurement equipment, including manned and
 unmanned aerial, terrestrial and marine survey platforms and a comprehensive pool of high-
 grade in-situ oceanographic instrumentation. COSE also hosts the UK's only operating two
 station HF radar installation for remote sensing of the coastal ocean. This is, globally, the only
 installation designed for collection of spatial information on directional wave statistics and
 provides hourly output (waves and surface currents) for a 40 x 40 km region at 1 km resolution,
 with data available on a public web site (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/hf-radar).
 Complimenting COSE research, the Plymouth Coastal Observatory (PCO) routinely monitors
 waves, beach levels and coastal dynamics across the south-west region, providing a long-term
 data resource that is publicly-available via the National Coastal Monitoring Network's website.

 In Biogeochemistry Research Centre (BGC), the University has continued its strong track
 record of investment in analytical chemistry facilities through: (i) developing novel methods for
 industrial and environmental applications, and (ii) providing internationally-recognised, high
 quality trace analysis in ISO-certified research laboratories. Examples include new cutting-edge
 purchases (2014-2021) of inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers, isotope mass
 spectrometers, liquid and gas chromatograph-mass spectrometers, and a dual-channel ion
 chromatograph. Investment in the ISO 9001:2015 certified Consolidated Radio-Isotope Facility
 (CORiF) since the last REF includes a wavelength dispersive x-ray fluorescence spectrometer

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (WD XRF) used for geochemical analyses of materials such as soils, sediments and rock
 powders. This is used by a variety of internal (CRES, MBERC, BGC) and external users. The
 CORiF instrument suite also includes three state-of-the-art gamma spectrometers, two liquid
 scintillation counters and a laser granulometer. Purchase of a cutting-edge GC system for the
 measurement of volatile and greenhouse gases is planned for 2021, investing in an area (marine
 amine cycling) where Plymouth UoA7 is world-leading.

 In Marine Biology and Ecology Research Centre (MBERC), the Embryo Phenomics
 laboratory has been formed from a strategic internal investment (including HEIF funding) in
 hardware for the high-resolution bio-imaging of marine embryos. This led to a successful NERC
 bid to develop software for the automated extraction of data from video images and analysis of
 the phenome. The recent award of a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to MBERC’s Tills is
 supporting the extension of this technology into various different industrial, biomedical and
 environmental applications, including via transfer of these technologies into the field for remote
 sensing of biological stress in the natural environment. HEIF POC funding supports the R&D of
 these technologies in collaboration with Plymouth Science Park, which is co-owned by the
 University and Plymouth City Council. Investment has also been made in MBERC via the
 International Marine Litter Unit’s new laboratory (£160k for new Fourier transform infrared
 microscope and clean room).

 In Centre for Research in Earth Sciences (CRES), several successful NERC grants have
 demonstrated strength in palaeoclimate research and have facilitated University investment into
 the stable isotope mass spectrometry facilities, with the purchase of a new Thermo Scientific
 delta advantage IRMS instrument. This instrument set-up has greater capabilities, extending our
 capacity to measure sulphur isotopes in addition to oxygen, carbon and nitrogen isotopes and
 will enable a broader range of users to capitalise on this investment. In particular, stronger links
 with researchers in BGC working on organic compounds will be possible and post REF2021 this
 is an area of expected growth. CRES researchers regularly make use of School and Faculty
 level analytical facilities and have received in-kind funding for a range of NERC facilities (ion
 microprobe, stable isotopes, radiocarbon and cosmogenic isotopes).

 CRES’s Stewart is Director of the Sustainable Earth Institute (SEI) and leads the new
 ‘Sustainability Hub and Impact Lab’ facility. Supported by a £2.6M ERDF investment, this facility
 houses the SEI in a refurbished building that provides a physical space where businesses, social
 enterprises and community groups can mix with researchers and students around the issue of
 sustainability.

 CRES’s Stephen is Director of The Plymouth Electron Microscopy Centre (PEMC) which has
 continued to expand within this REF period, adding a Zeiss FIB-SEM via the £1M ERDF
 Plymouth Materials Characterisation Project in 2017. The instrument suite now comprises the
 FIB-SEM, two JEOL SEMs with EBSD, elemental analysis and cryo-capabilities and a JEOL
 TEM. Within CRES, the NERC research grant to Menegon has benefitted from these facilities. In
 March 2021 a further £1M ERDF investment was secured in PEMC allowing it to move to new
 facilities on the Plymouth campus, increasing both its size and capacity.

 Specialist technical teams are an integral part of the Plymouth UoA7 research environment,
 looking after and operating the PEMC, COaST wave tank laboratories and Marine Station
 laboratories and vessels.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 International Collaboration

 Our extensive international collaboration is evidenced by 65% of the papers published in the
 REF period having international co-authors, and these papers having over 18,000 citations and
 a field weighted citation score (FWCI) of 2.01, (SciVal, 27/01/2021). Examples of international
 collaborations in the four research centres are:

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biogeochemistry Research Centre (BGC)

 BGC are leading a major international project that uses organic geochemical tracers to quantify
 the contribution of food sources to Arctic food webs and biogeochemical fluxes, collaborating
 with University of East Anglia, Alfred Wegener Institute, Russian Arctic & Antarctic Research
 Institute and University of Colorado in the €60M ‘Multidisciplinary Drifting Observatory for the
 Study of Arctic Climate’ (MOSAiC) project; this is the largest polar scientific expedition in history
 involving >500 scientists from >20 countries.

 BGC are also leading the use of organic geochemical proxies for reconstruction of the sea ice
 history of the Antarctic spanning the entire quaternary period as part of International Ocean
 Drilling Program Expedition 382 (Iceberg Alley). BGC’s ability to measure volatile amines at
 trace levels are at the core of international efforts to understand the ocean-air flux of biogenic
 trace gases and their role in climate regulation. This has comprised three research campaigns
 since 2015, including the first Antarctic Circumpolar Expedition completed in 2017.

 Centre for Research in Earth Sciences (CRES)

 CRES researchers are engaged in international collaboration and leadership at all levels within
 the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP) and the International Continental Scientific
 Drilling Program (ICDP). Morris is working with IODP colleagues to develop the next IODP
 Science Plan ‘Exploring Earth by Scientific Ocean Drilling’ that will last until 2050. Since
 REF2014, CRES staff have participated in seven IODP expeditions and are actively involved
 with several ICDP projects, at proponent level (Anderson, COSC-2), with leadership roles within
 projects (Harris, OmanDP) and as members of these international science teams.

 Coastal and Ocean Science and Engineering Research Centre (COSE)

 COSE’s research benefits from long-term international collaborations, particularly with
 colleagues in Australia, France, The Netherlands and New Zealand. A 20-year coastal research
 collaboration with University of New South Wales (UNSW, Australia) has produced 25 co-
 authored, high-impact, journal articles, supported by grants from NERC, EPSRC and the
 Australian Research Council. The Director of UNSW’s Water Research Laboratory (Turner)
 holds a Visiting Professorship at UoP and there have been many reciprocal sabbatical visits
 between the groups.

 COSE have a 15-year collaboration with University of Bordeaux studying rip currents and
 coastal change. Presently, that collaboration is leading a European hub of expertise in
 continental-scale coastal impact of extreme storms and coastal hazards (13 co-authored journal
 articles since 2016). In collaboration with scientists from University of Auckland (NZ), Simon
 Fraser University (Canada), US Geological Survey (USA) and Deltares (Netherlands), COSE are
 leading the ‘Understanding Flooding On Reef-lined Island Coasts (UFORIC)’ working group
 looking at the impacts of sea-level rise on low-lying coral reef environments, work that will have
 major impact for the future of island communities across the Pacific and Indian Oceans.

 Marine Biology and Ecology Research Centre (MBERC)

 MBERC’s Howell is Co-Director of ‘One Ocean Hub’, a £20M project funded by UKRI GCRF
 (2019-2024), involving 22 research organisations from the UK, South Africa, Ghana, Namibia,
 Kenya, the South Pacific and the Caribbean. Howell is also Co-I on ‘Mission Atlantic’, a €10M
 EU H2020 project on the sustainable management of the Atlantic ecosystem (2020-2024),
 involving 34 partners from 15 countries, with UoP leading in the areas of deep-sea habitat
 mapping, artificial intelligence and autonomy.

 In marine renewable energy, MBERC researchers are co-leading environmental monitoring with
 colleagues from Exeter and University of Uppsala (Sweden) to understand the ecological effects


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of wave energy devices deployed by the Finnish developer Wello (EU H2020, Clean Energy
 From Ocean Waves project).

 MBERC researchers are leading and co-leading many other projects with international
 colleagues, including:
 - in South Africa, on the biodiversity and conservation of inland waters (Systematics
     Association and Newton Fund grants with Albany Museum/Rhodes University and University
     of Johannesburg);
 - in Brazil, on the integrated internationalisation of knowledge production and training of
     human resources in marine and coastal biodiversity (Brazilian CAPES grant with Federal
     University of Santa Catarina);
 - in China, on phytoplankton-zooplankton dynamics on warming acidified nutrient rich coasts
     (Chinese NSF grant with Xiamen University);
 - in Sweden, on rhodochronology using coralline algae (Swedish FORMAS mobility grant with
     Gothenburg University) and,
 - in Cyprus, to stem a lionfish invasion in the Mediterranean (EU LIFE Programme project,
     RELIONMED, with University of Cyprus).

 Interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinary research is extensive across the four UoA7 research centres, and with other
 disciplines (UoAs), some examples of which are:

 -   UoA7 physical oceanographers (e.g. Conley), with their expertise on waves and tides,
     routinely work with offshore engineers (e.g. Greaves, UoA12) in the design and testing of
     offshore renewable energy devices. Joint Conley/Greaves grants include EU-Interreg,
     ‘Marine Energy in Far Peripheral and Island Communities (MERIFIC)’ and EU-FP7 ‘Marine
     Renewables Infrastructure Network for Emerging Energy Technologies (MARINET).’

 -   In the H2020 €4.1M 4-year LimnoPlast project, UoA7 natural scientists (Thompson) and
     social scientists (Pahl, UoA4) are working with 13 academic and industry (Evonik and BASF)
     partners to take a holistic view of litter in freshwater systems, exploring the acceptability of
     potential solutions as well as the suitability of behaviour change options to reduce the flow of
     microplastics.

 -   Addressing society’s need to discover new antibiotics, UoA7 ecologist (Howell) is leading the
     ‘Deep-sea discovery - mining marine environments for novel biologics’ project, funded by the
     Society for Applied Microbiology, working with medical microbiologists (Upton, UoA3)
     to identify and develop potential new antimicrobials produced by deep sea sponges.

 Collaboration with end users

 Over the REF period 94 papers were co-authored with end users, representing 6.7% of our
 paper output, with a relatively high FWCI of 2.38, (SciVal, 27/01/2021).

 For example, there are prominent industry collaborations between:
 - BGC and EDF Energy on the characterisation of the porous space of Gilsocarbon graphite;
 - CRES and Lockheed-Martin/UK Seabed Resources on critical material potential of deep sea
    polymetallic nodules, currently funding one PhD project in CRES;
 - CRES and Posiva OY (the Finnish expert organisation in nuclear waste management)
    including Posiva currently funding one PhD project in CRES.

 COSE’s ‘Coastal Marine Applied Research (CMAR)’ research-informed consultancy has a client
 base that is both international (Netherlands, France, New Zealand) and national (EA, National
 Trust, local councils, Natural England, CEFAS). COSE’s ‘Plymouth Ocean Forecasting Centre’
 (Shapiro) led the £4M ‘UAE Ocean’ project (2014-2020) using state-of-the-art modelling to
 deliver ocean forecasting capability for the United Arab Emirates.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Around half of our ~200 Masters research projects each year are carried out with external
 organisations (government bodies, NGOs and commercial companies), acting as a catalyst for
 developing joint research projects, strengthening existing links (e.g. with MBA and PML) and
 making new links (e.g. a wider research programme on lionfish under development with the Joint
 Nature Conservation Committee, JNCC).

 Wider research environment

 Plymouth UoA7 staff have made substantial contributions to the wider research environment and
 demonstrated leadership in the academic community. For example:
 • Morris is: Chair of the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling Science Support
    and Advisory Committee (ESSAC) (IODP Program Member Office for Europe and Canada)
    (2018-2021); Chair of NERC UK-IODP Site Survey Initiative Panel (2015-Present); a
    member of the UK IODP Program Advisory Group (2015-Present); and member of the
    ‘Instituting Scientific Drilling Beyond 2023’ Science Plan Working Group.
 • Hall-Spencer is Chair of the NERC National Facility for Scientific Diving Steering Committee
    and was elected as President of the British Phycological Society in 2018.
 • Howell is a member of the NERC Marine Facilities Advisory Board (2018) and co-chair of the
    Deep Ocean Stewardship Initiative’s working group on the Decade of Ocean Science (2018).
    Attrill is on the International Advisory Panel for the Institute of Oceanology Quingdao (China)
    and the Finland Academy Ecology grant panel.
 • McQuatters-Gollop chairs the OSPAR group leading Europe’s implementation of the Marine
    Strategy Framework Directive for pelagic habitats.
 • Manzella Chairs the SW Regional Group of the Geological Society of London.

 As well as contributing to the academic community through committees and working groups,
 Plymouth UoA7 staff engage with wider society through public lectures and outreach. COSE
 staff delivered over 50 outreach talks to schools, providing young people with an insight into how
 their coastlines are changing and how coastal communities may need to adapt in the future.
 CRES’s Stephen recently launched Lockdown Learn to assist school teachers with remote
 learning, and its new website has already been accessed from over 23 countries,
 https://sites.google.com/view/lockdown-learn/home

 Advice to Governments

 Plymouth UoA7 staff have provided advice to Governments, including:
 • Advice to House of Commons, DEFRA, Parliamentary and Scientific Committee and UK
    House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee on protecting oceans and plastic
    pollution (Thompson); Presentation of ‘Science Advice for Policy by European Academies
    (SAPEA)’ report on Microplastics (Washington DC, 2019) (Thompson);
 • Advice to UK Government on ocean acidification, fisheries management and sustainable
    seas and submitting evidence to the Scottish Parliament on salmon farming (Hall-Spencer);
 • Appointed as Scientific Advisor, Defra, Tranche 3 Marine Conservation Zones Evidence
    Panel, 2018, (Hall-Spencer);
 • Plenary talks at the House of Commons on the “Blue Belt” plan for Plymouth Sound National
    Marine Park, 2018, (Attrill);
 • Evidence to the government review on highly protected marine areas (Sheehan);
 • Appointed to UN World Ocean Assessment team and as a Scientific Advisor on the UN IAEA
    Ocean Acidification working group (Hall-Spencer).

 Awards

 Some examples of personal awards to UoA7 staff are shown in Figure 5:




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Year              Award                  Staff                                Details
  Awarded
   2020       Royal Society Fellow       Richard        Thompson also named as one of the world’s Highly
                                        Thompson        Cited Researchers for 2020 based on Clarivate list of
                                                        publications that rank in the top 1% by citations.
   2020       Jordan-UK Research        Iain Stewart    Awarded by the British Academy and the Royal Scientific
             Chair in Sustainability                    Society of Jordan. 4-yr 0.75 FTE secondment supported
                                                        by the Newton Fund, started 1/1/2021.
   2020       UKRI Future Leaders       Zoe Mildon      £1.1M to UoP for a 4-year project combining geology,
               Fellowship Award                         physics and computer science to generate a new multi-
                                                        disciplinary way of calculating earthquake hazard.
   2020      Geologists Association     Zoe Mildon      Awarded to ECRs, recognising Mildon ‘as one of the
               Halstead Award                           rising stars of UK structural geology and earthquake
                                                        hazard analysis’.
   2020       UKRI Future Leaders       Oliver Tills    £440k to UoP for a 7-year project developing an
               Fellowship Award                         integrative approach to phenomics. Collaboration with
                                                        British Antarctic Survey, Scymaris ecotoxicology
                                                        consultancy, University of Leiden and Italian Institute of
                                                        Marine Science.
   2019       Queen’s Anniversary           UoP         Awarded for the University’s research and policy impact
              Prize for Higher and                      on microplastics pollution in the oceans. This follows on
                     Further                            from the Queen’s Anniversary Prize UoP received in
                                                        2012 for the breadth and excellence of its marine and
                                                        maritime research and teaching.
   2019        EU Horizon Impact        Louise Firth,   Recognising ‘the societal impact across Europe and
                    Award                   Simon       beyond’ of Plymouth’s EU project ‘Innovative
                                           Rundle,      technologies for safer European coasts in a changing
                                           Richard      climate (THESEUS)’, a collaboration between UoP
                                         Thompson       ecologists and coastal engineers.
   2019        Tech South-West              Mark        Awarded to FABSOIL project, a collaboration between
               Research Award            Fitzsimons     UoP and The Eden Project, showing how fabricated soils
                                                        could help ensure future global food security.
   2018        Two NERC impact           Richard        Awarded for the University’s microplastics research, also
            awards, ‘Societal Impact    Thompson        named as one of the UK’s 100 best university
              Award’ and ‘Overall                       breakthroughs in a list compiled by Universities UK.
                   Winner’
   2018     The Geological Society of      Sarah        For the initiative “Girls into Geosciences”
                    London                Boulton       https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/news/girls-into-
               RH Worth Award                           geoscience-wins-national-award-for-inspiring-female-
                                                        scientists
   2018      Officer of the Order of       Richard      For ‘Services to Marine Science’
            the British Empire (OBE)     Thompson
   2017     The Zoological Society of      Richard      For Marine and Freshwater Conservation.
             London Marsh Award          Thompson
   2014-            Holds the           Iain Stewart    Stewart was also elected Fellow of the Royal Society of
   2018          UNESCO Chair in                        Edinburgh (2017) and received the European Federation
            Geoscience and Society                      of Geoscientists Medal of Merit (2016), the Royal
              (from 2018 onwards)                       Society of Edinburgh Senior Public Engagement Award
                                                        (2015), the American Association of Petroleum
                                                        Geologists ‘Geoscientists in the Media’ Award (2014)
                                                        and the ‘Scientia Medal’ from UNSW Australia (2014).

   Figure 5: Examples of Personal Research Awards to Plymouth UoA7 staff during the REF2021 period.

 Summary of other contributions

 Plymouth UoA7 staff hold a number of Visiting Professorships and Fellowships. For
 example, Hall-Spencer is Adjunct Professor at Xiamen University and Research Professor at

                                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tsukuba University. Menegon was awarded a Guest Professorship at University of Vienna in
 2015. McQuatters-Gollop is a Defra Senior Policy Fellow, a NERC Knowledge Exchange Fellow
 and holds a Japan Society for the Promotion of Science Invited Fellowship. Lengger is a
 Rubicon Fellow at University of Bristol, fully funded by the Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research.

 Over the current REF period, Plymouth UoA7 staff have delivered > 100 invited keynote
 lectures across the UK, Europe, North and South America, Pakistan, India and China including
 to the American Geophysical Union (San Francisco), British Antarctic Survey (Cambridge),
 Dorothy Hill Women in Earth Sciences Symposium (Brisbane), European Geophysical Union
 (Vienna), International Arctic Science Committee (Davos), Royal Society (London) and United
 Nations (Ecuador).

 Plymouth UoA7 staff are journal editors-in-chief for Geomorphology (Stokes M), Organic
 Geochemistry (Rowland) and Regional Studies in Marine Science (Hall-Spencer), associate
 editors for Marine Biodiversity Records (Ciotti, McQuatters-Gollop), Environmental Chemistry
 Letters (Fitzsimons), Marine Chemistry (Turner) and Continental Shelf Research (Ussher) as
 well as contributing to numerous journal editorial boards. Ussher received a Certificate of
 Outstanding Contribution to Reviewing from Continental Shelf Research.

 Plymouth UoA7 staff are NERC peer review college members (e.g. Fitzsimons, Grimes, Hall-
 Spencer, Howell, Stokes M) and contribute to NERC panels (e.g. Discovery Science Large
 Grant and Standard Grant, Industrial Case Award, Global Partnerships Seedcorn Fund, National
 Capability Services and Facilities Isotope and Radiocarbon Assessment). Hall-Spencer was an
 expert reviewer for the IPCC and the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Programme (AMAP)
 assessment of ocean acidification in the Arctic. Spicer was an expert reviewer for the First Order
 Draft IPCC Special Report on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a changing climate (SROCC). Staff
 also carried out reviewing for the EU (e.g. FP7 SEAS-ERA, Marie Curie International
 Fellowships, Innovative Training Networks), Portuguese Science and Technology Foundation,
 Austrian Science Foundation, French National Research Agency, German-Israeli Foundation,
 Italian Ministry of University Education, Norwegian Research Council, the National funding
 councils in Australia (e.g. CSIRO), and in the USA (e.g. National Science Foundation, NOAA
 Sea Grants, National Undersea Research Centre).

 Plymouth UoA 7 staff have been external examiner for PhDs at UK Universities (e.g.
 Aberdeen, Bangor, Bristol, Durham, Exeter, Heriot-Watt, Imperial College London, Leeds,
 Manchester, Queen Mary College, Royal Holloway, Sheffield, Southampton, St Andrews, York),
 European Universities (e.g. Brest, Cagliari, TU Denmark, Leuven, Lyon, Paris, Porto, Stockholm,
 Utrecht, ETH Zurich) and Overseas Universities (e.g. Adelaide Australia, Alberta USA, Andhra
 India, Hong Kong, Marrakech Morocco, Sydney Australia).




                                                                                            Page 21
