Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 32, Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
Art, Design and Visual Cultures are three separate departments, operating independently, with
distinct research infrastructures, administrations and strategies. But we have a shared focus on
contemporary art and culture and four key areas of intersecting vision and practice concerning:
    • ideas of publicness and public engagement;
    • the invention of methods;
    • transdisciplinarity;
    • participatory practices including co-creation and co-production.
Activities such as exhibiting, engaging in new forms of public research and study, and collaborating
with non-academic partners, position our work both within and outside of conventional academic
contexts and traditional arts venues. Alongside our contributions to academic scholarship we have
developed diverse approaches to practice-research drawing on new curatorial paradigms,
inventive archival methodologies, new models of user engagement, and new modes of
phenomenological, speculative, and post-colonial thought. Many of our projects facilitate
encounters between conventionally isolated knowledge groups and many of us, independently or
collaboratively, work with large, culturally diverse publics.

Goldsmiths Art has been breaking down methodological boundaries in art pedagogy and
research since the 1970s. Research is produced through individual and collaborative creative art
practice as well as academic publication and is best understood through four overlapping modes of
enquiry:
   • Practice-based research in which artists develop innovative methodologies and forms of
        creative practice to investigate their own open-ended propositions;
   • Research-based creative practices in which artists use archives and other research
        materials to develop artists’ research methodologies, resulting in material, written, filmic or
        performative art works;
   • Research in the history and criticism of contemporary art investigating issues of scholarly
        concern and contributing to knowledge within the field;
   • Interdisciplinary practice-based research in which curators and artists partner with
        institutions and researchers in other fields and sectors to develop creative and innovative
        research methods.

During the current REF period the Art Research programme has developed seven collaborative
research projects led by core staff:
   1. The MARs (Mountain of Art) Research Hub (Kreider, Newman, Schmitz, 2015-) and
       Research Garden (Gray, 2020-) incubate emerging research, bringing together the work
       of academic staff and research students with that of participants from across Goldsmiths
       and other institutions. Multiple funding from CHASE;
   2. The Nuclear Culture Project (Carpenter, 2011-; funded by Arts Catalyst and CHASE;
       supported by Bildmuseet, Umeå University, Sweden, Malmö Konstmuseum CAC/SMK
       Centre for Contemporary Art and the Energy & Technology Museum in Vilnius, Lithuania,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the latter in partnership with the AHRC networking project Nuclear Cultural Heritage: From
       Knowledge to Practice);
   3. The CHOREOGRAPHIC series (Schmitz, 2016-; CHASE funded), enables collaboration
       with invited guests working in choreography and (post-) dance to produce one-off
       productions at the intersection of artistic, curatorial and discursive labour. This has led to
       large-scale presentations at the Venice Biennale 2017 and the ICA London;
    4. ANIMATE ASSEMBLY (Schmitz in collaboration with Birkbeck College AHRC funded +
       Network funding, 2016 -) produces research at the intersections of animation, animism and
       technological animacy;
    5. LUMA Foundation Curatorial Network (Sheikh, 2016-19 in collaboration with LUMA
       Foundation, CCS Bard; Valand Academy of Arts, University of Gothenburg amongst
       others);
    6. The Maladies of the Book (Newman, 2019) a philosophy and literature seminar held at
       The ICA London, in collaboration with The Goldsmiths Centre for Philosophy and Critical
       Thought;
    7. Feminist Duration Reading Group (Reckitt, 2015 hosted at South London Gallery,
       Barbican Centre) an ongoing public programme encompassing reading groups, film
       screenings, performance, workshops, and guerrilla translation exploring earlier periods of
       feminist activity.

Goldsmiths Design explores the role of design beyond a traditional relationship to industry and
consumerism. Our work has three dimensions:
   • We collaborate with domain experts or take on new disciplinary skills, creating impact for
      stakeholders across governmental, industrial and cultural sectors and diverse publics;
   • We advocate for design practice as a first-class methodology for knowledge creation. We
      explore new approaches to pursuing design as research and experiment with novel forms
      of output and dissemination often informed by insights from and contributing to fine art,
      sociology, science & technology studies (STS), education, philosophy and cultural theory;
   • We explore relations between research and teaching, and support networks and
      programmes for pedagogic research and the development of creative pedagogy.

We have five research studios:
  1. The Interaction Research Studio (IRS; Gaver, Boucher, 2007-) designs computational
      systems for everyday life. It has benefitted from several large research grants, including the
      3-year EPSRC funded project My Naturewatch Camera for public engagement with wildlife
      through design technology;
  2. The Prospecting and Innovation Studio (Pi Studio; Waller, Fairfax, Conreen, 2007-)
      develops skills in innovation, social design, design with Neuroscience, and sustainability for
      the transformation of businesses, third sector organisations and government, in the UK and
      internationally;
  3. The Vehicles of Experimental Design Studio (Feo, Bannocks, 2014-) explores
      experimental design practice through major international exhibitions. The studio
      collaborates with the wider department to produce the annual experimental design book,
      Multiplexer;
  4. The Centre for Invention and Social Process (CISP; Guggenheim and Rosengarten
      (Goldsmiths’ Sociology); Wilkie, 2003-) is a leading international and interdisciplinary center
      for expertise in STS focused on examining the critical role of science and technology in
      society;

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   5. The Design Pedagogy Research Team (Bain, Sprake, 2018-, currently funded by the
      British Council's Newton Fund Institutional Links Research Project and the Design
      Museum’s Design Ventura programme) works with the Government of the Philippines on K-
      12 curriculum and professional practice for educators.

Research groups beginning to establish track records and funding streams include:
the Expanded Fashion Practice Team (Hoette, May, 2015-), a collaboration that challenges
traditional fashion practices and pedagogies; the Erasmus-funded Speculative Design Network
Group (Ward, Loizeau, 2018-) and experimental performance group Post Workers Theatre
(Macdonald, Mortimer, 2019-).

Goldsmiths Visual Cultures began as a unit in 1997 and became an academic department in
2004. Since then, we have helped establish and develop this still relatively new field, which we
understand as a meeting point between the artistic, the philosophical and the political. We are one
of only a few university departments internationally to teach the subject at all academic levels. Our
outputs take varied forms including:
    • Peer reviewed monographs, edited books and book chapters and journal articles;
    • Practice research;
    • Diverse forms of public and collective research that are largely, but not solely, associated
        with our work in the expanded fields of the curatorial;
    • Innovative spatial investigations in the field of Forensic Architecture.

We are home to two research centres and ten Research Clusters:
  1. The Centre for Research Architecture (CRA; 2005-) has established a robust and
      creative research and pedagogical practice bridging architecture, human rights, art, law,
      and the media. Initially led by Weizman, it is now directed by Schuppli. During this REF
      cycle CRA hosted Awan’s Topological Atlas: Mapping Contemporary Borderscapes project
      (2018-; ERC starter grant);
  2. Forensic Architecture (FA; 2014-) was initiated by Weizman after receiving an ERC Proof
      of Concept Grant. FA uses spatial mapping and other technologies to investigate human
      rights violations including violence committed by states, police forces, militaries, and
      corporations. FA has received recurrent major funding, including an ERC Consolidator
      Grant for 2016-21;
  3. Our departmental Research Clusters (2015-) relate to our interdisciplinary investigations
      of (predominantly) modern and contemporary art and culture from around the world. They
      are: 1) Culture, Memory, Futurity; 2) Environmental Humanities and Ecologies, which
      includes expertise in ‘the animal question’, ableism, and mental health; 3) Globalization and
      Transcultural Practices; 4) Performance and Live Art; 5) Philosophy, Critical and Visual
      Theory - we have particular expertise in ‘continental’ philosophy and post-colonial, African,
      African-diasporic, Pakistani and Indian thought; 6) Political Aesthetics; 7) Sexes, Genders,
      Genres; 8) Spatial Practice and Architecture; 9) Technologies of Image and Sound and 10)
      The Curatorial. Clusters facilitate targeted peer support and collaboration on our themed
      Public Programmes, other research-related events, publications, and funding applications.
      Most staff and PGRs are affiliated with up to three clusters according to areas of interest.

Across all three departments, we are committed to training the next generation of researchers
and offer MPhil/PhD programmes (in full- and part-time modes):



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Art’s MPhil/PhD in Art has 3 ‘pathways’: ‘Thesis by Practice’, ‘Thesis by Practice and
       Written Dissertation,’ and ‘Thesis by Written Dissertation’;
   •   Design’s MPhil/PhD includes both practice-based and thesis-based;
   •   Visual Cultures offers 3 MPhil/PhD programmes, in Visual Cultures; in
       Curatorial/Knowledge (which transitioned into an MPhil/PhD in Advanced Practices in
       2019); and in Research Architecture, all of which share expertise and resources.
       Dissertations may be entirely text-based or incorporate elements of practice.
       Curatorial/Knowledge/Advanced Practices is geared towards professionals working in the
       fields of curating and is delivered through an intensive, collective think-tank model, six
       times a year.

As set out in Section 2 of this document, we have strengthened our PhD provision across all three
departments during the REF cycle. For instance, Art initiated a ‘Thesis by Practice’ route and
enhanced practice staff contributions to the programme in terms of supervision, mentoring, and
running workshops, seminars and symposia by increasing research active 0.2 FTE staff contracts
to 0.3 FTE.

Research Strategies
Following REF 2014, our Departmental Research Committees (DRCs) have implemented
strategies to support sustainability and new ways of thriving in a difficult climate for arts and
humanities research. These strategies differed according to departmental needs – for instance, in
Visual Cultures an initial priority was streamlining and sometimes redesigning our research-
administrative processes in order to maximise efficiency and transparency and release capacity –
but they were aligned around those shared commitments identified above to public engagement,
the invention of methods, transdisciplinarity, and participation. These commitments have
guided our impact strategy over the current REF period. This is evidenced in many of our outputs
and in our impact case studies. Coutts’ The Iceberg, for instance, gave voice to the often
unspoken, all-consuming experience of caring for someone terminally ill with cancer; it supported
cancer patients and their families, influenced medical and social care practices, contributed
creative insight to the medical humanities, and won the Wellcome Book Prize 2015 for ‘exciting
public interest and public debate around medicine, health or illness’. For her Nuclear Culture
Research Group project, Carpenter partnered with nuclear agencies, commissioned artworks,
curated exhibitions and facilitated transdisciplinary discussion fora across Europe which
reimagined relationships between art and nuclear science, developed trust, and fostered new
spaces for dialogue. The Design Interaction Studio’s My Naturewatch Camera project engaged in
collaborative research to enable the public to create and use low-cost, DIY computational products.
Finally, our three Forensic Architecture Investigations pioneered new technical methods and
engaged OSINT (open-source intelligence) to expedite the analysis of human rights infractions;
these were adopted by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and influential media
reporters at the New York Times and BBC.

During the REF period, our shared research and impact priorities were to:
   • Advocate for notions of ‘public culture’ that combine significance with the broadest possible
       impact on society;
   • Encourage and support research that reaches out beyond academia and develops new
       forms of critical participation in the arts across all demographics;
   • Strengthen our outreach, particularly into local schools and communities, through a mixture
       of off-campus and on-campus activities;

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Reflect and contribute to the diversity of public life by recruiting more BAME/POC research
       staff and students;
   •   Support research capacity into new areas, including ecological and racial justice and
       health;
   •   Pro-actively support research time so that all staff, especially fractional staff with careers in
       the public domain, may better support and shape our research culture;
   •   Train the next generation of contemporary researchers through PhD programmes designed
       to engage with, and impact, contemporary concerns.

Going forward we also aim to:
   • Enhance our public engagement activities as contexts for conducting practice research and
       public research, and as pathways to impact;
   • Focus on environmentally sustainable, locally-based projects that explore the rich diversity
       of Lewisham and London;
   • Increase the democratisation of research by developing new ways of using public platforms
       and fora;
   • Build research capacity in subject areas related to ecology, justice and health;
   • Consolidate and strategically expand our research and arts-advocacy networks in order to
       reach new practitioners, professionals and publics (in 2022, for instance, we will host the
       Association for Art History Annual Conference);
   • Consolidate and strategically expand our research networks and build research consortia in
       order to access and share funding streams.

These priorities, activated through individual departmental strategies, will be tailored to our specific
research environments.

As evidenced throughout this document, inter- and transdisciplinarity are shared priorities. We
have a strong record of collaboration with academic and non-academic partners nationally and
internationally, and with researchers working across the humanities and the sciences. We
disseminate our work in diverse academic and non-academic contexts.

Research Culture
At Goldsmiths’ we contribute to cross-departmental research via the Centre for Invention and
Social Process (CISP), the Centre for Feminist Research, the Centre for Philosophy and
Critical Thought, the Fashion Research Unit, the Centre for Arts and Learning and the Centre
for Visual Anthropology.

We engage with Goldsmiths’ multi-disciplinary Research Themes: Technologies, Worlds,
Politics; Invention, Creativity and Experience; Bodies, Minds, Society; Social and Economic
Justice. The latter's 'Critical Ecologies' stream (Roberdeau and Sheikh (Media, Communications
and Cultural Studies)) is a strong point of intersection also with emerging, wide-ranging work in Art
with respect to the ecological (see section 4 for details). Wilkie co-developed the Invention,
Creativity and Experience Research Theme and serves on its committee. Themes enable
Goldsmiths’ researchers to garner our collective strengths as we generate and respond to
national/international agendas, emerging topics, and funding calls. Competitive Theme-related
funding is administered by Goldsmiths’ Research Services.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We are committed to developing open research in line with UKRI’s principles for Open Research
and Goldsmiths’ Open Access policy (Green Route). Via Goldsmiths Research Online (GRO) our
work is available for free public use (subject to publisher embargoes) and, as is the norm,
individual researchers also use Academia.edu and ResearchGate. Beyond this, however, Design
has supported open access by funding the development of the above-mentioned Multiplexer
(Goldsmiths Press, 2016–) which features visual essays, academic articles, project presentations
and non-traditional presentations of practice research. Access is also a subject of research;
Design’s Defiant Objects project for example, innovates how to archive non-standard research
outputs in institutional repositories and informed how Goldsmiths archived work on GRO for the
REF 2021.

Our departmental commitments to public engagement often also reframe common
understandings of open research. For many projects, initiated outside of the academy, we make
extensive archives of exhibitions, events, talks and performances feely available on our own
websites or those of the research groups or institutions we collaborate with. Likewise, our public
research initiatives extend accessibility and democratisation making the benefits of contestation,
a privilege of the arts, more widely available. For instance, in Visual Cultures, Rogoff/freethought’s
co-curation of the 2016 Bergen Assembly included a 30-month, public City Seminar hosted by
Bergen's main civic institutions and supported by online resources. In addition, working with retired
firemen who had been campaigning for a ‘Museum of Fire’, they created a ‘Museum of Burning
Questions’. This has brought the firemen new and potentially ongoing civic support. Dyangani
Ose's curation of the 2015 Göteborg International Biennial for Contemporary Art (‘A Story within a
Story’), provided opportunities for participatory history-making through a public story-telling
platform, ‘House of Words’. Furthermore, tools developed by staff are available for public use,
including Pezzani’s Watch the Med online mapping platform which empowers refugees, and
Forensic Architecture’s open-source software package, TimeMap, which visualises geospatial
events in an interactive platform.

Given the nature of our research, we test the boundaries of and positively contribute to
understandings of research integrity and ethics. Due to the often exploratory, processual nature
of our research – involving fieldwork, interviewing, and innovative methodologies – our DRCs
consistently review the due diligence of projects and resolve integrity concerns. Engagement with
sensitive material and trauma recurs in the work of CRA and FA, in Wolf’s work with political
activists, Schmetterling's explorations of traumatic memory, and our research with migrants and
refugees (Awan, Eisa, Graham, Pezanni, Schwindt). In addition, artists funded by the public realm
must negotiate how to work within the bounds of those institutions’ ethics committees as well as
our own. Recent concerns include online interviewing which frequently limits the diversity of
participants; obstacles include lack of access to technology and/or confidential conversational
spaces. Also, adjusting to new data protection regulations has affected researchers’ capacities to
access and openly disseminate information.

At project level, robust procedures are in place. We review research projects against Goldsmiths’
Ethics Approval Forms or departmental versions thereof. Student projects must be approved by
supervisors. Projects are reviewed by DRCs (in Art, a separately convened Ethics Committee is
part of the regulatory structure) and by Goldsmiths’ Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee -
where Keirl (Design) has served as a member and deputy chair for over four years. Overall,
our goal is to mitigate any risk for researchers and participants while arguing how the results of the
research, and their contribution to the economy and society, justify the methods identified.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

   •   Art has 61 Category A staff (32.8 FTE) and is distinctive because ca 80% of staff have
       fractional posts while supporting international practice careers;
   •   Design has 28 Category A staff (23 FTE) many of whom support practice careers;
   •   Visual Cultures has 23 Category A staff (20.1 FTE) of whom over half are artists or curators
       as well as theorists.

Staff
Our departmental staff development strategies are designed to best support researchers be
they artists working individually or in public, designers involved in cross-sector and participatory
collaborations, staff undertaking public research, or more traditional academic researchers.
Departmental staff development strategies are tailored to our own unique profiles, but we share
common priorities.

We support sustained, regular research time throughout the academic year in order to help
researchers maintain momentum on large-scale projects and in order to enhance departmental
provision to students. To this end, Art increased all 0.2 FTE research staff contracts to 0.3 FTE
without increasing teaching load. This 50% increase in dedicated research time benefitted 16 staff,
from ECRs to Professors, enriching our research culture and strengthening our
PhD programme through increased supervision, mentoring, workshops, seminars and symposia,
and attracting new staff. Design encourages staff to undertake research and supports a sabbatical
process. Visual Cultures allocate 33% of category A staff time to research and organise
curricula/calendars to enable teaching/admin/email-free research days every Friday. These
strategies have been fruitful: regarding academic publication alone, since January 2014 collectively
our departments have produced 82 books (ranging from Gray's Cinemas of the Mozambican
Revolution. Anti-Colonialism, Independence and Internationalism in Filmmaking, 1968-1991 to
Turner’s Poetics of Deconstruction: On the Threshold of Differences, both 2020), 304 book
chapters and 261 journal articles.

Each department funds individual researchers differently. Art provides seed funding via the
research support award, with an average value of £1,000, enabling researchers to pursue
commissions and awards and to leverage further funding from external sources (see Section 3).
Design provides seed funding from a dedicated Research and Enterprise Endowment Fund and
Transfocal Project Fund to nurture the relationship between staff research and teaching. Early
support of Quin’s project ‘Standard Practice’, for instance, led to presentations at British Standards
Institute (BSI) conferences and Quin received a BSI Standards Makers Award for Education about
Standardisation, 2019. Visual Cultures supports all academic staff at an annual rate of £800 pro
rata. This investment usually funds conference attendance or publication production costs
supporting eventual successful publication/performance. We offer this provision to all staff because
research undergirds our teaching at all levels and because we want to support staff on teaching-
only contracts who wish to develop research careers.

Given our strategic focus on public engagement and participation we have worked hard to
stimulate exchanges between academia and business, industry and third sector bodies.
Design regularly seconds staff to Arts Council and other residencies (for instance, Wardrop’s
heritage tourism residency discussed in Section 4) and arranges placements with SMEs. We
support residencies and placements via Goldsmiths’ Dedicated Research Time scheme and

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
department sabbaticals, using departmental budgets to cover teaching/admin duties. Facilitating
exchanges between relevant professionals and industry has particularly increased our recruitment
of practitioners.

Staff benefit from department-based and College-wide mentoring, research training and
professional development via Goldsmiths’ Learning and Development hub. Training in equality
and diversity and PhD supervision is mandatory. Practice-based staff in Art receive supervision
training internally and externally (i.e. collaboratively with the Courtauld Institute). In Visual Cultures,
senior staff mentor colleagues at an earlier career stage and conduct Personal Development
Reviews (PDRs). We also embedded REF-specific diagnostic meetings and mentoring
particularly with reference to the production of Practice-Research Portfolios and Impact Case
Studies.

We organise staff research seminars and research-themed away days. Wellbeing training is
available annually, as is access to College-based and external wellbeing and occupational health
services if required.

Research groups/clusters support researchers. For instance, Design employs 6–10
predominantly ECRs on UKRI- and ERC-funded projects through Interaction Research Studio.
Many have progressed to senior positions in our department, in academia or in the industry
internationally. Examples include Bowers, Professor of Creative Digital Practice, Newcastle
University; Law, Associate Professor at Rhode Island School of Design, and Hauenstein, Interface
Designer at Apple, USA.

Many of our large-scale funded projects facilitate network building and cross-departmental
collaboration. For instance, for Nuclear Cultures, Carpenter commissioned artworks from staff
across Art and Visual Cultures (Mabb, Craighead, Crowe, Schuppli) and involved post-doctoral
researchers in a major exhibition at Bildmuseet, Umeå University, Sweden. She also facilitated a
new research network of over 150 artists and nuclear arts scholars worldwide.

Research and impact excellence have led to promotions and positions of departmental
responsibility. Wakeford’s work on methodologies of creative practice-based research helped her
to become Director of Art’s PhD Programme; in Visual Cultures O’Sullivan’s prolific academic
output and his performance practice as part of the collective Plastique Fantastique which
disseminates academic research to non-academic audiences, earned him a Professorship.
Collectively, since 2014, we have achieved 40 promotions:
    • Art: 24 promotions. 5 (out of 8) Professors, 8 (of 12) Readers, 11 (of 15) Senior Lecturers;
    • Design: 7 promotions. 1 (of 3) Professors, 1 (of 2) Readers, 5 (of 10) Senior Lecturers;
    • Visual Cultures: 9 promotions. 1 (of 3) Professors, 2 (of 3) Readers, 2 (of 5) Senior
        Lecturers, and 4 (of 12) Lecturers were promoted within this band to Lecturer B.

Staff seeking promotion receive college-level instruction and departmental-level mentoring. PDRs
help staff reflect on their achievements and career pathways and help departments monitor issues
including equitable working conditions and career development opportunities. Design encouraged
female academics to join the Aurora Women’s Leadership Development Programme (Kristensen,
Sprake). Researchers have also been awarded places on the Leadership Foundation’s Research
Team Leaders scheme (Kristensen).

We recruit staff for their proven (and promising) record of research innovation and leadership

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
whether in scholarship, art practice and exhibiting, curation, publishing, or consultancy, and in
order to support their development as researchers. We also benefit from their relationships with
galleries, museums and industry partners, and professional networks. Recruitment during the REF
period was as follows:
    • Art: 14 ECRs (Abad, Ashcroft, Chalklin, Clinton, Eisa, Faramawy, Harbison, Ifekoya,
        Makhlouf Carter, McCartney, Reupke, Samson, Williams Gamaker, Zaman); 2 Readers
        (Nashashibi, Wakeford); 2 Professors (Batchelor, Kreider);
    • Design: 8 ECRs (Bannocks, Kristensen, Macdonald, Mortimer, Quin, May, Van Balen,
        Wardrop);
    • Visual Cultures: 5 ECRs (Brar, Dyangani Ose, Graham, Madani, Hernandez-Velasquez).

Across our departments, Early Career Researchers received focused peer-mentoring and
practice-based researchers learn how best to articulate their work as research and strategize
research applications. In Art, targeted external expertise has trained ECRs in evidence-gathering
and in archiving their practices. In Visual Cultures ECRs teach one module less than normal
weighting in their first year of employment. All ECRs benefit from established departmental
relations with external bodies and alumni networks – such as Visual Cultures’ global network of
Curatorial/Knowledge alumni who participated in our anniversary conference C/K12 (2018) with
invited guests Bonaventure Soh Bejeng Ndikung and Ana Teixeira Pinto to examine the potential
of the curatorial to affect the social.

Collectively, our intake of new colleagues has been diverse, increasing the number of BAME staff
and extending our research expertise in such areas as black technopoetics; African and African
diasporic art-making; Pakistani art and culture; decolonial curating; the colonial legacies of British
and Hollywood films; rights-based approaches to participation; liberatory politics and co-creation in
filmmaking; the work of anti-racist and women-led grassroots film organisations. Nonetheless, the
ethnicity data across our unit shows still-significant disparities between BAME and White staff, and
this is an issue that we will continue to address in our future facing staffing strategies:
    • Female staff: 18.1% BAME; 71.3% white; 10.6% unknown;
    • Male staff: 16.8% BAME; 74.8% white; 8.4% unknown.

Research students
Collectively, over the REF period, we had 133 PhD completions.

With PhD applications we work to attract more BAME students and BAME staff are involved
throughout our admissions processes. Overall, we aim only to accept applicants who are well-
suited to our programmes and well placed to undertake advanced research, intellectually,
creatively, psychologically and from a practical point of view. For instance, in order to best support
this intention, in Visual Cultures we streamlined our PGR admissions process in order to make it
more diagnostic and self-diagnostic from the applicant’s point of view: applicants complete detailed
departmental and college applications, answering targeted questions about their research project
and identifying research cluster alignments. Departmental review panels meet three times a year
and match successful applicants with appropriate supervisors. Across our departments, PGR
students are attracted by the diversity and contemporaneity of our research expertise, and by our
cultivation of a ‘shared’ PGR culture and strong research community. Also critical have been the
varied modes of practice-based PhD research that are offered in all departments.

A joint strength relates to the number of studentships awarded though doctoral training

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
programmes:
   • During the REF period, 26 studentships were awarded through the CHASE AHRC Doctoral
      Training Partnership which funds up to 75 studentships per year;
   • 13 Design students were funded through AHRC Design Star;
   • Each year, Visual Cultures awards one fully-funded international PhD bursary from
      departmental monies. During the REF period, an additional 5 Visual Cultures PGRs were
      funded by their own national governments.

Robust administrative mechanisms are in place, including recording and monitoring PhD
supervision, training and support through written supervision record forms and online annual
progress monitoring reports. These allow MPhil/PhD Programme Convenors, departmental PGR
Committees and the Goldsmiths Graduate School to oversee progress and respond to students’
needs. Students are assigned a minimum of two supervisors and, as published in our PGR
programme-specific handbooks, key monitoring benchmarks include annual reviews co-written by
supervisors and students, annual pre-upgrade panels, and the upgrade itself (usually within 18
months of a programme of full-time study). In Art, there is an annual presentation in ‘spring review
week’ to two other researchers and supervisors; one presentation to the cohort in the 'Practice
Research Presentation Seminar'; and one 'public-facing installation' to the cohort and outside
audiences. Upgrade is usually at 18-24 months of full-time study.

Where research training is concerned, the MARS hub in Art runs regular practice and writing
research fora for PGRs, funded by CHASE and led by core and fractional staff with invited
researchers from outside the department. Topics have included Materiality (White); Fandom as
Methodology (Grant); Northern Ireland: Art Media Politics (Harbison); What Can a Garden Be?
(Gray); Radiological Deep Time (Carpenter). MARs has also supported other CHASE-funded
research initiatives including: Resisting Relations (Grant, CHASE-funded, £2000; Paul Mellon,
£2000); and the Women of Colour Index Reading Group (CHASE-funded, £5000). Design’s PGR
seminar series Design Matters forms the spine of departmental training. In Visual Cultures,
PGRs attend weekly 3-hour research seminars for the first two years of their studies. They
receive additional bi-annual training through Reskin, an AHRC-funded research skills
intercollegiate network for Art History/Visual Culture and Architecture students from multiple
London universities. In 2018 and 2019, students in Visual Cultures and Art were offered training in
phenomenological research methods (Andrews delivered collaboratively with LASALLE College of
the Arts, Singapore). All students have opportunities to advance and diversify their skills through
affiliation with departmental Research Groups and Research Studios and college-level
Research Themes, and by attending Goldsmiths’ Graduate School training events.

All PGR students are expected to present research at national or international conferences or
otherwise disseminate their work as part of training and knowledge transfer activities. In Design, for
instance, PGRs have presented at the Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, the
Nordic Design Research Society (Nordes) and the European Society for the Study of Science and
Technology. Practice-based students exhibit research internationally. Examples include Three
Days of Fat (Kings College London, 2018); Play and Psychoanalysis (Freud Museum, 2017) and a
student collaboration with the Department of Nutritional Sciences and Culture Institute, Kings
College London, staging a series of ‘live’ art-science experiments. Students have also run
workshops at the British Library and V&A. In Visual Cultures at least one conference presentation
is an upgrade requirement.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Several PGR students have been honoured at the Goldsmiths Warden’s Annual Public
Engagement Award ceremonies for their research dissemination. In 2020, Sinclair (both faculty
and PGR in Design) with Price (History) won a Special Award for Civic Engagement for Windrush:
Arrival 1948 exhibited at Goldsmiths, City Hall, and Lewisham Shopping Centre. In 2019 Sinclair
won the Special Award for Community Engagement for The Women of Windrush and she was
commended in 2017 for Dorcas Stories which again exemplified the experiences and craft
practices of Caribbean immigrants to the UK. In 2018, Keene (Design) won the PG Award for
Database Estate which investigated the critical role of databases in local regeneration
controversies. In 2018, Springer (Visual Cultures) was commended for her project Disappearing
Legacies: The World as Forest and in 2017 Visual Cultures' Barokka was nominated for her book
Indigenous Species (Tilted Axis Press, 2016) which addressed pollution and consumerism in a
global context and was created to be accessible for both sighted and visually impaired audiences.
Other awards to Design PGRs include a Creative Industries Fund (Netherlands) award, Foundation
Scotland Fan Trust award and EPSRC networking grants.

PGRs wishing to pursue academic careers are encouraged to complete a Goldsmiths'
Postgraduate Certificate in the Management of Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.
This Higher Education Academy-accredited programme provides students with advanced practical
and theoretical training and feedback on their observed teaching practice; successful graduation
provides eligibility for recognition as HEA Fellows.

Annually, PGRs are invited to apply for competitive Graduate Trainee Tutor (GTT) posts in our
departments or elsewhere in Goldsmiths. In Visual Cultures only upgraded PGR students may
apply and we prefer applicants who have undertaken the above-mentioned teacher training.
Recently, PGRs in Visual Cultures have sought to disseminate research via Goldsmiths’ Short
Courses; Kirkland’s ‘Black Fashion Discourse’ course and Travatt’s course on ‘Liberalism in the
Anthropocene’ were postponed due to Covid-19.

Over the years we have worked hard to create strong departmental research communities and
a bottom-up, shared PGR culture where students collaborate and play a distinctive role in planning
and delivering PGR research events. Notable are, ‘PhD by Design’, the practice-based research
conferences developed by MPhil/PhD Design students, convened at Goldsmiths (2014), Leeds
College of Art (2015), Brighton (2015) and Limerick (2018), involving 284 doctoral practice-based
design researchers from 168 departments in 124 institutions across 38 countries. Key issues, such
as the ‘messiness’ of practice-research, are explored. Since 2018, Visual Cultures PGRs have
been gathering as a self-directed practice-research collective, Counterfield, producing listening
sessions, films, publications and talks exploring their research intersections. In Art, ‘Writing for
Practice’, a student-led workshop and forum organised by PGRs Pickering, Rankovic and Harris
and researchers from Sheffield Hallam University (CHASE-funded, £1530) acts as a discursive
space in which to gain regular peer feedback on imaginative or experimental approaches to writing
in practice-based research.

Many of our graduates have taken up or developed their own successful careers. Selected
graduate destinations include:
   • Academic Positions: Our graduates have lectureships at: Art Institute of Chicago; Arts
       University Bournemouth; Ben Gurion University of the Negev; Birmingham School of Art;
       Brunel University; Coventry University; Escola de Arquitectura da Universidade do Minho
       (EAUM), Porto; Goldsmiths; Jacobs University, Bremen; Kingston University; Malaysian

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Multimedia University; Nottingham Trent University; Oxford Brookes University; Swansea
       College of Art; Silpakorn University, Thailand; Royal College of Art; Université de Montréal,
       University of Brasilia; University of Otago, New Zealand;
   •   Post-doctoral researchers: Mann: Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, Kings College; Ahmed,
       Faculty of Architecture and Design, Trondheim Academy of Fine Art; he also runs
       INTERPRT which is dedicated to environmental justice advocacy;
   •   Selected Graduate Publications: In Art, Harbison (Performing Image, MIT, 2019) and
       Gronemeyer, The Curatorial Complex (Verlag Wilhelm Fink, 2018). Visual Cultures’ Aloi
       has now published 6 books and is Editor-in-Chief of Antennae: The Journal of Nature in
       Visual Culture;
   •   Curators: Moon: Venice Architecture Biennale, the Nam June Paik Art Center and Head of
       Programmes (2020) at the Liverpool Biennial; Georgiou: showcases feminist and queer art
       practices and theories; Mende: international independent curator also leading the CCC
       (critical/curatorial/cybernetic) Research Programme PhD-Forum at HEAD–Genève;
   •   Practitioners: Park, Artist Commission ARTMargins (MIT Press Journals) and public
       installation, Southbank Centre, London; Cooter, Solo exhibition The Mimic, the Model and
       the Dupe, New Walk Museum and Art Gallery, Leicester and group exhibitions ICA London,
       Acores, Portugal, Brussels, The Hague; Abu Hamdan: artist and Researcher in Forensic
       Architecture, joint 2019 Turner Prize winner.

Equality and diversity
All staff have access to relevant information, resources and support networks via Goldsmiths'
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Hub and our departments have mechanisms in place for
staff and students (via personal tutoring, senior tutor access, staff-student fora, and representation
on Departmental Committees) to raise and resolve EDI issues.

As described above, we aim to create inclusive, collaborative and enabling research
environments and to reflect the diversity of our provision in our staff and student profiles. While
we recognise there is more to be done, we have been working to address the systemic injustices
and lack of representation that exist internally and across the profession. In Art, Ashcroft organises
a weekly anti-racist reading group for all staff to discuss unconscious bias and institutional racism
in our research culture. Visual Cultures, too, runs an Anti-Racism Working Group for staff and
students. All departments are assembling accessible, online anti-racist resources and
reviewing/addressing the inclusivity of our curricula. Art financially supported Eisa’s Art and
Activism workshop at Autograph, 2019, and is establishing two fully funded BAME/POC PhD
studentships for 2021/22. At doctoral level, Art’s Amoah is investigating issues of decolonizing the
institution and Smith is researching BAME representation in painting. Design is redressing the
gender imbalance that is a legacy of the sector, including reconfiguring DRC membership to
represent the diversity of staff and research interests. We are also aligning with the Athena Swann
Charter to transform gender equality in HE. BAME staff sit on Art, Design and Visual Cultures PGR
admissions and staff recruitment panels.

We support PhD students with special requirements, using devices such as RASAs (reasonable
adjustments for study and assessments). Students affected by work/life issues may transfer from
full- to part-time (or vice-versa) or interrupt their studies.

Equality and diversity issues in the construction of the REF submission
The structure of our combined submission includes 54% women and 46% men, with 17% BAME,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
72% White and 11% ‘unknown’. 7% of colleagues have a known disability, and 90% of the UOA is
divided equally between colleagues in the 35-49 and 50-64 age ranges. When selecting outputs for
submission, all three departments complied with the Goldsmiths’ Code of Practice, albeit in slightly
different ways. For instance, Visual Cultures involved all Category A staff, and Art all members of
our Research Committee (all Readers and Professors and elected staff) in the internal grading and
selection process. We all used external advisers to calibrate and moderate our internal
judgements. Our primary criterion for output selection was quality, with representativeness as
secondary. That said, our final submission is closely representative of the profile of our cohort as a
whole. A majority of staff (62%) are submitted with one output, consistent with the number of staff
on fractional contracts. Given the demands of producing practice-research portfolios, we did not
generally expect practice-researchers on fractional contracts to contribute multiple outputs to the
submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
During the REF period, Art, Design and Visual Cultures obtained significant funding from both
HESA and non-HESA sources; thus from UK and European Research Councils, from
organisations such as the BBC, V&A, and UN Development Fund, and from charities and private
sources. Alongside our collective HESA-reported income of £5.67m, in Art alone funding not
reported to HESA amounted to at least £2.4m. In alignment with our transdisciplinary interests,
these funders represent artistic, social and environmental concerns, human rights, education,
mental health, healthcare, STEM and economics.

Our Research Centres and Units provide structured and semi-structured environments for
innovative research involving multiple researchers, extensive network building and field-work. Their
ongoing sustainability requires a robust approach to fundraising. Here, one strategy has been to
build on areas of research expertise and existing funding successes. For instance, the
Interaction Research Studio (Gaver, Boucher) has built momentum to scale and democratise the
impact of their self-build devices for user research. A series of EPSRC grants of £739,448
(ProbeTools 2015-2018), £957,846 (Citizen Naturewatch 2017-21) and £250,167 (SCADs 2020-
21) have enabled the team to design open-source devices that have been built in hundreds by
other universities and by industry, including Volkswagen R&D, as well as the general public. This
has only been possible with the incremental expertise the team developed through their long-term
funding strategy.

Forensic Architecture’s human rights investigations are enabled by successive core funding plus
smaller grants. For instance, an initial ERC Proof of Concept Grant (€150,000, 2014-15) led to
further ERC funding (a Consolidator Grant, €2m, 2016-21) and substantial funding from the Sigrid
Rausing Trust; Open Society Foundations, and the Oak Foundation. Six further project-specific
grants (totalling £492,000) supported work with Black Lives Matter, UK (Vital Projects Fund) and
investigations in Columbia (OSF, Porticus, United Nations Development Programme) and Papua
(Greenpeace). These smaller projects, often providing evidence in legal fora, were enabled by the
collective expertise that this mixed funding model supports.

Major grants (recorded in the HESA data) are sought for individual projects, often coalescing
around themes of contemporary significance. In Visual Cultures, for instance, Blas was awarded


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
an AHRC Leadership Fellowship for Bio-Exempt: Art in the Age of Digital Networked Surveillance
(2018-2021; £202,521) which examines UK Home Office immigration procedures.

Involvement in multi-institution projects has also been fruitful. For instance, as a researcher on
Birmingham City University’s AHRC-funded Conflict, Memory, Displacement project (£200,000),
Graham (Visual Cultures) coordinated impact work enabling refugees to 'speak back' to negative
media representations through projects performed from 2017-2019 in gallery (Nottingham
Contemporary), community (Birmingham Association for Refugee Action) and academic contexts
(Pirate Care). This led to an advisory role with the arts group Global Sistaz United and co-
authorship of How Media and Conflicts Make Migrants (Manchester (UP, 2020).

Many projects attracting non-HESA funding, particularly in Art, begin as commissions in the public
domain. During the REF period, 32 practice-researchers in Art received commissions from 23
organizations including Artangel, Channel 4 Random Acts, Glasgow European Athletics
Championships, the Imperial War Museum, the Mental Health Foundation, the Nuclear
Decommissioning Agency, Paddington Railway Station, Transport for London and the Wellcome
Trust, which were supplemented by awards from a further 20 funders. Visual Cultures researchers
have also received art and curatorial commissions from major arts venues including Bergen
Kunsthall, Documeta, BAK Utrecht, and the Hayward.

Major commissions are invaluable, supporting research over an extended period. For instance,
Nashashibi’s Documenta 14 commission to make a film about the artists Vivian Suter and
Elisabeth Wild was developed over three trips to Panajachel, Guatamala. The resulting work
illuminated a complex instance of post-colonial living. Nashashibi was subsequently nominated for
the Turner Prize 2017 for Vivian’s Garden and her Imperial War Museum commission Electric
Gaza.

The exploratory and transdisciplinary nature of our research means that initial commissions
often generate further funding as they develop and hybridize. For instance, Olde Wolbers’
fascination with a ‘blue plaque’ house where Vincent Van Gogh once stayed led to an Artangel
commission and a public installation, Yes, these Eyes are the Windows (2014) funded by the Arts
Council and the National Lottery/Heritage Lottery Fund. Over two years, the project developed
multiple strands, exploring myths of illness and creativity with the mental health charity CoolTan
Arts. An award from the Mondriaan Fund resulted in a film for exhibition at the Foundation Vincent
Van Gogh, Arles (2016, 100,000 visitors).

We also encourage staff to apply for open competition funding. In Design, the public sculpture
Every Increased Possession Loads Us with New Weariness (Van Balen, 2017) exploring materials
ecologies and gentrification, was funded through a competitive award by muf architecture/art and
Stanhope Schroders. Such funding may also be used to support commissioned work. When
Aichi University of the Arts, Nagoya commissioned Johnstone (Art) to make a commemorative film,
initial funding from the university supported a 2-month residency. Johnstone’s subsequent
successful application for a highly competitive Graham Foundation (Chicago, USA) grant (2014)
enabled the film itself, For an Open Campus, be produced. Further funding from The Elephant
Trust allowed 16mm exhibition prints to be made after the film’s selection for the London Film
Festival (2015).




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infrastructure
As set out in Section 2, each department invests a portion of our budgets to support research.
Practice-based research tends not to attract full economically costed grants. Therefore, over the
REF period, Art invested seed funding of £140,000 via our Research Support Award (RSA), in
over 70 individual projects. This enabled 44 staff to secure £2.4m of financial support that is not
recorded in the HESA data (applying for an RSA is conditional upon other confirmed applications
for funding being in place). The RSA also awarded 29 PhD students with funds used mainly for
travel. This funding is competitive, giving preference to projects that support our departmental
priorities of public engagement and the invention of methods. Sheikh’s transnational research
project Former West (2016), for instance, investigated the post-1989 condition through a series of
formats - exhibitions, interviews, case studies, seminars and research congresses – staged and
convened in multiple cities. Meanwhile Nashashibi’s film Electrical Gaza referenced above was
commissioned and funded by the Imperial War museum as part of its IWM Contemporary
programme of exhibitions by leading artists and photographers whose work responds to war and
conflict.

As noted, Design provides seed funding for early-stage research via our Research and Enterprise
Fund and our Transfocal Project Fund for pedagogic research. During the REF period, £142,000
was invested in 27 projects, including a Transfocal project by the OuDePo research group in which
Rosenberg, Conreen, and postgraduate students created works based in studio experimentation
which were invited by, supported and exhibited at the Gwangju Design Biennale, South Korea
(2019, 330,000 visitors). To support public engagement with research, two Design staff are on
Goldsmiths’ Public Engagement Advisory Group.

Over the REF period, Visual Cultures’ financial support of all academic staff (described earlier)
contributed to an overall departmental output of 21 monographs and co-authored books, 14 edited
books, 295 book chapters and articles, 86 exhibitions, 18 performance pieces, and 207
conference/workshop items.

Across our departments, staff are encouraged to attend ‘1-2-1’ meetings with our Directors of
Research to explore funding opportunities, discuss project development and receive feedback on
funding applications before submission. DRC meetings are used to plan individual and group
funding strategies. Furthermore, in the context of our REF Impact Case Study preparations, we
directed colleagues to Goldsmiths’ funds set up to help secure evidence of impact.

In Art, we have supported the dissemination of research in a wide range of international academic,
art institutional and civic contexts for maximum recognition and impact. Examples range from
Batchelor’s, Chromatology at the Ab-Anbar Gallery in Tehran (2015), Schmitz’s Choreographic
Research Pavilion at the Venice Biennale 2017, Carpenter’s Perpetual Uncertainty: Contemporary
Art in the Nuclear Anthropocene at Bildmuseet, Umeå University (also exhibited at Z33, Belgium,
and Malmö Konstmuseum, (2016-18), and Beasley’s, A Gentle Man at 80WSE Gallery, NYU,
Steinhardt, New York (2018).

For design, CISP has hosted a series of interdisciplinary conferences (Inventing the Social),
academic workshops (Adventures in Aesthetics; Creating Better Visualisations with STS;
Prototyping the Idiotic City; Speculative Research, Experiments in New Modes of Practice; Repeat!
Logic of Exercises, Training, Tests and Rehearsals), Salons (Performance: Methods and



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Problems). Further, CISP regularly features guest lectures from leading international scholars and
practitioners across the fields of design and social science.

Visual Cultures invested £31,500 in our Autumn and Spring Term Public Programmes. Convened
by departmental Research Clusters, with contributions by leading international guest speakers,
these series share new research with academic and non-academic audiences. They also help us
develop new research and dissemination networks. For instance, our Philosophy Cluster's Spring
2018 series on faith, A Fearless Look at the Unspeakable (Martinon, Andrews) led to
collaborations with Goldsmiths' Centre for Faiths and Civil Society and the Art department's
CHASE-funded initiative exploring Religion and Art (Danino). Our Autumn 2015 series Futures and
Fictions (Gunkel, Hameed and O’Sullivan from our Memory, Culture and Futurity cluster) led to a
publication of the same name which was then nominated for a 2018 International Center of
Photography's Infinity Award.

Across the departments, several research groups have been funded by DRCs to respond to
developments within their contemporary fields and in the public realm. For instance, Art contributed
£30,000 to support staff involvement in the LUMA Foundation Curatorial Network’s symposia How
Institutions Think and Curating after the Global: Roadmaps for the Present (collaborators: LUMA
Foundation; CCS Bard; Valand Academy of Arts, University of Gothenburg; Central Saint Martins,
University of the Arts London; De Appel, Amsterdam; Villa Vassilieff; Bétonsalon, Paris; École
supérieure d'art et design, Valence). We also supported two publications collating event
contributions, co-edited by Sheikh (LUMA Foundation, CCS Bard and MIT Press, 2017 and 2019).
Funding such initiatives enables us to establish collaborative approaches to resourcing and
develop new methodologies for co-production.

Design has a special interest in supporting networks for pedagogic research. Therefore,
alongside the work of the Design Pedagogy Research Team in this regard, we have established a
policy of re-investing money earned from our Summer Schools in the development of new research
networks that support postgraduate taught design practice (i.e. with Miriam College in the
Philippines).

Various Goldsmiths funds may be applied to on a competitive basis. Here, even relatively small
awards may enable significant longer-term impact. In 2018, for instance, Andrews (with LASALLE
College of the Arts, Singapore) was awarded £5000 from Goldsmiths' Partnership Innovation
Fund to run workshops for which she developed a phenomenological/decolonising visual research
methodology: ‘Interviewing Images’. During the REF period this led to further workshops and
invited talks in the UK and internationally and two peer-reviewed articles. These techniques are
now also being used in community group settings, notably in public engagement work with the
new, grassroots and local-to-Goldsmiths’ Deptford People's Heritage Museum and with a local
HIV-support group.

Students may apply for small amounts of Institutional funding to support research initiatives. For
instance, Arriola (Visual Cultures) was funded by Goldsmiths’ Public Engagement
Fund for Other Stories of HIV/AIDS/Learning in a Public Medium (2017). Arriola’s themed ‘share
and reflect’ workshops convened fifteen international artists, writers and researchers at the
intersection of culture, activism and education. Research findings emerged that informed his final
thesis.



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Facilities
A flagship achievement by the Art Department is the building of the Goldsmiths Centre for
Contemporary Art (CCA, 2018). This is one of London’s newest public (and free) contemporary
arts institutions. The Department raised £3.9m to support building costs and the Centre’s ongoing
sustainability: an auction of alumni work (Damien Hirst, Sarah Lucas, Yinka Shonibare and 31
others) raised £1.4m; £2.1m came from philanthropic donations (including the Bridget Riley
Foundation, the Oak Foundation and Dimitris Daskalopoulos). Furthermore, the Worshipful
Company of Goldsmiths endowed the CCA’s ‘Engagement Curator’ position through which
innovative educational and community engagement programmes are facilitated. The CCA is
emerging as an important vehicle linking Goldsmiths’ practice-based research culture to the
professional art world and the public, especially those local to the College.

Our priority is to provide funding for research spaces. This enabled Art, for instance, to renovate
a Georgian terraced house on campus for the MARs Research Hub and Art research programme,
encompassing studio spaces, shared research space, exhibition space, a residency studio and
screening room. One impact of our engagement with this space was Schmitz’s staging of the
Research Pavilion at the 2017 Venice Biennale, referenced above. As well as hiring college space
for special or public events, we support staff to utilise spaces outside Goldsmiths. Additional
research studios are housed off-campus at Goldsmiths’ Deptford site.

Design supports high quality facilities including prototyping labs with state-of-the-art facilities,
machinery for textiles, printing, digital fabrication, general prototyping, wood, metal, plastics and
ceramics, and advanced computer labs for digital based design. Forensic Architecture and the
Centre for Research Architecture also have dedicated office and research space. Visual Cultures
offers dedicated office space to PhD students who are also GTTs.

PGRs have the option of dedicated desk within a secure college-based PhD student office.
Goldsmiths’ Special Collection Room in the Library and the Study Room in the Goldsmiths Textile
Collection (see below) also provide space for research and indeed research dissemination.

An important part of our work is to support archival research through which we develop innovative
research methodologies. Indeed, many of our projects re-frame archives as ‘sites of practice’
and reconceptualise conventional understandings of what archives are, where they might be found,
and how they might be used. For instance, in Art, Williams Gamaker’s film practice, partly funded
by Goldsmiths, combines a forensic review of BFI archive material with personal stories to enact a
‘fictional activism’, restoring marginalised brown characters as central figures. Williams Gamaker
would later be awarded the Film London Jarman Award 2020 for this work. In Visual Cultures, also
noteworthy was Eshun/the Otolith Group’s lengthy work with philatelic archives and auction sites
from which, in the international touring exhibition In the Year of the Quiet Sun (2014-15), they were
able to assemble a lost visual history of mid-twentieth-century Pan-Africanism and its liberatory
ideals.

Goldsmiths’ on-site specialist archives are integral to much of the research (and teaching) in
Art, Design and Visual Cultures. Notable are the Women’s Art Library (MAKE), the Goldsmiths
Textile Collection and Constance Howard Gallery (which regularly hosts project work, workshops
and exhibitions by all three departments), the Technology Education Research Unit (TERU) and
Goldsmiths Library Special Collection of rare art and design books.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As well as supporting staff research in on-site and external archives and collections, we also
activate archives ourselves, for instance, through the creation of new reading groups. These
may be internally-focused departmental Reading Groups (tackling topics such as ‘pleasure and
pain in relation to anti-racism, decolonisation and necropolitics’) to externally-focused groups that
galvanise broader communities of interest. Art provided annual funding for the Women of Colour
Index (WOCI) Reading Group (co-founded by Williams Gamaker and Zaman) which uses the
WOCI archive to generate discussions on anti-racism, anti-colonisation and political justice. Early
sessions in the Woman’s Art Library (2016) have expanded to include events held in other
universities (i.e. SOAS); UK art institutions (i.e. Panchayat Special Collection, Tate; South London
Gallery) and internationally (i.e. the Museum of Impossible Forms, Helsinki). The group also
reaches broader audience through the London community-based radio station Resonance 104.4
FM. These collaborations invigorate our research base and teaching. Conscious of the need to
engage more deeply with equality and diversity issues, Art and Visual Cultures are also developing
Anti-Racist archives, available on Goldsmiths’ Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) to researchers
and PhD students, and geared towards developing grant applications for projects relating to white
supremacy, decolonisation, institutional racism and unconscious bias.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations supporting social, cultural and economic life
Since 2014, we have actively pursued collaborations, networks and partnerships to realise new
public spaces for sharing research, and delivering innovative interdisciplinary research activities.
Our collaborations impact civil society, policy makers, practitioners and professionals, the third
sector, businesses and SMEs. We also work with local arts organisations, primary and secondary
schools and community groups.

We are committed to the potential of arts- and design-based methods and expanded curatorial
practices to promote equality of access to art and design and to have beneficial effects on the
public realm. To this end, CCA has developed a community engagement plan designed to forge
closer relations between Art’s research culture, the professional art world and the local community
of Lewisham. One outcome was artist Roland Carline’s recent ‘Episodes’ project which involved
local organisations supporting disabled and neuro-divergent adults and children (i.e. Ambient
Jam, Deptford Freestylers, Meet me at the Albany and the Rachel McMillan Nursery) in the
creation of free gallery exhibitions and public performances.

Another key strategy is to support collaborations that connect with publics outside of
conventional cultural venues thus creating unexpected opportunities for critical and aesthetic
reflection and consciousness raising. Wakeford’s 2019 commission for Art on the Underground
(cyanotypes produced for the Northern Line Extension and an associated book Our Pink Depot:
The Gay Underground) played a key role in the Mayor’s Office London is Open campaign,
demonstrating that ‘despite Brexit, London remains open to the world, open to visitors, investment,
talent and ideas, creativity and opportunity’. By contrast, Batchelor’s Sixty Minute Spectrum (2017),
an hour-long programme of changing vividly-coloured light commissioned for the Hayward
Gallery’s roof to celebrate its 2018 reopening, demonstrated how aesthetic experiences can
provide new forms of sense-making in everyday life. Viewable by thousands of passers-by, it
invited public reflection on how the intense, synthetic colourscapes characteristic of urban life in
advanced technological contexts might be impacting us.


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Engaging with diverse communities and publics
Goldsmiths is located in a Borough comprised of more than 75 nationalities (2019 data) and our
departments are distinct for the sheer range of the communities and knowledge groups we engage
with, locally. For instance, Graham and other Visual Cultures colleagues and students have been
contributing pro bono expertise to support the aforementioned Deptford People's Heritage
Museum as it investigates how best to archive and share local histories, cherished objects and
stories, and engage with such legacies as the 1977 ‘Battle of Lewisham’ and the 1981 New Cross
Fire in which 13 young black people were killed. More broadly, five projects across Art and Visual
Cultures (Eisa, Schwindt, Awan, Graham, Pezzani) produced research relating to the plight of
migrants and created spaces within traditional venues for otherwise silenced voices to be heard.
Pezzani’s Forensic Oceanography project which monitors trans-Mediterranean migrancy produces
evidence that is used in court, as well as exhibited in galleries. In another example, the Design
Interaction Research Studio’s The Prayer Companion, exhibited in Somerset House’s 2016 Big
Bang Data exhibition (and also part of MOMA’s collection) was originally created (pre this REF
cycle, in 2010) for a community of Poor Clare Sisters in an enclosed monastery in York.

Through this work, we aim to facilitate reciprocal relationships, build trust, share new perspectives
and rebalance power structures. To this end, we use co-creation models to bring in audiences
who would not engage with art in more formal ways. Thus, Sinclair (referenced earlier)
installed participatory workshops for textile-making and storytelling (Pop-Up: The Caribbean Front
Room’, 2016) in galleries, libraries and retail spaces, liaising with each venue’s cultural
programmers to enhance delivery. Modelled on the safe spaces of the Dorcas network, set up by
the Windrush generation, she has now reached 1000+ participants, transforming understanding of
how textile histories drive the identification and development of cultural groups, and enabling
visitors to voice their own intergenerational narratives of making and migration.

We are conscious that co-production projects need to go beyond bounded experiences in order to
deliver long-term community benefits whether informally (as in Sinclair’s work with social-media
follow-on) or formally (as in Zaman’s project How Does an Invisible Boy Disappear? commissioned
for the Liverpool Biennale 2018). Zaman worked for over 6-months with Liverpool women of
Somali/Pakistani background in order to learn about marginalised histories of the city, and with
grassroots film organisations. These activities informed the creation of a new women’s film co-
operative. The rationale for Rogoff/freethought’s co-curation of Bergen Assembly (2016) with their
30-month lead-in of public City Seminars and City Dinners is another case in point.

Our decolonising work includes developing networks that help us learn from plural and
indigenous knowledges. For instance, in ‘Learning from Ice’, Schuppli (Visual Cultures/CRA)
worked with Nunavut Arctic College, the Canadian Ice Core Lab, University of Alberta, the Ice Core
& Quaternary Geochemistry Lab, Oregon State University, and oceanographers and glaciologists.
Objectives ranged from addressing the climate change concerns and culturally-specific insights of
Inuit youth to translating the complexities of ice core science to non-specialists through exhibitions
and events in public institutions, schools, and galleries.

Exploring how participatory art can address equity and how creative enquiry can enable inclusion
at large cultural institutions, Eisa, for example, worked with rights-focused organizations
(Autograph, Counterpoints Arts, Migrant Rights Network) for over a year to develop an innovative
methodology that enabled young asylum seekers from Sudan, Eritrea and Ethiopia, through
Calais to Kent to engage with London cultural organisations. Their participatory arts project

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Canvas(s) at the National Gallery (2016–17) in turn supported the institution to address issues
such as access and inclusion.

A shared question is how pedagogical strategies may support long-term impact. For instance, in
Visual Cultures, Awan’s extensive project with Laajverd, an interdisciplinary NGO working with
afflicted communities in Pakistan, involved schools, art/architecture students and local experts. The
resulting project, Infrastructural Development; Fragile Scapes, Fragmented Lives, created
workshops that enabled communities to carry out informed critical analyses of proposed
infrastructural development, and developed creative mapping strategies for exploring the socio-
economic and cultural resources, and etho-ecologies, of local areas.

Collectively, we also use our position to advocate for next generation involvement in our fields.
Art history and visual culture are under pressure in the UK school system and, in response, staff
and students undertake outreach work. Visual Cultures staff work energetically with schools in
order to inspire younger generations of scholars take up our subject. One project, linked with an
Association for Art History project and publication for young people, is a collaboration with an art
teacher and ‘Nurture’ group of ‘special educational needs’ pupils at Evelyn Grace Academy,
Brixton. Together, we are creating resources for self-directed, situated art-based research and
making, and gathering evidence about the positive cognitive, emotional and behavioural impacts of
young persons’ engagements with art and art history.

Through public engagement, staff across all three departments have made sustained contributions
to the activities of public institutions, third-sector bodies, educational and arts organisations
and businesses across the world. We do this in part through a range of permanent or specific
advisory roles. In Design, Pi Studio were commissioned by Lewisham Council and the Cabinet
Office’s Policy Lab as a part of their Green Deal agenda to research stakeholder approaches to
sustainable housing. In Visual Cultures, Andrews serves as a Trustee of the Association for Art
History which supports arts professionals working in schools, universities and museums, and
which, among other remits, advocates for access to art history for all, regardless of location, class,
income, gender or race, and for policy change regarding the negative impact of open access on
arts publishing.

As part of our knowledge exchange work we engage in building capacity by strengthening skills
and networks. For instance, working with the Korean Government’s Centre for Creative Economy
and Innovation, Pi Studio led R&D activities with 40 start-ups at the Samsung Creative Campus in
Deagu, South Korea (2018-2019). Pi Studio also supported a training session for UK GOV’s
Cabinet Office away-day on technology for social transformation (2018). In 2019, Pi Studio,
opened a partner research studio ‘Pi Studio Korea’ at Hanyang University, Seoul, supporting cross-
cultural research.

Departmental projects contribute to Heritage tourism. For example, for Stone Cold Casanov, a
year-long residency in Penrhyn Castle, Bangor, Wales (2015-2016), Wardrop (Design)
collaborated with staff, volunteers and local residents to produce ‘unofficial’ illustrated histories.
These were showcased in an exhibition (115,561 visitors) which received BBC and National Trust
news coverage. An ‘alternative guided tour’, developed as a trust-building exercise with staff, was
performed for the public and continues to be delivered by National Trust staff. This led to
Wardrop’s consultancy role at the National Trust to advise on best practice for residencies.



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We use interdisciplinary networks to support a discursive methodology for research – drawing on
diverse knowledges and providing a space of between conventionally isolated knowledge
groups. For instance, Noble’s publication Liquid Sculpture: The Public Art of Cristina Iglesias
involved collaborations with architects, urban planners, art historians, curators, philosophers,
marine biologists and oceanographers, through symposia and writing, to explore the role of public
art in in regeneration, diverse communities and social identity. Bringing together a wide range of
experts the research demonstrated the value of art as a focus for public engagement.

Contribution to the research base
Alongside our contributions to the research base via publication, we advance academic
scholarship in our fields by hosting major conferences and events. In the area of philosophy and
philosophical aesthetics, for instance, Turner (Visual Cultures, with Nicole Anderson, Macquarie)
co-directed The 5th Derrida Today Conference (2016). In both Art and Visual Cultures, our work in
philosophy challenges and pluralizes the dominant Anglo-American canon. For example, Reckitt’s
Feminist Duration Reading Project is an ongoing public programme which explores
underrepresented feminist writing and practice using collective performative techniques, and Visual
Cultures has significant expertise in non-European philosophy (Madani, Martinon, et al). We also
support a wide range of professional organisations. Martinon, for instance, has been a member
of the Research in African Philosophy (RAP) network since it was founded at Cornell University in
2015, and is a member of the Association Rwandaise de Philosophie. Rosamond works with the
Critical Finance Studies (2014-) and Finance and Society (2016-) research networks and in May
2020 she co-convened the 12th Annual Critical Finance Conference at Goldsmiths. Schmetterling
is co-chair of the Memory & Arts Working Group of the Memory Studies Association (MSA), Grant
is a member of Ph: The Photography Research Network, Turner is a member of the Critical
Posthumanism Network and Graham is the UK Coordinator for the Another Roadmap for Arts
Education Network which is active in 22 global cities.

We also contribute to a more heterogenous understanding of design, through international
and touring exhibitions. Design hosted Designfest (2016/2017) as part of the London Design
Festival, with public events, including work from our research units, Vehicles for Experimental
Practice Studio, Pi Studio, Interaction Research Studio and others. IRS’ work has reached large
publics from London (i.e. V&A’s Digital Design Weekend) to Sydney (i.e. Feral Experimental,
National Institute for Experimental Arts, Sydney). Work exhibited at Big Bang Data (Somerset
House, London, where it was one of their ‘block-buster’ shows) also toured Madrid (56,000 visitors)
and Barcelona (63,000 visitors). This supported greater public understanding of how data is
transforming our world and the value of innovative design methods for interrogation.

Over the REF period our contributions to our respective fields have been recognised through
regular invitations to deliver keynote lectures. In addition, colleagues have been the recipients of
18 major prizes and a further 13 nominations across a range of disciplinary fields. For
instance, Kerbel’s Doug, a musical composition written for unaccompanied voice, was the first live
performance to be included in the Turner Prize (2015) and Forensic Architecture has won prizes
across art, design, innovation and human rights.
    • Art: Turner Prize, 1 co-winner (Abu Hamdan, 2019), 3 nominations (Kerbel, Nashashibi,
        Camplin); Prix Duchamp, 1 nomination; The Hamlyn Prize, 5 winners (Beasley, Zaman,
        Reupke, Camplin, Nasahshibi); The British Art Show, 1 nomination (Zaman); Prix Ars
        Electronica Award, 1 winner (Forensic Architecture);



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Design: Beazley Design of the Year Award, 1 winner (Forensic Architecture); 2019 Madrid
       Design Award, 1 winner (Feo with El Ultimo Grito partner Rosario Hurtado);
   •   Film: Jarman Award, 1 winner (Ashery), 5 nominations; Jerwood Film & Video Awards, 1
       winner (Clout); Teddy Award for Best Short Film (2018 Berlin International Film Festival), 1
       nomination;
   •   Human Rights and Innovation, 5 wins (Forensic Architecture);
   •   Literature: Wellcome Book Prize, 1 winner (Coutts);
   •   Research and Writing: Infinity Award for Critical Writing and Research, International Center
       of Photography,1 Winner (Schuppli, 2016), 1 nomination (2018)
   •   Sculpture: Hepworth Sculpture Prize, 1 nomination.

Staff across all three departments support HE by examining PhD theses. We contribute to the
sustainability and rigor of our disciplines more broadly through our advisory roles in universities
in the UK, US, Singapore and Australia. For instance, since 2012, our departments have provided
intensive assistance with the development and international promotion of LASALLE College of the
Arts programmes, including their new MA Asian Art Histories programme, the first of its kind to
focus on the region’s modern and contemporary art, which is now operating at a high standard of
excellence. In addition, Visual Cultures’ Martinon advised on the development of the Nile Source
Polytechnic of Applied Arts in Huye, Rwanda (2012-17), Schuppli is a member of the Drone
Network Advisory Board at the University of Southern Denmark and Weizman is a member of the
Human Rights Project, at Bard College, New York. Rogoff is a member of the Porter Institute, Tel
Aviv University and also served as a member Main Panel D, Unit 34 ‘Arts and Design, History,
Theory, Practice’ for REF 2014. Renton is a Board Member of the Beckett International Foundation
at the University of Reading.

The departments are well represented in terms of editorial or advisory roles on international
journals. Researchers in Art serve on the editorial boards of Art History (Grant), Third Text (Gray),
The Journal of William Morris Studies (Mabb), The Journal of Curatorial Studies (Reckitt), The
Association for the Study of the Arts of the Present Journal, Johns Hopkins University (Schmitz). In
addition, Carpenter peer reviews for The Journal of Modern Craft and Grant has peer reviewed for
titles including GLQ: A Journal of Lesbian and Gay Studies, Fashion Theory and Women and
Performance. Design has become known for shaping and expanding the discourse in design
beyond the relationship of research to industry, demonstrated by four advisory roles on journals
that bridge the disciplines of design, technology and education (i.e. Demonstrations, Journal for
Experiments in Social Studies of Technology, Wilkie). Colleagues regularly review for scholarly
journals in Design and related disciplines including Architecture, Environment Studies, Geography,
Sociology, Science and Technology Studies, Cultural Theory, and ACM SIGCHI as well as
Government research agencies including the US National Science Foundation (NSF) and the
Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research. Researchers in Visual Cultures are on the
editorial or advisory boards of 27 journals and are peer reviewers for 14. Topics are as diverse as
those of our departmental research clusters, namely, visual cultures, philosophy and aesthetics;
ecologies; the intersections of architecture, art and cinema; education (i.e. Canadian Journal for
the Study of Adult Education, Graham); postcolonial thought; finance (i.e. Qualitative Research in
Financial Markets, Rosamond) and politics. Colleagues are on the peer-review boards of 10
international publishers, including Nordic Africa Institute Press and McGill-Queen’s University
Press (both Gunkel) and The University of KwaZulu-Natal Press, South Africa (Martinon). Work
such as this serves the production and dissemination of the textual and critical underpinnings for
projects that serve culture, the economy and society at the global scale.

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


We also support national and international award- and grant making bodies. Visual Cultures staff
have served on Goldsmiths’ internal CHASE panel and on CHASE’s subject-specific Panel B
(Schuppli, 2014; Rogoff, 2015; Schmetterling, 2016; Turner, 2017; Gunkel, 2019). In Art, Newman
has served on the internal CHASE panel since 2017. The Design department has played a
prominent management role with respect to AHRC Design Star, in partnership with OU and
Brighton, Loughborough and Reading universities, delivering PGR training, summer schools and
events such as Practice Research: Biographies, Beginnings & Futures (2015), with
academics/industry figures in conversation with students about postdoctoral
prospects/experiences. Researchers in Design are active members on six design research
councils/committees including of the Association of Computing Machinery. Visual Cultures staff
support overseas research funding for organisations as diverse as the Swiss National Science
Foundation (Martinon, Rogoff) and the Austrian Academy of Sciences (Nowotny).

In Visual Cultures, eight colleagues hold nine advisory roles for exhibitions, arts programmes,
national and international institutions and sectoral bodies. For instance, Blas advises the Vera
List Center Prize for Art and Politics Council, a major public forum based at the New School, New
York and Nowotny is Vice-Chair of the European Institute for Progressive Cultural Policies, thus
influencing how the network introduces cultural politics into discussions of democratic politics. This
work delivers political and social impact right at the heart of cultural governance. In Art, Williams
Gamaker has been a judge for The John Moores Painting Prize (2020), Archer has served as a
jury member for Contemporary Art Society Annual Award (2015), Mabb has been an Artist
Nominator for the Deptford X Art Festival, London, and Renton is a member of the Selection
Committee for Art Brussels. Furthermore, Carpenter contributed to the Art strategy of the OECD’s
Nuclear Energy Agency Records, Preservation of Knowledge & Memory Across Generations
(RK&M Initiative) (2019), Reckitt advised on the Whitechapel's The Future of the Arts panel (2016),
Renton is a member of the International Advisory Board of the Ben Uri Gallery & Museum, London,
and Williams Gamaker is Chair of Trustees, Pavilion, Leeds (2016-). Renton is also a Board
Member of the Glasgow International Festival for Contemporary Visual Art and a member of the
Advisory Committee for the Government Art Collection.

As evidenced in this document, in Art, Design and Visual Cultures we draw on our departmental
strengths to support, resource and invigorate diverse organisations and initiatives that exist
to undergird and sustain our disciplines. Also of note – referencing our commitments to public
engagement, methodological inventiveness, and practices that are transdisciplinary and
collaborative - are our efforts in two key areas. As demonstrated, we persistently reach out
beyond academia to encourage new and enlarged critical participation in the arts across all
demographics. To underline this point, two further projects, both publications, may be brought into
play. The first is Grant’s co-edited book Fandom as Methodology: a sourcebook for artists and
writers which explores how everyday, fannish practices can be used to write contemporary art
histories in which subjective encounters are embraced. As such, it provides a new model for
transdisciplinary scholarship that others may take up in their own writing. The second is the Visual
Cultures as … book project (Sternberg Press/MIT, 2013-present), an affordable and accessible
series in which two scholars use essay-writing and conversation to debate a key visual culture
theme, opening it up a wider non-academic readership. The fourth title, Visual Cultures as
Opportunity (Mooshammer, Mörtenböck) was published in 2016 with the Covid-19-delayed titles
Visual Cultures as Time Travel (Gunkel, Hameed) and Visual Cultures as World-forming (Madani,
Martinon) forthcoming in 2021.

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also seek to show leadership in urgent issues of contemporary concern. As demonstrated,
we particularly value our work in the intersections of art, design and environmentalism and, in
conclusion, a number of additional forward-looking projects are worth referencing. One concerns
our involvement in debates about stewardship, as in Design’s Redesigning Stewardship (2019)
workshop in which researchers from Design, Art and Visual Cultures shared research with
representatives from the National Trust, the Forestry Commission, and the Canal and Rivers Trust,
all organisations which have cultural and well as environmental remits. A second example is
Design’s involvement in the international touring exhibition Pure Gold – Upcycled! Upgraded!
(2017-2027) and a third comprise the ventures led by Art’s Critical Ecologies Group including
Goldsmiths’ Research Garden, the Goldsmiths Allotment, and a new MA in Art and Ecology (Gray,
Grant, Kelly, Samson, Kreider, Coutts, Camplin, Hunt, Carpenter and other Goldsmiths
colleagues). Collaborations of this kind build innovation and resilience in sustainability by
demonstrating that tackling the environmental and climate crisis can take place in practical ways,
at work and at home. More broadly, we hope to help build increasingly robust and engaged
communities of interest around art in its many expressions, demonstrating that art- design- and
visual cultures-based methods and insights are vital to contemporary life.




                                                                                         Page 24
