Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bedfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: 27 - English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  a. Overview

  CRELLA (Centre for Research in English Language Learning and Assessment)
  is recognised by the global language testing and assessment community as a world-leading
  research centre. It is known as the source of the Socio-Cognitive Framework for test
  development and validation that underpins the work of both well-established
  and emergent language test providers around the world (e.g., from Cambridge Assessment
  English in the UK to Centro Ceibal in South America and Eiken Foundation in East Asia: see
  Case Studies).

  CRELLA's core mission is to advance the field by ensuring that assessments reflect and keep
  pace with contemporary language use. Our staff are directly involved in the creation, evaluation
  and significant revision of language assessments. We foster positive impact by building capacity
  for stakeholder groups (see for example the large-scale teacher training projects in Eastern
  Europe      referenced       in  Section    1b).   We safeguard       professional    standards
  and advocate for ethical approaches to language assessment, serving executive and advisory
  roles in the professional organisations that represent our field: Green serving as President of
  the International Language Testing Association (ILTA) and Chan serving as Convenor of British
  Association for Applied Linguistics Testing Evaluation and Assessment Special Interest Group
  (BAAL TEASIG) (see Section 4).

  As a research institute in the School of Education and English Language within the Faculty of
  Education and Sports, CRELLA is well-placed to offer research insights, expertise and support
  to the School's English and TEFL programmes and the Faculty's training programme for
  research postgraduates as well as profiting from these exchanges. Externally, CRELLA has
  established close links with world-leading test providers through funded research projects,
  collaborative publications and presentations with their staff, offering staff development through
  training courses, MA and PhD programmes.

  The CRELLA team is small and highly focussed with six full-time and two part-time academic
  staff (including a post-doctoral research fellow), three visiting professors, and a part-time
  research administrator.

  With only 7.2 full-time equivalent (FTE) staff members in this submission, CRELLA has achieved
  outstanding research impact:
    ● The 61 research projects funded in this period brought income of GBP1,144,531.27: an
        increase of over 60% for each FTE researcher submitted. GBP100,000 each in REF2014:
        over GBP160,000 each in REF2021.

    ●   Staff have published:

                   ❏ Seven monographs and two edited volumes
                   ❏ 33 articles in prestigious high impact journals such as Language
                     Testing, Language     Assessment    Quarterly, Assessing   Writing,
                     and the Modern Language Journal
                   ❏ 21 chapters in edited volumes and 23 freely available downloadable
                     research reports

    ●   Talks, conference presentations, seminars and training workshops by CRELLA staff have
        reached a total audience of over 13,600.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      ●   25 PhD students completed their studies at CRELLA during this REF period (9 in
          REF2014).

  b. Research and impact strategy

  i) Achievements in the current assessment period:

  CRELLA’s overall strategy is to grow its role as a world leading research centre in English
  language learning and assessment. Underpinning this strategy are key objectives summarised
  from REF 2014. CRELLA has made considerable progress towards each:

  To widen our research funding base

  Since August 2013 CRELLA has secured 61 new research projects with more than 20 different
  funding organisations. This has, in part, involved building on our existing relationships with
  partners in the UK e.g., the British Council (BC) and Cambridge Assessment English (CAE)
  and internationally e.g., Eiken Foundation of Japan and the Language Training and
  Testing Center in Taiwan. We have also worked to extend our reach and funding base by
  collaborating with over 10 new partners. These also include both UK organisations
  (e.g., EnglishScore, LanguageCert, Oxford University Press (OUP)) and international
  organisations     (e.g., Educational    Testing    Service,    USA;       Liulishuo,    China;
  Centro Ceibal, Uruguay; and the Cambridge Malaysian Education and Development
  Trust). Moreover, we have extended our research to embrace new areas including digital
  assessment and the assessment of young learners.

  To continue to publish and disseminate high quality research on assessment

      ●   Across the current REF period, CRELLA has strengthened its publications record with
          33 peer-reviewed articles in journals such as the Modern Language Journal (Impact
          Factor (IF)=4.08), System (IF=2.46), Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy, and
          Practice (IF=2.26), Language Testing (IF=2.01) and Assessing Writing (IF=1.90). This
          represents a 52% increase on the REF2014 period.

      ●   CRELLA staff have authored seven monographs and edited two volumes with leading
          academic publishers such as OUP, Cambridge University Press (CUP), and Routledge.

      ●   21 chapters have been contributed to edited volumes. In addition, CRELLA’s 23 funded
          research reports are disseminated on funders’ websites with open access. Examples
          include:

                    ❏ Taylor and Chan’s (2015) research on the suitability of English language
                      tests for giving evidence of doctors' English proficiency, available on the
                      General Medical Council’s website1
                    ❏ Bax and Chan’s (2016) report on the cognitive validity of GEPT, available
                      on the LTTC website2
                    ❏ Nakatsuhara, Inoue, and colleagues’ series of research reports (2016-
                      2018)      on     the   use     of    video-conferencing      technologies
                      in the IELTS speaking test, available on the IELTS website3.
  1
           https://www.gmc-uk.org/about/what-we-do-and-why/data-and-research/research-and-
  insight-archive/the-suitability-of-english-language-tests-for-giving-evidence-of-doctors-
  english-proficiency
  2
    https://www.lttc.ntu.edu.tw/lttc-gept-grants/RReport/RG07.pdf
  3
    https://www.ielts.org/research/research-reports




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  To increase our influence on the global assessment community

    ●   In contrast to REF2014, CRELLA members have served in leadership roles that
        determine the strategic direction of national and international language assessment
        associations. For example, Green as President of ILTA (2015-16) and Chan as
        Convenor of the BAAL TEASIG (2019-present).

    ●   CRELLA members have served as committee members in different capacities for BAAL
        TEASIG (Chan, Inoue, Khabbazbashi, Nakatsuhara, Latimer) and the UK Association of
        Language Testing and Assessment (UKALTA) (Inoue, Khabbazbashi) – see
        'professional and advisory roles' in Section 4 for details.

    ●   Members of CRELLA have been active in delivering assessment workshops and
        webinars on different topics for 24 international institutions, such as the Association
        of Language Testers in Europe (ALTE), the International Language Testing Association
        (ILTA), and the International Association of Teachers of English as a Foreign Language
        (IATEFL). These events have attracted over 5,500 participants from around the world
        including:

                   ❏ Nakatsuhara’s (2019) MOOC for the British Council on Speaking
                     Assessment in the Classroom (2,900 participants)
                   ❏ Field’s (2016) webinar on Perceptual Processing in Listening Skills for
                     TESOL International Association (150 participants)
                   ❏ Green’s (2015) webinar on Assessing Languages for Specific Purposes
                     and the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages for
                     IATEFL’s English for Specific Purposes Special Interest Group (250
                     participants)

    ●   CRELLA has invested resources to enhance its website with a more user-friendly
        interface, giving greater prominence to CRELLA’s innovative Socio-Cognitive
        Framework (see our Case Study on Refining English language proficiency assessment
        for the digital age). Success stories from former PhD students have been added, along
        with an introductory video for prospective research students. CRELLA is active on social
        media, with weekly Twitter updates, also embedded within CRELLA's website,
        disseminating the latest news and research.

  To recruit and retain the best researchers in the field

    ●   Since 2014, we have made three appointments covering diverse areas of expertise,
        including learning oriented assessment and conversation analysis (Lam in 2016 from
        University of Edinburgh), automated approaches to assessment and impact
        research (Khabbazbashi in 2017 from University of Oxford and Cambridge Assessment
        English) and integrated reading-into-writing and use of eye-tracking technology (Latimer
        in 2019; former PhD student at CRELLA). These appointments complemented the areas
        of expertise already available at CRELLA, including: test development and validation (all
        staff);   listening    assessment     (Field, Nakatsuhara);     speaking     assessment
        (Inoue, Nakatsuhara); reading assessment (Chan); writing assessment (Chan, Green);
        integrated skills assessment (Chan, Inoue, Latimer); cognitive processing in assessment
        (Field, Chan); social parameters of testing (Inoue, Nakatsuhara); the influence of tests
        on teaching and learning (Green); task-based assessment (Inoue); assessment literacy
        (Green); and use of digital technologies in test development and validation (all staff).

  To ensure comprehensive coverage in all main areas of language assessment

    ●   Complementing the range of expertise in the centre, CRELLA has collaborated on
        multiple research projects, leading to 16 joint publications with universities in the
        UK (e.g., Cambridge,    Oxford, and    Reading) and    abroad (e.g., Waseda, Japan;

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Queensland University of Technology, Australia; and Isra, Jordan). Examples of joint
        publications include Green with Boyd (UCL), Hopfenbeck, and Stobart (Oxford) (with
        14,371 downloads); Nakatsuhara with Seedhouse (Newcastle); and Hamp-Lyons
        with Jin (Shanghai Jiao Tong).

  To strengthen pathways to impact

    ●   A     cornerstone       of our  impact strategy      has   been    CRELLA’s long-term
        research partnerships.       CRELLA      has     been    actively  involved   in   the
        development, validation, and revision of a number of international examinations. For
        example, in collaboration with the British Council, Cambridge Assessment English, BC
        EnglishScore (see Case Study on Refining English language proficiency assessment for
        the digital age), the IELTS Partners, Trinity College London, Password (see Case Study
        on assessment of Academic English proficiency) as well as others, such as OUP and
        Pearson English Assessment.

    ●   A novel pathway to impact during the REF2021 period has been the research-led
        consultancies that we have started offering for commercial and educational partners.
        Recognising the contribution of CRELLA’s research to commercial success, these have
        brought the centre an income of GBP245,000. Examples include

            ○   a project commissioned by Waseda University in Japan. CRELLA advised on the
                alignment of a new communication-focused English curriculum to international
                standards. This included training teachers to deliver the new curriculum, offered
                to 6,000 students annually.

            ○   a project commissioned by the British Council (China) where we advised on the
                development of a digital app to promote primary and secondary school learners’
                spoken English proficiency.

 Additionally, we have:

    ●   worked with ministries of education, local and international partners to develop large-
        scale assessments. These include Centro Ceibal (Uruguay), LTTC (Taiwan), and Eiken
        Foundation of Japan, amongst others. CRELLA members have served on the steering
        groups and/or advisory boards of examination boards that direct the work of these
        organisations; e.g., Weir chaired the British Council Assessment Advisory Board; Green
        chaired and Field served on the OUP Assessment Steering Group.

    ●   engaged in joint research and publications with the world’s leading examination boards
        and test providers (a total of 18 publications in this REF period). Examples include:
           ○ joint research and publications with two key IELTS Partners in the UK – BC and
               CAE – on the use of video-conferencing technology to deliver the IELTS
               Speaking Test. This informed the online delivery of the speaking test in IELTS
               Indicator, launched in April 2020 (Nakatsuhara, Inoue, Berry & Galaczi, 2016,
               2017a, 2017b; Berry, Nakatsuhara, Inoue & Galaczi, 2018 – Case Study on
               assessment of Academic English proficiency).
           ○ Khabbazbashi           co-authored two     papers with colleagues     at Cambridge
               Assessment English on the comparison of different marking models in speaking
               assessment and automated approaches to speaking, respectively. These have
               informed the choice of marking model for a large-scale online speaking test and
               the evaluation criteria for an auto-marker (Khabbazbashi & Galaczi,
               2020; Khabbazbashi, Xu, & Galaczi, in press).
           ○ Green recently co-edited with van Moere (Metametrics Inc, USA) a special issue
               of the journal, Language Testing on repeated test taking, an increasingly
               significant aspect of professional assessment practice in the digital age.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   been active in developing an international research network on language assessment.
        Examples include our hosting of the 2018 Language Testing Forum on the theme of
        ‘Assessing Languages across General and Specific Contexts’, and the 2017 annual
        conference for the International Association of Teachers of English as a Foreign
        Language: Testing, Evaluation and Assessment Special Interest Group (IATEFL
        TEASIG) on the theme of ‘Building Practical Assessment Skills for Teachers’.

    ●   been instrumental in establishing new associations for teachers, researchers, and other
        practitioners in language assessment in both the Russian Federation (NATE Testing
        Special Interest Group) and Ukraine (Ukraine Association for Language Testing and
        assessment) as well as consolidating our network in Europe by serving as expert
        members and regular specialist instructors for ALTE and the European Association for
        Language Testing and Assessment (EALTA).

  To extend our work in public engagement

   We have consistently sought to engage teachers, policy makers, and the wider public through
   a variety of channels:
    ● The EU Tempus ProSET teacher training project (2011-14) involving the Ministry of
        Education and Science and 11 universities across the Russian Federation (517114-
        TEMPUS-1-2011-1-UK-TEMPUS-SMHES (2011-2505/001-001) led to the publication in
        2013 of a free course and handbook in language assessment for teachers in schools
        and colleges that has been widely used in the current REF period and improved the
        quality of test item writing for the national matriculation test, the EGE (Case Study on
        Refining English language proficiency assessment for the digital age).
        (https://www.beds.ac.uk/media/kmrjwwzw/proset_lta-course-brochure_en.pdf)
    ● The Erasmus+ Teachers Assessment Literacy Enhancement (TALE) project (2015-18)
        (2015-1-CY01-KA201-011863, Case Study on Refining English language proficiency
        assessment for the digital age) involved collaboration across six European countries
        (Norway, Germany, UK, Greece, Cyprus, Hungary) and provides English Language
        Teachers across Europe and beyond eight free online courses in language assessment,
        including three authored by CRELLA. The project was awarded the British Council’s
        ‘Innovation in Assessment’ award in 2019. Green’s textbook for teachers, Exploring
        Language Assessment and Testing (Routledge), was published in its second edition in
        December 2020. The first edition, published in 2013, achieved sales of 2,025 copies and
        is used on at least seven teacher training programmes at UK universities.

    We have achieved a wider audience by disseminating our research through mainstream and
    specialist media. Examples include:
    ● Bax on the BBC on 17 February 2014 (https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-beds-
       bucks-herts-26198471?print=true).

    ●   Inoue’s fortnightly column in The Japan Times Alpha – Japan’s best-selling bilingual
        newspaper (60,000 paper copies per week; 550,000 online views per month) on the
        usage and history of English language, where she answers questions posted by
        readers (https://alpha.japantimes.co.jp/ad/).

    ●   Green’s webinars and blog entries on language assessment issues through OUP (e.g.,
        https://oupeltglobalblog.com/tag/anthony-green). He has been interviewed online for
        teachers’              associations          such             as              BALEAP
        (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHJi9KPt0D4&t=1s). On 13 April 2015, Green
        engaged in a public debate with Smith (University of Warwick) on the topic, ‘Language
        testing does more harm than good’. The debate reached a live audience of 300 and was
        disseminated online.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Field's 2018 YouTube interview for International House, the leading training institute for
        teachers of English, is publicly available online and has attracted 1,430 views
        (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=meduZHznkI0).

    ●   Green, Khabbazbashi, and Lam featured in the national press in Ukraine (April 2018)
        including coverage by Osvita Ukrainy (Education in Ukraine), the newspaper for the
        Ministry of Education and Science.

  ii) CRELLA’s future research and impact strategy:

  Building on successes since 2014, CRELLA’s research activity continues to be driven by an
  ambitious strategic plan to cement its position as a world-leading research centre. CRELLA
  aims to develop its research activities to ensure its own sustainability and make a significant
  contribution to the vitality of the field.

  Key strategic aims include:

  1) Advance the field of language assessment, research and practice

    ●   Research agenda: Building on our strength in learning-oriented assessment, we will
        continue research that advances understanding and informs innovation in the design of
        assessments that help people learn languages more effectively. We will study the
        evolving contexts, roles and nature of language use in the digital age (e.g., integration
        of language and other skills, multimodal language use, language for mediation). This
        research will inform task design and assessment criteria that reflect useful learning
        targets or outcomes, in step with the evolving nature of language use.

    ●   Theoretical development: We will strengthen and extend the theoretical robustness of
        the Socio-Cognitive Framework for test development and validation, to capture new
        parameters and interactions in digitally based language assessments.

    ●   Methodological development: We will continue to exploit and explore the affordances
        of (digital) technologies (e.g., keystroke logging, eye-tracking, automated text analysis
        tools) in researching target language use, assessed performance, and test-taking
        processes. One effort already underway is to associate Text Inspector more closely with
        the Socio-Cognitive Framework, developing more contextualised and meaning-focused
        methods for analysing texts.

    ●   Research dissemination: We will broaden the range of target journals in which we
        publish, extending the reach of our research beyond the field of language assessment,
        but also to share insights and instigate changes in related fields such as applied
        linguistics, and language and learning in education.

  2) To diversify our research funding base

    ●   We will continue to broaden the range of testing organisations and other funders to
        which we submit research funding bids. As an example, in 2020 we have submitted
        proposals to several providers of mobile-assisted language assessment.

  3) Consolidate and expand our coverage of expertise in different areas of language
  assessment

    ●   Staffing: We will maintain our staffing strategy to include the judicious blend of
        experienced academics and promising early career researchers that has proven
        effective since the inception of the centre in 2005. We will continue to recruit, retain, and
        develop the best researchers in the field.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Research students: We will recruit promising students with the potential to complement
        the staff team.

    ●   External collaborations: We will forge links and build networks for interdisciplinary
        collaborations with other universities, exam boards, and testing organisations,
        capitalising on their expertise to achieve our research goals and break new ground.

  4) Strengthen our pathways to impact

    ●   Capacity-building: We will pursue a distinctive capacity-building approach to impact,
        empowering our research beneficiaries and stakeholders. This approach, unique to
        CRELLA, goes beyond generating validity evidence through research. It prioritises
        equipping test provider personnel and teachers around the world with the knowledge
        and competence to create and sustain assessments, using them to benefit learning.
        Building on our work in the current REF period, we will help small start-up businesses
        (e.g., English Language Testing, EnglishScore and Text Inspector), recruit PhD students
        from test providers, collaborate with partners in countries and regions with
        less developed assessment systems (e.g., Uruguay, Russia), and upskill teachers and
        teacher-trainers with assessment literacy courses.

    ●   Bridging theory & practice: We will continue to benefit language assessment
        practitioners and their stakeholders with state-of-the-art research findings and
        methodological advances, while communicating the needs of the industry back
        to the research community.

    ●   Public engagement: We will continue to engage the wider public with updates and new
        research findings in language assessment through our open-to-all online research
        seminars and social media presence; and promote language assessment literacy
        through free resources published on our website.

 2. People

   a. Staffing strategy and staff development

   Staffing strategy

   CRELLA’s objectives in this REF period included contributing significantly to key research
   areas, widening its research funding base, and broadening areas for research
   supervision. These objectives were met in the following ways:

    •   Lam was recruited from the University of Edinburgh in 2016 to enhance research in
        Learning Oriented Assessment and to strengthen methodological expertise in
        conversation analysis.

    •   Khabbazbashi was recruited from CAE in 2017 to add research expertise in automated
        approaches to assessment. Her previous experience in industry and of large-scale
        assessment      projects added  to  our connections with examination    boards and
        potential funders.

    •   Latimer, formerly a doctoral student at CRELLA, was appointed in 2019, adding expertise
        in the use     of eye-tracking      technology    in     reading      assessment. Her
        appointment supported the work of CRELLA on the development of the innovative
        Bedfordshire Academic Reading and Reading-into-Writing (BART) tests, further
        enhancing CRELLA’s appeal to funding bodies.

    •   CRELLA champions equality and diversity in its staffing strategy and individuals are
        recruited, employed, and promoted strictly based on suitability for the position. To this

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        end, we ensure that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the
        grounds        of      gender, gender            reassignment, marriage    and        civil
        partnership status, pregnancy/maternity, disability, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin,
        age, sexual orientation, religion, faith or belief.

    •   CRELLA staff reflect this diversity. Over the current REF period, eligible staff employed
        by the institute have included nine females (61.6% FTE) and five males (38.4% FTE) with
        the following ethnicity groupings: Asian (16.6% FTE), Chinese (16.6% FTE), Other
        (16.6% FTE), and White (50% FTE). Diversity practices are monitored and ensured at
        every recruitment and appraisal opportunity. To illustrate, all CRELLA researchers have
        been entered into the REF. Members of CRELLA attend equal opportunity training and
        workshops. Staff in CRELLA have benefitted from full-time maternity leave cover.
        CRELLA adheres to UoB’s Equality and Diversity Policy that covers all areas of
        employment (https://www.beds.ac.uk/media/270348/ed-policy-and-strategy-2012-2017-
        under-review.pdf) and is fully committed to the provision of equality of opportunity for staff
        and students. CRELLA also fosters a culture of listening to, and acting on, diverse
        perspectives with decision-making practices that embody respect and openness to ideas.

    •   CRELLA’s staffing strategy also involves the development of research links with
        organisations outside academia, supported by UoB’s Innovation and Enterprise Service
        and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships. CRELLA’s exchanges with business, industry,
        and the public sector are evidenced in our case studies and impact statement with a
        productive policy of drawing staff and students from industry and business. For example,
        we have a strong research and publishing cooperation with BC, CAE, and CUP. Green
        and Khabbazbashi are both examples of staff movements, joining CRELLA from CAE in
        2006 and 2017, respectively.

   Staff Development

   At the institutional level, in 2013, the University’s Concordat implementation plan was
   awarded the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research award, and its action plans
   have since then been consistently approved. Training and development activities to support
   both staff and research students are mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
   Framework, facilitating needs analysis and systematic provision of training and support.

   Within this institutional framework, there is a formal annual review system in place at
   CRELLA to monitor and set research objectives. All staff are appraised towards the end of
   each academic year by the Director of CRELLA (who is appraised by the Dean of Faculty).
   Staff in the first year of appointment have regular meetings with the Director to provide more
   support as individuals transition to their new roles. At review meetings, development activities
   are jointly identified. These enable staff to benefit from external courses/training and ensure
   alignment with CRELLA’s research strategies. Objectives for the past year are evaluated, any
   challenges encountered are considered, and the contributions of development activities to
   research practices are discussed.

   As a small, coherent unit housed in adjoining offices, CRELLA staff benefit from frequent
   opportunities for informal consideration of staff development with the CRELLA director; for
   example, concerning training, conference attendance, and promotion. Additionally, a
   mentoring and ‘buddy’ system is in place for the socialisation of staff to CRELLA providing
   both academic and collegial support. Staff are actively encouraged to disseminate their
   research at national and international conferences, and GBP15,000 is currently budgeted
   annually to support this. Staff are also supported in their applications to the Higher Education
   Academy fellowship in a category most appropriate to their practice and professional
   experiences.

   Procedures for career progression are outlined by UoB’s Human Resources department, with
   annual promotions advertised through all-staff emails and notifications. Promotions at

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   CRELLA have ensured continuity, staff retention, and have rewarded research performance.
   On their retirement as full-time members of staff, Taylor and Hamp-Lyons were appointed as
   visiting professors. This has allowed CRELLA to continue to benefit from their expertise in
   mentoring junior staff and students. For example, as an experienced editor, Hamp-Lyons
   mentored Chan when she acted as guest editor of a special issue of the journal, Assessing
   Writing.

   On Weir’s retirement from the role of Director of Institute in 2015, he was succeeded by Green,
   ensuring a smooth transfer of leadership. Weir continued as Professor of Applied Linguistics
   until his death in 2018. Nakatsuhara and Field were promoted to Reader in 2016; Chan to
   Lecturer in 2015 and to Senior Lecturer in 2017; Inoue to Lecturer in 2015 and to Senior
   Lecturer in 2017; and Lam to Lecturer in 2019. CRELLA staff benefit from its policy of flexible
   working hours and remote working, including options for part-time employment. Chan,
   Nakatsuhara, Latimer, and Inoue, for example, have been able to balance work commitments
   with caring responsibilities. Field, Taylor, Hamp-Lyons, and Latimer have all elected to work
   part time. The equal commitment to rewarding excellence is evidenced by Field’s promotion
   to Reader despite being employed at 0.6 FTE.

   Supporting Early Career Researchers (ECRs):

   CRELLA provides support to early career and postdoctoral researchers to advance their
   careers.

    ●   CRELLA provides an internal peer-review system whereby senior colleagues offer
        feedback on ECRs' manuscripts based on their doctoral research, prior to journal
        submission.

    ●   CRELLA scaffolds ECRs' development as independent researchers by progressively
        advancing them from co-researcher to project manager, and eventually Principal
        Investigator roles. Accordingly, senior staff develop ECRs' competence in securing
        competitive research grants by sharing examples of successful funding bids as well as
        offering support and guidance, e.g., by reviewing proposal and budget drafts for their new
        funding applications. Moreover, working with senior staff on diverse research projects
        allows ECRs to broaden their knowledge and skills base.

    Research income has allowed CRELLA to employ three postdoctoral researchers in this REF
    period: Lam (2016-2019), Heydari (2018-2019), and Latimer (2019-present). All three have
    participated fully in research and impact-generating activities, helping to enhance CRELLA’s
    research environment. CRELLA has provided each of these individuals with appropriate
    support. For example:

    ●   Lam received support through pre-submission reviews from senior colleagues and has
        published three articles in leading journals. His 2018 Language Testing article was among
        the 10 most cited articles in the journal in 2019. Feedback and mentoring throughout the
        submission and revision process by Khabbazbashi was also instrumental to Lam's
        success in having an article accepted by the top-tier journal, Applied Linguistics. Lam's
        development towards becoming an independent researcher is reflected in his progression
        from co-researcher (Cambridge English, 2016-17; IELTS, 2016-18; TOEFL iBT, 2017-20)
        to securing three competitive research grants as Principal Investigator (Cambridge
        English, 2017-18; IELTS 2019-20, 2020-present).

    ●   Through her involvement in CRELLA projects and under the guidance of Nakatsuhara,
        Heydari learnt the use of automated text analysis tools and the basics of item writing, test
        production, and standard setting – essential skills that facilitated her joining Buckingham
        University to work on the Buckingham English Language Test.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   In the first year of joining CRELLA, Latimer collaborated closely with Chan and Lam as
        co-investigator on two research projects. Building on this experience, she has recently
        submitted research bids as Principal Investigator. Latimer has co-authored a book
        chapter following feedback and advice from Chan and Taylor. Guidance from Chan has
        been instrumental in Latimer assuming professional roles outside the university, e.g.,
        joining the BAAL TEASIG committee. Working on projects with senior colleagues such
        as Chan, Nakatsuhara, Inoue, and Khabbazbashi has also helped Latimer expand her
        skills (learning Item Response Theory and the use of statistical software).

    b. Research students

    Overview

    In the current REF period, 25 PhDs have been awarded (compared to 9 in
    REF2014). A further 11 PhDs and one MPhil are currently registered. Many of
    our completed research students have been part-time students, either working
    as employees of major language test providers or as university language teachers. Many of
    these students are sponsored by examination boards (four by CAE, two by the BC, one by
    the      Eiken      Foundation        of     Japan, one by ALTE, one by Pearson English
    Assessment, one by Cambridge-Michigan Language                               Assessment,
    and one by the University of Central Lancashire Examination Board). Others have received
    scholarships from a range of international or national funding bodies (six from BC, one
    from the Educational Testing Service, USA, one from Trinity College London, and one
    from the World Bank).

    Equality and diversity

    Our student body is highly diverse, demonstrating our commitment to equal
    opportunities. Completed research students consist of 12 full-time and 13 part-time students
    from 13 countries/regions (Australia, Egypt, Georgia, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary,
    Jordan, the Netherlands, Pakistan, Poland, Sri Lanka, Thailand, UK) with a male to female
    ratio of 13:12. These figures indicate the extent to which our students can access PhD study
    opportunities, regardless of nationality, gender, and personal circumstances (e.g., two PhD
    students have taken maternity leave during this period). Amongst our current cohort, we
    have students (all part-time) based in Japan, Kazakhstan,
    Malaysia, Oman, Portugal, and the UK. The male to female ratio in this group is
    6:5. In consideration of our student cohort based in different time zones, and often studying
    in part-time mode while in full-time employment, CRELLA has adopted a range of
    measures to cater to student needs and offer flexibility in supervision, training and support as
    detailed below.

    Links with business, industry and the public sector

    In addition to staff links with industry and business (Sections 1b and 2a), many of our
    research       students       come       from businesses connected    with    language
    assessment worldwide. For example, our PhD cohort in the current REF period
    includes three students working at, and supported by CAE, four at the BC, one at the
    ALTE, one at OUP then Pearson English Assessment, one at University
    of Central Lancashire Examination Board, and       one    at    Eiken  Foundation    of
    Japan. Moreover, many of our graduates have successfully developed their careers in the
    industry. For example, Westbrook joined BC as a Test Development Researcher;
    Dunlea became the manager of the Assessment Research Group at BC, and Chapman
    became Director of Test Development at WIDA (World Class Instructional Design and
    Assessment Consortium, USA).

    Induction


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    CRELLA           research       students     each      receive     a      full   one-week
    induction at the University’s Research Graduate School, covering all aspects of research
    practice, ethics, progression, and research training. During this week, students attend
    an induction day at CRELLA that introduces students to CRELLA staff, CRELLA research
    activities, disciplinary features and expectations of PhD research in language assessment,
    and the training, support and resources available to them. On the final day, students have
    their first supervision meeting.

    Supervision

    In accordance with UoB policy, supervision meetings are arranged at least once per month
    for full-time students. CRELLA staff often arrange additional supervision meetings to provide
    enhanced support at key stages (e.g., fortnightly meetings for new full-time students
    and monthly meetings for new part-time students; fortnightly, or more frequent meetings with
    students submitting their progression point examination documents). Each student is
    assigned a second supervisor who joins the supervisory meeting at least once a
    term. Supervision records are logged onto an online system by the students, encouraging
    them to take the initiative in summarising key issues discussed and action points.

    Research training, support and progression

    There are two formal progression point assessments, where students are required to submit
    documents demonstrating their research progress. At each progression point, there is a viva
    voce examination by two examiners that serves both summative and formative purposes,
    offering opportunities for students to practise towards their final examination. With two
    supervisors, two internal progression point examiners, an internal thesis examiner, and
    individual consultations ('PhD clinic'), by the time they complete, each research student is
    likely to have received guidance and feedback on their work from most members of CRELLA.

    CRELLA research students are provided with a comprehensive research training
    programme, coordinated between departments:

    ●   The University's      Research     Graduate     School offers general     research    skills
        training courses.

    ●   Within the Faculty of Education and Sports, three research institutes (including CRELLA)
        jointly provide a structured research training programme for all major stages of research
        (e.g., theoretical paradigms and research design, research ethics, literature review,
        methods for data collection and data analysis, viva preparation). As part of this
        programme, there are further opportunities to enrol in research methods modules in
        taught programmes.

    ●   Our students have access to MA modules and CRELLA also offers specialist in-house
        training on the foundations of language test development and validation, and the
        research methods used to support these (e.g., classical and Rasch approaches to test
        item analysis).

    ●   Finally, CRELLA offers regular 'PhD clinic' and group study sessions to provide students
        with individual consultation/feedback on targeted areas as well as peer support.

    The training and support mechanisms offered by CRELLA have taken an increasingly
    adaptive approach that recognises the needs of research students from diverse
    backgrounds and at various stages of their study. A training needs analysis is conducted
    between the students and their supervisors at each key stage, and this is reviewed at each
    of the progression point examinations. End-of-year student surveys have been conducted to
    collect views on training provision and study support in the current year and to identify needs
    for the forthcoming year. There are opportunities for staff-student liaison in study groups, and

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    student representatives collect and share student views at CRELLA's tri-annual Research
    Institute meetings. Through these means, the training programmes are fine-tuned, and
    added support mechanisms have been implemented as appropriate to cohort
    characteristics (e.g., shifting face-to-face training to online delivery, provision of training
    recordings and other self-access resources in an online database).

    Integration into CRELLA's research culture

    CRELLA hosts a one-day research seminar three times a year (Spring, Summer, Winter
    seminars). These events provide a regular forum for staff and research students to present
    their research, including work-in-progress. In the current period, we also welcomed 24
    visiting    scholars to    the     centre,     some      of    whom have presented       their
    work at CRELLA research seminars. The seminars have always been attended by
    representatives of test providers, and language teachers and assessors from UK
    universities. Since July 2020, they have moved online, and we have seen a fourfold
    increase in attendance. Registration has consistently exceeded 250 participants. The last
    two seminars reached audiences across 6 continents, demonstrating our global
    reach. Through the CRELLA research seminars, our students are immersed in a vibrant
    research environment, having the opportunity not only to present their work and receive
    feedback from established researchers in the field, but also to network with the stakeholders
    and/or beneficiaries of their research, or to establish connections with the language testing
    industry.

    Preparing research students for future careers

    Students are encouraged to present their work at national and international conferences.
    Once they have passed the first progression point, funding support is available to contribute
    to conference registration, travel and accommodation. As part of CRELLA’s effort to develop
    research students’ profiles and experience, staff work with students in a) the preparation and
    publication of research articles (e.g., Chan with Latimer, Hamp-Lyons with Bruce, Green
    with Westbrook, Nakatsuhara separately with Jaiyote, Dunlea, and Waller) and b) delivering
    joint workshops and training courses (e.g. Bruce and Hamp -Lyons; Bax and Latimer; Green
    and Lloyd).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Research income

  Demonstrating the financial success of CRELLA’s research activity and its growing recognition
  nationally and internationally, CRELLA’s research income has risen substantially from
  GBP904,000 in the previous REF period to a total of GBP1,144,531 in the period 2014-2020.
  Income is used to support our research aims, to ensure greater impact and sustainability, to
  appoint new staff, as well as in staff and student development, and maximising the student
  experience for our PhD students.

  Scholarly infrastructure

  CRELLA has built a specialised library of resources. This includes over 500 books on language
  testing and assessment, books on related disciplines such as general linguistics, applied
  linguistics and language learning and books on research methods and statistical
  techniques. There are also journal collections, research reports, sample test papers and other
  resource items financed by the research institute out of its own resources. In addition, CRELLA
  holds a) the prestigious Professor John Trim Archive, a collection of papers on language testing
  and assessment documenting the development of the Council of Europe’s Common European
  Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR); b) an extensive archive of testing materials
  created over the last thirty years at Lancaster University and c) subscriptions to data collection
  and analysis software packages (e.g., Survey Monkey, Facets, Winsteps, and TextInspector)

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  for staff and students to use. These resources contribute to the status of CRELLA as the
  UK’s leading research centre in the field.

  Organisational infrastructure supporting research

  From its inception in 2005, CRELLA has received exceptional support from the university,
  encouraging its growth and contributing to its long-term sustainability as a research-intensive
  centre focusing on a distinctive area of work. The fact that it is now the largest specialist
  university centre in the UK for language assessment is testimony to the university’s foresight
  and commitment. Support at university level includes the following:

    ●   Funding: The university allocates a proportion of the QR funding to support CRELLA
        research development.

    ●   Bid support: The Bid Support Unit provides an online bid support and approval system,
        offers assistance for preparing bids as well as financial and legal advice on research
        contracts, and sends regular email alerts about funding opportunities.

    ●   Library resources: The Learning Resources department provides support on library
        resources such as ordering new books and journal subscriptions.

    ●   Research student matters: The Research Graduate School coordinates the quality
        assurance and administrative arrangements for all research degree programmes and
        liaises with students and supervisors on all aspects of research student progress.

    ●   Impact and public engagement: The university's media centre and marketing team
        provide support for disseminating CRELLA's research; and the website team offers advice
        and technical support for publishing contents and updates on CRELLA's website.

    ●   CRELLA and teaching departments at the university have established close collaborative
        links, offering mutual support and benefits to one another in teaching and
        research. CRELLA has, over the years, received significant support for recruitment of
        research participants from the Centre for English as a Foreign Language (CEFL, pre-
        sessional courses provision) and the School of Education and English Language.

  Operational infrastructure supporting research

  CRELLA is located in a substantial country mansion at Putteridge Bury. This spacious and
  pleasant environment affords an atmosphere highly conducive to research and
  scholarship. Putteridge Bury offers high-quality technical and study facilities for research
  students, including workspace, PC suites, conference and seminar rooms, and catering
  facilities. The conference facilities have been used regularly for hosting the tri-annual CRELLA
  Research Seminars and the Language Testing Forum 2018 conference, and the hospitality staff
  and services contributed to the exceptional feedback from participants at the conference. There
  is also on-site IT support for photocopying, computing and technical assistance and
  videoconferencing for research students and staff. The University has also purchased
  GBP19,000 of eye-tracking hardware and software for CRELLA research into reading and
  assessment.

  In recent years, the University has invested substantially in state-of-the-art research and study
  facilities. Following the opening of a GBP20 million Postgraduate Research Centre in 2013, a
  new GBP46 million university library on the Luton Campus also opened in 2016. The new library
  building, which won a Royal Institute of British Architects East award, has increased study
  space by 30%, provides more than 500 new PCs, has introduced a system for
  loaning laptops, and offers an expanded 154,000 stock of books. Staff and students have 24-
  hour library and Internet access on the university main campus and have free access to major
  research and referencing software, such as SPSS, NVivo, and RefWorks. Most recently,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  CRELLA has also benefited from the facilities            and services of the   university's    radio
  lab for a listening test development research project.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Broader engagement with, and beyond, the world of language testing

  CRELLA staff have a long history of engagement with the profession and beyond,
  applying original research to real-world problems and disseminating ideas internationally
  through public talks and training workshops, as well as engaging in teaching and research
  mentoring. Evidence of this engagement can be seen in these examples:

  Public talks, presentations, and training workshops

  Since 2014, CRELLA staff members have delivered 25 invited talks and 68 other papers at
  conferences, as well as 31 seminars and 51 training workshops worldwide. The total audience
  for these events was over 13,600 language teachers, testing professionals, and members of the
  public. Notable examples included:

    ●   Field’s invited webinar on Perceptual Processing in Listening Skills for TESOL
        International Association (2016)

    ●   Chan’s invited webinar on Developing Rating Scales for Integrated Assessment
        Tasks for the European Association for Language Testing and Assessment (2017)

    ●   Nakatsuhara and Khabbazbashi’s invited webinar on Speaking Assessment and Digital
        Technologies for the ALTE (2019)

    ●   Green, Lam, and Khabbazbashi’s invited plenary talks at Taras Shevchenko National
        University of Kyiv (2018)

    ●   Nakatsuhara’s plenary talk at Modern Language Teaching and Learning conference,
        Leeds (2017), a public lecture organised and disseminated by Macmillan Education for
        their editors worldwide (2017), and BC MOOC talk on Speaking Assessment in the
        Classroom with a global live audience of 2,900 (2019).

  Teaching and research mentoring

  During the current REF period, CRELLA has continued to contribute to postgraduate teaching at
  the university in areas such as research methods and language assessment and has expanded
  its contribution to undergraduate teaching and to the faculty-wide research skills training
  programme. This enhances the university's delivery of research-informed teaching in line with
  the professional framework set out by Advance HE (formerly Higher Education Academy) and
  the university's own teaching framework. CRELLA also offers research mentoring support to
  other departments through regular staff meetings with neighbouring departments within the
  faculty. Moreover, Green has mentored CEFL staff on their research; and CRELLA staff
  (e.g., Green, Nakatsuhara and Khabbazbashi) regularly present their research at the university's
  staff conferences.

  Collaborations and contributions to the research base

  CRELLA staff have worked collaboratively with many researchers in the UK and abroad, on a
  wide variety of research and development projects, including:

  Work with UK and international exam boards



                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   We have worked closely with CAE on the ongoing research and validation programme for
        its English language proficiency examinations.

    ●   Weir, Green, Nakatsuhara, Field, Taylor and Inoue have worked with English Language
        Testing Ltd. on the Password test development project for entrance to university
        foundation programmes.

    ●   Nakatsuhara, Field, Chan, Taylor, and Inoue have worked with Trinity College London
        Examination Board to validate and revise their language tests. During the current REF
        period, CRELLA had an MOU with the BC to provide a minimum of 35 days’ a year
        research consultancy on its tests and another with the Eiken Foundation of Japan.

    ●   Weir worked extensively with the LTTC exam board in Taiwan on their GEPT test and
        served as an international member of their research committee.

    ●   Weir, Nakatsuhara, Green and Taylor have worked with the Eiken Foundation of Japan
        researching a new university English language entrance test for Japan.

    ●   Green and Nakatsuhara have also collaborated closely on research with Japanese
        universities, at Tokyo University of Foreign Studies and Waseda University,
        respectively.

    ●   Bax and Green developed an online teachers’ assessment portal at the Singapore
        Ministry of Education.

    ●   Inoue, Nakatsuhara, Khabbazbashi, Chan, Green and Field worked closely with
        Centro Ceibal and other governmental bodies in Uruguay to develop an English test that
        is now taken by over 70,000 primary and secondary school students.

  Work with other UK and international universities

  CRELLA has collaborated extensively with universities in the UK and abroad in research
  projects and joint publications to utilise research expertise in strategic areas (see Section 1b).
  CRELLA provided expertise to complement that of staff in other institutions. A representative
  example is Nakatsuhara's collaborative research with Tavakoli (Reading) and Hunter (St.
  Mary's), which examined fluency in the Aptis speaking test from the perspectives of both
  language assessment and second language acquisition. The research project has led to an
  output published in the esteemed Modern Language Journal (5th in linguistics, 2019, Clarivate
  Analytics). CRELLA also collaborated with researchers from Waseda University, Japan, leading
  to a reformed English language curriculum aligned to the CEFR.

  CRELLA has also actively sought opportunities for joint research projects that draw on the
  expertise of UK and international collaborators. Recently, for example, Lam's research project
  on the use of IELTS scores for university admissions benefitted from the expertise of Murray
  (Warwick) and Gayton (Cambridge, Glasgow) in the internationalisation of higher education. An
  example of CRELLA's long-term international collaborative partnership is with May at
  Queensland University of Technology, Australia, drawing on her expertise in rater protocol
  studies and qualitative data coding. CRELLA staff members have collaborated with May in
  multiple research projects (Nakatsuhara and Lam on Cambridge B2 First, 2016-17; Chan on
  Pearson Test of English, 2018-19; Nakatsuhara and Khabbazbashi on IELTS, 2019-present).
  The research on Cambridge B2 First has been published in Language Testing and became the
  article with the 3rd highest Altmetric score in the journal (September 2020).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Indicators of wider contributions to the research base and relevant esteem indicators

  CRELLA staff have made considerable contributions to the wider national and international
  research base. Examples of our work include:

    1. Editorial panels

  CRELLA staff are represented on the editorial boards of many of the profession’s top journals
  and book series. Examples include:
    ● Green         (2016-present), Nakatsuhara      (2014-present),       Taylor (2013-2016),
       and Weir (2007-2018) on Language Testing.
    ● Field (2010-present) on System.
    ● Green (2008-present) on Assessing Writing.
    ● Inoue on Language Education and Assessment (2018-present).

  Weir was series editor (2001-2018) for Studies in Language Testing (Cambridge University
  Press). Green has been Executive Editor for Assessment in Education: Principles, Policy &
  Practice (2015-present), and was Associate Editor for Language Assessment Quarterly (2012-
  18). Hamp-Lyons was Editor of Assessing Writing (2002-2016), and Co-Editor of the Journal
  of English for Academic Purposes (2002-2015).

  Several staff members have served as Guest Editors for special issues:
   ● Green (2019-20) on Language Testing
   ● Nakatsuhara (2019-present) on Assessment in Education
   ● Chan (2017-18) on Assessing Writing

    2. Professional and advisory roles

  CRELLA staff actively contribute to the wider community of language testing and assessment
  through         serving various        roles in relevant professional      bodies. Examples
  of professional bodies in which CRELLA staff members have served include:
     ● The International Language Testing Association (ILTA) – Green as President (2015-16)

    ●   The   European    Association    for   Language     Testing         and    Assessment
        (EALTA) – Green, Weir, Nakatsuhara as Expert Member

    ●   UKALTA     –     Taylor    as      President    (2020-present),    Inoue (2016-18)
        and Khabbazbashi (2018-present) as Treasurer (2016-18), and Nakatsuhara as steering
        committee member (2015-16)

    ●   The British Association for Applied Linguistics, Testing, Evaluation and Assessment
        Special Interest Group (BAAL TEA SIG) – Chan as Convenor (2019-
        present), Inoue (2015-17)     and Chan        (2017-19)      as       Communications
        Officer, Khabbazbashi as Treasurer (2016-18), and Latimer as Extra-ordinary Committee
        Member (2019-present)

  Members of staff have also served in advisory roles for language test development and
  research: Green serves on the OECD Technical advisory group for the PISA 2024 tests of
  foreign languages, Weir as Senior Consultant to Eiken Foundation, Japan, for the Test in
  English for Academic Purposes (TEAP, 2010-18), and as Chair of the Assessment Advisory
  Board of the BC (2012-18); and Field and Green as Advisors to the OUP project to create skills
  syllabuses and guidelines for materials writers (2016-present).

  In addition, Green has served as assessor for grant applications to the Swiss National Science
  Foundation, the FWO Research Foundation Flanders, the Education University of Hong Kong,
  and the IELTS Joint Funded Research Programme, and as a reviewer of applications and
  completed research reports for the British Council Assessment Research Grants (since

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2017). Nakatsuhara has acted as a grant application reviewer for the TOEFL Committee of
  Examiners (COE) Research Program (2018), and as a reviewer of funded research reports for
  the British Council Assessment Research Grants (2019).

    3. External Examining

  CRELLA staff have served as external examiners for numerous universities in the UK
  and overseas. Examples include:
    ● Green, for Lancaster (2016, 2020), Leicester (2018), the Open University (2019), Bristol
       (2020), and the universities of Queensland (2019) and Melbourne, Australia (2020)
    ● Weir for Leicester (2016)
    ● Nakatsuhara for Macquarie University, Australia (2014), Newcastle (2019), Auckland,
       New Zealand (2019)
    ● Inoue for Sheffield (2017)
    ● Chan for Roehampton (2017-2020)
    ● Khabbazbashi for Southampton (2019)
    ● Lam for University College London (2018)

    4. Awards

  Weir received the Cambridge/ILTA distinguished achievement award for language testing in
  2014 and was awarded an OBE in 2015 in honour of his services to English language
  assessment. Weir was conferred as a Fellow of Academy of Social Sciences in December
  2013. In 2019, Green received the British Council’s Innovation in Assessment Prize for the
  Teachers’ Assessment Literacy Enhancement (TALE) project.

  Summary
  With a 7.2 FTE workforce, CRELLA has strived for excellence in research and impact, bringing
  in promising researchers and building on our success in the previous REF period. This has
  been achieved through consolidating our strong links and forging new ones with both national
  and international test providers. We have:
     • generated 30% more research income than in the previous period and have broadened
        our research funding base with more than 10 new partners globally;

    •   increased the number of peer-reviewed publications in high impact journals by 57%:
        from 21 (REF2014) to 33 (REF2021);

    •   reached a global audience of 13,600 through invited talks, conference presentations,
        seminars and training workshops; and

    •   cultivated a new generation of language assessment specialists, with PhD completions
        increasing from 9 (REF2014) to 25 (REF2021).




                                                                                        Page 17
