Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Winchester

Unit of Assessment: C19 Politics and International Studies

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overall unit structure

REF 2021 represents the first Politics and International Studies submission for the University of
Winchester (UoW). The period 2015-2020 has seen significant investment in capacity-building to
establish the Unit of Assessment and to position Politics and International Studies for future
growth. A key moment was the creation of an inter-disciplinary Politics and International Studies
Working Group (2015), which provided the foundation for UoA19’s submission. As of 31st July
2020, the Politics and International Studies Working Group comprises five full-time members of
staff and an additional Early Career Researcher (ECR) ineligible for REF 2021 but who none the
less is part of the longer-term strategic plan for the next REF cycle (Stadheim) continuing the
Political Economy focus from Bonizzi, who left the Institution to take up a new post in 2019. Three
staff are members of the Politics Programme (Terhalle, Roberts, Stadheim), one a member of the
Sociology Programme (Ziemer), one from the Department of Psychology (Pachi), and one from
the Law Programme (Scolnicov). Ziemer was appointed in 2012, Scolnicov 2013, Terhalle 2015,
Roberts 2018 and Pachi and Stadheim in 2019.

In terms of affiliation, the five UoA members at the census date come from four different
programmes, situated in three Departments, homed in two different Faculties. The Politics and
Sociology programmes are part of the Department of Applied Social Sciences, Forensics and
Politics (ASSFP), homed in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS), which also
includes the Department of Psychology. The Law Programme – a constituent of the Department of
Law, Economics, Accounting and Finance – is part of the Faculty of Business, Law and Digital
Technologies. Thus, the core strategy for this cycle has been to create and develop a truly inter-
disciplinary Working Group with a strong identity and long-term plans for growing and sustaining
future research excellence. The following sections illustrate the Unit’s success in ensuring its
vitality and sustainability.

1.2 Research areas & support for interdisciplinary research

The emergence of the Politics and International Studies Working Group has helped develop
several distinctive but intersecting research areas reflecting the strategic priorities outlined in the
UoW Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2015-2020, as well as the research interests of
individual members. These priorities are underpinned by a broad commitment to address
‘fundamental and strategically important questions’ in line with the UoW RKE Strategy, which for
UoA19 has meant a focus on the following research areas: Global Order & Transition (e.g.
China-US relations; global financial flows and emerging markets); Regional Order & Security
(e.g. European Security, Russian & Eurasian regime security); Gender, Youth & Participation
(e.g. women and militarization; generational attitudes towards war and peace) and Intercultural
Competences & Norms (e.g. religious freedoms, human rights and authoritarian norm diffusion).
These research areas represent the framework for engagement, outputs and outreach detailed in
this environment statement, but also the basis for both the continuing support and the sharing of
research expertise among members of the UoA and the wider research community at the UoW and
beyond.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The UoA also benefitted from the parallel creation of the Centre for English Identity & Politics
(CEIP - 2016-2019) headed by former Labour MP and Secretary of State Professor John Denham.
The Centre explored the relationship between a growing English identity and the development of
local and national politics in England, helping to raise the national profile of Politics at UoW and to
build interdisciplinarity by linking researchers together across the University and by giving advice,
support and numerous lectures to staff as well as undergraduate and postgraduate students. In
particular, Denham’s high profile and frequent conference and media appearances (e.g. opinion
pieces in The Times and The Guardian newspapers) stimulated UoA members to engage more
broadly with research dissemination (see section 4).

Likewise, the appointment of former NATO Senior Defence Economist (2001-2014) Adrian Kendry,
as Visiting Professor in Economics and Security (2018-2019), supported existing security-focused
research conducted by individual UoA members (Terhalle). Kendry gave multiple talks to
undergraduate and postgraduate students on NATO’s evolution and its changing geostrategic and
political environment before and after the Trump presidency. Both Kendry and Denham left lasting
legacies for UoA19 at the University by fostering the nascent research culture and sharing
experience, knowledge and contacts.

1.3 Supporting research & research strategy

As a newly established, vibrant and strongly interdisciplinary Unit, our approach has been to
develop the nexus between Politics and International Studies within our respective fields and
individual expertise, while developing and implementing a UoA research strategy based on the
following two pillars:

    a) Setting our research targets
    b) Delivering our research targets

a) Setting our research targets

Researchers in the Unit are encouraged to:

•   Formulate innovative research agendas, collaborate with colleagues at the University and
    with external partners. This is achieved through regular formal and informal meetings and
    information-sharing within the Politics and International Studies Working Group. Formal
    UoA19 Working Group meetings are scheduled on a regular basis during the academic year
    (two per semester) to coordinate and discuss research directions;
 • Publish research monographs with high quality presses, through sharing best practice,
     experience and knowledge of suitable publishers. This has resulted in some notable
     successes, including Ziemer’s (ed.) Women's Everyday Lives in War and Peace in the South
     Caucasus (2019, Palgrave), Pachi’s (eds.) Youth Civic and Political Participation (2019,
     Routledge); Scolnicov’s (eds.) Boundaries of State, Boundaries of Rights (2016, Cambridge
     University Press) and Terhalle’s The Transition of Global Order: Contestation and
     Legitimacy (2017, Palgrave) and (eds.) The New Power Politics of Global Climate
     Governance (2016, Routledge);
  • Produce high-quality published research in refereed journals of international reputation in the
     researcher’s own areas of expertise (e.g. International Politics, International Studies -
     Terhalle; International Feminist Journal of Politics – Ziemer; East European Politics -
     Roberts), through collective discussion of journal impact, re-submission strategies and


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   approaches to dealing with reviewer comments;
 • Develop applications for external funding with clear pathways to impact and relevant
   stakeholders in mind and, where appropriate, incorporating PGR studentships in bids.
   Discussion of internal UoW support available (e.g. liaising with the RKE Centre and Faculty
   Head of RKE) and sharing of experience of the application process in general has helped
   compensate for the relative newness of the UoA at its first submission;
 • Engage in Knowledge Exchange related to research and develop the internationalisation of
   research. This is emphasised in terms of its importance but also as a natural strength of the
   UoA to be accentuated as much as possible, as all members have well-developed national
   and international networks;
• Maximise research impact via engagement with an appropriate variety of policy stakeholders.
   The Politics and International Studies Working Group has been instrumental in providing
   oversight of research and impact activities and using internal research funds to develop the
   two Impact Case Studies (ICS) for this REF submission (Scolnicov and Ziemer);
 • Engage with Open Access. Ultimately, the UoA Lead ensures researcher compliance with
   REF Open Access requirements. A key priority now and in the future will be to continue to
   develop engagement with Open Science. We feel this is important for research integrity
   within the discipline and we will provide staff with training and support in areas such as pre-
   registration of research and preparation of high-quality datasets (where possible) for open
   access deposit.

 b) Delivering our research targets

 Delivering research targets is achieved through:

 • Clear leadership within the UoA. The UoA19 Lead (Roberts) disseminates important
   institutional communication on research-related matters, including key changes affecting
   research from within the UoW, such as the university-wide RKE Strategy, but also information
   from external bodies, such as Research England. The UoA Lead coordinates the
   interdisciplinary activities of the UoA and liaises closely with other research stakeholders in
   the REF Working Group The UoA Lead performs an important research facilitating role. It is a
   renewable and transparent role, allocated through a formal application and interview, to
   ensure the Unit’s vitality and grant members the opportunity to develop leadership skills
   within a research context and thus develop their professional and research profile;
 • Research planning exercises. Staff with responsibility for research complete a Research &
   Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Planning Form at the beginning of the academic year to
   highlight proposed research activities and directions. Planning Forms are scrutinised by the
   UoA Lead, with the aim of facilitating individual research-related goal-setting and
   retrospective reflection on the achievability of goals. In thus doing, the UoA Lead also retains
   oversight over the coordination of research activities within the UoA group for the purposes of
   the end-point REF submission;
 • Mentoring. Regular and ongoing developmental discussions are provided by the UoA Lead
   and supplemented by mentoring allocations on the UoW workload model for Readers
   (Terhalle) and Professors (Scolnicov), 50 and 75 hours respectively. There is a system of
   reciprocal engagement within the UoA for reading pre-published, draft materials to offer
   advice on improving content, revising drafts in light of reviewer comments and to suggest
   potential refereed journals and publishers for research outputs. Our objective from the outset
   has been that staff should be REF-returnable with the highest possible quality output through
   this monitoring policy;


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Funding application peer-review. Proposed funding bids are discussed and read by relevant
   members of the group with a view to both improve and advise on the most appropriate
   funding body before they are submitted for institutional review and signoff. While we focus on
   the success of applications rather than their number, we expect that all UoA members
   regularly apply for external funding. This support has encouraged applications;
 • Supporting research integrity. The UoA has made a sustained effort to ensure that research
   is ethical and conducted in accordance with appropriate regulatory frameworks. This has
   proved important as much of our research deals with sensitive issues that require careful
   consideration of institutional and international ethical frameworks, in particular research
   dealing with vulnerable groups (Pachi) and conflict zones (Ziemer). Discussion between
   researchers in the Working Group has facilitated this outcome, as too the UoA Lead’s
   participation in Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange (FRKE) meetings (held twice per
   semester) where issues such as the University’s ethical framework are discussed. (This has
   proved important for ensuring compliance);
 • Internal dissemination of research. All staff have participated in the regular Faculty (HSS)
    seminar series from its inception. The Politics and International Studies Working Group that
    forms the basis of UoA19 was instrumental in establishing this seminar series, giving the first
    talk in 2017 (Ziemer ‘A gender perspective on the protracted conflict over Nagorno
    Karabakh’). This has helped publicise research and offer opportunities for collective feedback
    and collaboration with other research staff from other UoAs in the Faculty. This also proved
    particularly useful for developing politics research and interest in this research at the UoW;
 • Financial support. The UoA Working Group, coordinated by the UoA Lead, devise the
    strategic priorities for allocation of internal QR funding (SeeREF5a, 4.1). In recent years, this
    money has supported conference attendance, fieldwork trips and teaching buyouts to
    develop publication and research funding applications. In the 2019-2020 academic year,
    these funds totalled £11,202 and have helped cement the UoA’s significance in terms of
    delivering research targets;
 • Impact development. The combination of planning, mentoring, bid support, sharing of
   progress and best practice, and the provision of financial support – each detailed above –
   has facilitated research impact. In addition, UoA19 has helped build individual impact by
   facilitating contact between researchers at the University. For example, the introduction of
   Visiting Professor in Economics and Security (Adrian Kendry) to the Politics and International
   Studies Research Group was instrumental in providing Terhalle with direct contact to
   NATO’s Strategic Foresight Analysis Programme (Kendry was the Lead External Adviser on
   Economics and Resources for this programme). Kendry also passed on reports to the UoA
   from his involvement in NATO events held in Finland (Russia’s Resurgence) and in Norway
   (the Arctic and the High North) in June and September 2019 respectively.

These inter-linked strands closely align with the University’s aim to increase the quality of
research, as outlined in the Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2015-2020, which
includes the goals of ‘maximising the potential impact of research by facilitating the production of
research of the highest quality’ and of ‘promoting the value of research and knowledge exchange’.
These inter-linked strands also align with the University’s ‘core values’ (individuals matter,
spirituality and compassion), in particular the value of helping individuals flourish – an embedded
component of the new RKE Strategy 2020-2030 (see REF5a, 1.1 and 2.1).

1.4 Research and impact strategy going forwards

The Politics and International Studies Working Group is now well-positioned to develop its future


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategy, as well as develop the wider institutional strategic themes for 2020-2030. We will look to
increase funding streams and to provide more research training (in particular through internal and
external guest speakers to address impact and research from the earliest opportunity, to further
embed impact in research design). We will look to develop a vibrant PGR community by taking
advantage of the natural and close alignment between our research themes and the University’s
strategic themes over the next decade (see below). We plan to build on existing knowledge-
exchange activities and impactful research (Scolnicov, Pachi) and on new research projects
coming online (Ziemer, Stadheim). The early phase of the next REF cycle will see existing
themes further emphasised and developed. Ziemer will undertake and complete her funded
research project on cyber-security. Roberts will continue his work on Russian norm diffusion in
the South Caucasus, developing publications based on an as-of-yet unused dataset of primary
interviews, while Scolnicov will research the international and comparative topic of constitutional
transplantations. ECR Stadheim will complete her research on EU political economy and fiscal
restructuring in times of crisis, with a case study focus on Portugal.

This group of researchers, collectively, will look to build on its strong inter-disciplinary identity and
aforementioned research themes of Global Order & Transition; Regional Order & Security;
Gender, Youth & Participation; and Intercultural Competences & Norms, relating them to
University-wide strategic themes of Global Challenges & Change; Sustainability; and Social
Justice. Thus, the Politics and International Studies Working Group, from modest beginnings in
2015 is now looking to be strategically placed in the next REF cycle to produce research, impact
and outreach on institutional themes central to the University’s long-term strategic goals.

2. People

2.1 Staffing & staff development

The research group continues to benefit from those UoA support structures already mentioned
(Section 1), as well as from wider university structures. Notwithstanding institution-wide Flexible
Working Agreements (FWA), staff also benefit from University-wide training and committee
participation relevant for research. They include:

 • Online training on Equality and Diversity. This is compulsory for all staff;
 • Conscious and Unconscious Bias training. All staff attended these sessions as mandatory, in
   addition to the UoA Working Group attending bespoke training focused on REF. As a result,
   the UoA collectively looks for bias in day-to-day working practices, but also relating to the
   research management process. For example, the UoA Lead now scrutinizes all external
   reviews received for UoA publications for any evidence of potential gender and other forms of
   research bias in order to evaluate external reviewer performance;
 • Impact-related training. In 2019, the University ran drop-in sessions with The Conversation to
   encourage research-active staff to publicly disseminate research findings;
 • Participation in the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (FRKE). This
   gives direct input into University-wide, research-related discussions and decision-making.
   Terhalle, Ziemer and Roberts have sat on this committee;
 • Staff are also encouraged to make full use of a wide-range of additional development
   opportunities available to them organised through the University’s Research and Knowledge
   Exchange Centre, such as day-long workshops on grant writing, provided by external
   consultants, and Open Access days covering a range of topics such as open data, pre-
   registration of research and registered reports, and pre-print archiving systems.
 • Staff also benefit from an open and transparent promotion system. Terhalle was promoted

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    from Senior Lecturer to Reader in International Relations in 2016, following the creation of
    UoA19 in 2015. Scolnicov was promoted to Professor of Law in 2013, during the previous
    REF cycle, and Ziemer from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer during the same cycle. Promotion is
    aided by those mentoring schemes already outlined at the level of the UoA (see Section 1). In
    addition, and at Departmental level, all staff have annual career development meetings with
    their Head of Department, allowing for research-related discussions with line managers on
    needs and strategic development. From June 2020, a new Individual Review and
    Development Scheme (IRDS) was launched by the University.

Mentoring is sustained and regular for Early Career Researchers (ECRs). In addition to the
institutional-wide support for ECRs (see the UoW Institutional Statement 3.5), at the Faculty level
ECR’s benefit from:

 • Support from the UoA Lead and other members of the UoA with allocated workhours for
   mentoring for Readers and Professors (Terhalle and Scolnicov);
 • Regular probation meetings with the Head of Department (every three months) in the first year
   of employment with stated SMART research targets;
 • Extra hours for teaching preparation (teaching of new modules) to aid research time and the
   transition to full-time employment.

2.2 Integration & support of ECRs

Since her appointment in August 2019, and with the encouragement of the UoA as a whole, ECR
Stadheim has developed her research independence. In November 2020, her first journal article
was published (‘Banks 1–Portugal 0’? Financial player entanglements in the Eurozone crisis,
Competition & Change), and she is working on her first monograph stemming from her doctoral
research. Stadheim will also contribute to the vitality and sustainability of the Unit post-REF2021
with her impact and KE. She was involved in a rapid research project in collaboration with United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, Eurodad, and the Municipal Services Project on
public banks’ role in countering the recession caused by Covid-19; in December 2020 she was
awarded an internal Strategic Priority Funding (SPF) grant of £5000 to research the project
‘Combatting the Pandemic with Public Banks: Lessons for the UK’, which will lead her to co-write
policy briefs in collaboration with UCL’s Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose with
recommendations for the proposed UK National Infrastructure Bank and the Scottish National
Investment Bank. Since her appointment at the University, Stadheim has given papers on the
financial crisis in Portugal and on the financial ramifications of Covid-19 at national and
international events (King’s College, SOAS, Metropolitan Autonomous University [Mexico]).

2.3 Research students

As mentioned in the previous section, the Politics and International Studies Research Group, as
the basis of UoA19, has benefitted from significant institutional investment and capacity-building
since 2015, which has included the creation of an MA programme (below) and opportunities for
staff to engage in research-led teaching and supervision. The newly formed Department of Applied
Social Sciences, Forensics and Politics (2019) successfully gained PhD hosting rights, as part of a
sustained institution-wide drive to recruit research students and as recognition of the supervisory
expertise within the Department. This will directly benefit UoA19 going forwards. Students are
encouraged to explore PhD study at the University, in particular interdisciplinary research, and it is
envisaged that PhD numbers will grow substantially over the next REF cycle, reflecting the


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
dynamic growth of Politics and International Studies research. As a truly interdisciplinary group, the
UoA is now well-positioned to take advantage of the University’s strategic investment in addressing
the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDG) and the UK’s Global Challenges
Research Fund (GCRF), to generate research income, attract PhD students and develop into the
next REF cycle and beyond.

In line with this growth, 2020 saw the first completed PhD supervised by a UoA19 member
(Ziemer, third supervisor) in collaboration with the Institute for Values Studies at the UoW. Ziemer
is currently second supervisor for a UoW studentship-holding PhD student working on a thesis
examining expert knowledge and terrorism, with an expected completion date of 2021. Building on
her expertise as HSS Faculty Postgraduate Research Student Lead, Ziemer is helping coordinate
the expected increase in the number of PhD students to improve this aspect of the UoA’s
environment. Information on training for PhD supervision is also communicated through the UoA
with Post Graduate Supervisory Sessions mandatory for PhD supervision for first, second and third
supervisors.

C19 Politics and International Studies
 Academic year         No. of PhDs awarded           No. of Professional doctorates awarded
 2013-14               0.00                          0.00
 2014-15               0.00                          0.00
 2015-16               0.00                          0.00
 2016-17               0.00                          0.00
 2017-18               0.00                          0.00
 2018-19               0.00                          0.00
 2019-20               0.25                          0.00
(Total 0.25)

In addition, the University runs an Early Career Research Visiting Fellowship scheme to support
our PGR students in the first two years post-award. While carrying no remuneration, Visiting
Fellows on this scheme enjoy full institutional support as well as mentoring. The Politics and
International Studies Research Group supported its first Fellow on this scheme (Cappucci from
2018) with a project examining Georgia-Russia relations.

The expected growth in PhD numbers will be supported by the expanded provision of Master’s
courses. The MA in Politics and International Relations accepted its first cohort of postgraduate
students in the 2018-2019 academic year with a healthy intake of 13. For the 2020-2021 academic
year, this number rose to 17 students. Terhalle, Roberts and Stadheim contribute to this new MA,
which enjoys institutional support through the Alumni Masters Scholarships and Winchester
Graduate Masters Scholarships, offering a 50% fee discount. Scolnicov contributes to the MA in
Reconciliation and Peace, administered by the Department of Theology, Religion and Philosophy.

In addition, researchers in the Politics and International Studies Research Group are part of the
UoW Winchester Research Apprenticeship Programme (WRAP) scheme. This scheme offers the
opportunity for undergraduate students to gain work experience in research by working alongside
an experienced member of staff at the University on a real-life research project. In general terms,
this scheme has helped embed our research culture, but more specifically it has helped academic
staff and their research projects, and is partly responsible for the healthy number of students on
the new MA in Politics and International Relations.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In the period 2016-2019, WRAP projects covered a number of areas. Working with Professor
Denham’s Centre for English Identity and Politics (CEIP), politics students collaborated on topics
including ‘BAME communities and English identity’, ‘Understanding Ideas of England’ and
‘Contemporary Celebration of St George’s Day’, leading to newspaper articles and blog posts on
ethnic diversity in England, as well as an academic journal article co-authored by Denham
(England, Englishness and the Labour Party, The Political Quarterly, 2018). Other WRAP projects
included work on Ziemer’s research in 2016-2017 (‘Gender and Political Transformations in Armenia
and Nagorno-Karabakh’) – research that manifested in her edited volume Women's Everyday Lives in
War and Peace in the South Caucasus (Palgrave, 2019). Another WRAP scheme included a former
Part-Time member of staff and member of UoA19, Katharine Wright, who shared a project with a
student on ‘NATO Activist Women from the 1960s to Today’ – research leading to the edited
volume by Wright, Hurley and Ruiz (eds) NATO, gender and the military: Women organising from
within. (Routledge, 2019). In total, WRAP schemes relating to politics themes, 2013-2020,
attracted £2,200 of internal funding.

2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusivity

As well as reflecting the institutional strategic emphasis on interdisciplinarity, the Politics and
International Studies Research Group reflects the wider UoW commitment to equality and diversity
as outlined in the Staff Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2016-2020 (see Institutional
Statement, 3.2) viewed in terms of both gender equality and internationalisation. Pachi (Greek
national), Scolnicov (Israeli), Stadheim (Norwegian) and Ziemer (German) as female researchers
comprise four out of six staff within UoA19. Terhalle (German) and Roberts (British) complete the
group.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income

Owing to the rapid development of the Politics and International Studies Working Group, success
with external funding remains ‘work in progress’ but there are already notable external funding
successes, in particular in gaining prestigious research fellowships in the period, 2015-2020. In
addition, all UoA members have either applied for external funding or have plans to do so in the
near future, and this is supported through the UoA in the form of internal funding and teaching
buyouts. In addition, mentoring and reciprocal sharing of best practice has played an important
role. Roberts, based on his previous experience in Finland helped Ziemer with her Fellowship in
Helsinki (see below), and in turn Ziemer’s experience of funding bids has been passed on to the
rest of the group.

External Grants awarded in the period 2015-2020 include:

   •   British Academy Small Grant (2020). Ziemer was successful in gaining funding to conduct
       research on cyber-crime (Technology, development, culture and cybercrime: a case study
       of cybercrime and illicit internet use) along with Professor Tim Hall from the Department of
       Archaeology, Anthropology and Geography, the UoW (£9,991);
   •   Fellowship, the Israeli Institute of Advanced Studies (2019). Scolnicov was successful in
       gaining a prestigious five-month stay (September 2019-February 2020) to research
       constitutional transplantations. This included a fully remunerated professor’s salary,
       accommodation and travel, costings for a research assistant and administrative help. This
       Fellowship also included funding for two international conferences (Scolnicov organised the


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Constitutional Transplantations Conference in Jerusalem in January 12-13th 2020) and
       assistance with publications (estimated worth in-kind in excess of £100,000);
   •   Fellowship, Aleksanteri Institute, University of Helsinki (2017). Ziemer was successful in
       gaining a two-month research stay (August-September 2017) exploring Geopolitical
       Challenges and National Identity in Armenia. This included a stipend (€6,000),
       accommodation and flights;
   •   Research grant, the Armenian Institute, University of Southern California (2017). Ziemer
       was successful in gaining funding for ethnographic fieldwork in Armenia ($2,646). Both this
       funding and the previously mentioned Aleksanteri Fellowship enabled Ziemer to complete
       her edited volume Women's Everyday Lives in War and Peace in the South Caucasus
       (Palgrave, 2019).

Whilst none of the above awards is officially coded as research income due to either funds being
delayed by the inception of the Covid-19 pandemic, or their being paid directly to the recipients,
they nonetheless demonstrate the international excellence of the UoA and its members.
Since its inception, the Politics and International Studies Research Group has employed several
strategies, in conjunction with the institutional infrastructure (see REF5a, 4.1 & 4.3) to generate
grant income and increase impact. These strategies include:

   •   Consultation with the University’s Research Funding Managers. UoA members are
       encouraged to engage with these colleagues in one-to-one meetings to discuss research
       ideas and suitable funding bodies and to ‘match’ their research topic with funding outlets.
       Research Managers also help with costings and the application process;
   •   Internal funding application scrutiny. Funding Managers feedback on research applications,
       which supplement the UoA peer-review support. In addition, the Faculty Peer Review
       College offers separate feedback on prospective funding applications;
   •   UoA funding. From 2015, UoAs could bid centrally for funding to support their strategic
       research aims, with an amount being allocated to each UoA based on their size. This
       important change gave more power to the UoAs to direct their own research, including, for
       example, to pay for external speakers to brief UoA members on funding opportunities;
   •   Research Away days. 2020 was to see the first Politics and International Studies Research
       ‘away-day’ to discuss research funding and impact. COVID-19 caused the cancellation and
       indefinite suspension of two ‘away-days’ planned for June and July 2020 to discuss
       Leverhulme Trust applications and research impact, with invited internal and external
       speakers already contacted. These plans will be enacted remotely and face-to-face at the
       earliest opportunity and form part of the future strategic development of the UoA in 2021;
   •   External publication reviews. The University allocates resources to pay for at least two
       external reviewers to feedback on every written output eligible for REF 2021. This feedback
       has proven invaluable for tailoring future research, impact and funding applications;

In addition, the UoA has directly benefitted from generous internal funding, including teaching
buyouts to promote research. Notable examples include:

   •   Teaching buyouts. Terhalle had a complete teaching buyout, January-August 2017, to
       develop publications. One notable outcome was his monograph The Transition of Global
       Order: Contestation and Legitimacy (2017, Palgrave). Ziemer received a teaching buyout in
       2018 to support completion of her edited volume Women's Everyday Lives in War and
       Peace in the South Caucasus (2019, Palgrave);
   •   Annual research funding allocations separate from the UoA. As a participant in the previous

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       REF cycle at the UoW, Ziemer received a £3,000 QR allocation every academic year;
   •   Funding for workshops. Ziemer was successful in gaining additional internal funding to host
       and deliver two workshops with international participants. In May 2018, a Participatory
       Needs Assessment Workshop on Women and Militarization was delivered at the UoW’s
       Centre of Religion, Reconciliation and Peace (£7,755). In 2020, internal funding was
       allocated to run a second Participatory Needs Assessment workshop on Women, Trauma
       and Reconciliation in Nagorno Karabakh via the Armenian Women’s Research Centre
       (£6,825). The COVID-19 pandemic postponed the original February 2020 date. Both
       workshops are key elements of Ziemer’s Impact Case Study for UoAC19;
   •   University internal funding for impact case studies (ICS). Ziemer, Terhalle and Scolnicov
       have received financial support to develop impact case studies, based on their on-going
       research.

3.2 Organisation infrastructure supporting research and impact

In terms of the institutional-level facilities (see REF5a, 4.2) and equipment, the Politics and
International Studies Research Group benefits from:

   •   Support for international events. Ziemer’s four-day workshop and conference conducted in
       May 2018 was hosted by the UoW. This event included accommodation for participants
       from Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia;
   •   Working spaces. The University provides well-equipped working spaces for all academic
       staff and full-time PhD students, containing state-of-the-art computing facilities with IT
       support available. This is also extended to colleagues on the Visiting Fellows scheme (see
       Section 2);
   •   Research-related IT support. The University provides personalised IT support for research.
       For example, the need for rugged and highly portable IT has seen Ziemer twice issued with
       a personal UoW IPad (2013 and 2019). This has proved invaluable for use on extended
       fieldwork trips, sometimes in remote locations, and for international conference attendance;
   •   Research-related resources at the UoW. The University maintains extensive library
       provision, including an exceptional range of politics related periodicals and online materials
       (e.g. The Financial Times, The Economist), with a subject librarian providing support to staff
       and training to all Post-Graduate Researchers. Researchers are also able to use the
       University’s Sona and Qualtrics software to coordinate and conduct research. For example,
       Pachi has used Sona to recruit research participants.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences

All staff disseminate their research by participating in international conferences and/or give keynote
papers and guest lectures. This has been an area directly benefitting from informal contact and
experience-sharing within the Politics and International Studies Research Group. For example,
Scolnicov (2020) organised an international conference on Constitutional Transplantations at the
Hebrew University, Jerusalem, and presented at the conference on Constitutional Culture in
Kingston, Canada in 2015. Terhalle (2017) presented at the International Studies Association in
Hong Kong, China and gave a keynote speech at the Presidential Roundtable of the International
Studies Association in 2016. Pachi (2018) presented at the International Conference of Applied
Psychology in Montreal, Canada and Ziemer (2018) at the International Gender Studies University
of Oxford, UK. Roberts has presented at Conferences and Workshops in Norway, Finland, Russia,

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the USA and Sweden in the current REF cycle. In 2014, he briefed EU representatives in Brussels
on the Eurasian Economic Union.

Members of the UoA have also been recognised for their expertise in the UK and abroad and
selected for various evaluating roles. In addition to the Fellowships with remuneration outlined in
the previous section, Terhalle has received two prestigious UK-based fellowships in recognition of
his international standing. They include a Visiting Senior Research Fellow position at King’s
College, London (2018-20) affiliated with the Grand Strategy Programme, and a current Senior
Researcher post in the Centre for Rising Powers, University of Cambridge (2019-2021). Scolnicov
was Visiting Professor at the Department of Constitutional Law, Complutense University, Madrid, in
March 2019. Scolnicov also acts as a Fellowship reviewer for the Israeli Institute of Advanced
studies. In 2018, Ziemer was invited to contribute to an expert forum at Chatham House (Round
Table on Armenia). In 2019, Ziemer was appointed to the Expert Team for Women and Gender in
the Eurasian Region at the PPMI – Public Policy Research Institute, Vilnius Lithuania and in 2018
to the Advisory Committee for the Armenian Diaspora Survey, Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation,
Lisbon, Portugal. She also sits on the editorial board of Palgrave Communications. Roberts has
acted as a country expert for Russia on the Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem) survey, V-Dem
Institute, University of Gothenburg, and has been invited again for January 2021. He has also
acted as Grant Evaluator for the Norwegian Research Council and a Country Analyst (Russia) for
the PRIX Index on Political Risk and Oil Exports.

4.2 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline

The UoA continues to retain a high-level of engagement in journal and manuscript review. This
again has been a concerted strategy to raise the Research Group’s awareness of the journal
review process, with an informal commitment that members will undertake review at least once per
academic year and feedback on experiences. Scolnicov is a manuscript reviewer for Routledge
and a submissions reviewer for Ecclesiastical Law Review and European International Law
Review. Roberts for East European Politics, The Journal of Contemporary European Studies,
Europe-Asia Studies, and Political Studies. Terhalle is a reviewer for World Politics and the
Review of International Studies. Pachi is a reviewer for Contemporary Social Science and
Zeitschrift für Psychologie. Ziemer is a reviewer for Ethnic and Racial Studies, Ethnopolitics,
European Journal of Women’s Studies, European Journal of Cultural Studies, Nationalities Paper,
Sociological Research Online, Slavic Review, Caucasus Survey.

Staff are also active in relevant learned societies. Scolnicov is a member of the ICON society
(International Society of Constitutional Law) as well as a member of the Israeli Bar.
Roberts and Ziemer are members of the British Association for Slavonic & East European Studies
(BASEES) and members of the BASEES Caucasus Study Group. Terhalle was a member of the
International Studies Association, 2015-8, and Roberts has been a member of the Political Studies
Association since 2014. ECR Stadheim is a Research Associate at SOAS’s, Department of
Development Studies and the Centre for Socioeconomic and Territorial Studies (DINÂMIA’CET-
IUL) and a member of the Political Studies Association (from 2020).

Staff have also been encouraged to develop research impact in parallel to the Impact Case Studies
formally submitted by UoA19 for REF 2021. This encouragement has come in the form of internal
feedback, but also financial support for external consultants to provide advice on increasing the
impact of existing research. For example, Terhalle, working with colleagues in Germany, has
helped channel and foster the (German) public debate on its future role in international politics and
the so-called ‘Munich Consensus’ – or the ‘purpose of German power’. This impact, which has

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
been developed in addition to the UoA’s two submitted impact studies, has included high-profile
publications aimed at fostering public and academic debate (e.g. Giegerich, B. and Terhalle, M.
(2016) ‘The Munich Consensus and the Purpose of German Power’, Survival, 58:2, p155-166 and
Terhalle, M. (2018) ‘Can Germans Think Strategically?’, The National Interest). Terhalle also has
citations in Foreign Affairs (2017) and The Economist (2018). This embryonic idea was
systematically developed with the help of the UoA. In addition, Pachi is developing a future ICS
from her current research on political participation and dementia among West African populations
living in London.

Staff have also been active in public engagement. Drawing on the experience of Professor
Denham’s successful public engagement in the Centre for English Identity and Politics (CEIP) and
on Robert’s media training at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs (FIIA, 2013), the Politics
UoA has tried to raise its own profile through non-academic dissemination of research and profile-
building with outputs in online outlets such as OpenDemocracy.net (Ziemer 2015), The
Conversation (Roberts 2016), but also popular media. Terhalle has offered commentaries for the
Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and Scolnicov wrote a series of legal commentary articles on
Brexit in Haaretz (Israel’s leading broadsheet daily newspaper). Elsewhere, public media
appearances have included radio (Terhalle on DeutschlandRadio, Deutschlandfunk, Scolnicov on
Israeli radio Galei Zahal) and online blogs (Roberts, Matisak’s Stamp on the World, Ziemer’s
research-related blog posts at the UoW). Ziemer was interviewed by the New York Times in July
2020 for expert opinion in the piece ‘Mothers’ Power in U.S. Protests Echoes a Global Tradition’
(Taub 2020) and provided an expert guest appearance on Iranian TV (PressTV, Tehran) in
November 2020 to comment on the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. In this case,
Robert’s experience in answering journalist questions developed while working at the FIIA helped
Ziemer adapt to the challenge of live interviews.

In line with the UoA’s commitment to interdisciplinarity, we are seeking to maximise cross-
disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborative research, both nationally and internationally, as well
as institutionally within the University. For example, Terhalle continues to work closely with
international partners. In 2015, he contributed to a Special Issue of the journal International Politics
(International Relations Theory and the Moderation of Revisionist States) along with Robert Jervis,
Arthur Stein, Gregory Gause, Louise Fawcett and Fred Lawson. In 2016, he published an edited
volume (The New Power Politics of Global Climate Governance) based on a Special Issue in
Climate Policy (13:5 2013). Ziemer and Scolnicov have published edited volumes drawing on a
wide range of international expertise and scholars. (Scolnicov, Boundaries of State, Boundaries of
Rights: The state, human rights, positive obligations and private parties, 2016 and Ziemer,
Women's Everyday Lives in War and Peace in the South Caucasus, 2019).

At institutional level, Scolnicov and Ziemer have collaborated on research projects, knowledge
exchange and public events with the Centre for Religion, Reconciliation and Peace – contact
facilitated by the Politics and International Studies Research Group. Scolnicov, along with
colleagues at the UoW initiated the Winchester Database of Truth and Reconciliation Committees
– the largest international database of its kind – to go live in 2021. Ziemer has also collaborated on
workshops with the Centre for Religion, Reconciliation and Peace. Scolnicov and Ziemer have
both been active in presenting their research findings at public seminars at the UoW. Pachi
continues to work with research groups within the Psychology Department and Ziemer has the
aforementioned British Academy research project in collaboration with the Department of
Archaeology, Anthropology and Geography.



                                                                                               Page 12
