Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 8: Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The overarching strategic aim for Chemistry at Kent is to be an internationally leading centre for
 solid-state materials and outward-facing molecular chemistry. In pursuit of that aim, in this REF
 period we have invested significantly in staff, infrastructure, and support. Of the 18 Category A
 staff submitted to REF2021, 9 were appointed to new positions created since 2014. These
 appointments were made as part of a strategy to create an environment in which new. cross-
 disciplinary ideas from early career researchers can flourish, and in which our ECRs can develop
 their careers in a supportive and intellectually vibrant context. This strategy is bearing fruit, with a
 fourfold annual increase in research income since 2014.

 At the heart of the University’s research strategy over the REF2021 period has been a commitment
 to extending and deepening STEM research, and this has been reflected not least in the
 relaunching of the Chemistry degree programme (in 2013) and the opening of the Kent and
 Medway Medical School (KMMS) in 2020. In expanding Chemistry research at Kent, emphasis
 has been placed on the synthesis, characterisation, and understanding of matter across length
 scales. The framework for achieving this has been our Functional Materials Group (FMG), within
 the School of Physical Sciences (SPS), which spans Chemistry, Physics, and Materials, inclusive
 of experiment, theory, and computational modelling. The Functional Materials Group strategy
 identified four themes: Quantum Materials; Soft Functional Materials; Porous, Nanostructured, and
 Amorphous Materials; and Energy Materials. To develop these themes, the FMG’s strategic goals
 were:

      •   Increase staffing levels to ensure sustainability and expand into these new areas. This
          has been achieved through an increase in FMG staffing from 17 (2014) to 23 (2019), of
          whom 18 are being returned in UOA8 (Chemistry) and 5 in UOA9 (Physics).
      •   Continue improvement of research infrastructure. Since REF2014, SPS has invested
          £4.95 million of internal funding in laboratory refurbishment and instrumentation.
      •   Increase national and international collaborations. Achievement of this goal is evidenced
          by 61% of our staff’s papers being international collaborations.
      •   Further develop our exploitation of national and international facilities. We are now more
          integrated than ever with these facilities, receiving >£5.77 million worth of beamtime and
          holding influential positions on panels.

 Given the success of FMG in achieving these goals, it was decided that even more ambitious
 goals should be set for Chemistry at Kent. In June 2019, the FMG was replaced by three new
 groups. Two of these three groups are included in the present submission: Materials for Energy
 and Electronics (MEE); and Supramolecular, Interfacial, and Synthetic Chemistry (SISC). The
 third, Physics of Quantum Materials (PQM), is submitted to UOA9 (Physics). The strategic aim of
 this sub-division was to enable each of the three themes to develop its own internationally
 recognised standing, which would better support participation in research consortia, and facilitate
 the management of resources. This reorganisation provided a rare opportunity for our ECRs to
 take on leading roles in shaping our research strategy.

 Materials for Energy and Electronics (MEE)
 This research group comprises nine academic staff (Alfredsson, Arnold, Bristowe, Corrias, Green,
 McCabe, Mountjoy, Saines, and Sayle), with a breadth of materials chemistry expertise that is
 deployed to develop new materials for energy and electronic applications. This includes
 techniques for design and synthesis, a swathe of capacities to investigate physical properties, and
 tools to understand atomic, magnetic, and electronic structures, crucial to optimising their
 properties for application. Expertise includes both experimental and computational approaches,
 including playing a major role in the use of central neutron, X-ray, and computational facilities.

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Current materials of interest include those for Li and Na-ion batteries, photovoltaic cells,
 nanoparticles, and glasses for environmental remediation and assisting biomineralization;
 ferroelectric materials for energy storage and sensing; and multiferroics and magnetic materials
 for cooling and data storage. This research is necessarily interdisciplinary, with strong
 collaborative links with Physics staff being a core feature, this being reflected in productive
 collaborations with the Physics of Quantum Materials research group (e.g. a recent Leverhulme
 Trust Research award to Arnold and Ramos).

 Since REF2014, staff in the MEE group have published over 180 articles across an array of
 Chemistry and Physics journals, including Nature Chemistry, Nature Communications, Physical
 Review Letters, Journal of the American Chemical Society, Chemistry of Materials, Angewandte
 Chemie, Journal of Materials Chemistry A & C, Material Advances, npj Computational Materials,
 and ACS Applied Materials and Interfaces. With 72% of our papers being collaborations across
 national borders, international cooperation is the norm for our staff. Several of these papers are
 also the result of collaborations between members of the group with distinct expertise (for
 example, nine papers blend experimental and computational approaches).

 The MEE group is a rapidly developing materials chemistry group that is already showing influence
 both nationally and internationally. One indication of this growing influence is the group having
 contributed four members to the ISIS facilities allocation panels for one round in 2018, greater
 than the collective input of any other university. Since REF2014, the major achievements of this
 group have included:

    •   Identification of a new strategy to produce ferromagnetism, whose origin is compatible with
        ferroelectricity, such that the long-awaited multiferroic memory might be achieved
        (Bristowe).
    •   Solution of the dynamical structure of methylammonium lead iodide, including iodide
        migration, opening up the possibility of producing photovoltaic transparent films for use as
        coatings (Green).
    •   Development of a printable aqueous dry battery with applications in healthcare sensors
        (Alfredsson).
    •   First evidence that suppressing a structural quantum critical phase transition under
        ambient pressure improves superconductivity properties (Saines).
    •   Development of a glass material that strengthens teeth and is now used in a new brand of
        toothpaste (BioMinF) (Mountjoy).

 The strategic goal of the MEE group is sustainable growth, leading to international recognition as
 a consolidated centre of excellence. Specific objectives for the next five years that underpin this
 goal are:

    •   Appointment of new academic staff, including one at the materials/machine learning
        interface.
    •   Recruitment of research fellows (for example, Royal Society) through offers of competitive
        support packages combined with the opportunity to join a lively and successful research
        group.
    •   Increased PhD student numbers through expansion of international links and external
        funding.
    •   Consolidation and expansion of the network of industrial and international collaborators
        through the hosting of conferences.
    •   Leadership of national and international research consortia.

 Supramolecular, Interfacial, and Synthetic Chemistry (SISC)
 This research group comprises nine academic staff: Barker, Biagini, Clark, Hiscock, Holder,
 Murray, Palma, Serpell, and Shepherd. SISC represents a core of chemists who share a common
 vision of molecular chemistry as the central science – a discipline that is outward-facing, initiating
 and underpinning technologies that transgress classical disciplinary barriers. The foundational

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strengths of SISC are synthetic, supramolecular, interfacial, macromolecular, biomolecular, redox,
 and soft materials chemistry. The areas of impact are:

     •   Biomedical science: transformative medicines (Hiscock, Palma, Serpell); drug delivery
         (Biagini, Holder, Serpell); and membrane interactions (Barker, Hiscock).
     •   Sustainability: synthesis (all); catalysis (Clark, Holder, Murray); electric materials (Murray).
     •   Sensing: chemical warfare agents (Hiscock, Holder); biomolecules and biological
         processes (Holder, Serpell); and environmental sensors (Holder, Shepherd).
     •   Soft materials: polymers (Barker, Holder, Serpell, Shepherd); and soft robotics, actuators,
         and microfluidics (Barker, Holder, Shepherd).

 SISC is a young and dynamic research group, with seven of the nine members appointed to
 academic positions within the current REF period. The resulting research agility, in combination
 with the complementary and nationally unique blend of supramolecular, interfacial, and synthetic
 chemistry, means that SISC is already becoming an internationally recognised centre for chemical
 technologies – for example, reviewers’ comments on an EU-funded grant identified the group as
 ‘a centre of excellence for bio-inspired supramolecular research’. In this REF period, the
 academics comprising SISC have published more than 180 papers, in journals such as Nature
 Chemistry, Angewandte Chemie, Chemical Science, Journal of the American Chemical Society,
 Journal of Materials Chemistry C, Chemical Communications, ACS Central Science, Nature
 Communications, Chemistry of Materials, Joule, and ACS Catalysis. The group’s major
 achievements since REF2014 include:

     •   Discovery of a family of amphiphilic molecules that enhance the efficacy of antibiotics
         (Hiscock).
     •   Development of a sponge for the immobilisation and degradation of chemical warfare
         agents, now being produced in multikilogram quantity for the Ministry of Defence’s Defence
         Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL) (Holder; see impact case study).
     •   Mechanochemical synthesis of spin-crossover materials, and determination of the elastic
         properties of such materials for applications in actuation (Shepherd).
     •   First example of a flow hydrogen peroxide generator using phase transfer catalysis
         (Murray).
     •   Establishment of automated phosphoramidite chemistry as a breakthrough for synthesis
         of multikilodalton non-natural sequence-defined polymers (Serpell).

 The strategic objectives of SISC over the next five years are to:

     •   Expand the core underpinning science of the group through grants, fellowships (attracted
         through strong host support and the vibrant community), and new appointments.
     •   Identify the potential for, and forge, interdisciplinary collaborative partnerships relating to
         the identified target areas, which progress the group’s research into technologies and other
         forms of impact, supported through annual sandpits to create partnerships with
         stakeholders.
     •   Act as a hub for expertise in synthetic, supramolecular, and interfacial chemistry,
         recognised in both academic and industrial spheres, through hosting conferences and
         participating in consortium research projects.

 Collaboration and Interdisciplinarity
 The School of Physical Sciences is an multi-disciplinary unit, hosting Physics, Astronomy, and
 Forensic Science, in addition to Chemistry. Interdisciplinarity lies at the core of our activities in the
 post-FMG framework. Members of SISC, MEE, and PQM share resources and collaborate on a
 regular basis. For example, recent papers include collaborations between Clark and
 Bristowe/McCabe; Hiscock/Shepherd and Saines; Sayle and Ramos (PQM); and Serpell and
 Podoleanu (Advanced Optics Group, UoA9). Shared facilities include the electrochemical
 laboratory used by Murray and Alfredsson, and the SQUID magnetometer used by Shepherd and
 MEE staff. We collaborate not only with Physics staff at Kent, but also extensively with other

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers in adjacent fields (Biology, Engineering), and extend our research into areas such as
 historical conservation (see the Marie Rose Trust impact case study), ethnobotany, and the social
 sciences. These interactions are supported infrastructurally. We share a School with Physics, and
 are, as a result of the 2019-20 reorganisation of the University, are now closely aligned in the new
 Division of Natural Sciences with the Schools of Biosciences and Pharmacy, as well as the new
 Medical School (KMMS). Grants have been awarded in this REF period jointly with the Schools of
 Biosciences and Engineering and Digital Arts (EDA), and the Centres for Health Service Studies
 (CHSS) and the Study of Higher Education (CSHE). Sandpits and research-sharing seminars are
 held across the Division to facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration. This will further grow as the
 Kent and Medway Medical School develops its research profile over the next five years. University-
 level initiatives also facilitate interdisciplinarity, including the annual Maximise Your Research
 Impact conference, the Early Career Researcher Network, the GCRF-funded Global Challenges
 Doctoral Centre (GCDC), and the new Signature Research Themes, especially Future Human and
 Environment, Food Systems, and Natural Resources.

 Impact Strategy
 Our REF2021 submission includes two impact case studies. One of these shows how our research
 in hard materials (MEE core expertise) has enabled the preservation and display of artefacts from
 the ship the Marie Rose, giving the public unique insights into Tudor life. The other reveals how
 our research in soft matter (SISC core expertise) has created a polymer sponge that can absorb
 and destroy chemical warfare agents, materially improving the UK’s chemical security. The
 selection of these impact case studies highlights the ability of MEE and SISC to achieve significant
 social impact. Our impact strategy is designed to enable us to achieve the following three
 objectives:

    1. Consolidate and expand links with industry and other applied agencies. The School has
       an extensive network, aided by year-in-industry courses run for students, as well as the
       proximity to Discovery Park in Sandwich and Kent Science Park in Sittingbourne. We
       maximise opportunities for industrial relationships through an internal database of
       interactions, and sandpit events with industry. We are launching an industrial PhD
       programme that is cost-effective for both academic and industrial partners. Our scientific
       instrumentation is available for direct use by industry at cost, or can be accessed indirectly
       with support through consultancy contracts (e.g. Serpell’s contract with ADEY on heating
       fluid additives). In collaboration with Pfizer, we are developing an industry/academia
       matchmaking service; this has been supported by an Innovation Voucher. These activities
       are coordinated by our Director of Innovation and Enterprise (Hiscock), in partnership with
       the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Innovation team, which supports industrial
       collaboration and intellectual property. Kent’s commitment to the thirty-year, £35 million
       Mary Rose project has been consolidated by the appointment of Dr Eleanor Schofield,
       Head of Conservation at the Mary Rose Trust, as an Honorary Professor.

    2. Engage directly with the public. The School has appointed a Director of Public Engagement
       and Communication (Barker), who works with a team of academic and administrative staff.
       Under Barker’s leadership, in 2020 SPS became the first School/Department in the country
       to be awarded a Silver Watermark by the National Coordinating Centre for Public
       Engagement (NCCPE). The award highlighted the ‘Strong support for the role of PE within
       the mission and culture of the school from senior leaders’. Public engagement (understood
       as a two-way process) is embedded alongside research as part of our research groups’
       structures, with each expected to have at least one public engagement project live at any
       one time.

    3. Use the media. Media training is being given to staff across the School, and each research
       group has a designated media liaison. We aim to be go-to commentators for topics within
       our research remit. We have collaborated with local and national media in this capacity.

 Evidence for the success of this impact strategy is provided in Section 4 below.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Integrity
 Research standards and ethics are core values in our work. All our researchers (Including our
 PDRAs and PGRs) are encouraged to attend the Ethical Researcher course designed to develop
 the knowledge of standards, requirements, and professionalism in research. Ethical approval of
 grant applications is first managed at the School level by the Research Ethics and Governance
 (REAG) Officer. A checklist assesses if an application needs to go to the University for approval
 or to a higher body such as the NHS, and a full application is then made if applicable, including
 examples of any questionnaires or procedures and participant information sheets and consent
 forms. These then go out to the University review panel for approval. Extensive information and
 online resources are provided through the University Research Ethics and Governance Committee
 (REGC).

 Open Research
 Kent’s Open Access (OA) and data management policies mandate OA via any route. This is
 enabled by the Kent Academic Repository (KAR), in which authors deposit their manuscripts in
 the most open-access form permissible, if the papers are not already OA at the journal. Overall,
 83% of our outputs have been OA, and 31% Gold or Hybrid Gold OA. We go beyond the REF’s
 requirements in our use of preprint servers to share manuscripts on open platforms (ChemRxiv,
 BioRxiv, arXiv), with 29 posted in this REF period. We also make use of the Kent Data Repository
 to share datasets as part of our publications. We participate in many Read and Publish
 agreements, notably with the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC).

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 Since REF2014, nine full-time academic staff have been recruited, in line with our research
 strategy (see Section 1). These appointments were made on the basis of the appointees’
 internationally leading research and their capability to both consolidate longstanding strengths at
 Kent (MEE) and enable expansion into new areas that are currently under-represented within UK
 chemistry research groupings (SISC). Aiming to be a dynamic and forward-looking team, as well
 as wishing to give opportunities to early career researchers, we have recruited at the Lecturer
 level, and worked hard to support career development. As a result of this strategy, SISC currently
 comprises 57 full and associate members, including PDRAs, PhD and MSc students, and
 academic staff, while MEE currently comprises 29 members. We plan to continue with this
 approach to recruitment over the next five years.

 Staff Development
 Our research group structure provides a lively and productive research environment for the career
 development of all academic staff. Newly appointed lecturers are mentored by an experienced
 staff member, who guides them through their three-year probation period. As a team that is
 weighted towards early career researchers, external mentors are also engaged as appropriate.
 The probation period includes reduced teaching and administration workloads (normally, a 60%
 reduction in year 1, and a 30% reduction in year 2) to support staff in setting up their research
 groups and developing their impact. The research groups share best practice in research strategy,
 supervision, workload management, and administrative responsibilities, and aid applications for
 promotion. Regular grant-planning meetings are held within the MEE and SISC groups. Academic
 staff across the University are required to complete the University’s Postgraduate Certificate in
 Higher Education (PGCHE), which includes PGR supervision training, and are part of the
 University’s Early Career Researcher Network, helping them to kick-start their careers as
 independent researchers.

 Staff training in transferable and general skills are run by the University, and all academics and
 PDRAs are required to attend at least one a year. The School has also conducted a bespoke
 Leadership and Management Development Programme (through the Learning and Organisational
 Development team) to boost the capabilities of those recently appointed and holding

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 administrative roles, including eight members of SISC and MEE.

 Research success is recognised and supported through our workload allocation model, to ensure
 the requisite time for grant preparation, management, the supervision of PGRs and PDRAs, and
 the dissemination of research findings. The University studly leave policy grants one term’s leave
 for every seven terms. In this REF period, Arnold and Green have each taken a year’s study leave.

 The success of our staff has been recognised through numerous promotions since 2014: to
 Professor (Corrias, 2018); Reader (Alfredson, 2018; Hiscock, 2019; Serpell, 2020); and Senior
 Lecturer (McCabe, 2015; Clark, 2018; Saines, 2018; Serpell, 2018; Shepherd, 2018; Barker,
 2019). Our staff have received internal recognition through University Research Prizes: Hiscock
 (2017) and Barker (2019).

 The University is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 and this informs our approach to PDRAs. The Researcher Development Programme run by the
 University’s Graduate and Researcher College (formerly the Graduate School) ensures that all
 aspects of the Researcher Development Framework are met, specifically:

     1. Researchers are recruited for their potential to carry out the highest-level research through
        mandatory interview-trained and gender-balanced panels.
     2. We value researchers as essential partners in the organisation through the inclusion of
        PDRAs in staff committees (e.g. Research and Innovation; Public Engagement and
        Communication; EDI).
     3. We have a dedicated Careers Officer within the School, and career development for
        PDRAs is facilitated through the Researcher Development Programme training courses in
        technology transfer, obtaining grants, EDI, and transferable skills.
     4. We support lifelong learning and development in the appraisal system, and researchers
        are given space to develop their interests, take part in teaching, and undertake grant
        management, as needed.
     5. We fully appreciate the importance of diversity and equality (see below).
     6. We annually review the implementation of the programme within the group structure.

 The success of our support for staff is evidenced in particular by their ability to attract awards and
 fellowships. Our work has been recognised by fellowships for Bristowe (Royal Commission for the
 Exhibition of 1851 Research Fellowship) and Green (National ‘111’ plan from the Chinese
 government; Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award, 2012-17), and prizes, including the
 Physical Crystallography Prize of the Institute of Physics (Saines, 2016). In 2020, Hiscock was
 awarded a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship, and Corrias was awarded a Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship.

 Equality and Diversity
 SPS is deeply committed to equality of opportunities and diversity, and has a dedicated Equality,
 Diversity, and Inclusivity Committee, which receives support from an administrator. We also have
 a School Equal Opportunities Representative and Harassment Officer to ensure that we identify
 potential weaknesses requiring action. The EDI Committee has its own budget. SPS has an
 excellent track record of equality and diversity, with an academic staff body that reflects this. Our
 female to male ratio is 1:2 (better than the sector average), and, crucially, 1:1 at the professorial
 level, far better than the 1:9 sector average (Royal Society of Chemistry, 2018). Our PhD student
 population is 55% female (well above the sector average of 39%). Furthermore, 25% of our staff
 are international. As part of our strategy to achieve an Athena SWAN award in the next three
 years, all staff now require EDI training before serving on interview panels.

 SPS is fully committed to flexible working and family-friendly working conditions, limiting key
 meetings and teaching to between 10.00 a.m. and 4.00 p.m. Though the University runs lectures
 and seminars for students from 9.00 a.m. up to 6.00 p.m., our staff can request timetable changes
 and flexibility that will facilitate school pick-ups or other caring responsibilities on an annual basis.


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School’s EDI Committee can use its budget to assist with the costs of childcare and other
 caring responsibilities to support attendance at meetings and conferences. In SPS, the collegial
 environment means that staff often cover each other’s commitments on a voluntary basis, through
 a curated list of ‘understudies’.

 Academic staff are usually appointed on full-time contracts, but we do agree part-time contracts
 to suit family requirements (for example, post-maternity leave), with the opportunity to increase
 hours once staff feel able to do so. We also facilitate part-time PhD study, which has been adopted
 by both male and female students for family/caring reasons. We implement University-wide
 maternity, paternity, shared parental, parental and adoption leave policies, and actively encourage
 male staff to take the maximum shared parental or paternity leave. Redefined work is covered by
 fixed-term appointments wherever possible. This extends to PDRAs, with the School honouring
 the full extent of the award upon a PDRA’s return to work. During maternity/adoption leave, staff
 have up to ten ‘Keeping in Touch’ days, for which they receive full pay. Staff may return to work
 whenever they wish, up to the statutory maximum. They may come back full-time, part-time, or
 staggered, this being agreed in consultation with the Head of School. For example, when a PI is
 on maternity leave, a second supervisory staff member will be provided for all PGRs and PDRAs
 under their guidance.

 There is extensive support on campus through the Women’s Network, Early Career Researcher
 Network, and the Graduate and Researcher College, as well as regular diversity awareness
 workshops, including on autism awareness and unconscious bias. Support and training for grant
 applications is provided by the Research and Innovation Services team, and by internal peer
 review provided at research group level to ensure that individuals with protected characteristics
 have the same opportunities for research success.

 We are also working to improve diversity within the wider chemistry community. Hiscock is founder
 and chair of the Women in Supramolecular Chemistry (WISC) network, which aims to increase
 diversity across the global supramolecular community by providing support and creating
 opportunities. WISC has run workshops at two recent RSC Macrocyclic and Supramolecular
 Chemistry conferences, the International Symposium on Macrocyclic and Supramolecular
 Chemistry (Sydney, 2019), as well as taking part in the RSC Inclusion and Diversity, and running
 an international workshop at the University of Cagliari. WISC provides a peer mentoring network
 which matches small groups of early career researchers with a more advanced mentor. Biagini
 has pioneered support for the visually impaired in chemistry, leading to the Times Higher
 Education Award in 2018, and the 2020 RSC EDI Award for supporting visually impaired students,
 and an invited talk at the RSC Inclusion and Diversity Forum 2020.

 With regard to our REF2021 submission, all eligible staff in Chemistry have been submitted. We
 have been careful to minimise bias in the selection of outputs for submission by involving all staff
 in the initial ranking process, using external referees, and ensuring gender parity on the REF
 Working Group. Staff were consulted about the ranking of their outputs throughout. When two
 outputs were ranked similarly, the choice between the two was made in favour of the female/male
 submitted author ratio most representative of the unit as a whole.

 Research Students
 In addition to receiving EPSRC DTA and Industrial CASE awards, our staff have also secured
 PhD studentships through grants (Leverhulme Trust, Rosetrees Trust, CARA, DSTL), the
 ALISTORE Network of Excellence, and from SEPnet (testifying to interdisciplinarity). Additionally,
 there is typically internal funding of 2-5 Chemistry PhD students each year. New staff have all
 been provided with a studentship in their start-up package. Studentships are advertised online at
 School and research group level, as well as being promoted through social media. Recruitment is
 stringent, with candidates undergoing a School-level panel interview.

 The day-to-day training of our research students takes place within the research groups, and
 extends beyond baseline informal interaction between students, supervisors, and PDRAs. SISC
 operates a group-wide induction, covering health and safety, record keeping, and scientific

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presentation and writing. With its smaller PhD cohort, MEE conducts its induction on a
 personalised one-to-one basis. Formalised training for major instrumentation is also provided, and
 skills workshops occur regularly on experimental techniques, literature and databases, software,
 etc. All students take part in weekly research group meetings, during which they present both their
 own work and the literature. PGRs are required to attend all colloquia arranged by their research
 group.

 Our PGRs are assigned a supervisory team consisting of their primary supervisor(s) and a
 secondary supervisor not directly involved in the project. At least one of the team members will
 hold Supervisory Chair status, but all members of the team are required to have completed the
 requisite supervisory training. The second supervisor takes the lead role during reviews, which
 occur in months 2, 11 (probation), 24, and 34, each accompanied by a report by the student.
 Before graduating, all PGR students must have given both poster (Y2) and oral (Y3) presentations
 at the annual SPS Postgraduate Colloquium, have presented at national or international
 conferences (with School funding available if needed), and are expected to have published at least
 one paper.

 The Graduate and Researcher College organises transferable skills training for PGRs, aided by
 our School Careers Officer, equipping them for future work within or beyond academia. PGRs also
 take the lead in organising training; in 2020, for example, one of our students secured a grant from
 the RSC to run a Science in Sign Language workshop with an emphasis on polymer language,
 which tied into the School’s Plastic Unwrapped project (see Section 4).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our research income has increased dramatically since REF2014, as a result of successful
 strategic planning. Income has increased from £448k (2013-14) to £1.6 million (2017-18) to £1.8
 million (2018-19), and £1.5 million (2019-20), the 2019-20 period being affected by Covid-19.
 Major funders have included research councils (EPSRC, the European Commission, BBSRC),
 governmental bodies (DSTL, DEFRA, US Army Research Office), charities (Royal Society,
 Leverhulme, Rosetrees Trust), as well as industrial collaborations. There have also been highly
 valuable time allocations at national and international central facilities (Diamond, ISIS, ESRF, ILL,
 NIST, ANSTO, ALS). Noteworthy recent awards include a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship
 (Hiscock), a highly competitive EPSRC New Horizons award (Mountjoy), and GCRF (Serpell).
 Given that half of our researchers are early in their independent careers (<6 years), these income
 figures are particularly welcome.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The University has invested significant resources in infrastructure for our staff, particularly in
 support of new appointments. This has enabled all staff, not only our early career researchers, to
 increase the number of grant applications across SISC and MEE. Since 2014, the University has
 invested in staff, doubling the number of academic staff in SPS, and has spent £3.12 million on
 building upgrades and £1.83 million on instrumentation accessible to scientists in Chemistry. We
 benefit from comprehensive synthetic and analytical laboratories – access to all of these
 instruments is available for internal use at no cost to researchers. The wide selection and
 availability of equipment means that these facilities are much more accessible to SPS staff than
 is often the case in larger departments. This investment in facilities has been closely aligned with
 our strategic aims; representative examples of the benefit of this alignment are given below.

 For synthesis, we are equipped with 74 fume hoods, two glove boxes, eleven ovens, eighteen
 furnaces, automated DNA and peptide synthesisers (underpinning four grants for Serpell and
 Palma), a microwave reactor, a ball mill, and a 70 L reactor for scale-up (currently used to produce
 superabsorbent materials for containment of chemical warfare agents by Holder), and supported
 by a solvent purification system.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Materials processing and device construction are enabled by vacuum ovens, 3D printers, heat
 press, freeze drier, film applicator, spin coater, UV-ozone cleaner, Langmuir trough, and tools for
 fabrication of batteries – these support our world-leading energy research (Alfredsson, Green).
 We regularly fabricate microfluidic devices in-house, and are equipped to run them. Such devices
 are integral to projects such as Optimising Me Manufacturing Systems (a £1.5 million EPSRC
 project led by Barker).

 Molecular characterisation, primarily supporting SISC, is enabled by a comprehensive
 instrumentation suite. We have a brand-new NMR facility, which includes two 400 MHz machines.
 Both machines operate broadband solution-state probes and are capable of conducting variable
 temperature measurements from -150 to +150 °C. One is a Bruker Neo, the most up-to-date
 instrument on the market, which operates both a broadband smart probe (for extra proton
 sensitivity and 1H/19F 2D experiments – a rare capacity in the UK, which enables the antimicrobial
 research of Hiscock) and a 1H/13C HRMAS probe, which underpins the characterisation of
 polymeric materials (used by Holder in collaborative work with DSTL). This is complemented by a
 CMS8400 EPR spectrometer. Structural determination is enabled by a new dual-source (Cu, Mo)
 Rigaku SuperNova single-crystal diffractometer equipped with an Atlas detector. We run 3 x HPLC
 (standard, chiral, preparative, a facility instrumental to grants awarded to Palma), a GC, and we
 provide mass analysis through LC-MS and GC-MS. Polymers are measured using a GPC, and
 trace analysis occurs through ion mobility spectrometry and ion chromatography. Spectroscopy is
 covered by extensive UV-vis (including Nanodrop and plate-reader formats), fluorescence (with
 plate reader, Peltier insert, solid-state capacity), FTIR, and Raman instruments. Gel
 electrophoresis capacity enables characterisation of biomolecules.

 Materials characterisation, primarily underpinning MEE research, is enabled through a SQUID
 magnetometer (supporting grants for Arnold, McCabe, and Saines), two SEM instruments (Hitachi
 S3400 SEM, and Hitachi S4700 FEG-SEM, both with EDX), four powder X-ray diffractometers
 (the Empyrean/PheniX instrument allows data collection down to 12 K, forming the basis of a
 collaboration between Corrias and Sichuan University), a gas absorption porosimeter, a rheometer
 (supporting Holder in analysis of samples for Ametek, leading to the fulfilment of REACH
 legislation and sales), a contact angle analyser, two dynamic light-scattering and zeta potential
 instruments. Compositions can be determined using MP-AES, two XRF spectrometers, and spatial
 analysis can be achieved using both IR and Raman microscopes (underpinning beamtime awards
 to Arnold). Thermal analysis by TGA and DSC is also available. Battery materials are analysed
 using three potentiostats, an electrochemical flow cell, and rotating disc electrode.

 We also have access to powerful computing facilities. Kent was one of the six full partners of the
 EPSRC-funded Tier 2 Materials computer Hub for Materials and Molecular Modelling (MMM), with
 reserved ‘gold’ access to around 12M CPUhrs every year, enabling large-scale high-performance
 computing (HPC) materials and molecular modelling. Researchers in Chemistry at Kent have used
 the hub for MMM to test internationally leading simulation codes, greatly accelerating research. In
 addition, the Hub has enabled important scientific breakthroughs on disparate areas such as
 nanocatalysis, enzyme-mimetic design, ionic conductivity, unusual thermal expansion
 photovoltaics, and ferroelectricity.

 Chemistry at Kent also has full access to instrumentation in the neighbouring School of
 Biosciences. The Biomolecular Analysis suite includes high-end mass spectrometry capable of
 ion-mobility measurements, sequencing of peptides, oligonucleotides, and other sequenced
 polymers used by Palma and Serpell, and proteomics with HPLC and nanoUHPLC front ends,
 circular dichroism spectroscopy, and cell sorting (used for artificial selection experiments by
 Serpell in collaboration with Centauri Therapeutics). The Image Analysis facility provides
 transmission electron microscopy used by staff in Chemistry for the characterisation of
 nanoparticles (e.g. biocontinuous nanospheres produced by Holder), atomic force microscopy
 also used for examination of nanomaterials, and confocal microscopy assisting the examination
 of cellular interactions with produced materials.

 In addition to such instrumentation at Kent, we also make extensive use of national facilities:

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diamond and ISIS in the UK (Alfredsson, Arnold, Barker, Corrias, Green, McCabe, Mountjoy,
 Saines), and the UK-funded X-MAS beamline, and other beamlines, at the ESRF in Grenoble
 (Alfredsson, Barker, Green), with a total in-kind value of £5.77 million. In addition, we have made
 use of the NIST Centre for Neutron Research in the US (Arnold, Green), and ANSTO in Australia
 (Saines). These facilities have been key to our ability to contribute to the preservation of the Marie
 Rose (see impact case study).

 Support Infrastructure
 Research impact is proactively supported through the School’s innovation culture, facilitated by
 strategic investment in opportunities for industrially focused sabbaticals (e.g. Barker’s Royal
 Society Industrial Fellowship with Infineum), match-funding for industry-focused studentships, and
 career rewards for innovation and enterprise. Our Director of Innovation and Enterprise (Hiscock)
 oversees School policy in this regard and guides academics with their interactions with industry.

 Our research is also supported by an administrative team (12.4 FTEs) who assist with PGR
 programmes, student support, marketing, outreach, finance, organisation and documentation of
 meetings, student administration, and other tasks. The technical services team (17 FTEs) supports
 large research instrumentation (e.g. diffractometers, NMR spectrometers), ensures functionality
 of the building, including essential facilities such as fume hoods, keeping track of chemical
 inventory. Expert support is offered by Dr Andrew Morrell, who runs our analytical suite and
 provides services such as LCMS, GCMS, and AA analysis. Our technical team also provides IT
 support and organises maintenance, improvement, and refurbishment works on the building as
 required.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Given our outward-looking ethos, we benefit from a diverse set of external stakeholders. We work
 closely with other academics in Chemistry, Physics, Biology, and Engineering, with industries
 (biomedical, materials, energy), national agencies (agriculture, defence), and the general public.
 Our research contributes to both national and international priorities. For example, our work in
 battery technologies (Alfredsson, Arnold, Murray) meshes with the UK’s strategic commitment
 (2019) to bring greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050. The UK plans to see antimicrobial
 resistance contained and controlled by 2040 – Hiscock’s research speaks directly to this aim. Our
 research runs in parallel with UKRI Strategic Priorities, specifically the Physics of Life (Barker),
 Nucleic Acid Therapies (Serpell), and Quantum Technologies for Fundamental Physics (Arnold,
 Bristowe, Green, McCabe, Saines). At the research council level, we address EPSRC’s themes,
 such as: Healthcare Technologies (ranging from Holder’s RFID sensors for bacterial growth on
 prostheses, to Barker’s on-the-body T-cell therapy factories); Energy (photovoltaics from Bristowe
 and Green, and Saines’s magnetocaloric cooling); Robotics (Shepherd’s responsive soft
 materials), and Quantum Technologies (Arnold, Bristowe, Green, McCabe).

 Chemistry at Kent also addresses international concerns, with a particular focus on the UN’s
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and work with partners in ODA countries. This is
 underpinned by the University’s investment in global challenges, hosting conferences at Kent and
 overseas, providing support through the GCRF Partnership Development and Emergency
 Response Funds (which have funded networking trips for Hiscock and Serpell), and operating the
 Global Challenges Doctoral Centre (GCDC). For example, a GCDC student works with Serpell on
 the identification of biological mechanism of action of natural products with anti-cancer and anti-
 obesity activity with collaborators from Malaysia, thus addressing SDG3 (Good Health and
 Wellbeing) directly, and also speaking to SDG8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and SDG9
 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) through the training and potential for technology transfer
 in southeast Asia, and SDG15 (Life on Land) by collaborating with Sarawak Biodiversity Centre
 and their mission to show the value of the local biodiversity. Serpell also holds an EPSRC/GCRF
 grant to conduct related research with partners in Vietnam. Another GCDC student works with
 Barker on developing a portable diagnostic platform for detection of virus within poultry populations
 in Brazil (the third largest producer of poultry worldwide). This is directed towards the GCRF
 challenge areas of Equitable Access to Sustainable Development (by providing farmers with
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 technology to prevent disease outbreaks), and Sustainable Economies and Societies (through
 prevention of devastating loss of stock). Arnold has a further GCDC student working with partners
 in India and Botswana on water purification, assisting SDG6 (Clean Water and Sanitation).

 Collaboration and Leadership
 Chemistry at Kent has a wide-reaching academic network, encompassing national and
 international partners, supported by the School and the University through funding for travel,
 invitation of speakers and hosting of conferences, and provision of seed-corn funds for initial
 research (~£10k per annum). These activities ensure that our research findings are shared with
 key academic users.

 Academic-academic interactions are facilitated in a variety of ways. We have formal links with
 regional partners (University of East Anglia, University of Essex) through the Eastern Academic
 Research Consortium (Eastern ARC); this provides funding to support new collaborative research
 projects between the centres. Clark has used this funding to run a workshop, leading to three new
 collaborations. Through our institutional cotutelle agreement with the University of Lille, Green and
 McCabe are currently supervising PhD students. Serpell has two students and a PDRA who
 receive co-supervision from the University of Vienna, and his links with Taylor’s University and
 Universiti Malaysia Sarawak in Malaysia have resulted in one co-supervised student at Kent and
 two at Taylor’s. Bristowe, with Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology, co-supervises a
 student at Imperial College London. In this REF period, we have taken part in more than ten cross-
 School supervisions of graduate students. Joint research with industrial partners (Defra, Public
 Health England, BMG Labtech, and Centauri Therapeutics) also provide training for our
 postgraduate researchers.

 Wider support for collaboration is obtained through grants and awards. We have been awarded
 funds for collaborations with 13 UK universities and nine international universities. We have further
 collaborations with another UK institutions, and 24 institutions worldwide, covering every
 populated continent. Noteworthy successes of our collaboration strategy include Barker’s £1.5
 million EPSRC-funded Optimising Me Manufacturing Systems consortium, bringing together
 Imperial College London, University College London, and the universities of Bath, Cambridge, and
 Surrey, to enable the rapid production of personalised anti-cancer T-cell therapies in an on-the-
 body unit. Serpell’s GCRF project brings together agriculturalists, bioscientists, and chemists in
 Vietnam with cancer biologists and social scientists at Kent. Although retired (and not returned as
 current staff), Prof Alan Chadwick remains active and linked with Kent, and the Block Allocation
 Group which he led provides access to XAS studies at Diamond Light Source B18 for researchers
 in energy materials.

 Impact Beyond Our Impact Case Studies
 Given the current staffing profile of Chemistry at Kent, with a large percentage of outstanding early
 career researchers, the support that we are putting in place now to enable research impact will
 lead to a significant increase in impact activity over the next five years. That said, there have also
 been considerable developments on the impact from in the REF2021 period, examples of which
 are included below under the categories of healthcare, materials, and energy and environment.

 Healthcare. Mountjoy’s research has enabled the launch of a new toothpaste (BioMinF), which
 slowly releases calcium, phosphate, and fluoride ions to strengthen tooth structure and prevent
 decay. Hiscock is working with Public Health England and Kent NHS Trust on the development of
 molecules that enhance the efficacy of existing antimicrobials. Serpell worked with Centauri
 Therapeutics on chemical optimisation of therapeutic aptamers, and with academic and industrial
 partners in southeast Asia on natural products for cancer therapy. Alfredsson has a contract with
 Mylogic for development of batteries for more sensitive lateral flow testing for SARS-CoV-2.

 Materials. Holder has worked with Duravac to enable fulfilment of REACH legislation for European
 sales. With Merck Chemicals, he developed a copolymer stabiliser for use in the synthesis of
 coloured PMMA particles in non-aqueous dispersions (e-Inks), which was patented. He has

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 worked extensively with DSTL (beyond the activities described in the impact case study), and is
 currently engaged on the production of RFID sensors for monitoring maritime platforms. Mountjoy
 has performed consultancy for Morgan Thermal Ceramics, simulating glasses as brake pad
 components.

 Energy and environment. Green has recently submitted a patent covering the EU, the US, and
 China for perovskite photovoltaics. Barker has been awarded a Royal Society Industrial Fellowship
 with Infineum, built upon three years of prior consultancy. He has developed a neutron-based
 method for analysis of lubricants that are used in one-third of all vehicles, meaning that incremental
 changes can reap huge global benefits in terms of energy use. Alfredsson has partnered with the
 Centre for Process Innovation (CPI) for the scale-up of electrolyte materials. Hiscock has
 contributed significant work on detection of chemical warfare agents to Defra and the Home Office.

 Public Engagement
 Barker was joint creator of the ‘Feet Investigation’ section on the BBC’s Terrific Scientific website,
 providing experiments that were used in schools across the country. This research, in
 collaboration with an NHS podiatrist, could inform future precision medicine and aid footwear
 design. Teaming up with Discovery Planet – a grassroots organisation that won a Heart of the
 Community Award from Kent Media and London Array – Barker and the School’s outreach team
 have delivered a series of drop-in workshops in nearby communities with high levels of deprivation
 (Thanet and Poplar). Entitled ‘Plastic Unwrapped’, the workshops explored how cutting-edge
 chemical research can contribute to solving the problem of plastics pollution. Participants had the
 chance to take part in exciting hands-on experiments, complemented by creative activities to
 explore the ideas raised in different ways. Nearly all our participants could be considered
 ‘underserved’ in terms of access to STEM enrichment activities. Young people from schools for
 children with special educational needs were able to attend all sessions and engaged very well.
 Approximately 2,000 schoolchildren from schools across the Thanet area, aged 8-14, attended
 the sessions. We generated four local newspaper articles, a blog piece by a local educational
 organisation, and were featured on ITV Meridian News.

 Since 2016, we have offered a summer Chemistry Residential Course to students through the
 Engineering Development Trust. This course is for 30 students aged 16-17 who have an interest
 in creativity, problem solving, and STEM. The courses increase confidence, help students make
 informed decisions about their future, and show STEM career paths to be accessible and exciting,
 and involve hands-on laboratory experience, as well as workshops and challenges based on the
 research within SPS, and lectures from academics and PGR students about research.

 We host the Salters Festival of Chemistry, which has involved Palma, Saines, and McCabe,
 working with secondary-school pupils on an extended practical investigation. Shepherd has given
 a Soapbox Science public presentation on the chemistry of colour. We host work placement
 students and produce YouTube videos as part of the ‘Think Kent’ outreach series. McCabe has
 contributed to the Big Bang Science Fair (with the British Crystallographic Association), and the
 Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC)-sponsored Illuminating Atoms exhibition at the
 Royal Albert Hall (2014).

 Wider Scientific Influence
 Editorial boards. Our staff contribute to the health of the research base through their membership
 of journal editorial boards (five staff) and editing of special issues (six staff).

 Funding panels. Our staff regularly serve on funding panels. Arnold, Barker, Holder, Mountjoy,
 and Serpell have between them served on nine EPSRC grant allocation panels and two fellowship
 interview panels. Holder was chair of EPSRC CDT Panel M in 2018. Mountjoy is a member of the
 STFC Physical Sciences and Engineering Advisory Panel, and the Facilities Allocation Panel
 (FAP) for Disordered Materials at ISIS. Green is a member of the Royal Society funding panel.
 Arnold chairs the ISIS facilities access panel for diffraction, having sat on the panel since 2013,
 as well as being a member of the Diamond Light Source FAP for diffraction. McCabe sits on the

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RSC's Materials Chemistry Division funding panel and on panels for ISIS and ILL.

 Committees. Corrias is a member of the User Working Group Panel for Diamond beamline BLI20,
 advising on its development, a member of the User Working Group for the SWIFT Flagship
 beamline proposed for Diamond-II, and a member of the Review Panel for ESRF BM08 Beamline.
 She is also a member of the International Advisory Board of the Non-Crystalline Materials (NCM)
 Conferences and of the International Committee for the International Conference on Aerogel
 Inspired Materials. Shepherd is on the Strategy and Allocations Panel for the EPSRC National
 Crystallography Service and a member of the Early Career Panel of the Directed Assembly
 Network (EPSRC Grand Challenge Network). She is a committee member of the Chemical
 Crystallography Group of the British Crystallographic Association. Hiscock is a member of the
 RSC Macrocyclic and Supramolecular Chemistry committee. Saines is a longstanding committee
 member of the dual Physical Crystallography (PCG) group of the BCA and Structural Condensed
 Matter Physics group of the Institute of Physics; he is also a committee member of the RSC Solid
 State Chemistry group and is on the FAP for diffraction at ISIS. McCabe is part of the RSC-IOP’s
 ‘Neutron scattering group’ and has served on the RSC's Solid State Group committee, the PCG
 committee, and IUPAC’s ‘solid state’ working group. Barker sits on the Scientific and Technical
 Advisory Panel, and Arnold on the Laboratory Review Team for the European Spallation Source,
 the £2 billion future of neutron research that is being built (supported by STFC) in Sweden.

 Reviewing. We regularly review grants for UKRI (Arnold and Serpell are members of the EPSRC
 Peer Review College), the Leverhulme Trust, ERC, NSF, US Army, Royal Society, and British
 Council, as well as beamtime applications for Diamond Light Source, ISIS, and ANSTO. All
 members of staff are active peer reviewers for journals across the RSC, ACS, Nature, Science,
 Wiley, Elsevier, and IUCr collections.

 Conferences. Over the REF2021 period, our staff have delivered numerous invited talks at major
 conferences and departments nationally and internationally, as well as being in involved in the
 organisation of conferences both at Kent (Arnold: Europhysical Conference on Defects in
 Insulating Materials; Arnold, Green, McCabe: RSC Solid State Group Christmas Meeting;
 Mountjoy: Partnerships in Multidisciplinary Studies of Disordered Materials and Biomaterials;
 Hiscock, Palma, Serpell: RSC Macrocyclic and Supramolecular Chemistry; Holder: Macro Group
 UK Young Researchers’ Meeting; Serpell: London Polymer Group Symposium) and beyond
 (Mountjoy: 2nd International Conference on Phosphate Materials, Oxford; Bristowe: MMM Hub
 Conference, London; Arnold: European Solid State Conference, Glasgow; Serpell: PDB60,
 Oxford; Shepherd: BCA Autumn Meeting, Leeds). Arnold chaired the ISIS Neutron and Muon User
 Meeting for two years and McCabe has been Programme Chair of the BCA spring meeting.

 Learned societies. Our staff are fully engaged with learned societies, including the RSC, IUPAC,
 the BCA, the Institute of Physics, the British Association of Cancer Research, and the British
 Society for Nanomedicine.

 Policy. Serpell took part in a BEIS-UUKi roundtable discussion on the provision of research funding
 in the UK in the context of Brexit and the GCRF. Outcomes from this meeting informed the UK
 Government’s response to the Adrian Smith Report. Barker took part in a national ‘strategic
 conversation’ around the six Grand Challenges in Forensic Science Transfer and Persistence,
 alongside delegates representing forensic practice and the legal system of the UK, shaping the
 future direction of forensic research in support of the legal practice in the UK. Sitting on the EPSRC
 Early Career Forum in Manufacturing, he has also been in policy sessions with the SAT to help
 steer the future direction of EPSRC manufacturing funding, as well as feeding directly into the
 ongoing review by UKRI of PhD student support.

 In summary, Chemistry at Kent is outward-facing and proactive in forming links with end users
 across the whole of society, from disadvantaged coastal communities in the UK and farmers in
 developing nations, to the prevention of chemical warfare attacks, the development of high-end
 batteries, and drug discovery.


                                                                                               Page 13
