Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Plymouth

 Unit of Assessment: 10 (Mathematical Sciences)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA10 (Mathematical Sciences) at the University of Plymouth is focused on the 22
 academics in the Centre for Mathematical Sciences. Significant research progress has
 been made since REF2014 including: increasing grant income from around £0.5m to
 nearly £2m (this includes Research Income-in-kind); growing a fully integrated
 community of postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers; becoming a founding partner
 in the Environmental Futures & Big Data Impact Lab; and providing leadership in High
 Performance Computing.

 Structure, Research Groups and Strategy

 Our thriving Centre for Mathematical Sciences (CMS, http://math-sciences.org/,
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/centre-for-mathematical-sciences) was established
 early in the assessment period to provide an overarching research structure. Since
 2019, CMS has been part of the School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics
 (SECaM, https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/schools/school-of-engineering-computing-and-
 mathematics), but for most of the period it was in the School of Computing, Electronics
 and Mathematics. SECaM is in the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FoSE,
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/faculties/science-engineering).
 Its Deputy Head (Eales, SFHEA), and three Associate Heads (AHoS) – Research
 (Rago), Mathematical Sciences (Christopher) and School Outreach & Admissions
 (Lavelle) – are in CMS. In 2020, SECaM received an Athena Swan Bronze Award,
 following an application led by SECaM’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Committee Chair (Wei).

 CMS is built around five interacting research groups:

 Applied Mathematics [AM] (Craven*, Hughes, Sharp and Stuhlmeier *, with Davies,
 Dyke, Graham and Reis having been members during the assessment period),
 conducting interdisciplinary research into dynamical systems, financial mathematics,
 fluid dynamics, stochastic algorithms and mathematics education. This work capitalizes
 on our expanded High Performance Computing (HPC) provision, and on laboratory
 facilities and impact-yielding synergetic engineering links that SECaM now provides.

 Pure Mathematics [PM] (Broomhead*, Christopher and Robertz*, with Huggett,
 Logares* and McCourt* having been members), conducting research into algebraic
 geometry and representation theory including derived categories and moduli spaces,
 dynamical systems including algebraic and geometric aspects of integrability, and
 algorithmic algebra including computational group theory and differential algebra. The

* Appointed since start of 2013/14 academic year.


                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 group provides a theoretical underpinning for CMS’s activities, and its research includes
 work at the interfaces with applied mathematics, computer science, cryptography,
 network analysis and theoretical physics.

 Quantum Electrodynamics at High Intensities [QEHI] (Heinzl, Ilderton*, King*,
 Lavelle and McMullan), conducting research into the interaction of charged particles
 and photons with high-intensity lasers. It has undertaken consultancy work for the
 Central Laser Facility (Rutherford Laboratory), Extreme Light Infrastructure (Prague,
 Bucharest) and the LUXE experiment (DESY and EU.XFEL, Hamburg) that influences
 new experimental facilities world-wide.

 Lattice Field Theory [LFT] (Drach*, McNeile* and Rago, with Langfeld and Patella
 having been members), conducting research into quantum field theories with emphasis
 on strongly interacting matter that contributes to an ab-initio description of the strong
 sector of the Standard Model of Particle Physics and Standard-Model extensions. Its
 activities are based on extensive experience with HPC simulations that are among the
 most computationally expensive world-wide. Because of this, the group leads
 Plymouth’s HPC Centre and contributes to the management of the DiRAC (Distributed
 Research utilising Advanced Computing) consortium.

 Statistics and Data Science [SDS] (Cardinali*, Dalla Valle, Eales,
 Lubert*, Stander, Wei* and Wojtys*, with Hewson, Kaimi, Moyeed,
 Niu*, Palacios, Shaw and Wright having been members), developing computationally-
 intensive methodology to undertake impact-rich projects in Big Data, evidence synthesis,
 financial time series, Health Data Science, industrial monitoring, machine learning,
 multivariate modelling, and statistics education.

 The overarching objectives of our REF2014 research strategy were to enhance our
 excellence by producing world-class, computer-assisted research, and to develop a
 vibrant and sustainable research environment. People and their development are
 central to our approach with a key objective being to ensure that all CMS staff are
 submitted to REF2021. CMS recruited strategically, identifying strengths and
 acknowledging areas needing support, and led colleagues back into research (e.g.
 Eales). Guided by international directions, funding opportunities and the University’s
 long-term plans, CMS has made appointments with expertise in computationally
 intensive areas including Data Science, HPC and computer algebra to reinforce bridges
 between its groups. We have recruited from top research facilities including Bristol,
 CERN, Hannover, Oxford, Technion Israel Institute of Technology and UCL, evidencing
 our capacity to attract high-calibre researchers. The quality of our researchers is further
 illustrated by the destinations of staff as their careers evolved, e.g. Professorship at
 Humboldt University Berlin, or Head of Department in Liverpool and Leeds.

 We measure ourselves by strict international standards. Our ability to attain these is
 exemplified by prize-winning and highly-cited top journal publications, including the
 2016 High Power Laser Science and Engineering Editor-in-Chief Choice Award (Heinzl,


                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 King), the American Physical Society (APS) Journals Editor’s 2017 and 2018 suggested
 articles (Heinzl, Ilderton), a cover feature in Physical Review Letters
 https://journals.aps.org/prl/covers/113/1, the 2018 Journal of Statistics Education Best
 Paper Award (Stander, Dalla Valle), a Bulletin of the London Mathematical Society
 award for a top downloaded new paper 2017/2018 (Broomhead), numerous rapidly-
 cited papers, e.g. 10.1103/PhysRevD.91.054508, 10.1103/PhysRevD.89.125003,
 10.1002/sim.6381 and 10.1007/s00209-016-1690-1 (SciVal, exceeding 97th-percentile),
 and a globally featured media paper
 (https://www.independent.co.uk/news/science/black-holes-laser-beam-stop-electrons-
 light-speed-travel-first-time-radiation-reaction-imperial-a8200531.html).

 Our strategy has enhanced the profile of our interdisciplinary and international
 collaborations and provides us with a flexible, structured and supported environment for
 future success. Our research grant expenditure (detailed in REF4b/c) has increased by
 273%, from £534K (REF2014) to a healthy £1,994K. We will sustain and increase this
 through a strategy that includes strong support for the grant writing activities of newer
 members: e.g. very recently CMS has won an EPSRC ExCALIBUR award (Rago), a
 Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) Consolidated Grant (McNeile,
 Drach), and an EPSRC New Investigator Award (Stuhlmeier).

 Our vibrant research environment has been supported by a growing number of
 successful PGRs (from 10 to 17), and of postdoctoral researchers (from 1 to 8). We
 have also supported a broader programme of international visitors, including
 researchers from Brazil, China, Europe, Israel, Mexico and North America. All this
 provides clear evidence of CMS’s growth and strong forward momentum.

 We expanded our multidisciplinary HPC Centre https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-
 us/university-structure/faculties/science-engineering/hpc in line with our strategic plan.
 Following an initial University investment of £350K, this Centre enjoyed rapid success
 including early bench testing of HPC management software with Intel, Nvidia seed-
 funding, the appointment of Rago (Chair) and McNeile to the DiRAC Particle Physics
 Research Allocation Committee, four plenary speakers (Langfeld 2016, Patella 2016,
 Rago 2017 and Drach 2019) at Lattice Symposia, and expanding CPD activities (CUDA
 and GPU programming, parallel programming (MPI), OpenMP and shared memory
 systems, and Binary coding). It also facilitated collaborations with the University’s
 COAST Group (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/coast-engineering-research-group)
 funded by two EPSRC grants (Virtual wave structure interaction simulation, WSI, £288K,
 2013–2017 and Collaborative-Computational-Project on Wave-Structure-Interactions,
 CCP-WSI, £483K, 2015–2020) held by Graham and others, and also led to the EPSRC
 ExCALIBUR award (Rago).

 The recent creation of SECaM has produced a synergistic mix of researchers, creating
 opportunities for multidisciplinary collaborations between its core areas. SECaM aligns
 with Government priority areas of autonomy, clean growth, digitalisation and health
 technology, which themselves link with the University’s strategic research institutes:


                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Health and Care, Marine and Sustainable Earth. The Supergen Offshore Renewable
 Energy (ORE) Hub led from Plymouth offers funded opportunities for the application of
 SDS research. SECaM also enhances intradisciplinary research in renewable energy
 undertaken by AM, existing collaborations between the HPC Centre and the COAST
 group, and between its health-technology areas and SDS. These links are further
 strengthened by an EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) in the fields of ORE
 and Health/Medical Technology. The University has recently approved a £50M
 investment in SECaM’s interdisciplinary vision. This takes the form a new Engineering
 and Design Facility building (NEDF, due January 2023) that will provide accommodation
 for SECaM’s research infrastructure. NEDF will house structures for the HPC Centre
 and virtual reality data visualization, with CMS design input.

 Impact

 Seeding and supporting research impact are central to SECaM’s culture. An Industrial
 Strategy Group comprises discipline-relevant industrialists from, for example, BT, the
 Met Office and Babcock International, and advises the School’s research groupings on
 their strategic context, infrastructure, and impact-generation and commercialisation
 activities. Academic appointment panels include impact-potential as a scoring criterion,
 and internally funded research projects must demonstrate a well-developed impact
 pathway.

 CMS has developed important structures and collaborations to achieve research
 impact:

 Rago and Dalla Valle were part of a collaboration that won European Regional
 Development Funding (£925K to Plymouth), making CMS a founding partner in the
 Environmental Futures & Big Data Impact Lab (Impact Lab), with the Met Office,
 Plymouth Marine Laboratory, Rothamsted Research and Exeter CityFutures. The Impact
 Lab matches researchers to SMEs, and provides support as these teams develop
 research techniques to solve business and industrial problems. Since its September
 2018 launch, the Impact Lab has worked with over 40 clients and delivered many
 research-based CPD activities. These have led to the establishment of Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) including one with Software Solved Ltd (a national-reach
 data/software-solutions company), yielding £158K. The Impact Lab is a key part of our
 ongoing impact strategy and is discussed in an Impact Case Study (ICS).

 CMS has developed the areas of medical statistics and health data science, supported
 by the University’s medical research priority and the new strategic Plymouth Institute of
 Heath and Care Research. We work with national and international organisations,
 including the Cochrane Collaboration, GlaxoSmithKline, National Institute for Health
 Research and the World Health Organisation (WHO). We have also strengthened
 collaborations with the Peninsula Medical and Dental Schools, University Hospitals
 Plymouth NHS Trust and other medical schools. These activities have generated
 funding of £378K (Wei, Craven, Hewson, McNeile), 1.25FTE research
 fellows, seven joint PGR students and collaborative Masters projects. Some of the

                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 impact is detailed in an ICS. We have addressed questions arising from global
 challenges by, for example, establishing a Covid-19 team which collaborates with
 scientists world-wide (Sebastiani, Rome; Xia and Zhang, China).

 We have increased our research-driven Mathematical Sciences education and public
 engagement contributions, as discussed in an ICS. Our Schools Outreach Programme
 involved 2600 pupils and 230 teachers from 200 schools in 2018/19. We publicize
 research using a blog http://blog.math-sciences.org/, YouTube, Twitter and Instagram, in
 on-line magazines such as Significance (Stander, SFHEA, nine articles since 2015,
 over 79,000 views), and in hardcopy/on-line magazines such as Spektrum der
 Wissenschaft (German descendant of Scientific American, 70,000 monthly copies;
 December 2019 cover story), Europhysics News and Communicator. CMS has provided
 scientific input to a theatrical production (see Section 4). In 2020, Lubert, an
 “Outstanding Faculty Member” (Highest Virginia State honour for teaching, research and
 public service excellence), was appointed to further strengthen this public engagement
 branch of our impact.

 Research Objectives

 Our strategic five-year research objectives are designed to be resilient in the face of
 economic, political and health-related uncertainties, and to take maximum advantage of
 our wide-ranging research skills and impact-generating experience:

           •   Prioritize excellent, impact-yielding, UKRI aligned research that increases
               the number of world-leading publications by over 10%, by enhancing
               collaborations with the University’s strategic research institutes, with other
               SECaM research groups and internationally.

           •   Increase research income by 15%, by prioritizing grant applications and
               expanding income related to Health Data Science, HPC and industrial
               links.

           •   Maximize sustainable research impact, by taking full advantage of SECaM
               and its state-of-the-art infrastructure, of growing SME networks and
               multidisciplinary industrial projects provided by the Impact Lab, and of well-
               established international health organization links.

           •   Strengthen our CPD provision, and continue to expand our research-
               informed, pupil and public engagement programmes, by building on new
               online opportunities.

           •   Sustain and consolidate our outstanding team of postdoctoral researchers,
               and increase our complement of PGR students, by participating in
               strategically identified funding bids.



                                                                                        Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

           •   Become a Big Data and HPC national resource for industry and academia
               that informs external facilities and policies, by capitalizing on University
               and industrial support.

 Open Access, Ethics and Integrity

 CMS goes beyond the REF2021 open access policy and is committed to transparency
 and reproducibility in research. Reproducibility is discussed in a prize-winning paper
 (Stander, Dalla Valle) and some of our publications have been awarded open-data
 badges for full reproducibility. We post research on arXiv, data on Zenodo
 (https://zenodo.org/), and make code and data available on GitHub (e.g.
 https://github.com/MJCraven/PCyclic) or CRAN (e.g. https://CRAN.R-
 project.org/package=costat).

 The University’s Research Ethics and Integrity Policy
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/research/governance/research-ethics-policy informs the
 University and Faculty Research Ethics and Integrity Committees, and provides the code
 of practice for professional standards, honesty, openness, and the documentation and
 storage of data. Ethics approval is required for grant applications and research projects
 with human or animal participants, and these projects are subsequently monitored by
 the Faculty’s Ethics Committee. The committee comprises academic (e.g. Wei) and lay
 experts, is multidisciplinary and takes full account of equality, diversity and inclusion
 requirements (https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-
 areas/equality-diversity-and-inclusion). All staff have to pass a GDPR and Information
 Security course annually, and CMS possesses statistical disclosure limitation expertise.
 New researchers are briefed on the University’s expectations of good research practice
 so that all research projects are conducted according to the required ethical, legal,
 professional and moral obligations and standards, guaranteeing integrity of research.
 2. People

 Academic Staff

 The University has made a considerable investment in UoA10 staff over the assessment
 period. Since 2013/2014 CMS’s reputation has enabled it to appoint 15 researchers
 with high quality research track records. This represents a significant increase in
 active research staff. All CMS staff have permanent contracts with built-in research
 time (typically 40%). Grant income can lead to reduced non-research duties.

 CMS adheres to the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers’.

 The fundamental principle when recruiting staff is the strength of the candidates’
 potential, but CMS also gives consideration to its strategic aims. For example,
 appointees have had expertise in SDS (Cardinali, Logares, Niu, Wei, Wojtys), LFT
 and HPC (Drach, McNeile) and engagement (Lubert). They strengthen and shape the
 evolution of our strategic REF2014 themes, and work in areas with considerable impact

                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 potential. CMS has supported other research strengths, including AM (Stuhlmeier) with
 interdisciplinary connections to the University’s world-leading Marine Institute and QEHI
 (Ilderton). It has also made a strategic investment in PM (Broomhead, Robertz,
 Logares), allowing it to attain a critical mass that provides a theoretical underpinning
 across CMS, enables fundamental research at the interface of other disciplines and
 supports a vibrant seminar series, externally funded workshops and visitors.

 CMS has recruited early career researchers (ECRs), including Broomhead (from
 Hannover), Drach (CERN), Stuhlmeier (Israel Institute of Technology) and Wojtys
 (UCL). An important consequence of this is that our staff have considerable diversity in
 terms of career stage and experience that enhances interdisciplinary and impact
 generation work. The contribution of newly appointed staff has grown substantially,
 leading to a large overall increase in outputs. CMS’s strategy is designed to enable this
 upward trajectory to continue, leading to further output growth and enhanced individual
 career development.




 The University’s Researcher Development Programme provides support for staff at all
 career stages. New staff complete a postgraduate qualification which includes training
 in research management and embedding research in the curriculum. Staff undertake
 CPD activities aligned to their roles, such as courses on “Good Supervisory Practice” or
 “Funding opportunities for ECRs”. SECaM further facilitates staff development by
 organizing regular Research Planning Days, where staff share expertise on funding
 opportunities and identify new interdisciplinary collaborations and impact areas.

 CMS was an early adopter in the University’s mentoring scheme, which eases new
 staff into positions of leadership and responsibility by providing them with more

                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 experienced mentors. There are additional systems to assist ECRs. For example,
 SECaM has offered ECRs competitive internal grants, ranked using criteria including
 research quality, multi-disciplinary collaboration and impact potential. There is also a
 yearly PGR fellowship competition in which the inclusion of ECRs in supervisory teams
 is supported. In 2019/20, it was compulsory to include an ECR as part of every
 supervisory team, and two out of three CMS ECRs now have PGRs.

 Well-established structures ensure that staff development is monitored and that
 individuals can give feedback to SECaM and the University. During a year-long
 probation, new staff meet regularly with their research mentor and also a ‘Performance
 Development Reviewer’. All staff have two Performance Development Review (PDR)
 meetings each year. During these, career and research plans are discussed and
 resources are identified, so that needs are supported. To maintain alignment with the
 University’s research strategy and vision, senior CMS members meet regularly with the
 Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) for Research and Enterprise.

 The PDR process also feeds into succession planning. This strategy facilitates
 forward-looking conversations, in which future roles are discussed with both continuity
 and development being considered. All CMS members understand that they play an
 important part in the success of the whole group and that they are in turn supported by
 it. A shadowing scheme ensures that key roles are maintained in the case of illness and
 provides opportunities for career development.

 CMS’s broad age profile supports robustness in terms of research continuity:




                                                                                     Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 There are considerable opportunities for career progression. SECaM’s strategy
 ensures that all staff belong to an active research group, so that new appointments
 immediately receive subject specific support. Promotion to Associate Professor or
 Professor is conducted through a transparent process, based on three pathways,
 research, education or balanced (research and education). SECaM supports promotion
 in various ways including “Promotions Workshops” where the process is explained and
 experiences are shared. A mark of this strategy’s success is that in the period Dalla
 Valle, Ilderton, King and Wei were promoted to Associate Professor, leading to the
 following CMS employment level profile:




 Postdoctoral Researchers

 CMS’s community of postdoctoral researchers enhances its environment by providing
 fresh perspectives. During the assessment period, CMS has had eight postdoctoral
 researchers, as well as one linked through the Impact Lab. These researchers have
 PhDs from universities including Durham, Heidelberg, Marseille, Strathclyde, Sussex,
 Trinity College Dublin and Umeå Sweden, and strong publication records for their career
 stage. Postdoctoral researchers are fully included in CMS life. They are mentored, have
 access to all facilities, take part in seminar programmes and engagement activities, and
 attend staff meetings. They also benefit from the ‘Research Development Programme’
 offered by the Doctoral College (DC). Their growth as independent researchers is
 prioritized, although they are also encouraged to dedicate time to their career
 development with ten days factored into annual workloads for this.


                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CMS facilitates the development of impact-yielding collaborations for postdoctoral
 researchers by means of its industry and health links, the Impact Lab and KTP projects.
 Postdoctoral researchers also work with staff to produce world-leading research and
 grant applications, with numerous publications having resulted from such collaborations.
 They support and collaborate with PGR students, and contribute to PGR training in
 courses provided by the DC and Impact Lab (e.g. Bayesian methods). CMS
 postdoctoral researchers have gone on to positions in Bonn, Leeds, Liverpool and
 research organizations such as the J. Stefan Institute.

 Visitors, Visits and Developing Staff and Impact

 The vitality of the CMS environment is further enhanced by our academic visitors
 programme. As well as numerous short-term visitors, researchers at all career stages
 have visited from countries including Brazil, China, Germany, Italy and Spain for periods
 from several weeks to a year. Visiting researcher programmes have been established
 with Chinese Universities, and Wei hosted two Chinese academics for year-long visits in
 2019. Visitors often produce collaborative papers, e.g. papers with Adamo (Edinburgh),
 Czado (TU Munich), Gregori (Oxford) and Liseo (Sapienza Rome). Many have been
 externally funded by, for example, the London Mathematical Society (LMS), the Royal
 Society, the Gothenburg Centre for Advanced Studies, and the Brazilian and Chinese
 governments. We have also had two visitors as part of the Erasmus plus Traineeship
 programme, both of whom produced joint papers (with Stander and Dalla Valle). We
 are proud of CMS’s Erasmus and other bilateral international exchanges with many
 universities. For staff, these have provided study-leave opportunities, allowing CMS
 members to increase their knowledge in an international context. As the value of such
 international opportunities cannot be understated, we remain committed to growing our
 international collaborators network post-Brexit, with funding from the China
 Scholarship Council (CSC) for example, and during lockdowns using alternative
 communication methods.

 CMS strongly encourages secondment and sabbaticals. Examples include Rago and
 Patella who undertook a one-year sabbatical and a five-year secondment to CERN, and
 Moyeed who worked for the Peninsula Medical School and for the Royal Statistical
 Society (RSS) Centre for Statistical Education (a year each, 50%).

 Staff development activities, such as attendance at conferences, workshops and training
 events, have been supported by SECaM through a transparent process. All applications
 below £500 were reviewed by the HoS, while larger requests were considered by the
 Senior Management Team. This funding was available to staff at all career stages
 including fixed-term and part-time staff and postdoctoral researchers. SECaM also part-
 funds CMS seminars.

 CMS offers courses on HPC and Data Science techniques to its researchers as well as
 to the wider University and industrial sector, providing opportunities to engage with
 innovative techniques and develop cross-disciplinary research strands and impact-
 yielding exchanges with business. To broaden our skills-base we have invited world-

                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 leading experts with unique knowledge to deliver courses on GPU programming
 (Hietanen, CP3 Odense) and Big Data Gaussian process techniques (Dai, Amazon).

 CMS also works with the University’s Research Impact and Partnerships Office to
 facilitate industry links. Members are encouraged to participate in impact generation by
 the University’s Research Impact & Innovation and R&D Solutions Funds, and by events
 such as the Celebrating and Developing Community Engagement and the University’s
 annual Research Festivals. Major achievements are rewarded with recognition
 payments or promotion (e.g. Dalla Valle).

 PGR Students

 As of October 2020, 86% of academic staff (in post for more than 6 months) had
 supervised a PGR student during the assessment period. CMS has had 17 internal PhD
 completions, 70% more than in the previous assessment period:




 CMS members (e.g. Craven, Dalla Valle, Graham, Hughes and Wei) have also co-
 supervised other PGRs, including within SECaM (on Coastal Engineering and on
 Renewable Energy) and with the Peninsula Medical and Dental Schools.

 We adopt a rigorous approach to appointing PGRs. Each internally funded studentship
 is widely advertised, and the selection process includes an in-depth interview and
 careful consideration of references. Most of our PGR students at appointment hold well
 respected MSc degrees and some have publications.

 CMS has been awarded the status of exceptional training centre by the STFC which
 provides a yearly contribution to PGR scholarships. Other students have been funded


                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 by SECaM studentships, the DTP, and the Iraqi and Libyan governments. Wei secured
 a CSC funded Doctoral Training Programme for up to six Yunnan University statistics
 students to visit Plymouth. Covid-19 extensions have been available to some PGRs.

 Our PGR recruitment procedures follow the principles of Athena SWAN
 https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/about-us/university-structure/service-areas/equality-
 diversity-and-inclusion/athena-swan. In an August 2019 analysis of PGR students, 67%
 identified as female, and one-third of supervisory teams were of mixed gender.

 CMS has a structured system of PGR support, training and supervision. Each student
 has a Director of Studies and at least one additional supervisor; this team oversees
 research and offers well-being advice. PGR students are carefully supported from their
 first day until after graduation by regular meetings, an open-door policy providing access
 to all staff and email support. During the pandemic, virtual spaces were established for
 PGRs and postdoctoral researchers, and subject specific reading group activities were
 increased. A session on support for PGR students, postdoctoral researchers and ECRs
 was included in a recent Research Planning Day so that good practice could be shared.

 All PGR support activities are managed by the University’s Doctoral College (DC)
 which is led by a Director, supported by Deputy Directors from each Faculty. Each
 School has a DC academic lead who pays attention to the needs of their PGRs.
 GradBook software is used to monitor all PGRs. It allows students to record meeting
 notes and to submit milestone forms. It operates a traffic light approach to show
 students if they are on track (green), approaching a milestone (amber) or have missed
 one (red). Supervisors use GradBook to check deadlines, arrange meetings, monitor
 progress and approve forms.

 The DC runs University-level induction for new PGRs, providing cohort development,
 networking opportunities and mentoring, as well as training sessions for supervisors
 and examiners. It also has a team which arranges training courses in the form of a
 Research Development Programme, supported by Research Councils UK, Vitae and
 employers of researchers. This is divided into four domains: Knowledge and Intellectual
 Abilities, Personal Effectiveness, Research Governance and Organisation, and
 Engagement, Influence and Impact. It covers poster and thesis production, the transfer
 and viva processes, publishing, ethical approval, intellectual property and leadership, for
 example.

 PGRs also attend University modules and workshops run by the Impact Lab. They have
 opportunities to go to external courses, such as those run by the Academy for PhD
 Training in Statistics. To gain presentation skills, they discuss work internally and at
 conferences such as the British Applied Mathematics Colloquium, European Conference
 on Fluid Dynamics, EVOSTAR, GECCO, IAHR European Congress, Research Students’
 Conference in Probability and Statistics, and UK High Powered Laser meeting,
 sometimes serving as session chairs.



                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR students are represented by elected peers on the School and Faculty Research
 Committees and the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee.

 Equality and Diversity

 SECaM has the strategic aim to be a beacon for EDI. Following the recent Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award, SECaM plans to apply for a Silver Award within the next three
 years. CMS strongly supports the commitment to equality and diversity laid out in
 the University’s Equality Scheme and its equality, diversity and inclusion policy, and line
 managers receive EDI training.

 CMS is committed to increasing the participation of women in the Mathematical
 Sciences at all levels. We won a bid to host the 2021 LMS Women in Mathematics Day,
 additionally supported by the RSS, which will include a panel discussion on careers for
 women in mathematics. CMS’s Head of School, Professor Deborah Greaves OBE
 (UoA12), has been actively involved in events aimed at attracting women into STEM.
 Dalla Valle serves as an ambassador for Women in STEM and as a member of R-
 Ladies Global. CMS is aware that lockdowns may have a detrimental effect on women’s
 careers and members have followed a Diversity and Inclusion Post-Covid-19 WISE
 webinar to mitigate this.

 CMS’s aim to have a staffing mix with an equal proportion of women and men
 participating at all levels has been supported by the appointments of Logares, Lubert,
 Wei and Wojtys and the promotion of Dalla Valle and Wei. Currently over a fifth of
 CMS are female, with a similar proportion among Associate Professors/Professors,
 comparable with LMS benchmarking data. To increase this proportion, staff have
 equality and diversity, and unconscious bias training, and there is additional instruction
 for appointment panel members. All panels (appointments, promotion, internal grant and
 funding allocation) are gender balanced and adhere to the University’s equality and
 diversity strategy. SECaM has a policy which seeks to ensure the shortlisting of at least
 one female candidate whenever possible.

 CMS supports each ‘protected characteristic’. It takes no consideration of age,
 gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership status, race, religion or belief, or
 sexual orientation, at appointment or during career progression. It provides the same
 development opportunities to everyone throughout their careers no matter what contract
 type they possess. CMS makes adjustments to support physical and mental disability
 such as by providing multiple offices and access to support workers.

 CMS nurtures staff wellbeing and quality of life alongside skills and career
 development. We are committed to LGBTQ-inclusivity, and celebrate diversity. The
 University is a proud Stonewall Diversity Champion, sponsoring Plymouth Pride and
 Pride on Campus.

 The University has a range of policies to support staff and PGRs, including those on
 maternity, paternity and parental leave, which go beyond statutory requirements:

                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Broomhead and Drach recently benefitted from full-pay paternity leave, enhanced
 locally by timetable adjustments and duty rearrangement. CMS operates a flexible-
 working policy to aid those caring for children, and has a similarly supportive approach
 towards staff and PGRs with other caring responsibilities. The Freshlings’ Nursery,
 situated on campus, offers a nurturing environment for children and childcare vouchers.

 When staff suffer illness – including long-term problems – they are given support either
 to recover or to manage their condition. Arrangements, including phased returns, are
 made to facilitate re-entry to work. As a mutually-supportive group, all CMS members
 are always willing to help colleagues. The University also has structures and resources
 to support health and well-being. These include Occupational Health and the University
 Medical Centre, providing access to doctors and nurses, and the Staff Counselling
 Service. There is also an established system of University funded staff networks.
 These include the LGBT+ Staff Forum, the Women’s network and a network for staff
 with disabilities. New well-being networks can easily be established. The Sports Centre
 has a gym and offers well-being classes.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Grant Income

 CMS has a strong and growing track-record of winning prestigious grants. Our
 assessment period income (as PIs) recorded in REF4b/c is 273% more than for
 REF2014. CMS research income for each year is shown in this graph:




 Major research council and charitable foundation grants have supported research during
 the period: Graham (PI) (2013–2017, EPSRC, WSI, £288K); Langfeld (PI) and Rago
 (Co-I) (2013, Leverhulme Trust Project, £180K); Langfeld (PI), Rago and Patella (Co-

                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Is) (2013, Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) Consolidated, £230K);
 Graham (Co-I) (2015–2020, EPSRC, CCP-WSI, £483K); Heinzl (PI) and Ilderton
 (Fellow) (2016–2018, Marie Curie International Fellowship, £180K); King (PI) (2016–
 2018, EPSRC First Grant, £125K); King (PI) (2016, Royal Society International
 Exchange Scheme, £2K); Rago (PI), McNeile and Patella (Co-Is) (2017, STFC
 Consolidated, £340K); Ilderton (PI) and King (co-PI) (2018–2020, EPSRC Standard,
 £450K); Ilderton (PI) and Heinzl (co-PI) (2019–2021, Leverhulme, £122K); Rago (Co-I)
 (2020, EPSRC Standard, £86K); Drach (2019–2020, STFC New Applicant Scheme,
 £4K); Dalla Valle and Stander (2017–2019, Royal Society International Exchanges,
 £11K); very recently, McNeile (PI) and Drach (Co-I) (1/10/2020, STFC Consolidated
 Grant, £40K); Stuhlmeier (award date 12/2020, EPSRC New Investigator Award,
 £208K).

 Some of these grants have supported postdoctoral researchers who broaden CMS
 expertise, enrich its atmosphere and increase its productivity. Ilderton, holder of the
 Marie Curie fellowship, was subsequently appointed as a lecturer, and then won an
 EPSRC standard grant as PI. Graham’s first EPSRC grant was used to stimulate
 multidisciplinary research with the Marine Institute and led to papers in the International
 Journal of Offshore and Polar Engineering. This work informed Graham’s second
 EPSRC grant which also provided extensive resources and training for industry.

 Income related to HPC

 One of our assessment period highlights has been the expansion of the flourishing
 multidisciplinary HPC Centre. An important contributory factor to its success was a
 NVIDIA equipment award to establish a Graphics Processing Unit Research Centre, the
 status of which has been renewed twice. This equipment led to Asthana et al. (2016,
 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK361065/), to the development of techniques
 now used routinely at City Science (https://www.cityscience.com/) and WiFi SPARK
 (https://www.wifispark.com/), and to a general broadening of interest and expertise in
 HPC (e.g. Craven and Robertz, 2016, https://doi.org/10.1515/gcc-2016-0012).

 Much of the work performed using the NVIDIA equipment translated naturally to the
 HPC Centre. The University has already contributed £350K to our HPC infrastructure
 and is considering making a tactical investment of over £1M to expand the HPC Centre
 to serve both Big Data research across the University, and an extended field of external
 and industry users. The HPC Centre is led by CMS staff (Rago, Drach, McNeile) who
 oversee its design, strategic evolution and operation. It also provides CPD events,
 which help to strengthen connections with regional and national enterprises through the
 Impact Lab. This activity contributes to our strategy for developing impact in industry.

 Our HPC research method is to tune code in our Centre and then to apply to national
 facilities for large-scale runs. We have been extremely successful in obtaining research
 time on these facilities with awards totalling over 400 Million core hours, which the STFC
 approximates as being worth £630K for REF4c Research Income-in-kind. Contributing
 awards include Rago (Dirac Consortium-STFC: 2012, PI, 130M; 2013, PI, 12M; 2016,

                                                                                      Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PI, 154.8M; 2018, CI, 20M; 2018, PI, 5M, Director’s Discretionary Award); Drach (2018,
 PI, 4.58M; 2019, CI, 13.13M; 2020, PI, 16.8M); Rago (PRACE-EU, 2019, CI, 60M). In
 addition, Rago was awarded software engineering time (6 months, EPCC Edinburgh,
 £33K, STFC-DiRAC), while Ilderton was awarded time worth £32K at a STFC Central
 Laser Facility.

 Income related to Health Data Science

 A third strand of research and impact, supported by external funding, has been in
 Statistics and Health Data Science. SDS has obtained funding for collaborative health
 and medicine projects, including one from the National Institute for Health Research
 (£154K, Wei Co-I) related to substance use disorders, two from GlaxoSmithKline (£44K,
 £55K, Wei Co-I) developing a questionnaire for asthma patients’ quality of life and
 another from Medicem (£14K, Hewson, Craven Co-I). Wei (PI) was awarded an NHS
 grant, part-funding with the DTP a studentship to develop kidney transplant prediction
 models (£77K). McNeile (PI) obtained funding from Bausch and Lomb (£32K) to model
 visual acuity following cataract surgery.

 Income Supporting Collaborations

 CMS members have secured a significant number of awards that support
 collaboration between academics world-wide. Rago had a year-long sabbatical as a
 CERN Scientific Associate (£100K). There were two Royal Society International
 Exchange Scheme grants: one (King) funded a five week visit to Mianyang China and
 led to a paper in Phys. Rev. D., while the other (Dalla Valle, Stander) enabled
 interaction with Liseo (Sapienza Rome) and resulted in a Statistics in Medicine
 publication. Ilderton and Edwards (UMSNH) also received a Royal Society Newton
 Mobility Award (£6K) which funded three research visits and resulted in papers in the
 Journal of High Energy Physics and in Physical Review D. Broomhead, Logares,
 McCourt, Robertz and Stuhlmeier have obtained seven LMS grants which were used
 to host high profile researchers including Baur (Graz), Dancer (Oxford),
 Martens (Edinburgh), Mazzocco (Birmingham), Newstead (Liverpool) and
 Szendroi (Oxford).

 CMS members also obtained funding for travel from external sources, including:
 Bielefeld University, Casa Matemática Oaxaca, Chinese University of Hong Kong,
 Oberwolfach Research Institute for Mathematics, University of Stuttgart (Broomhead);
 Napier University (Craven); Global Challenges for Women in Mathematical Science
 Grant, International Centre for Mathematical Sciences India, Simon’s Centre for
 Geometry and Physics, Tata Institute (Logares); Erwin Schrödinger International
 Institute for Mathematics and Physics, an IMA small grant (Stuhlmeier).




                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Other Income

 During the assessment period, income generated from other sources, such as
 research-based courses for PGRs, was paid into researchers’ Strategic Research
 Accounts, and was used to support international research collaboration and
 presentations at important conferences.

 The RSS South West Group (Stander, Wei, Dalla Valle) is based at Plymouth and
 makes a major contribution to funding part of CMS’s seminar programme.

 Income Strategy

 CMS’s successful strategy to increase the amount of grant and related income from
 UK and international sources is partly based on continually building the grant writing
 expertise of its newer members. For example, King and very recently Stuhlmeier have
 been awarded EPSRC First or New Investigator Grants and Drach won an STFC New
 Applicant Scheme award. CMS is also promoting and expanding its research and
 consultancy links with industry and increasing the number of KTPs or equivalent
 partnerships in which it is involved. It has a KTP with Software Solved (Dalla Valle)
 which has produced software for industry, and other industry grants including two from
 GlaxoSmithKline (Wei) and one from Bausch and Lomb (McNeile). There are fruitful
 collaborations with BT Research and Plymouth Community Homes (McNeile, Wei,
 Wojtys), including recent work on the analysis of broadband network performance, that
 uses our HPC facilities and that we plan to expand to increase HPC related income.
 The Impact Lab, discussed in Section 1, provides CMS with a firm foundation for future
 funded impact generation. Our Health Data Science income will be increased by
 capitalizing on our new Covid-19 research direction, by increasing our collaborations
 with the University’s strategic Health and Care Institute, and by continuing to play an
 important role in SECaM’s strategic bids

 Infrastructure and Support

 The University provides substantial infrastructure and facilities to assist researchers.
 CMS members and visitors have well-equipped individual offices and access to state-of-
 the-art equipment for on-line working. The University has recently approved a £50M
 investment in the new NEDF building that will provide purpose-built accommodation for
 SECaM’s research infrastructure. NEDF will house structures for the HPC Centre and
 virtual reality data visualization, with CMS design input. These facilities support CMS’s
 Big Data theme by furthering the development of impact generating research and CPD
 activities. They will also cater for our rapidly growing Data Science PGT provision that is
 designed to yield a continual supply of interdisciplinary and impact-rich projects, further
 supported by visiting PGT students from China. There will be facilities supporting the
 development of Health/Medical Technologies which will strengthen existing medical
 sector links, and spaces to stimulate interaction with the arts, architecture and
 environmental sciences. NEDF will house state-of-the-art seminar facilities, one of


                                                                                     Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 which will be named after a female mathematician, such as Arianna Rosenbluth. The
 building will provide a transformative research resource to sustain CMS in the long-term
 and further increase its international significance.

 Other significant research infrastructures within the University include:

     •   The COAST Laboratory wave tank, which has been key to some of AM’s
         interdisciplinary work. It has led to a blind test series for wave energy converters,
         funded by the EPSRC WSI (Graham, £288K) and CCP WSI (Graham, £483K)
         grants. Experiments on plate impacts, tsunami generation and wave-energy
         devices led to publications by Hughes. The tank was used to demonstrate novel
         algorithms for identifying wave breaking to international researchers attending
         the “Water Waves: Mathematical Theory & Applications” workshop organised by
         Stuhlmeier. It facilitated a joint PhD project on smoothed-particle
         hydrodynamics supervised by Hughes and Greaves (UoA12).
     •   The Immersive Vision Theatre, which supports CMS research and outreach in
         Mathematics Education and Data Visualization.

 The University’s 10-year strategy prioritizes research and impact growth. Research
 strategy development is led by the DVC (Research and Enterprise), and overseen
 within the Faculty by an Associate Dean (Research). Rago, AHoS (Research), from
 CMS, has research responsibility across SECaM and is assisted by the School
 Research Committee comprising staff and PGRs elected to represent all interests.

 SECaM has a Technical Manager, partially funded by a STFC Consolidated Grant, who
 manages the HPC Centre, and provides support for staff and PGR students.

 The University’s IT services ensure that computers of staff and PGR students are
 regularly maintained and replaced on a rolling basis, with the last University upgrade
 being in 2018/19. They also provide general IT support and ensure that everyone has
 access to the software that they need. Staff can opt for a variety of equipment including
 Macs. Specialist teams operate the COAST Laboratory wave tank and the Immersive
 Vision Theatre.

 In addition to CMS support, there are University structures such as the Research and
 Commercialisation Office and the Research Impact and Partnerships Office that assist
 with grant applications and impact generation. These offices provide training courses,
 open to all but offering special assistance to ECRs, that cover impact, ethics, intellectual
 property and research commercialisation.

 CMS is proud of the very substantial improvement in external income and international
 collaborations achieved over the assessment period. The creation of SECaM and the
 associated £50M University investment in the NEDF building considerably strengthen
 our long-term strategy for growing external income to support research and impact
 generation in the Mathematical Sciences.

                                                                                       Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations and Relationships

 CMS has a proven track record of research that solves real problems from industry,
 health organisations and research institutes such as HR Wallingford. Because of this,
 CMS understands the importance of well-established collaborations to create excellent
 impact-yielding research and has strong research collaboration arrangements. For
 example, CMS maintains a record of past collaborations to encourage new staff to work
 with more established researchers across the University and beyond, in order to develop
 their research skills in a multidisciplinary context. This has led to papers in over ten
 interdisciplinary journals including Fluids, International Journal of Acoustics and
 Vibration, International Journal of Electronic Security and Digital Forensics,
 Multidimensional Systems and Signal Processing, Nature Geoscience, Ocean
 Engineering, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A), as well as the impact in
 the ICSs.

 In addition to research networks and partnerships that arise from and lead to
 interdisciplinary, world-wide collaborations, our Cochrane Statistical Methods Group
 membership (Wei) allows us to contribute to and benefit from links with the Cochrane
 Collaboration, so informing our meta-analysis and systematic reviews research. Wei is
 also a member of the WHO “Zika Virus Meta-analysis Initiative” working group. CMS
 contributes to the HIBEF User Consortium (Heinzl, King), the International Lattice Data
 Grid (McNeile) and the UK High-Power Laser Community and User Forum (Heinzl,
 Ilderton, King). Two grants from DiRAC (Rago, Drach) have established
 collaborations with Edinburgh, Odense and Ljubljana. Recently, Rago has been
 awarded a grant from EPSRC’s ExCALIBUR call with Swansea, Edinburgh and
 Southampton to develop a roadmap to establish a broad community to exploit exascale
 facilities, further evidencing our HPC excellence and commitment. Drach serves on the
 UKLFT management board, a STFC-funded Virtual Centre for Lattice Field Theory
 which facilitates collaboration between European researchers. McNeile worked with the
 international HPQCD collaboration (http://www.physics.gla.ac.uk/HPQCD/) on
 supercomputer simulations for experiments at Fermilab.

 Collaborations have also been supported by a one-year sabbatical (Rago) and a five-
 year secondment (Patella) to CERN, two Global Challenges for Women in Math Science
 grants with TU Munich (Dalla Valle), and a Royal Society International Exchanges grant
 for research with Sapienza Rome involving the Great Ormond Street Institute of Child
 Health (Stander, Dalla Valle). Broomhead was funded to visit the Oberwolfach
 Research Institute under their Research in Pairs initiative.

 The PDR process means that CMS members are conscious of the importance of
 continually developing strong relationships with key research users and these
 collaborations are enhanced in many ways. They may arise informally from personal
 contacts or enquiries to CMS. More formally, Dalla Valle and Rago have been involved


                                                                                   Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in the establishment of the Impact Lab, facilitating a broad range of collaboration
 including one with the Met Office. CMS also invites strategically identified partners to
 ‘European Study Groups with Industry’ meetings. This access to external problems
 enriches our environment by providing new interactions with external scientists, their
 projects and data, including Argand Solutions and the Devon and Cornwall Police.

 Contributions

 Examples of wider contributions to the economy and society include KTP work on data
 integration with the insurance industry (Dalla Valle), on portfolio optimization with a
 private London finance company (Cardinali), on flood risk coastal engineering with HR
 Wallingford (Dalla Valle, SECaM colleagues and a PGR student), on paediatric visual
 acuity with the Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health (Stander, Dalla Valle), and
 on data integration to encourage business collaboration (Dalla Valle). Our medical
 statistics and Health Data Science research (Wei, Craven, McNeile), with the University
 Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust, the Peninsula Medical School and the Health and Care
 Institute, is improving treatment practices. The Impact Lab (Rago, Dalla Valle) makes a
 substantial contribution to the regional economy. CMS members (Craven, Dalla Valle,
 McNeile, Niu, Rago, Stander, Wojtys) have regularly presented Impact Lab
 Workshops including: Tweet Analysis, Bayesian Methods, Immersive Data Visualisation,
 Introductory and Advanced R, and Neural Networks.

 Over the assessment period CMS has established a new research strand in
 Mathematical Science Education that has enriched our environment. Sharp has
 established a network of over 200 primary and secondary schools with whom we share
 our research and expertise in mathematics and statistics pedagogy. In addition, CMS is
 highly active in public engagement and outreach activities, an aim of which is to present
 our research to a broad audience. CMS runs a Mathematics Enrichment Programme
 which has organized many outreach events, masterclasses and schools talks (Sharp,
 Broomhead, Craven, Drach, Heinzl, Ilderton, King, Lavelle, McMullan, Rago,
 Stander) including one by Professor Sir David Spiegelhalter, an honorary doctor of the
 University. CMS have contributed strongly to the International Year of Light Teachers’
 Training Day 2018 (Heinzl), the Festival of Physics 2019 (Heinzl, McNeile) and
 International Masterclasses in Particle Physics (2017, 2020 postponed to 2021, Drach,
 McNeile). We have given talks to the Plymouth Astronomical Society and Armada Con
 (Lavelle, McMullan), regularly hosted the RSS Guy Lecture and contributed to the
 Royal Institution’s Masterclass Programme (Sharp), delivering country-wide research-
 based enhancement classes exposing many school pupils to our research and its
 impact. We advised on a theatre play Fireworks about the Higgs Boson and led a Q&A
 session after performances in Plymouth, Exeter and Cornwall (Drach, Ilderton, Lavelle,
 McMullan, Rago). Broomhead, Sharp and Stander have provided work placement
 opportunities to Year 12 and 13 students, one of whom produced a Significance article.
 Wei and a PGR student organized a Health Data Science symposium in 2020, with RSS
 and Impact Lab sponsorship. Huggett organized the ‘Conversations across Art and
 Mathematics’ exhibition to publicize the relationship between these disciplines. We have


                                                                                     Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 made substantial contributions to radio programmes (More or Less, Surfology, German
 public radio, for example, Stander, Stuhlmeier), to Plymouth Argyle Football Club’s
 programme and website (Eales), and to the University’s Annual Research festival (led
 by McNeile). All this activity strongly evidences that CMS engages with diverse
 communities and publics.

 Service, Sustainability and International Priorities

 CMS makes a strong, international contribution to the reputation and the sustainability
 of the discipline. We have given long-term service to a range of learned organizations,
 often in a leadership or decision-making capacity. For example, Huggett served as the
 LMS General Secretary (2012–2020), and Stander was an elected RSS Council
 member (2012–2015) and acted as Treasurer of the Committee of Professors of
 Statistics for twenty years and as Chair and Treasurer of the RSS South West Group.
 Lubert was Co-founder/President of the Association for Women in Science, Blue Ridge
 Chapter, USA. Dalla Valle has given service to the Exeter Initiative for Statistics and its
 Applications, the European Network for Business and Industrial Statistics and R-Ladies
 Global. Others have been members of the Central Laser Facility User Forum (Heinzl,
 Ilderton, King), the HIBEF User Consortium (Heinzl, King), and the Vulcan 20 Petawatt
 Project (Heinzl).

 CMS and the Research Impact and Partnerships Office conduct and support research
 that responds to national and international priorities. Examples include
 environmental modelling which provides a better understanding of flood risk prevention
 (Dalla Valle), meta-analysis (Wei) which quantifies the link between portion size and
 obesity, business default probability estimation (Dalla Valle), and work for the UK
 National Cybersecurity Strategy (Craven). In response to the pandemic, CMS
 established a Covid-19 team and a collaboration with Sebastiani, who regularly speaks
 on Italian television, which led to the publication of
 https://www.significancemagazine.com/science/657-some-comparisons-between-italy-
 and-the-uk-for-covid-19-march-to-april-2020 and
 https://www.significancemagazine.com/science/687-returning-to-schools-and-
 universities-in-the-time-of-coronavirus-some-statistical-suggestions.

 We are involved in editorial work and other publishing support: for example,
 Associate Editor, Journal of Official Statistics (Dalla Valle); Statistical Editor, Cochrane
 Developmental Psychosocial Learning Problems Group (Wei); Co-Editor Special Issue
 of Mathematics in Computer Science 2019 (Robertz); Subject Editor (Noise),
 Publication of the Acoustical Society of America (Lubert). We provide outstanding
 refereeing service (awards from Physics Letters B (Heinzl, Ilderton) and Physical
 Review (Heinzl)), together with refereeing work for many journals and funding bodies.

 CMS members have participated in grant committees and advisory work for funding
 bodies including: DiRAC Particle Physics Research Allocation Committee (Rago Chair,
 McNeile); DiRAC RAC Particle/Nuclear Physics Sub-Panel for super-computing (Rago);


                                                                                       Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 EPSRC Peer Review College (Ilderton); STFC Particle Physics Panel (Rago); German
 Research Foundation “Quantum Vacuum” Review Panel €6M, International Station of
 Extreme Light Review Panel to be built in Shanghai and worth approximately $100M
 (Heinzl); LUXE experiment at EU.XFEL (Heinzl, Ilderton and King, who led the
 Conceptual Design Report theory section); Panel for Rutherford Laboratory experimental
 proposals (Ilderton); DiRAC Consortium Extreme Scaling Machine board (Rago);
 Austrian Foundation for the Promotion of Science (Stuhlmeier); Commonwealth
 Scholarship Committee Advisor (Broomhead); Erwin Schrödinger International Institute
 for Mathematics and Physics Austria (Stuhlmeier); LMS (Broomhead, Huggett); Czech
 Science Foundation, DFG Research Unit Germany, German Research Foundation,
 Helmholtz Society, Humboldt Foundation, National Research Foundation South Africa,
 Royal Society (Heinzl); FONDECYT Chile (Lavelle).

 We have won prestigious prizes: 2016 High Power Laser Science and Engineering
 Editor-in-Chief Choice Award (Heinzl, King); APS journals editor’s choice articles
 (Heinzl, Ilderton, 2017, 2018); the 2017 Journal of Statistics Education Best Paper
 Award (Stander, Dalla Valle).

 We provided plenary speakers for Lattice Symposia (Langfield 2016, Patella 2016,
 Rago 2017, Drach 2019), and delivered invited plenaries or keynotes at the BIRS-CMO
 workshop on Stability Conditions and Representation Theory (Broomhead), 3rd Elba
 Workshop on Forward Physics 2016 (McNeile), ExHiLP 2017, 2019 (Heinzl, Ilderton,
 King), International Laser Physics Workshop 2015–2019 (Heinzl, Ilderton, King), the
 first LUXE meeting (Ilderton), Nankai Symposium on Physics, Geometry and Number
 Theory (Broomhead), Non-perturbative QED workshop SLAC 2019 (Ilderton),
 PGCS Symposium (Craven), Schwinger Effect Workshop 2021 (Ilderton), UK
 Flavour 2017 (Rago). Drach was an invited speaker at “Interdisciplinary approach to
 QCD-like composite dark matter” (Trento, 2018), “Fundamental Composite Dynamics”
 (FCD2019, Mainz) and Mass 2019 (Odense).

 Ilderton and King presented and were invited session chairs at LPHYS (2014 Sofia)
 and LNPC (2017 Yokohama). Heinzl, Ilderton and King presented and chaired at the
 International Laser Physics workshop (2015 Shanghai, 2016 Yerevan, 2018 Nottingham,
 2019 Gyeongju) and at ExHILP conferences (2015 Heidelberg and 2017 Lisbon).
 Langfeld and Rago served on the organizing committee, while Patella was on the
 advisory committee for Lattice 2016 (Southampton, 420 participants). Langfeld,
 McNeile, Patella and Rago organized the eXtreme QCD conference (Plymouth, 2016,
 80 participants). McNeile was an invited speaker at 3rd Elba Workshop on Forward
 Physics. Heinzl gave invited talks at HED-XFEL 2017 (DESY), ICEL 2019 (Prague) and
 “Probing Extreme Light” (2017 Shanghai) and was invited to a HIBEF (2018 Dresden)
 and the “Vacuum Fluctuations” workshop (2019 Sardinia). Logares organized Current
 Trends in Hitchin Systems (2018 Argentina). Ilderton was invited to the “Non-
 perturbative QED” workshop (2019 Stanford), and a working group of theorists planning
 a particle collider for the SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory (2019). King was



                                                                                  Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 invited to present at “Extreme Light Fields” 2020 and co-organized the LUXE Workshop
 (2020 Hamburg).

 The CMS has hosted a number of workshops supported by LMS Celebrating New
 Appointment grants including “Water Waves – Mathematical Theory & Applications”
 2019, organised by Stuhlmeier, “Differential Algebra” 2014 (Robertz), “Combinatorics”
 2014 (McCourt) and “Geometry, Derived Categories and Moduli Spaces” 2018
 (Broomhead, Logares). Robertz organized an LMS Regional Meeting.

 Heinzl gave courses on “Nonlinear Quantum Electrodynamics” (24th Chris Engelbrecht
 Summer School, South Africa, 2014) and on “Extreme Light and Quantum Fields”
 (Arnold-Sommerfeld Colloquium, 2015). Ilderton taught courses on “Light by light
 scattering” (European Light Infrastructure Summer School, 2015 and 2017) and on
 “Quantum effects in laser-matter interactions” (UK-India Laser-Plasma Theory
 Workshop, International Centre for Theoretical Sciences, Bangalore, 2017), and gave a
 PGR course on “Strong Field QED” (Chalmers University, Sweden, 2018). King
 lectured on “Strong-field QED in Intense Lasers” (“High Energy Density Physics Summer
 School”, National University of Defence Technology, Changsha, China, 2017). Logares
 presented a workshop at the Simons Center for Geometry and Physics during a month-
 long invited visit, 2019. Rago delivered advanced research lectures on Finite Density
 Lattice Field Theory (2017, Odense). Wei presented a course on Medical Statistics at
 the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China postgraduate summer
 school, 2015. Craven, Dalla Valle, McNeile, Niu, Rago, Stander and Wojtys ran a
 week CPD event on Big Data and have presented Impact Lab Workshops.

 PGR Training and Examining

 CMS is a Member Institution of the Academy for PhD Training in Statistics (APTS) and
 includes APTS courses as a regular component of its PGR training. Stander serves on
 the London Taught Course Centre Advisory Board. Robertz presented an invited
 tutorial at the 41st International Symposium on Symbolic and Algebraic Computation
 2016 and a course at Journées Nationales de Calcul Formel 2018.

 CMS Members have examined PhDs including Craven, Greenwich (2019); Ilderton,
 Chalmers University (2016, three), Friedrich-Schiller University Jena (2016), Umeå
 (2019); King, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich (2016), Chalmers University
 (2019), Oxford (2020); McNeile, Cambridge (2018), Adelaide (2019); Rago, Edinburgh
 (2013); Wei, Liverpool (2019), Essex (2020).

 In short, CMS’s supportive and highly successful environment is the fruit of a sustainable
 research and impact strategy centred on investment in and the well-being of its people.
 This environment and the support, infrastructure and opportunities offered by SECaM
 have not only led to a continually increasing amount of funded research and impact, but
 have also facilitated cross-disciplinary collaborations that will continue to address real-
 world problems and global challenges. Our extensive engagement activities mean that


                                                                                     Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CMS also widely shares its vitality and excitement with young people and broader
 society.




                                                                                    Page 24
