Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 Context

 Sociological research at Queen Margaret University (QMU) is driven by collaborative engagement
 with publics and organisations beyond academia. As such it is intrinsically interdisciplinary,
 innovative, and international in scope. Operationalising QMU’s commitment to public engagement
 Sociology is located at the centre of QMU’s institutional research strategy. Whilst Sociology as
 an academic discipline is located within the School of Arts Social Sciences and Business
 Management (ASSAM), sociological research is conducted within an interdisciplinary context
 involving colleagues from the School of Health Sciences and collaborative partners beyond the
 university.

 Socially relevant research at QMU has been significantly facilitated by increased investment in
 research infrastructure at school and university level in recent years. The development of
 Research Centres has formed the locus of this investment. Research activity and investment is
 firmly embedded in school structures, operational plans, and the broader institutional research
 strategy. As an integral part of the ASSAM’s operational plan and university strategy, the Public
 Sociology Cluster (PSC) was established in 2016 as a direct result of this investment and forms
 the research locus of a range of public engagement and scholarship projects in the developing
 approach of Public Sociology. This is the first time that QMU has submitted to UoA21.

 The introduction of the Initial Teacher Education Programme within the Division of Psychology
 Sociology and Education in 2019 has also contributed to developing distinct approaches in Public
 Sociology research at QMU. The central aim of the sociological research at QMU is to encourage,
 facilitate and advance sociological knowledge, which is generated by, and in dialogue with,
 community and policy needs at local, national, and international level. The realisation of this aim
 requires a commitment to innovative and interdisciplinary research underpinned by a value-driven
 approach centred upon social justice. As such the Public Sociology Cluster (PSC) encourages,
 facilitates, and advances sociological knowledge which is generated through engagement
 between academic researchers, and key publics involved in social justice issues. These publics
 include communities, trade unions, professional practitioners, third sector organisations and policy
 makers at local, national, and international level. This distinctive approach also facilitates the
 development of socially relevant sociological theory from practice and engagement with key public
 spheres and draws upon dialogical methods including, critical ethnography and participatory
 research.

 Since 2016 public sociology research at QMU has been driven by a quest to develop innovative,
 interdisciplinary collaborative research approaches to map, and understand social, environmental,
 and economic connections to the wellbeing of people within communities and broader societal
 settings. Demonstrating this in 2020, 16 members of the Public Sociology Cluster, along with
 collaborative partners out with academia, contributed to the inaugural publication of the Policy
 Press book series on Public Sociology: Public Sociology as Educational Practice (Scandrett, E.
 ed., 2020. Public Sociology as Educational Practice: Challenges, Dialogues and Counter-Publics.
 Policy Press) https://bristoluniversitypress.co.uk/public-sociology-as-educational-practice. This
 publication has recently been highly commended by Budd Hall, Co-Chair, UNESCO Chair in
 Community-Based         Research      and    Social    Responsibility  in   Higher      Education
 (https://pimamembers.wixsite.com/network/post/pima-bulletin-no-34-january-2021).

 Structure of the Research Unit

 The research unit in Sociology at QMU is comprised of staff located within the Divisions of
 Psychology, Sociology and Education (PSE) within the School of Arts, Social Sciences and

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management (ASSAM) and the Division of Occupational Therapy and Arts Therapies within the
 School of Health Sciences.

 All staff within the research unit are also members of the Public Sociology Cluster (PSC) which
 currently has a membership of 34 researchers from a diverse range of disciplines. A coordinator,
 at professorial level leads the Public Sociology Cluster (PSC). The Public Sociology Cluster (PSC)
 is located with Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS), The Centre for Applied Social Sciences
 (CASS) conducts research into social issues that affect people’s lives locally, nationally, and
 internationally. Its applied approach produces research that has a theoretical and practical focus
 and that brings together interdisciplinary expertise in addressing issues of individual and social
 relevance. A director, at professorial level, leads CASS formulating the strategy for the centre in
 consultation with centre members.

 The School Research and Innovation Board (SRIB), holds overall responsibility for the strategic
 development of research within ASSAM and reports into the School Academic Board, which is
 chaired by the Dean. The director of CASS, in collaboration with the relevant Head of Division
 (HoD) and research cluster leads is also responsible for resource allocation and staff development
 including mentoring. Research objectives for staff are agreed between the director of CASS,
 individual staff members and their respective Heads of Department who record these objectives
 as part of the annual Performance Enhancement Review (PER) process. The centre receives an
 annual budget that can be used to seed-fund new research, support conference attendance, run
 public events, support staff development, and generate pathways to impact. The Public Sociology
 Research Cluster has benefitted significantly from funding from CASS, particularly regarding
 running public events, generating pathways to impact, and supporting successful funding bids.
 Demonstrating this a series of major events including an International Public Sociology
 Colloquium, a Public Sociology Seminar Series and a series of international workshops focusing
 on effective support services for students across eleven European universities were partly funded
 by CASS.

 Strategic aims and key achievements

 The strategic aims of the research unit are coherent with QMU’s broader research mission to
 “strive to create a community without borders, helping to improve people’s lives locally, nationally
 and internationally. We are ambitious and enterprising, and in everything we do, we are committed
 to social justice”.

 Sociological research at QMU adopts a value-driven, innovative, interdisciplinary, and
 international approach to mapping and understanding social, environmental, and economic
 connections to well-being, community cohesion and social change. Sociological researchers
 within the research unit and broader Public Sociology Cluster are committed to the development
 of sociological knowledge and theory generated from engagement with publics and communities.
 Drawing upon dialogical, critical ethnography, participatory research, and other forms of public
 sociology at QMU also contributes to the development of research methods and methodologies.

 Research within this unit meets the central aim of QMU’s Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Strategy by working at ‘the intersection of conventional disciplinary groupings to create innovative
 approaches to contemporary societal challenges and public discourse; making a significant
 contribution to the creation and sharing of knowledge that reaches and influences a broad range
 of regional and international stakeholders’, and through its commitment to connect ‘the third
 sector, local government, businesses and citizens to ‘enhance local economic, social and
 environmental well-being’. More broadly, The Public Research Cluster engages collaboratively
 with communities, the third sector, and local and national government in Scotland “to generate,
 acquire, apply and make accessible the knowledge needed to enhance economic, human, social,
 cultural and environmental wellbeing.”

 The social, economic, and environmental relevance of the research unit is clearly evident in light
 of the profound challenges posed by the Covid 19 Pandemic. Moreover, the distinctive

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methodological and interdisciplinary approach of Public Sociology provides an opportunity for
 researchers engaged in socially relevant research to produce a coherent assemblage of high
 quality internationally recognised research outputs.

 The fundamental mission of The Public Sociology Cluster at QMU is to encourage, facilitate and
 advance sociological knowledge which is generated through engagement between academic
 researchers and key publics involved in social justice issues. Examples of these key publics
 include communities, practitioners, third sector organisations, trade unions, and policymakers at
 local, national, and international level. Sociological research at QMU accesses and engages with
 broader publics beyond academia thereby requiring a commitment to innovative and
 interdisciplinary research underpinned by a value driven approach centred upon social justice.

 Strategic Aims

    1. To facilitate and expand collaborative and externally funded research between publics
       beyond academia involved in social justice issues and academic researchers at all
       levels.

    2. To develop concrete practice, pedagogical and policy recommendations, to improve
       people’s lives locally, nationally, and internationally.

    3. To engage in dialogue with policy makers, practitioners, and key stakeholders to
       influence discourse by exchange knowledge and research findings to improve people’s
       lives locally, nationally, and internationally.

 Key Achievements of the research unit and broader Public Sociology Cluster at QMU

    a) The Effective Services for European Students project involving close collaboration
       between practitioners working within student support services, third sector organisations
       and academics from all levels across Europe was established in 2016. The project includes
       academic members ranging from postgraduate students and early career researchers to
       senior academics and professors working across a range of disciplines in Higher Education
       institutions across Europe. Interdisciplinarity is central to the project with colleagues from
       Occupational Therapy and Arts Therapy, Education, Psychology and Sociology work in
       close collaboration with practitioners within support services in Higher Education
       Institutions and third sector organisations across eleven European countries. Two
       international conferences and four workshops were part funded by collaborating
       universities. High regard for this collaborative research also led to the submission of The
       Horizon 2020 Grant Proposal ‘Generating Equity and Access for Transformations in
       Education (GenErATE) in March 2020. This submission received a very good review and
       is now forms the basis of an ESRC International Collaboration Grant proposal which will
       be submitted in May 2021.

    b) The Bhopal Survivors Movement is an international collaborative project which benefitted
       from funding from the Centre for Applied Social Sciences and dissemination events
       organised by the Public Sociology Cluster. Demonstrating this, funding provided by The
       Centre for Applied Social Sciences enabled key interviews to be conducted with six key
       movement leaders in January 2019. Visits were conducted to institutions established with
       survivors located close to the Union Carbide factory site: the Sambhavna Trust (a clinic
       which provides Allopathic and Ayurvedic health care to Bhopal survivors, and conducts
       epidemiological research), Chingari Trust (a rehabilitation centre for children with physical
       and mental impairments born to Bhopal survivors and their descendants) and Remember
       Bhopal Museum (a museum of the disaster and the struggle for justice, co-curated with
       survivors).

    c) Successful funding application: EU Commission IMP.ACT IMPrese in ACTion project,
       (https://www.irecoop.veneto.it/23/04/strumenti-di-finanza-etica/). This project focused on

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        community planning partnerships and professional practice in East Lothian and Veneto
        Regional and was facilitated by close collaboration with members of the Public Sociology
        Cluster (PSC).

    d) Successful funding application for Carnegie funded PhD Scholarship focussing on the
       Speech, Language and Communication Needs of Young Women in conflict with the law.
       This Ph.D. researcher is now working in collaboration of East Lothian Community Justice
       Partnership. Ellison is an active member of the Board of East Lothian Community Justice
       Partnership and this work has been integrated into existing collaborations within the Public
       Sociology Cluster.

    e) An application to the UKRI, the Citizen Science Collaboration Grant is under development
       by members of the Public Sociology Cluster. The research focuses upon interdisciplinary
       approaches to Community food planting as a progressive way to deal with food poverty
       and climate change. This collaborative proposal with the Scottish Education and Action for
       Development (SEAD) project in Edinburgh focusses on the implications of the current
       Covid-19 Pandemic on food poverty. The application has been accepted to the second-
       round assessment of proposals and is awaiting a final decision.

 Pathways to impact, public engagement, and dissemination

 Pathways to impact within Sociological research at QMU are fundamentally defined by the
 recognition that a multi-faceted approach is required when working with publics and communities
 to understand and provide solutions to specific social issues. Disciplines defined within university
 structures may not be relevant to the lived experiences of specific communities or the complex
 and multi-dimensional nature of social issues.         The willingness to work across disciplinary
 boundaries thus becomes essential. Interdisciplinary in this sense open collaboration between
 researchers and a readiness to co-generate knowledge with communities and publics.
 Sociological research at QMU clearly demonstrates a commitment to this form of open
 interdisciplinarity. The collaborative research projects undertaken by researchers from across a
 broad range of disciplines at QMU have enabled the co-generation of knowledge with communities
 and publics at local, national, and international level.

 Demonstrating this the Scottish Funding Council funded project ‘Identity, Community & Society’,
 is a unique community-based learning collaboration between QMU, Glasgow Open Museum and
 Glasgow Association for Mental Health, which provides adult learners with an opportunity to learn
 about sociology and art. The project encourages participants to explore sociological explanations
 of identity, community and society by engaging with, and interpreting a wide range of art and
 artefacts from the Museum’s collections, and an exhibition of participants’ work has been
 displayed at Glasgow City Chambers, Glasgow’s Mitchell Library and the University. This is an
 innovative research project which involves close interdisciplinary collaboration between academic
 researchers from Occupational Therapy, Arts Therapy and Sociology, Glasgow Association for
 Mental Health, and adult learners in Glasgow. The use of participatory approaches enables adult
 learners to situate their inquiry and research into sociological explanations of identity, community,
 and society through artistic interpretation. In this way knowledge is co-generated by publics,
 academics, and practitioners. This open interdisciplinarity encourages active and collaborative
 connections to publics rather than viewing publics as passive receivers of research process. This
 form of open interdisciplinarity characterises sociological research at QMU facilitating social
 change in community settings whilst also generating theoretical contributions to pedagogic
 approaches, assisting non-profit and social service organisations in their work, and influencing
 professional practice and policy at local, national, and international level.

 Our impact development is supported by our membership of a number of external networks and
 partnerships. Demonstrating this, impact development and research excellence has benefitted
 significantly over since 2012 from our collaboration with the Innovative Social Policies for Inclusive
 and Resilient Labour Markets in Europe (INSPIRES) research network. The network includes
 twelve European Universities and has facilitated knowledge exchange, international funding bids,

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exchange opportunities for researchers and students and the growth of new European wide
 networks including The Effective Support Services for European Students Network. In addition,
 these networks have increased the visibility of sociological research conducted within the unit.
 Members of the research unit and the broader Public Sociology Cluster have also benefitted from
 networking opportunities and the identification of international research collaborations and funding
 opportunities.

 The Public Sociology Cluster will focus on the continued growth of networks and external
 collaborations to support researchers in their collaborative work whilst increasing dissemination
 and impact activity.

 To achieve this the Sociology research unit and broader Public Sociology Cluster at QMU will,

    1. Nurture, support and expand socially, economically, and environmentally relevant
       research to the address urgent issues arising from the current Covid-19 pandemic.
    2. Continue to encourage and support sociological researchers within the unit to publish in
       highly regarded international journals, books alongside broader dissemination activities
       involving publics and organisations out with academia.
    3. Continue expanding local, national, and international networks and partnerships to
       facilitate a sustained expansion of research collaborations and major grant applications.
    4. Support staff in gaining significant responsibility for research through the promotion of
       staff development and mentorship.
    5. Increase the number of PhD and Prof Doc completions with a focus on collaborative and
       interdisciplinary doctoral studies in Sociology.


 2. People

 The research unit adopts a pro-active approach to supporting the development of post-doctoral
 and early career researchers within the unit and within the Public Sociology Cluster as a whole.
 A central strand of the research strategy in the Sociology research unit and broader Public
 Sociology Research Cluster is the active support of early career researchers, PhD students and
 MSc Students. Reflecting the multi-disciplinary membership of the Public Sociology Cluster PhD
 students within the research unit represent disciplines across the university and as such are not
 included in PhD completions attributed to UoA 21. Demonstrating this, a series of fortnightly
 seminars have taken place since 2017. These seminars are led by members of the Public
 Sociology Cluster and colleagues from external organisations. The focus of seminars ranges from
 presentations of research papers prior to journal publication to the exploration of research ideas
 at the early stage of development from PhD and MSc students. In addition, the Public Sociology
 Cluster holds regular meetings with all members to discuss future research strategy, collaborative
 projects, and publications. An International Public Sociology Colloquium was held on November
 7th, 2018 at QMU and a Public Sociology Seminar Series operated a fully inclusive approach
 actively encouraging conference and poster presentations from post-doctoral and early career
 researchers.

 This approach is bolstered by the staff development for researchers at different career stages at
 institutional level. Early Career Researchers in post-doctoral or early academic roles are
 supported in developing their research independence and expanding their skills and competencies
 through the pro-active commitment to the Concordat for Researcher Development. This is
 demonstrated by a clear recognition that doctoral students are integral to QMU’s research strategy
 particularly regarding the expansion of high-quality research. Sustained investment in the growth
 of the Graduate School is central to this approach. Demonstrating this doctoral and early career
 researchers across the institution benefit significantly from ongoing investment in Vitae and the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF). These activities are further supported by the
 allocation of budgets to Research Centres for research and impact. Staff within this research unit
 and across the Public Sociology Cluster have particularly benefitted from access to the University


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Innovation Fund (UIF). In particular, innovation vouchers have enabled staff within the unit to work
 collaboratively with third sector organisations.

 Sociology as an academic disciplinary team at QMU is small being comprised of 4 full time
 members of staff and one part time member of staff. Whilst members of the team have been
 involved in a significant number of PhD supervisory roles across the university, PhD’s attributed
 to Sociology as a disciplinary team are relatively small with only 4 completions over the census
 period central aim of the Sociology research unit situated within the broader Public Sociology
 Cluster is to increase the number of PhD and Prof Doc completions with a focus on collaborative
 and interdisciplinary doctoral studies in Sociology. All the PhD completions achieved during the
 census period are research based.

 Four Ph.D.'s by research and two professional doctorates have been completed during the period.
 The research undertaken within these doctoral degrees reflects the applied, interdisciplinary, and
 international approach adopted within Sociology at QMU. Evidencing this, all of the completed
 Ph.D.'s address areas of significant societal or environmental concern. The two professional
 doctorate's address critical areas of professional practice. Firstly, the relationship between mental
 health, education, and women's experiences of domestic abuse and secondly, the alignment of
 therapeutic arts practices within the context of multiple deprivation in Scotland. Two of the Ph.D.'s
 by research address key societal concerns firstly, societal factors impacting upon the theory and
 the application of professional occupational practice and secondly women’s experiences of
 domestic abuse and alcohol. Two of the Ph.D.'s by research address key environmental concerns;
 the first focussing on the oil drilling debate involving a critical investigation into the reification of
 science and the marginalisation of values and power of discourse within environmental conflict
 and the second focussing on a post-normal science approach to understanding the real issues,
 challenges and contexts of municipal solid waste management in developing countries – A case
 study of Aba-Urban in Abia State, Nigeria.

 Research Integrity and Supporting an Open Research Culture

 Interdisciplinary research with the Sociology research unit is facilitated by QMU’s proactive
 commitment to an Open Research Culture both across the university and in collaboration with
 higher education across the UK. Demonstrating this, QMU was one of the first universities to sign
 up to the new national agreement in which UK institutions commit to develop their knowledge
 exchange activities.     The Knowledge Exchange Concordat seeks to enhance knowledge
 exchange within and across universities by encouraging the exchange of good practice through
 close collaboration between universities, and wider society. The interdisciplinary nature of
 sociological research at QMU means that it is very well placed to share and develop socially,
 economically, and environmentally relevant economic research.

 Members of the research unit also benefit significantly from QMU’s membership of the UK Office
 for Research Integrity Office (UKRIO). UKRIO training and awareness materials are actively
 promoted throughout the campus and on the university’s web and intranet sites. UKRIO’s monthly
 training webinars are also promoted to all staff, research managers, professional services, and
 research students. In addition, researcher’s benefit from membership of the Scottish Research
 Integrity Network (SRIN) led by the University of Dundee and University of Edinburgh and regularly
 attend sector best practice events and contribute to discussion and debate. In partnership with
 the University of Dundee. All researchers benefit from access to collaborative Research Integrity
 training modules. Support and strengthening understanding of the application of research integrity
 issues within the unit is a key objective in our 2020-2022 Concordat for Researcher Development
 Action Plan.

 As Open Research Data and Open Access publishing become firmly integrated into the research
 environment, we support our researchers in the provision of research support from our library and
 information services, and provide training and infrastructure to ensure that we fully embrace the
 Open Access agenda.


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Increased emphasis is placed on Open Innovation to maximise support to enterprising researchers
 through the use of our institutional e-repositories to exploit the full potential of the open innovation
 paradigm, recognising that institutional repositories represent a major and an alternative gateway
 to knowledge. QMU is becoming more efficient in accelerating the transfer of research and
 knowledge into the hands of the best external partner who can develop it to benefit the economy
 and society. In emerging sectors this can strengthen the innovation absorption process by
 enhancing researcher capabilities and the mutual understanding of needs, capabilities,
 constraints, and contexts. QMU continues to explore ways to make our campus more open and
 accessible and increase the flow of people between QMU and government/industry/third sector
 and vice versa to promote action learning. QMU supports researchers in articulating research
 outputs to external stakeholders and potential end-users through our institutional e-repository and
 new institutional website.

 Supporting Equality and Diversity

 Researchers within the unit and broader Public Sociology Cluster also benefit from QMU’s
 commitment to Equality and Diversity. Exemplifying this, the university have an inclusive research
 culture and a pro-active approach to mainstreaming and embedding new processes defined in our
 REF 2021 Code of Practice. QMU was awarded the Institutional Athena Swan Bronze Award in
 2013 and 2017 and continues to progress gender equality across the institution with a clear
 commitment to embedding Athena SWAN principles across the workforce at QMU. The Sociology
 research unit is reflective of the gender make-up of the university with female staff representing
 78% of the unit.

 Research Mentoring

 There is recognition of the need to enhance support for institutional level research mentoring as
 we continue to develop a supportive, fair and inclusive research culture, particularly to Early
 Career Researchers. We are investing in a number of new mentoring initiatives to better align
 expectations, promote professional and career development, address equity and inclusion, foster
 research independence, and cultivate ethical behaviours and integrity.

    In 2020, external funding was secured to support a pilot inter-institutional research mentoring
     programme in response to Covid-19, recognising that post-doctoral early career researchers
     are particularly vulnerable to the impact of Covid-19 given security of tenure and
     unprecedented uncertainties in the research environment and culture. In collaboration with
     Edinburgh Napier University, the scheme will support the long term career, professional
     development and wellbeing needs of researchers. This includes peer to peer mentoring.
    Key to our future strategy for research mentoring, QMU has been accepted as a partner in the
     Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme (TRAMS) led by the University of St
     Andrews and the University of Dundee and in partnership with Abertay University, Glasgow
     School of Art and the James Hutton Institute, and Trinity College Dublin (School of Medicine).

 Research Careers

 We support researchers in exploring and preparing for a diversity of careers, for example, through
 the use of mentors and careers professionals, training, and secondment. We recognise and
 actively encourage the movement of researchers to and from careers out with academia,
 recognising that this is one of the most impactful pathways of knowledge exchange. Our on
 campus Scottish Enterprise Business Gateway service provides bespoke support for researchers
 in enterprise creation and collaboration with industry.

 Researcher Wellbeing

 Our research culture is underpinned by a commitment to the promotion of researcher mental
 health and wellbeing, through for example, the effective management of workloads and people,

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and effective policies and practice for tackling discrimination, bullying and harassment, including
 providing appropriate support for those reporting issues. Researchers have been invited to
 participate in the institutional Staff Wellbeing Working Group and three annual workshops on
 Mental Health First Aid. A number of collaborative researcher wellbeing workshops have taken
 place including with the University of Dundee, Edinburgh Napier University, Heriot Watt University,
 University of Glasgow and the University of Edinburgh. These have included Academic Writing:
 Reduce Anxiety and Wellbeing in Academic Research.

 Early Career Researcher Engagement Academy

 Plans are underway to launch an Early Career Researcher Engagement Academy in partnership
 with external collaborators. This will target key funding and career development opportunities,
 building on partnerships with other HEIs and external stakeholders.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Centralised support services

 As a relatively small UK HEI QMU works on a model of shared centralised support. As such,
 activity within The Public Sociology Cluster is supported via the University’s Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Development Unit (RKEDU), which supports the development and
 implementation of the institutional research policy and strategy. It supports members of the unit to
 undertake public engagement, researcher development, research governance and external
 collaborations. Support is also available from the Research Grants and Contracts Unit (RGCU),
 which provides pre and post award support for grant submission as well as advice in how best to
 secure external funding. In addition to an extensive range of online journals, citation research tools
 and other dedicated research resources, the Learning Resource Centre (LRC) and dedicated
 Research Support Librarian provide unit members with information retrieval advice and manage
 the repository of data sets. Unit members also have access to an institutional subscription to
 Research Professional, the leading sector database of research funding opportunities.

 Organisational change

 Following a period of financial uncertainty, the University undertook a major transformation project
 in early 2019 and the organisational structures for providing centralised support to the research
 centres were reviewed. Committed to maximising researcher engagement with the Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Strategy whilst acknowledging low levels of participation and limited
 progress in rolling out mentoring, a key outcome of this restructure was that the researcher
 development responsibilities of the teaching-focused Centre for Academic Practice (CAP) would
 be embedded and mainstreamed across other established research support structures including
 the Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Unit (RKEDU), Graduate School and
 Research Centres. A further review of research support structures by the Deputy Principal is
 scheduled for June 2021, following our submission to REF 2021. This will be informed by an
 analysis of pilot collaborative activity with other HEIs including the procurement of back office
 commercialisation /IP support from the University of St Andrews.

 Internal research development funding

 The research unit and broader Public Sociology Cluster benefits from access to a dedicated
 budget provided to the Centre for Applied Social Sciences. This budget is provided on an annual
 basis to support both the development and dissemination of research activity, and pathways to
 impact. This funding is prioritised into five strands of activity:

 •      Developing pathways to impact
 •      Developing the research environment, in particular supporting staff
        to hosting on-campus seminars, workshops, and colloquiums


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •      Seed funding new research projects
 •      Presenting at conferences
 •      Developing networks that could support future grant applications

 External funding

 Research and Knowledge Exchange activity has also been supported financially from external
 sources such as the European Social Fund and Erasmus plus (Ellison), The British Sociological
 Association (Gilfillan), Local Authorities (Docherty-Hughes) and a range of professional
 organisations including The Royal College of Occupational Therapists (Kantartzis).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research within the unit and broader Public Sociology Cluster demonstrates a strong commitment
 to facilitate and advance sociological knowledge which is generated by, and in dialogue with,
 community and policy needs at local, national, and international level. Research conducted within
 the unit is also driven by collaborative, community-based approaches to teaching and learning.
 Illustrating this John Docherty Hughes has undertaken substantive collaborative work in this area.
 With a particular focus on pedagogical innovation and widening participation in higher education
 he has worked collaboratively with Progress Through Learning Midlothian in delivering QMU’s
 community-based module Diversity, Family & Society. Validated at SCQF level 7. This project
 enables adult learners to experience HE, and the discipline of Sociology in particular, in their own
 communities. The module employs Photovoice as a learning, teaching and assessment tool and
 enables students to gain academic credit in their own communities, the majority of whom have
 gone on to study in mainstream FE and HE. This community engagement work was selected as
 a case study of innovative practice for the University’s last ELIR submission and for the
 Universities Scotland ‘Ambitious for our People’ event at the Scottish Parliament in September
 2011.

 John Docherty Hughes is also the coordinator of the SFC-funded Identity, Community & Society,
 and a unique community-based learning collaboration between Queen Margaret University,
 Glasgow Open Museum and Glasgow Association for Mental Health, which provides adult
 learners with an opportunity to learn about sociology and art. The project encourages participants
 to explore sociological explanations of identity, community and society by engaging with, and
 interpreting a wide range of art and artefacts from the Museum’s collections, and an exhibition of
 participants’ work has been displayed at Glasgow City Chambers, Glasgow’s Mitchell Library and
 the University.

 International Collaborative research undertaken within the unit of assessment include, The
 ‘Effective Support Services for European Students’ and The Bhopal Survivors Movement.

 The Effective Support Services for European Students project is a collaborative European project
 led by Professor Marion Ellison, which builds on findings from the INSPIRES (EU) (FP7). The
 project focuses on the challenges and barriers faced by young people as they undergo the
 transition between education and employment. The project and research focuses on community
 partnership approaches as the importance of involvement of partnerships between universities
 and community organisations in advancing meaningful and relevant support mechanisms for
 students as the enter and journey through and out of Higher Education. Community organisations
 such as Who Cares Scotland an organisation working for and run by care experienced young
 people in Scotland also became involved in the project. The project involves 12 major universities
 from 11 European countries. The Effective Support Services for European Students Project
 (ESSEP) builds upon findings from the EU (FP7) INSPIRES Project. The project was launched at
 the Effective Support Services for European Students Project Conference at QMU on 6th and 7th
 of September 2017. This research is interdisciplinary involving colleagues from a range of
 disciplinary areas including Occupational therapy, Art therapy, and Education. All the participants
 in this project also submitted to UoA 21. This work has led to the submission of a HORIZON 2020

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 proposal to the EU Commission GenErATE: ‘Generating Equity and Access for Transformations
 in Education’. The proposal received very good feedback and forms the basis of an ESRC
 International Collaboration proposal currently being developed. This proposal will be submitted in
 May, 2021. Ellison’s most recent activities and publications have focussed on youth vulnerability,
 social exclusion and inequality in Europe and the future of the European Social Model particularly
 considering the profound social and economic challenges arising from the current Covid-19 health
 pandemic. Her recently co-authored book ‘The European Social Model and an Economy of Well-
 being Repairing the Social Fabric of European Societies’ critically examines the European Social
 Model as a contested concept and concrete set of European welfare and governance
 arrangements. It offers a theoretical and empirical analysis of new economic models and existing
 European investment strategies to address key issues within post-Covid European societies. A
 recent review of the book concluded that the book makes a significant contribution to knowledge
 in the field by providing the analytical tools needed to understand what has been defined as the
 European Social Module and to grasp the challenges it is undergoing including the Covid-19 stress
 test.

 Collaborative international research is also demonstrated by the work of Dr Eurig Scandrett. With
 a focus on understanding social movements and the importance of learning in and through social
 movement praxis Dr Scandrett has contributed significantly to our understanding of learning
 processes in the Bhopal survivors’ movement. This research led by Dr Scandrett since 2009 has
 involved publics and communities in Scotland (students, musicians, trade unions) and Bhopal. A
 central finding of Dr Scandrett’s extensive longitudinal research is that Public knowledge of, and
 meaning ascribed to, a major tragedy such as the Bhopal gas disaster and its aftermath is
 contested by social actors with different interests: movements from above and below.
 Corporations and an Indian State increasingly committed to inward investment, present a Bhopal
 narrative of a past, tragic, industrial accident, and the (passive) victims of which are to be
 remembered locally with pity. By contrast, the movement is committed to a narrative of injustice,
 against which survivors actively continue to struggle, not only for their own grievances but also
 against the ongoing causes of the tragedy: corporate negligence, a logic of economic development
 and state collusion with capital accumulation (a campaign slogan is ‘no more Bhopal’s’). The
 research demonstrates concerns the meanings attached to the disaster in public spheres, and its
 significance in terms of current industrial practice, environmental justice, and human rights at
 international level.

 Researchers within this unit have also made significant contributions to the development of
 interdisciplinary professional practice. Demonstrating this Dr Sarah Kantartzis has led a major
 international project focussing on occupational citizenship. Dr Sarah Kantartzis was recently
 awarded major international recognition in being invited to present the Elisabeth Casson Memorial
 Lecture for her work in defining the future role and practice of occupational therapy as a profession.
 As the extract below demonstrates her commitment to developing professional practice as an
 “ethical, moral and social act as much as it is a technical act” is central to her interdisciplinary
 approach.

        To me, occupational therapy, like occupation itself, has diverse and multiple dimensions
        and meanings, through time and space, within the UK, across Europe, and around the
        world. As occupational therapists, we need to be sensitive to the shape and form we
        ascribe to it at any one time and be continually aware of its silent and unacted potential.
        Society is in a period of rapid change, economic, demographic, climatic, political, for
        example, and these changes bring challenges to occupations that promote health and
        wellbeing of people. (Dr Sarah Kantartzis, 2019)

 Significant contributions to interdisciplinary professional practice have also been achieved by
 Dr Margaret Hills de Zarate who has worked as an art therapist for the Department of Social Work
 with marginalised populations and at Wellspring; a charitable trust, offering psychotherapy and
 counselling.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr Maria Giatsi Clausen has extensive collaborative research experience. With a strong
 commitment to social justice her work includes collaborative work with the Scottish Longitudinal
 Study (SLS). This work has led to a study exploring the links between preterm birth, socio-
 economic variables, and educational outcomes. Maria’s research expertise also includes the
 evaluation of complex interventions in healthcare (implementation science research; mixed
 methods, participatory action research; qualitative research methods and data analysis); symptom
 self-management in chronic conditions; paediatrics (early intervention; preterm birth and neonatal
 care; childhood); use of internet/asynchronous online discussions as a data collection method;
 learning technologies

 Dr Eurig Scandrett’s primary research interest is in learning in social movements, especially
 around environmental justice, particularly in India, Palestine, and Scotland. He also engages with
 feminist research into gendered violence; environmental sociology; social studies of science;
 social implications of climate change; adult and popular education; social justice. His recent book
 ‘Public Sociology as Educational Practice: Challenges, Dialogues and Counter-Publics’ is a major
 contribution to the understanding of public sociology education in this perceptive new resource.
 Through pedagogical case studies and inter-contributor dialogues, they develop and challenge
 thinking in the field.

 Divided into three sections on the publics, knowledges, and practices of public sociology
 education, it looks beyond the boundaries of academia to deliver fresh responses to key
 disciplinary questions including the purposes and targets of sociological knowledge. Dr
 Scandrett’s active international research continues to focus upon community engagement
 activities on research and campaigns with the survivors of the Bhopal gas disaster and
 communities opposing fracking; collaborative education with Scottish Women’s Aid and Friends
 of the Earth Scotland; and consultancy in support of the rights of Palestinians.

 Dr Geetha Marcus is a sociologist, feminist, and teacher activist whose research and teaching
 interests focus on social inequalities within public education systems. Her book Gypsy and
 Traveller Girls: Silence, Agency, and Power (2019) critically explores and documents the
 racialised and gendered experiences of Gypsy and Traveller girls in Scotland, within public spaces
 of school and private spaces of home. As a South Asian and advocate of black feminist thought
 and methodology her work also explores research into the multiple identities and experiences of
 young people and women on the margins from a postcolonial perspective. Dr Marcus has
 extensive professional experience in the field of primary education, both in classroom practice and
 in senior management, and in 2016 published a study for the Scottish Parliament, 'Closing the
 Attainment Gap', on educational achievement and equity. As a practitioner-researcher, she
 believes there is an urgent need for teachers to employ education methods that effect justice-
 oriented social change.

 Dr Caralyn Blaisdell specialises in pedagogic innovation with a focus on play and early learning
 as a form of social justice work. Her work interrogates the ways in which children’s participation
 rights under the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989) are put into practice, including
 areas of tension and ambiguity that offer insight into power dynamics and the broader patterning
 of social relations. Her recent book chapter, ‘Towards a more participatory fulfilment of young
 children’s rights in early learning settings: Unpacking universalist ideals in India, Scotland and the
 EU focuses on the potential of investment in early learning as a pathway to the fulfilment of
 children’s rights. In this chapter she argues that the fulfilment of children’s rights through the
 provision of early learning is often deeply problematic, particularly in terms of participation rights.
 The chapter draws extensively on empirical projects conducted in Scotland, India, and the EU to
 provide examples of children’s lived experience within pedagogies informed by universalist ideals.
 The chapter reveals that regimes of standardisation and universalism, though claiming to improve
 the quality of early experiences, do not address the lived, culturally sensitive reality of rights for
 children, families, and caregivers. In fact, children’s participation rights may particularly suffer
 when standardised solutions are imposed.



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dr Helen Coker has made a significant contribution to teaching, professional practice, and
 research knowledge within the fields of educational contexts in Australia, England, and Scotland.
 This work centres upon the potential of technology as a tool for students to co-construct
 understanding, to authentically collaborate and to engage in critical dialogues. Her research is
 informed by socio-cultural and dialogic theoretical frameworks. Helen’s doctoral research explored
 pedagogic collaboration in online undergraduate programmes. She has subsequently designed
 and developed a range of technology enhanced learning which enables dialogue and
 collaboration, providing equitable and engaging modules for students. Her recent research has
 explored the potential of technology to provide professional learning opportunities in rural and
 remote areas, the development of digital portfolios and technology as a mediating artefact.




                                                                                           Page 12
