Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 18

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Strathclyde Law School exploits law’s potential as a driver for ‘social good’: locally, nationally, and
globally. The School has collaboratively developed a theme of ‘justice’ which underpins its research
and links strongly to its missions in teaching, outreach, knowledge exchange and impact. Our
commitment is to the furthering of ‘justice’ both as a theoretical concept and in its specific social,
civil, criminal and environmental contexts. We have a clear link to the mission and vision of the
University of Strathclyde as ‘the place of useful learning’; to reach outside the University to make the
world better educated, prosperous, healthy, fair and secure.

The School is medium-sized with 29 staff eligible for REF2021; a 50% increase from 19.67 FTE in
REF2014. The School’s results in REF2014 reflected its commitment to a highly inclusive research
culture supporting all research-active colleagues both as individuals and within informal networks
and research centres. Its THES intensity ranking as first (equal) in Scotland in REF2014
demonstrated the success of this approach. The School has undergone major changes in staffing
since REF2014 but retains its inclusiveness and excellence in research culture.

Our School away days (2017, 2018) have crystallised the ‘justice’ theme as a collective endeavour.
The common threads of School research focus on how (human) rights can improve the lives of
individuals and contribute to social advancement, economic cohesion and wellbeing; how
environmental justice can be achieved through legal intervention; and how legal institutions and
processes can be reformed to improve access to justice in both the criminal and civil contexts. Our
research focusses on and engages with these aims in Glasgow, Scotland, the UK and internationally.
The overarching commitment to social justice and to the pursuit of socially progressive values is
evident in our recruitment (Morgera, Vermeylen) and projects (e.g. Morgera: One Ocean Hub; Busby
(with Rose)): Citizens Advice Bureau), and in our outputs (e.g. Da Lomba: migration and
vulnerability; Brown: legal responses to ‘revenge porn’).

Central to the School’s strategy has been the support of our existing research centres and creation
of new specialist centres where appropriate. The core aim has been to seek to achieve critical mass
in areas in which our individual researchers share interests. The centres are designed to foster
collaborative research and strengthen our identity and visibility, and staff are free to be part of
multiple centres or none. New centres are created if there is a critical mass of scholars in and beyond
the School. Centres are reviewed regularly to ensure their continued success. The six centres are:
the Strathclyde Centre for Environmental Law and Governance, the Centre for the Study of Human
Rights Law, the Centre for Law, Crime and Justice, the Strathclyde Centre for Anti-trust Law and
Empirical Study, the Centre for Professional Legal Studies, and the Centre for Internet Law and
Policy.

The Strathclyde Centre for Environmental Law and Governance (SCELG): Established by
Sindico and Switzer in 2012, SCELG is at the cutting edge of work in socially significant areas
including environmental law theory (Cardeza-Salzmann) climate change and water rights (Sindico),
global health (Switzer), and, especially, the oceans (Morgera). The reach of SCELG’s research is
international and it has attracted highly regarded scholars worldwide to work with it (e.g. Sajeva,
joined as a Marie Curie fellow in 2020). SCELG’s global reputation was instrumental in supporting
Morgera’s successful UKRI-GCRF One Ocean Hub bid, which involved all SCELG members and
which forms the core of the Centre’s short and medium term work.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Centre for the Study of Human Rights Law (CSHRL): This centre provides a hub for
interrogating the expanding impact of human rights law on all aspects of society, locally and globally.
From ground-breaking theoretical work on the concept of dignity (Webster, Neal) to human rights
and climate change (Sindico), to the rights of indigenous peoples (Vermeylen), the Centre is an
exemplar of a rights-based, collaborative approach to universal social issues. Miller provides higher
level mentoring and guidance on knowledge exchange in the field and his appointment seeks to
strengthen the CSHRL’s future local and international engagement.

The Centre for Law, Crime and Justice (CLCJ): CLCJ brings together the School’s expertise in
Criminal Law and Justice research as well as taking an interdisciplinary approach at law’s interface
with sociology, social work, psychology and computer science. Tata’s ground-breaking work,
theorising the role of “not guilty” pleas in the criminal process, and around judging and sentencing
has, inter alia, attracted a growing body of PGRs. The Centre is prominent in debates around
surveillance (Nellis (Emeritus)) and Lennon leads the Centre’s work on counter-terrorism and stop
and search.

The Strathclyde Centre for Anti-trust law and Empirical Study (SCALES) was instituted in 2019,
recognising the School’s embedded presence in Competition Law nationally and internationally
(through Director, Rodger) and its strategic hiring of four researchers (Andriychuk, Daly, Wang and
Kenny). The work of the Centre has particular resonance in highly technological, innovative markets.
It is concerned with the impact of competition law on consumers and its role in the digital economy
and is strategically placed to lead academic debates on post-Brexit policy in Scotland.

The Centre for Professional Legal Studies (CPLS) was established in 2000 by Paterson to bring
together stakeholders from the judiciary, government, the Faculty of Advocates, the Law Society,
the Scottish Legal Aid Board, Citizens Advice Scotland and academia to discuss and debate issues
relating to access to justice, the provision of legal services, the future of the legal profession,
professional ethics and the judiciary. The Centre hosts an annual retreat for high-level invitees
including Lord Neuberger, Former President, UK Supreme Court (2019).

The Centre for Internet Law and Policy (SCILP): the School has been in the forefront of the law
relating to Information Technology, Telecommunications, Intellectual Property and the Internet for
over 20 years. The Centre was revitalised (2019) by strategic appointments of new directors Daly
and Andriychuk, increasing its reach in the digital economy. It links to the theme of Justice most
directly in its focus on human rights in privacy, which has proved timely in the debate about
information-tracing following COVID-19 and which has formed the backdrop for a series of SCILP-
coordinated online events and debates with international scholars and practitioners in 2020. We will
continue to build capacity by positioning the Centre as a key player in Internet law and policy
research and knowledge exchange in Scotland and beyond, with a particular focus on
responsiveness to emerging events including Brexit and COVID-19.

Law School Research Strategy
Our research strategy during this REF period was built on our past achievements towards the
following aims:
     (1) To promote and sustain a supportive and stimulating research environment, capable of
         attracting and retaining high quality staff, while fostering the development of early career
         researchers;
     (2) To maintain and develop existing areas of research strength which complement and advance
         our shared focus on ‘justice’, including socio-legal studies, environmental law and
         governance, human rights, crime and justice, competition law, IT and the internet, Scots
         private and public law – and to expand these through strategic appointments and internal
         collaborations;

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   (3) To continue to provide a research environment that enables individual scholars,
       independently or collaboratively, to pursue their own research agendas and strengths;
   (4) To provide support mechanisms to further enhance our research funding capacity and
       success through continued growth in ambitious funding bids, including multi-disciplinary and
       cross-institutional proposals. One of our greatest successes in the REF period is the increase
       in number and size of successful funding applications. [See section 3];
   (5) To recruit strategically to build our research capacity especially by investing in staff,
       particularly ECRs; [See section 2]
   (6) To expand and strengthen our PGR student community;
   (7) To create capacity for Knowledge Exchange and Impact to enhance our reputation for useful
       scholarly research, in Scotland, the UK and beyond, through support for international
       collaborations, and further publicising our research through targeted events, improved
       website facilities and social media engagement.

We have met these goals and consolidated our reputation as a site of excellence in research
nationally and internationally. We have worked to nurture existing colleagues’ strengths towards
achievement of funding, including via recruitment of staff in key areas. Of particular note is ECR
Rose who was awarded a Leverhulme grant. We have helped colleagues build on smaller grant
successes who have then obtained larger grants (Neal: British Academy then ESRC; McDiarmid:
Carnegie then Scottish Government). Scoular won a major ESRC grant. Morgera was awarded the
UKRI-GCRF One Ocean Hub (see Section 3), the biggest grant ever awarded to Strathclyde with
extensive involvement of other colleagues (Switzer, Vermeylen, Sindico, Webster) and support from
the University.

We have pursued a strategy of supporting the highest quality individual research as demonstrated
by outputs and impact in diverse areas including sex work (Scoular); stop and search (Lennon);
criminal process (Tata); and biodiversity and human rights (Morgera). Our research is aligned with
and contributes directly to the University’s strategic research themes of ‘Society and Policy’, ‘Ocean,
Air and Space’, ‘Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Energy’. This has enabled strategic recruitment
(Morgera, Vermeylen, Lennon) utilising University-wide Global Talent Programme (GTP), and
Chancellors’ Fellow (CF) schemes. Strategic recruitment of Chairs (Morgera, Cardwell) and future
leaders (Andriychuk, Lennon, Combe) has strengthened research leadership. We have emphasised
our production of the highest quality outputs. For all colleagues we have adopted practices including
peer-reviews of funding applications/proposals (see Section 2) and enhanced feedback processes
on writing with clarity. In addition to improving our overall output quality, some outputs are award-
winning (Switzer: best article, Journal of International Trade Law and Policy (2018); Scoular: SLSA
prize for best article (2020)).

The School has a unitary structure with the Head of School, Director of Research and Research
Committee responsible for overall policy direction. The research centre Directors have strategic
autonomy. As noted in Section 2, leadership of centres is not restricted to senior staff to facilitate
development and succession. Research, KE and impact is led and supported at School-level by the
Research Committee (RC), which comprises representatives from across the School’s research
community, including the Directors of Research, KE, PGR, REF and Impact, and the Head of School.
The School pursues a strategy of targeted support and capacity-building with successive Directors
of Research (DoR); Rodger; Busby) working alongside colleagues (eg McDiarmid: Scottish
Government; Neal: British Academy; Vermeylen: Leverhulme) to support funding bids. Shared
research leadership within the School has involved fairer distribution of tasks including separately
allocating, and thereby building expertise in, REF leadership; KE leadership; impact leadership; PGR
direction; research community building through seminars. Full School meetings take some decisions
on resource allocation thereby facilitating co-production. Annual ‘away days’ involve all staff
discussing how to further our collective aims.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Impact Strategy
Our impact strategy reflects and seeks to promote the School’s central research theme of social
justice. The generation of impact is an essential element of our work and, in this period, we have
taken concrete steps to enable the creation of impact from our research as follows:

(1) Leadership: an experienced, socio-legal Professor (Scoular) champions impact and encourages
researchers to maximise the impact of their work; offering advice on pathways to impact plans in
applications, signposting and organising training opportunities as well as working with individual case
study authors.

(2) Public Engagement Strategy: The School encourages all colleagues to promote their research to
the widest possible audiences to enhance our profile and engagement with the wider community.
We have invested in developing the School’s website and social media platforms to promote
research and KE activities among beneficiaries. In 2019, Combe assumed responsibility for our
Communications Strategy. The School has targeted its public engagement towards three strategic
aims:
    a) informing policy development (Scoular, Busby, Daly);
    b) engaging with, and advancing issues currently arising in law as points of reference for the
       legal profession and judges (McCorkindale, Norrie, Paterson);
    c) meeting the School’s self-identified responsibility to use its expertise for the good of society
       locally, nationally and globally so that the community (in its widest sense) benefits.

Our staff utilise a range of methods to reach audiences e.g. Twitter (Cardwell, Combe, Rodger,
Andriychuk, Daly), Knowledge Exchange events (Morgera, Tata), newspaper articles (Cardwell) TV
or radio media (Da Lomba, Neal, McDiarmid) or through The Conversation (Cardwell). Daly has
attended training to lead on capacity-building within the School (see Section 4).

(3) Recognition & Training: Impact and KE activity is embedded within individual Accountability and
Development Review (ADR) processes, and is recognised via career progression. Workload
allocation is encouraged for impact and KE activity. Regular ‘How to do KE/impact' workshops are
delivered by the School’s Impact lead and experienced staff from the Faculty’s Research and
Knowledge Exchange Team (RaKET). These have been well attended; the last session in
September 2019 involved the majority of research-active staff.

(4) Funding: The School has prioritised, and increased, external research funding (see Section 3)
which prescribes that impact be foregrounded in projects. Success here has provided vital external
funding for a range of impact activities, for instance Morgera’s report for the European Parliament
following the Benelex project. See section 4 for further detail on School support.

Interdisciplinary (and multidisciplinary) research
The School of Law supports and encourages interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary working within
and beyond the Faculty and Institution. Current examples of internal working across boundaries
include research with Civil Engineering, Naval Aerospace Ocean and Marine Engineering, the
School of Social Work and Social Policy, the Fraser of Allander Institute. The success of our
approach was demonstrated by the successful achievement of the largest grant ever awarded to the
University: the UKRI GCRF One Ocean Hub (£18,181,220, 2019-2024) led by Law and bringing
together marine sciences, social sciences, law, policy and the arts. See Section 3 for more
information on collaborative funding.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Open Access and Research Integrity
The University adopted a policy to be fully compliant with HEFCE open access requirements: all staff
must deposit author-accepted manuscripts of all papers on the University’s institutional repository
immediately upon acceptance for publication. This requirement is monitored by the University’s Open
Access Team, which provides regular reports to the DoR. The School has been compliant in 93% of
academic publications. All monographs and book chapters have been made open access.

The School is fully committed to observing the principles of research integrity via the UUK Concordat.
The University promotes research integrity through training, support and recognition. Our research
ethics policies include the Research Code of Practice, Policy and Code of Practice for Postgraduate
Research Study and Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings.

The School has established a process to review papers and grant proposals pre-submission, to
ensure that the research adheres to established principles of quality, honesty, rigour and
transparency. It has internal School processes for ethics approval and is strongly represented on the
University Ethics Committee.


     2. People

The School recognises its staff as its most important resource. Twenty-nine of the 44 staff are
academic staff and so eligible for REF2021 (up from 19.67 staff in REF2014). Twelve are teaching-
focussed and three (including two Professors of Practice) are on Knowledge Exchange contracts.

We carefully balance our staff composition to ensure our research-active staff have sufficient space
to pursue their research-related activities. Our Staff-Student Ratio was 29 in the last REF cycle and
we have recruited strategically to ensure that it has been reduced to a current level of 27. The
teaching requirements of our accredited LLBs are fixed, requiring constant staff resource so we have
strategically recruited Teaching Associates, Fellows and Senior Fellows. Teaching staff can transfer
to an academic contract where sufficient quality and quantity of research output is demonstrated,
with mentoring available.

The School’s research centres (see Section 1) are subject to periodic review. Centre leadership is
entrusted to staff at different career stages, recognising that giving such opportunities for more junior
staff is vital in enhancing career progression and promotion prospects. The CSHRL is led by Webster
(L, now SL) and Ntona is directly involved in its management. The synergies between SCILP and
SCALES are helping to establish the school as a centre of excellence in relation to Competition Law
in the Digital Economy (notably Andriychuk and Daly).

Professors of Practice on fractional contracts have also enhanced KE and impactful work in the
Centres. Mehling (appointed 2017, SCELG) and Miller (appointed 2019, SCHRL) have proved
particularly vital in supporting ECRS and in enhancing the opportunities for colleagues to access
networks where their research can be maximised.

Recruitment
We have recruited strategically with a focus on the enhancement and sustainability of research
leadership and capacity-building (chair: Cardwell; SLs: Daly, Andriychuk, Combe). The School has
benefited from the University-wide Global Talent Programme (GTP), and Chancellors’ Fellow (CF)
schemes.
    • GTP appoints academics of global standing (‘established stars’) to inculcate research
       excellence. We appointed Morgera in 2016, enhancing our profile in environmental law and
       policy, and SCELG’s global reputation. Grant capture as a result of this appointment has

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        been outstanding, most notably the UKRI-GCRF research grant of £18,181,220 to create the
        One Ocean Hub.
    • The CF Scheme attracts top research scholars with the promise of a diminution of at least
        50% of teaching over the first three years, allowing greater time and focus on research work
        and leadership development. Lennon (L) and Vermeylen (SL) were recruited as CFs in 2014
        and 2016. Lennon was promoted to SL in 2017, demonstrating the success of the scheme’s
        implementation. Both have significantly enhanced the research culture in the School via
        research impact (Lennon) and impressive grant capture, including a Leverhulme Fellowship
        (Vermeylen).
A business case is made for each new post, ensuring alignment with strategy, and applications are
scrutinised by the DoR for quality of output, grant capture success and KE. In this period, in total,
we have recruited 4 Senior Lecturers and 6 Lecturers.

Recruitment around the centres has also been strategic. Morgera has brought major funding to
SCELG (One Ocean; Benelex; European Parliament (see Section 3)) as well as a collaborative
approach to research leadership. Vermeylen, straddling SCELG/CSHRL, builds our overarching
capacity in funding (Leverhulme, Marie Curie), socio-legal methodology and PGR supervision. Daly
and Andriychuk have, since its relaunch in 2019, attracted visiting scholars to SCILP and developed
a public engagement programme. With Wang and Kenny, they have collaborated in the launch of
SCALES.

Staff Retention & Development
Our strategic approach to retention and development values all individual researchers seeking to
create the time, space and bespoke support required to reach their full potential, notably in terms of
quality research outputs, grant acquisition and impact and KE. The DoR and the HoS have overall
responsibility for staff research development. At least annually, they conduct individual meetings with
colleagues to discuss research achievements and plans. All colleagues participate in the annual
Accountability and Development Review (ADR), to reflect on the past year and set new objectives,
including for research outputs, supervision and KE activities. In accordance with its overarching
strategy, the School uses this opportunity to discuss research funding bids.

A culture of inclusiveness and celebration of excellence permeates the ethos of the School. For
instance, Webster’s monograph was the subject of a roundtable in the School involving scholars
from UK and international universities. Combe has introduced a dedicated School blog as a channel
for dissemination of the breadth and depth of our research areas. We have refined the workload
allocation models on teaching and citizenship to ensure fair distribution to allow at least 40% of time
for research. Our citizenship allocation allots time for mentoring (see 2.5). Research-active
colleagues may apply for one semester of research leave after seven semesters. Research
Committee considers applications and reviews post-sabbatical self-evaluations.

We have put in place additional support mechanisms. As part of the University’s Academic Career
Development Framework, the School arranges mentoring for new ECRs (less than three years’
experience) to assist in planning and progressing their professional trajectory. These staff enjoy a
reduced teaching and citizenship load to develop their expertise. The Head of School appoints an
experienced mentor to support and set realistic objectives for publications, research income,
supervision, and REF eligibility. The School runs a parallel, informal research advisory scheme for
all colleagues, covering research goals and timescales, advice on suitable journals or other outlets,
and engagement with the research strategy. The DoR provides guidance on outputs, responses to
funding calls and other related activities.

During the School’s Research ‘Away days’ in 2018 and 2019, researchers experienced in successful
funding applications shared their best practices. Grant applications undergo extensive internal peer

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
review, even when not required by funders, enabling less experienced researchers to be involved in
peer-review. Completed drafts are reviewed by a pool of staff chosen by the DoR. For larger
applications, formal review is led by the Faculty team. Our staff mentoring scheme has enabled
senior staff to provide support for grant applications to ECRs. Our research leave scheme requires
colleagues to consider potential research funding applications, and this is monitored post-research
leave with encouragement and support from the HoS/DoR. The appointment of two editors provides
further help, at faculty level, in the essential skills of writing and editing. In addition, to allow early
peer discussion of research ideas we organise regular, well-attended work-in-progress seminars for
staff and PGRs, thereby expanding our capacity for informal peer review.

Financial support is available for all research-active staff for conference attendance via a transparent
application process handled by the HoS, Director of Planning and DoR. This dovetails with a Faculty
conference fund for staff without access to external research funds.

More generally, we tailor faculty and university-wide research support initiatives to our own strategic
requirements. New professorial appointments have access to the New Professors’ Fund (NPF) for
up to £25,000. Busby used this funding to further the impact from her research resulting in one of
the unit’s case studies. Cardwell employed an RA to assist with high-quality output preparation,
hosting two workshops and supporting a successful external grant application. The Faculty Research
and Knowledge Exchange Team (RaKET) handles research administration and provides a vital focal
point for staff as they develop grants. Their development of good practice also indirectly facilitates
the inculcation of grant application skills in first-time academic applicants. The team is well-
connected to cognate teams in other Faculties, enabling applicants for non-subject specific grants
(e.g. Leverhulme, British Council, Nuffield) to liaise with successful grant holders across the
institution. Support is supplemented by the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Service
(RKES) for support and advice.

In keeping with the University’s commitment to ‘useful learning’, we continue to work hard to support
and develop staff in building engagement beyond the academy. To ensure that our research has
impact built into its design and its findings reach appropriate audiences so as to maximise their
reach, the School has:
(1) appointed Scoular (2017), who has extensive first-hand experience of external engagement as
Impact Coordinator with responsibility for overseeing and guiding associated activities including, but
not solely related to, the School’s ICSs;
(2) incorporated KE and impact as a specific feature of individual annual research reviews conducted
by the DoR with all research staff, and appointed a KE director (Daly) (2019);

In accordance with its aim of supporting ECRs and building capacity, the Law School’s strategy is to
disseminate appropriate calls in a targeted fashion and to provide individual support across a range
of justice-related fields. For example, Research Council Peer Review College members (O’Donnell,
McDiarmid, Daly) guide applications from Law School researchers to relevant calls e.g. the UKRI
Future Leaders Fellowship and ad hoc national and international opportunities. It will continue to
support its outstanding researchers, by freeing them from other duties, to focus on major research
council funding sources. Scoular secured a faculty scholarship to give her the time to finalise a major,
and, ultimately, successful application to the ESRC entitled “Understanding Sexual Violence in Sex
Working Populations”.

The HoS is responsible for supporting promotion applications. There is a clear, transparent
University promotion policy where, again, the School’s strategic focus on funding has paid dividends
in enhancing individual staff profiles. The HoS and DoR make significant inputs to this process, given
the priority attached to research excellence. Four spheres of activity are relevant for promotion
purposes: research, teaching, citizenship and KE. Academic colleagues must demonstrate

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
excellence in research and one other sphere of their choice. In the current REF cycle, 11 of 17
applications for internal promotion have been successful, 2 colleagues advanced to Lecturer B grade
(Cardesa-Salzmann; Rose), 6 colleagues were promoted to Senior Lecturer (Da Lomba, Lennon,
McCorkindale, Switzer, Webster and Zahn) 2 colleagues were promoted to Reader (Neal and
O’Donnell) and 1 promoted to Chair (McDiarmid).

The introduction of the Professorial Zoning scheme (2016) provides an institutional incentive for
professors to apply for re-zoning across four bands, based on excellence in research outputs,
funding and esteem.

Research Students
PGR students are central to the School’s research culture. We place great emphasis on ensuring an
inclusive, vibrant and supportive environment for our PGR community. During this REF period we
have focussed on recruitment, retention and development. Our strategy has been to recruit high
calibre PGR (PhD and MPhil) students who, together, constitute a diverse student body in terms of,
inter alia, gender, race, nationality and part-time or full-time study. We have seen a significant
increase in our doctoral awards compared with REF2014 (see figure 1). As at July 2020, the total
number of active PGR students was 46, of whom 26 were overseas students from 20 different
countries. Six students were studying part-time.

Figure 1: Research Degrees Awarded over time
 60

 50

 40

 30

 20

 10

  0




Our recruitment strategy has a number of strands:
   • PGR supervision is strongly encouraged and supported for all our academics, presenting a
       valuable opportunity in relation to research leadership. Each PGR student has two
       supervisors allocated. It is discussed in annual reviews and taken into account in relation to
       promotion.
   • We have enhanced website guidance for potential applicants including a template for PhD
       and MPhil research proposals. Colleagues’ individual profiles give a direct indication of areas
       in which they can offer supervision. We showcase current and past PGR students’
       experiences. Inquiries are routed through our PGR directors ensuring personal attention.
   • Colleagues seek to identify excellent UG and PGT students to encourage PGR application.
   • In 2020 the PGR directorship passed from one colleague (Da Lomba) to two (Tata and
       Vermeylen) allowing closer strategic focus on recruitment (Tata) separate from enhancement


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of administrative and pastoral care of existing students (Vermeylen). This deployment of
        senior staff demonstrates the significance the School attaches to PGR.
    • We participate actively in faculty and university recruitment events and facilitate discussions
        with relevant colleagues and/or existing students where possible.
We also recognise the considerable importance of scholarship funding for PGR recruitment and
success. The PGR directors advise colleagues of potential scholarship opportunities, allowing early
discussion with possible candidates. Draft applications undergo peer review. The School is a
participant in the AHRC and ESRC scholarship competitions run by the Scottish Graduate Schools
for Social Sciences (SGSSS) and for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) and also benefits from faculty and
university review of these applications. As of December [2020] our PGR community contains
students with the following scholarships: 2 AHRC scholarships; 25 University scholarships (including
School and faculty funding); 1 Commonwealth scholarship; 1 Modern Law Review scholarship and
5 others.

Once PGR students are admitted we seek to deliver an outstanding experience ensuring pastoral
and development support throughout. The inclusion of PGR students in our research community as
well as the wider Faculty and University doctoral community goes to the core of PGR support and
development. The University provides supervision training opportunities (including refresher training)
in which School colleagues participate via the Graduate School. We also engage actively in the PGR
review process, ensuring that student progress is monitored twice a year. In addition to the two
supervisors, a third colleague is appointed as reviewer who offers an objective, independent
assessment of progress. Supervision and review processes are monitored and supported by the
PGR Directors, in collaboration with the Faculty Graduate School, with a view to timely completion.
This has enabled us to identify and respond to issues faced by students and staff in a supportive
manner at an early stage.

We recognise the value of the experiences available to PGR students in networking (including with
staff and visiting researchers), enhancement of skills, thesis-writing and career advice. All PhD
students are enrolled on the University’s PG Certificate in Researcher Professional Development,
ensuring that they develop their skills base and are able to document this to future employers. The
School is the home of the SGSAH’s Law+ catalyst (McDiarmid) which provides law-specific training
for Arts and Humanities PGR students across Scotland. In 2019, the School ran an introductory
workshop for this cohort ‘Finding Your Feet with the PhD’. Rose is the SGSSS lead for its pathway
in Socio-Legal Studies and Criminology. Both these strong links are valuable for our students in
feeling connected to the broader PGR community and in dissemination of opportunities. PGRs (eg
Jack, Gavin) have been able to access internships through these bodies.

We organise a PG Focus Week for UG students to network with current PGT and PGR students
giving prospective students an insight into PGR and existing students the opportunity to reflect on
their experience. Our students attend induction at University and faculty levels. The School
additionally runs a separate Law induction to assist students in orienting themselves well at the
outset. More generally, the staff reading group includes PGR students and our work-in-progress
seminars are well-attended by PGRs. Both activities hone key academic skills in review and critique.
There is also a separate PGR reading group grounded in socio-legal studies providing a space in
which to develop these skills.

SCELG’s work with PGR students exemplifies one way in which the School’s commitment to its
vibrant PGR culture and community delivers mutual research and KE benefit. SCELG is currently
hosting 20 PhD students, who have been supported and mentored in contributing to international
consultancies and pro-bono activities for the Scottish Government and Parliament in relation to Brexit
(PGR Geelhoed presented at the Scottish Parliament’s breakfast seminar series on Brexit and the
Environment), to the Convention on Biodiversity workshops in Moldova and at the United Nations;

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR Schröder presented ERC research findings at three international side-events at the UN
Biodiversity Conference, November 2018, Sharm-el-Sheik, Egypt; PGR Hamley co-delivered week-
long workshops with the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) in Zambia and Lesotho.

Equality and Diversity
The Law School’s research active staff demonstrate an excellent gender balance with 55% (16 out
of 29) identifying as female. Eight of the 11 colleagues promoted internally during the current REF
cycle have been female academics. Our annual ADRs are led by senior colleagues of both genders.
This reflects the success of the School in appointing both female and male staff to senior leadership
roles. During this REF period, the School has had two female Heads of School (Busby and
McDiarmid) as well as Neal in an acting role, and two male (Clark and Hudson). Female colleagues
at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level have been encouraged and supported to lead Centres (Daly,
Webster; Switzer). The University’s Family Friendly Leave arrangements allow research active
colleagues the space to re-engage with their research on their return to work from family leave. This
is a new initiative in which Zahn and Lennon (ICS author) have participated. These exemplify ways
in which we seek to achieve and sustain equality and to ensure diversity of role models.

The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences has taken a particularly proactive role in equalities
issues and the School participates fully in this, through Webster (School Director of Gender Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion). Wang is the School’s Disabilities Officer. In December 2019, the School
submitted an application for Athena SWAN Bronze Award. The application was led by a Lecturer
(Gillies) who coordinated the internal team. This exemplified the School’s strategy of creating
leadership opportunities for staff at different stages of their academic career. Gillies will provide
continuity in taking forward key learning from it. The School has appointed (2020) a female DoR
(Scoular) and deputy DoR (Rose) and is pursuing a strategy of grounded support involving
assistance with personal research strategy embedded in a recognition of the diversity of
circumstances in which each colleague works. The School recognises broader issues of equality
and diversity. For example, publishing a blog post by a student discussing Black Lives Matter (2020).
Several staff in the School identify as LGBTQ+ and contributed to the University equalities policy
and development of a supportive staff network.

The Research Committee, DoR, Deputy DoR and HoS will continue to monitor gender balance for
REF 2021 and future exercises. Webster has been appointed as Gender Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion Director. All staff with any responsibility for output selection for REF 2021 (primarily
Cardwell, McDiarmid) undertook equalities training, including unconscious biases and these issues
are at the forefront of consideration in making these choices.

     3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Grant capture is integral to the success of the School as a research institution. We continuously
identify appropriate, ambitious funding opportunities and ensure the highest possible quality of bids
in close collaboration with University/Faculty services.

The School’s income from research has increased from a total of £665,000 during the previous REF
Cycle to over £2.6million during the current cycle in addition to the circa £18million One Ocean Hub
funding. The range of our competitively won funded income demonstrates an ingrained research
funding culture.

Examples of research grants administered through the School to date include:




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
McDiarmid (2016) received £35142 from the Scottish Government for research into the role of
Safeguarder in the Children's Hearings System and £7311 from the Carnegie Trust for work on
Jointly-Reported Children in Scotland;

Tata (2018) received £45067 from the European Commission Horizon 2020 for a project entitled
JUSTEMOTIONS, examining the dynamics of compliance and breach in criminal justice social work
in Scotland, and also from Community Justice Scotland an award of £6650 for a study on
Communicating Sentencing.

Neal (2017) was awarded a sum of £9396 from the British Academy for a project on Pharmacists'
perceptions of ethical conflict and professional guidance. Moreover she was successful in an
application to the Friends at the End charity for a PHD scholarship totalling £70k for PGR Ward.

Vermeylen (2018) was awarded a Leverhulme Fellowship of £54,874 examining Utopian Literatures
and Space Law;

Scoular (2015) was awarded a significant ESRC grant of £153325 for her important and ground-
breaking study, ‘Beyond the Gaze: Regulation, Safety and Internet-based Sex Work in the UK’.

Rose was awarded £2116 in 2018 by the Carnegie Trust for research into 'Putting the spotlight on
managerial prerogative: does it matter for social justice at work?’

Zahn was awarded £3623 by the British Academy in 2019 for research into ‘Exiled influences on
German codetermination’;

Morgera has multiple funding successes, and together with Sindico, Vermeylen and Webster, (2017)
was awarded £11574 from the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) for a
Legislative Study on the Right to Water for Food and Agriculture; Morgera was also successful with
the following research funding:- (2020) a Research Fellowship of £177,853 from the European
Commission Horizon 2020 to study Rights for Ecosystem Services (RES): a framework to protect
the environment and sustainable local communities in the EU (Sajeva, Marie Skłodowska-Curie
Individual Fellow 2018); she was awarded £180000 from EPSRC as a Inception Grant: GCRF One
Ocean Hub; and (2019) Morgera (et al.), was awarded £18,181,220 from NERC for GCRF One
Ocean Hub.

The One Ocean Hub is a major success, made possible by the allocation of significant time-based
resources to devote to the application. The University ensures that staff have the resources they
need to produce competitive grant proposals. RKES, and RaKET provide consistent professional
support throughout the grant application process, from identifying opportunities to drafting and
costing proposals to administering successful projects. In addition, the Faculty employs a Faculty
Editor to support the drafting of grant applications. The development of the One Ocean Hub proposal
benefitted from RKES’ full time support in the development of the Hub budget, pathways to impact
and theory of change development. Critically, the development of the grant was supported by
Strathclyde University, Scottish Funding Council, and the GCRF Escalator Fund. At an institutional
level, the Hub development supported inter-disciplinary connections in the context of its Strategic
Themes: SCELG plays a leading role in the University’s Strategic Themes on ‘Ocean, Air and Space’
and on ‘Society and Policy’ and ‘Energy’. The University match-funded Morgera’s time at 50%
(£453,936); created a new lectureship for the Hub Deputy Director and a new postdoc focussed on
Responsible Research and Innovation (£1.28M). Strathclyde also provided in-kind support for its
legacy strategy (worth £410,028) and will provide 10 PhD scholarships over 2 years to the Hub. We
continue to learn and benefit from the One Ocean experience in capacity-building for grant capture
across the School.

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Other successful research applications have been spread throughout the academics in the Law
School as a reflection of this overarching culture of capacity-building. Colleagues have been
successful in funding applications from prestigious UK and major international funders including the
European Commission Horizon 2020 (Morgera, Tata), ESRC (Scoular); Leverhulme Trust
(Vermeylen, Rose) and British Academy (Zahn). Others have been successful with bids to a wide
variety of sources including Government (McDiarmid) and Charitable sources (Ward PGR (Friends
at the End), Webster (Sir Halley Stewart Trust)) Cardwell (James Madison Trust). Established grant-
winners have had major successes involving significant research income (Scoular, Morgera), but a
range of scholars have been successful in applications for the first time (e.g. McDiarmid, Neal, Zahn,
Rose) and have proceeded to make further successful applications in the same period. Moreover,
we encourage and support smaller funding bids, (for instance Carnegie Trust; British Academy (see
below)), for both pilot projects for later larger applications and to allow colleagues to seek funded
research for the first time. These signify the School’s ongoing commitment to increase its research
income beyond 2021, taking advantage of the current positive upward trajectory in relation to
(successful) applications and total sums awarded. The School’s success in inculcating an
environment which supports, encourages and rewards funded research is reflected by closer
analysis of the sums awarded during the present REF Cycle, the environment and infrastructure
which encourages this and in particular the support of our Centres, notably SCELG.

The School envisages that in future each of its Centres will play a greater role aligning the research
of their members and providing a forum for support and collaboration, internally, and externally, in
making research funding applications. Wang and Rodger have already collaborated through
SCALES with a number of external colleagues to develop an interdisciplinary funding application to
the ESPRC. The School’s strategy is for Centres to follow the model and inspiration of SCELG.

SCELG was set up in 2012 by Sindico and Switzer and its subsequent success has allowed it to
recruit strategically (Morgera, Vermeylen, Cardesa-Salzmann) and to attract significant levels of
funding. SCELG has been awarded a variety of competitive research grants including:- an
Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation (ESPA) grant to consolidate findings from across the
ESPA programme on sustainable fisheries and the SDGs (2017; Morgera); and in 2019 a Marie
Curie Fellowship (£191K) comparing Scottish and Italian practices in relation to the human rights of
local communities and environmental stewardship.

In 2018, SCELG led the development of the largest grant ever awarded to the University: the UKRI
GCRF One Ocean Hub (£18,181,220, 2019-2024). The proposal is one of the most ambitious in
terms of interdisciplinarity, bringing together marine sciences, social sciences, law, policy and the
arts. It has been devised to compare and synthesise methodologies and findings across regions
(including Africa, South Pacific, Caribbean) as well as a multiplicity of international law-making
processes. The Hub represents an innovative and ambitious attempt to integrate research across
disciplines in different sectors and at different scales (global-local) thereby contributing to multiple
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SCELG and CSHRL will partner in its implementation
(Morgera, Sindico, Switzer, Webster), that has also brought together other colleagues from Law
(Irvine), History, Mathematics, and the Business School. The One Ocean Hub has also significantly
contributed to the University’s internationalisation aims as it involves 40 global partners, many of
which are new University partners and are interested in identifying further collaboration opportunities
with SCELG, the School and University.

School funds can be made available to facilitate external engagement such as holding workshops.
Externally funded workshops have been used as a means of building networks and exploring the
potential for future research collaborations and to disseminate research findings to targeted user
communities. Such activities have been the focus of specific funding bids (e.g. RSE workshop

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scheme) or as part of a larger externally funded project (e.g. European Research Council (ERC)
projects New Sites (Busby) and Benelex (Morgera)).

Researchers also have access to ‘one-to-one’ university- and faculty- level support via the
University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Services (RKES) and the Faculty Research and
Knowledge Exchange Team (RaKET). RKES provides support and advice relating to intellectual
property, contracts, and engagement with strategic partners. Colleagues have been encouraged by
the Impact Lead to take advantage of University schemes providing support for impact. The yearly
Engage event (see Section 4) showcases impactful research – it is community facing, encourages
networking and raises awareness, as demonstrated by the work of SCELG (See section 1).
Strathclyde is part of a consortium of universities supporting the ‘Insight Institute’ which supports
programmes of knowledge exchange on substantial issues that face Scotland and the wider world.
Colleagues have been involved in Re-thinking Rape (Scoular), Accountable Policing (Lennon),
Gender and Social Security (Busby) and Child Poverty (McDiarmid).

The result of our strategy is that each of our centres contributes directly to the development of impact.
CSHRL’s embeddedness in Scottish civil society is exemplified by Morgera’s continuing involvement
in the National Task Force for Human Rights Leadership, chaired by Miller, Professor of Practice
since 2019. SCELG has collaborated with, inter alia the UN Food and Agricultural Organization; UN
Convention on Biological Diversity; World Health Organization; Scottish Government; European
Parliament. The CLCJ has been involved in various public engagement events around several
themes including restorative justice, wrongful conviction and problem-solving courts. SCALES is
already well networked both within Scotland (including with the recently established Scottish Office
for the Competition and Markets Authority) and internationally and has attracted sponsorship from a
large Scottish law firm (Shepherd and Wedderburn). It has hosted KE events around, for example,
the Google Android case. SCILP is closely engaged with aspects of Law and Technology including
3D printing and crime (see Section 4).

Our impact case studies all emanate from strategy and cover the themes of representation and
access to justice at tribunals (Busby), quality standards in legal services (Paterson) and the legal
frameworks governing police powers (Lennon). Two of the case study authors were strategic
appointments for research leadership (Busby, Lennon). Paterson is now 0.2FTE and focused on
external engagements and impact. Two case studies are the result of long-term research projects
undertaken with the support of external funding (UN Office on Drugs and Crime, the UN
Development Programme, and the Council of Europe) (Paterson) and European Research Council
(ERC) (Busby). This has been supplemented by internal resources to further support targeted impact
strategies and KE.


     4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

In achievement of our key strategic objective to provide an inclusive environment producing world-
leading and impactful research which benefits society and contributes to our shared commitment to
justice, the School values collaborative activities. We have shared our expertise through
engagement with parliamentarians, policy-makers, practitioners and civil society across the full
range of our scholarship.

Colleagues are encouraged to initiate and lead knowledge exchange events and to work, wherever
possible, with policy-makers and other key influencers to steer and produce policy and organisational
changes with societal benefit. The collegiate culture in the School has helped established colleagues
enable ECRs to develop their professional links and contribute to the wider research base.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University-wide initiatives such as Engage with Strathclyde (the University’s flagship programme of
public engagement) provide necessary resources and School colleagues have participated with this
initiative in recent years (e.g. SCELG festival of environmental law). Recent examples of successful
collaborations include: international conferences in Environmental Law and Governance, and
Human Rights Law (e.g. International Union for Conservation of Nature Academy of International
Law Annual Conference 2018; Human Rights Innovation in Scotland 2018). Daly is KE coordinator
and works closely with the Faculty’s Associate Dean for Public Engagement and Impact.

SCELG has contributed to Scottish policy debates on human rights, the environment and Brexit,
often in partnership with CSHRL, with invited contributions to the Scottish Government’s Roundtable
on Environment and Brexit (Morgera and Cardesa-Salzmann) and to the Scottish Government's
Roundtable on Human Rights and Brexit (Webster, Morgera) advising the Standing Committee on
the EU (2016-2017); and preparing a series of policy briefs and presentations on Brexit, human rights
and the environment for the Scottish Government and Parliament and the Scottish Human Rights
Consortium (Morgera, Ntona, PGR Geelhoed, McHarg). This work culminated in a recommendation
to include a human right to a healthy environment in the Scottish legal system, endorsed in 2018 by
the First Minister and the Scottish Parliament, as a result of Morgera’s participation in the First
Minister’s Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership (2018). The recommendation is being
implemented by the National Task Force on Human Rights Leadership, of which Morgera is a
member, with different sectors and communities within Scotland. SCELG has supported Scottish
environmental NGOs to participate in these processes, as well as to advance their own initiatives,
such as the creation of a new Environmental Rights Centre for Scotland as a response to limited
access to justice for environmental matters in Scotland. SCELG has also facilitated exchanges
between Scottish government and academic and international experts, such as the UN Special
Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment and the UN Environment Programme.

Since 2018 SCELG (led by Sindico) has collaborated with RKES, and external partners: The Young
Engineers and Science Clubs Scotland, and teachers from across Glasgow Primary Schools to
develop a unique education for sustainability programme: Island Explorers. Island Explorers is a 6
lesson immersive learning experience for Primaries 4-7 enabling pupils to explore new environments
and cultures, meet peers from around the world, challenge their imaginations and spark innovation
and entrepreneurship. Island Explorers is a pupil-centred programme which breaks down traditional
disciplinary boundaries and focusses on collaborative, multi-disciplinary (bringing together
geography, social-sciences, science, engineering, technology and entrepreneurship) approaches
towards a number of global sustainability challenges. The initiative was used as a template for further
development as ‘One Ocean Explorers’ within the new One Ocean Hub programme.

For collective wider activities and contributions, the School has implemented a collective response
process for legal issues. A School response to the Scottish Government’s proposals to incorporate
into Scots law the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was submitted in 2019. Members of the
School (Da Lomba, Zahn, Cardwell, Busby, Gillies) are members of the Scottish Universities Legal
Network on Europe (SULNE). SULNE papers were used to inform Standing Council and First
Minister’s Group on Brexit. Busby and Zahn co-edited an e-book on Teaching Brexit which drew on
the research expertise of staff and was launched by the Scottish Brexit Secretary. SCALES has co-
organised an event with the Competition and Markets Authority on proposed new merger control
guidelines.

Individually, staff have contributed their research expertise to Scottish and UK government
consultations and Parliamentary calls for evidence. These include: McHarg (Scottish Parliament
(SP) and Westminster Parliament (WP)), Busby (SP), Tata (SP), Cardwell (WP), Morgera (SP). Neal
has given evidence to the New Zealand Parliament. Busby and Morgera are members of First
Minster’s Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership. Neal is an advisor to the Health and Sport

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Committee of the Scottish Parliament. Norrie was the expert legal adviser to the Child Abuse Inquiry
in Scotland. McDiarmid has engaged with the Scottish Government on Children’s Rights and was
seconded to the Scottish Law Commission to work on their Homicide project. Scoular was an expert
adviser on sex work for the Scottish Government’s review. Gillies was co-organiser of the Scottish
Government’s Civil Justice Roundtable (2017). Paterson was appointed International and Academic
Adviser to the Scottish Government’s Strategic Review of Legal Aid in Scotland (2017-8). Tata was
the Academic Adviser to the Review of Sentencing Policy, N Ireland Executive (2017-19). Lennon
was a member of the Independent Advisory Group on Use of Biometric Data. Daly has been
appointed to the Research Data Scotland Board, and the Scottish Government COVID19 Data
Taskforce (2020).

Internationally, Sindico has acted as legal advisor to the Bolivian Government. Morgera contributed
to the UN expert consultation on human rights obligations pertaining to biodiversity and ecosystems
(2016), and has undertaken consultancies for Secretariat to the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD), Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation (ESPA) Programme and the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO). [text removed for publication]. O’Donnell and Cardwell
supervised a CARA (Council for At-Risk Academics) Fellow from 2019: he was invited to participate
in the UN Working Group on the Use of Mercenaries (2020).

Staff are heavily involved in judicial training in Scotland (Norrie (Sheriff Court), Busby (Employment
Tribunal)) and internationally (two 14-day visits to the School by senior judiciary of Thailand in
2018/2019 coordinated by Cardwell). Busby and Cardwell serve on high-level judicial appointments
panels in Scotland and England respectively. Paterson was re-appointed as Convenor of the Law
Society’s Complaints (Policy) committee and as member of the Regulatory Committee and the
Professional Practice Committee. Rodger has trained Spanish and Portuguese competition law
judges (2018).

The School’s outreach success includes Da Lomba’s appointment as Special Director of the Ethnic
Minorities Law Centre and Webster sits on the Equalities and Human Rights Commission Board in
Scotland. Rose and Busby disseminated their Employment Disputes research findings at a workshop
for Citizens Advice, trade unions, solicitors and Employment Tribunals (Scotland, 2015).

Collaborative and interdisciplinary research is generally conducted with cross-institutional and
external partners. Current examples include ongoing work with colleagues in Engineering, Business
and Humanities and Social Sciences. SCELG colleagues have collaborated with Civil and
Environmental Engineering and Naval Architecture (Sindico; Cardesa-Salzmann) and Work through
the Scottish Universities Insight Institute on Children and Poverty was facilitated though the School
of Social Work and Social Policy (McDiarmid). The CLCJ works with the School of Government and
Public Policy around Counter-Terrorism. SCALES (Rodger, Andriychuk) is developing links with the
world-leading Fraser of Allander Institute. We are prioritising our communication (in the appointment
of a dedicated, research-active, communications director (Combe) and impact strategy through
capacity-building workshops and consciousness-raising (primarily by Scoular).

Staff have made significant contributions to legal and interdisciplinary research and academic
networks. Zahn was elected as the Convenor of the Society of Legal Scholars’ Labour Law Section
(2015-18). Rodger is the Chair of the Competition Law Scholars’ Forum (2017-present). Neal was
appointed as an expert member of the British Medical Association’s Medical Ethics Committee
(2016). Cardwell and Zahn were elected Committee members of the University Association of
Contemporary European Studies (UACES) from 2011-14 subsequently as Treasurer and Secretary
respectively 2013-16, 2014-7. McCorkindale is a steering group member of Scottish Public Law
Group and lead organiser of a guest lecture by Lady Hale at the Signet Library (2018). O’Donnell is


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a member of the expert Advisory Panel on Public International Law of British Institute of International
and Comparative Law (BIICL).

School staff hold numerous journal and book series editorships. For example, Rodger is editor of
Competition Law Review and Director of SULI (Scots law academic publisher). Sindico is a member
of various editorial boards including CCLR (Carbon and Climate Law Review), RECIEL (Review of
European, Comparative and International Environmental Law), and LITES (Legal Issues in
Transdisciplinary Environmental Studies). O’Donnell is Member of the Editorial Review board of
Human Rights & Human Welfare. Tata is Associate Editor of Journal of Criminology and Criminal
Justice and editorial board member of the European Journal of Probation.

Numerous keynote lectures were given by staff during this period. Notable examples include Neal’s
invited plenary talk at the CCEE (Council of European Bishops’ Conferences) conference in
Edinburgh in November 2016, speaking on ‘Value-charged communication’. Norrie spoke on
Discretion and Judgment in Child Protection Orders: Judicial Institute, Edinburgh. Busby was a
keynote speaker at the Employment Law Bar Association (2015). Tata spoke on ‘Towards
progressive sentencing for women offenders’ Holyrood Conference on ‘Women in the Criminal
Justice System’ (2016). Paterson gave a keynote address on ‘The Future of Legal Aid: An
International Perspective’ to China–EU High Level Legal Aid Policy Dialogue (2017). Rodger was
keynote speaker, Radboud University, 4th International Economic Law Conference (2019).




                                                                                              Page 16
