Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 INSTITUTION: BATH SPA UNIVERSITY

 UNIT OF ASSESSMENT: UOA 33 MUSIC, DRAMA, DANCE, PERFORMING ARTS, FILM
 AND SCREEN STUDIES

 SECTION 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY


 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Research in Music and Performing Arts at Bath Spa University has developed significantly
 since REF2014 to create an environment which produces world-leading research within a
 sustainable institutional structure. We have focused on maximising the social impact of our
 research, evolving interdisciplinary academic and professional partnerships to drive innovation
 and knowledge exchange, and invigorating the postgraduate research environment. To extend
 the vitality and impact of our research we have expanded our education, outreach and
 community engagement, increased the international dissemination of artistic works and
 processes, and influenced policy and social change.

 Music and Performing Arts research in UoA33 is centred on Bath School of Music and
 Performing Arts (BSMPA) and makes active connections with researchers in other disciplines,
 both within the University and externally. Our research is driven by three themes which address
 current societal challenges:

 1. Material and Corporeality: We investigate intersections between the material world, bodies
 and the arts, drawing on interdisciplinary frameworks including somatics and new materialisms,
 grounded in embodied practice-based research.

 2. Practitioner Methodologies: We investigate the ways practitioners in music and performing
 arts make work, focusing on the aesthetic, technical, ethical and cultural strategies they use to
 communicate their ideas.

 3. Social Engagement: We interrogate oppressive social structures through the lens of critical
 praxis to develop arts-based interventions.

 The three themes encompass our six research groups, which provide a context and framework
 for our research:

    Arts and Social Change (ASC) explores creative arts practices as a methodology and
     instrumental tool for effective ethical engagement with marginalised individuals, groups,
     identities, bodies and voices [Leads: Enright and Levinson, 6 staff, 1 PhD];
    Creative Corporealities (CC) concerns itself with embodiment as a source of creative
     practice, with its own causalities and politics [Leads: Kampe and Steadman; 13 staff, 3
     PhDs]
    Intercultural Communication through Practice (ICP) explores how cultural heritage is
     shared across borders and how knowledge is transmitted through arts practice [Lead:
     Bayley; 2 staff, 8 PhDs, 5 Visiting Research Fellows];
    Open Scores Lab (OSL) explores scoring in its widest sense, developing new approaches
     to framing experience through instructions [Lead: Saunders; 3 staff, 10 PhDs];
    Sonic Materialities Lab (SML) develops and creatively activates new understandings of
     the materiality of sound in contemporary music and sonic art [Lead: Sergeant; 3 staff, 3
     PhDs];
    Sonic Arts and Visual Music (SAVM) explores the new relationships between sound,
     music and image that are being forged in contemporary practice [Lead: Hyde; 8 staff, 2
     PhDs].

Page 1
 The groups organise ongoing events, symposia and conferences. They bring together senior
 researchers and ESRs, including PhDs (as well as taught postgraduate and undergraduate
 students), visiting researchers and practitioners, to create a forum for sharing research,
 supporting the vitality and sustainability of our research community and its external contexts.
 The groups are all interdisciplinary, working beyond academic school structures to bring
 together perspectives from different fields in order to challenge ideas within individual
 disciplines.

 Our research groups are sited within the University’s three strategic research centres to enable
 interdisciplinary dialogue and action. The interdisciplinary Centre for the Creative and Cultural
 Industries (CCCI) houses the two performing arts groups (ASC, CC) and three of the music
 groups (OSL, SML, SAVM), connecting with practice-based researchers in other disciplines.
 The interdisciplinarity of the ICP group connects it to the University’s Transnational Creativity
 and Education (TRACE) Research Centre. Additionally, ICP and CC connect to the third
 University-wide Research Centre for Environmental Humanities. CC also links to the History
 and Heritage Research Centre. All groups and centres connect researchers with other
 disciplines through our regular seminar programme and further collaboration. We also provide
 additional support for researchers working outside of these specific groups, aligning them to
 cognate research across the University and encouraging the development of new clusters as
 an instigator for future groupings.


 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 Since REF2014, we have identified distinct areas of expertise within BSMPA and the wider
 University research community, developing these to deliver externally-funded projects, engage
 with international networks, increase our PGR numbers, and produce outputs that pursue the
 aims of our three research themes: to investigate material and corporeality, practitioner
 methodologies, and social engagement. This has resulted in the formation of the six research
 groups linked to the University Research Centres, which have produced projects funded by
 AHRC, APEX, Arts Council England, European Research Council, Lottery Heritage Funds,
 Newton Travel Fund and Wellcome Trust. This work is sited within international networks
 including the Performance Studies Network, British Forum for Ethnomusicology, Music and
 Materialisms Research Network, Global Academy of Liberal Arts, International Federation of
 Theatre Research, and Seeing Sound (which we instigated). These actions drive the expansion
 of our PGR research community by aligning student projects with the activities of the groups
 and centres to create clusters of related research.

 In 2016 we redeveloped the BSMPA research clusters as part of the wider University
 restructure. We saw this as an opportunity to develop groups from the bottom up, directly
 drawing on targeted staff and PGR research activities and the University’s more integrated
 liberal arts disciplinary structure in order to build a vital and sustainable persistent research
 culture. The six groups were formed through an audit of BSMPA staff and PGR research
 interests, and through reinforcing connections with researchers in other disciplines. Each of the
 groups includes researchers from outside of BSMPA in order to develop expanded
 perspectives on the three research themes. The recruitment of new researchers has improved
 the number of BSMPA staff with PhDs to 21 (40% of FTE), indicative of the development of the
 wider research environment and interdisciplinary connections made with colleagues in
 Education, Art, Design, Creative Computing, and Environmental Humanities. This has led to
 new projects and collaborative bids.

 Looking beyond 2021, we have three principal aims which underpin our future research
 strategy, focusing in particular on the internationalisation of our research:




Page 2
 1. Develop our research groups and activities to maximise the social impact of our
 research

 Our aim is to develop further our research groups through targeting funded research projects
 and internal initiatives in these areas of strength, linking them explicitly to our research themes.
 Our goal here is to maximise the social impact of our research in practical and applied ways, in
 addition to developing outputs which contribute to the development of our disciplines. We also
 aim to create new research groups where clusters of focused activity emerge, drawing on the
 links we have with colleagues across the University.

 Our strategy recognises the role that research plays in communities, social enterprise and
 social justice. We will build on existing successes, such as Kampe’s socio-cultural project
 Punti-Di Fuga (2015) which brought together Dresden-based citizens and members of refugee-
 communities through somatic-oriented workshop and performance events, or Enright and
 Vitale’s work that explores methods for drama-based interventions to support resilience and
 integration in refugee women living with HIV. Using initiatives such as these as models, we will
 consistently seek to contextualise our research within active and applied societal settings, such
 as performances, participatory workshops, advocacy, network development, and local action.

 We aim to achieve this through drawing on the wide experience of our researchers whose work
 engages directly with communities, social enterprise and social justice, working with them as
 mentors for other researchers seeking to expand the societal engagement of their research.
 Through this approach we will embed an understanding of the importance of impact and public
 engagement in research practice and support our staff to develop the skills needed to engage
 with a wide range of stakeholders. In order to apply these skills and understanding, we will
 design research initiatives such as projects, events, performances and relevant publications to
 prioritise social impact. The success of this initiative will be measured through the quality of the
 impact on users of the research, such as workshop participants, audiences, and the readership
 of the publications derived from the research.

 2. Develop interdisciplinary academic and professional partnerships to drive innovation
 and knowledge exchange

 Our aim is to develop the interaction and collaboration we have with external partners,
 both academic and professional, in order to enrich our research through questioning its
 contexts and limitations. We will encourage the co-production of research to enhance the
 quality and relevance of its impact, building on and developing strong local, regional,
 national and international partnerships to maximise the societal, environmental and
 economic benefits of our research. Through doing this, we aim to develop innovative
 methods and outcomes that draw on interdisciplinary and inter-sector collaboration, and
 to create clear pathways for knowledge exchange.

 Our strategy builds on our existing expertise in external collaboration and network forming. This
 includes developing training programmes with international arts practitioners and cultural
 institutions, such as Kampe’s work on somatic practice with a group of 150 educators and
 dance artists at ImpulsTanz/IDOCDE Vienna in July 2019. It also involves academic and
 cultural sci-art partnerships, such as Hyde’s danceroom Spectroscopy project with molecular
 scientist David Glowacki (University of Bristol), programmers and dancers which presents an
 interactive audiovisual environment that enables participants to experience the nano-quantum
 world. We also aim to develop our networks through hosting international conferences, drawing
 on our experience of staging events such as the Performance Studies Network Conference
 (2016), British Forum for Ethnomusicology Conference (organised for 2020, but postponed to
 April 2021 due to Covid-19), and targeted events such as Music and/as Process (2016), as well
 as symposia on critical embodiment as cultural practice in collaboration with international
 partners (Feldenkrais Guild UK, Journal of Dance and Somatic Practice, Coburg University).


Page 3
 We also instigated and host the Seeing Sound conference series (six events since 2009) which
 continues to consolidate and expand as an international forum for visual music.

 We aim to achieve this through making collaborative funding bids with external partners,
 focusing on projects which concentrate on interdisciplinary research and outcomes. Drawing on
 the experience of our researchers who have received funding for interdisciplinary and/or inter-
 sectoral projects (Bayley, Hyde, Kampe, Purcell-Gates), we will mentor colleagues initially in
 supporting them to develop new partnerships and networks in order to enrich their research
 through engaging with different perspectives. Secondly, we will work with our existing and new
 partners and networks to formulate collaborative projects bids, contributing to and benefiting
 from the wider personal and institutional expertise created by these associations. The success
 of this initiative will be measured through the effectiveness of funding applications, and the
 creation of outputs derived from working with others.

 3. Enhance the postgraduate research environment

 Our aim is to enhance the postgraduate research environment at Bath Spa and more widely in
 our active disciplines at regional, national and international levels in order to support the
 development of our PGR students and those with whom they collaborate, giving them a strong
 platform from which to start their careers. We are committed to our role in developing Early
 Stage Researchers in particular, whether this is through PhD and post-doctoral research, or
 through supporting their transition from working in industry.

 Our strategy focuses on developing internal and external communities of researchers through
 facilitating projects that intersect with the aims of our research groups and our three research
 themes. We are in a good position to enhance our PGR environment, with a current cohort of
 27 PhD students, and ten completions in the current cycle. PGR numbers have risen
 significantly since 2014 because of our increased research supervisory capacity and the
 thematic approach driven by the new research groups, creating a critical mass which now
 benefits from student-originated initiatives. We see PGR as a pathway for our graduating
 Masters students, and the shared MA and PhD seminars we run create a clear trajectory for
 emerging researchers. This is predicated on the increased average annual FTE of our
 postgraduate taught students from 27.5 (2008-14) to 80.5 (2014-21), with a current cohort of
 121. This is a result of relaunching our MA programmes and creating more shared delivery
 between the pathways in Music and Performing Arts, as well as adding new programmes within
 this structure including MA Sound, MA Directing, MA Creative Producing, MA Performance and
 MA Dance. These pathways are significant for our research environment as MA students
 attend research group seminar series that are embedded in their course, and seven have
 continued onto a PhD in the current REF period. We also aim to extend our programme of
 visiting research fellowships, both as placements during PhD research or as post-doctoral
 projects. In BSMPA we have hosted 17 Visiting Research Fellows through the University’s
 institutional scheme, including visiting PhD students for fellowships related to their research
 projects. These residencies also help us extend our international networks in an efficient and
 collegiate way.

 We aim to achieve this enhancement of our PGR environment through embedding our new
 PGR students within our six research groups, as well as the University Research Centres
 which host them, giving them a clear context and support for their research from the beginning
 of their projects. We aim to support our PGR students through internal bursaries for activities
 related to their research, such as conference papers and performances, and to give them
 opportunities to develop their skills as researchers through the Researcher Development
 Programme and Graduate Teaching Scheme, which results in the Professional Practice in
 Higher Education postgraduate degree. We will continue to create collaborative provision
 through working with external partners, especially through our membership of the AHRC South
 West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW-DTP), which has resulted in four
 students being funded as part of the shared provision. Membership of the SWW-DTP has

Page 4
 developed collaborations with Southampton, Bristol and Cardiff, with shared supervision of
 students and combined events significantly enriching our research environment. The
 effectiveness of this model presents a clear example of the benefits of working with colleagues
 in other institutions, especially in disciplines and specialisms which have lower densities of
 researchers in a single institution.


 IMPACT STRATEGY
 Our impact strategy focuses on developing strong relationships with selected external partners,
 both formally through funded projects and initiatives, and informally through opportunities that
 arise through personal networks. Impact has been focused on three initiatives:

 1. Education, outreach and community engagement

 Our research is undertaken and produced in real social contexts, such as prisons, training
 organisations, arts organisations and festivals. We work with professionals in these contexts to
 develop community arts projects and training. Impact is on participants in these activities, such
 as arts practitioners and educators, and beneficiaries such as prisoners, community groups
 and audiences.

 The impact is created through:
  working with organisations to embed new artistic practices in their training processes, such
    as Kampe’s work on somatic practice methods with New Zealand Dance Company and
    Feldenkrais Guild UK (Critical Bodies ICS UoA33-1 CSP)
  developing practitioner-community discourse and responsive working practices for arts
    professionals working in social contexts through audience engagement and participation in
    projects, such as through Purcell-Gates’ public engagement events (Medical Humanities
    ICS UoA33-3 DMG).
  showing how creative arts practices can be a means of strengthening resilience and
    wellbeing, such as Enright’s use of verbatim theatre to explore women’s experiences as
    mothers in prison and also for staff, practitioners and artists working in this sector.

 The outcomes we achieve are:
  developing the education provision of cultural and training organisations.
  creating work which opens up spaces for dialogue with audiences around specific societal
    issues.
  engaging specific communities in artistic practice in relation to social issues relevant to their
    circumstances.

 2. Dissemination of artistic works and processes

 Our artistic research is disseminated through internationally-established producers as
 performances, recordings and broadcasts, creating impact through associated discussion in
 the form of interviews, authored texts, public talks and workshops. Working with organisations
 who promote new work enables us to widen the reach of our research and present it in
 communicative ways to audiences.

 The impact is created through:
  public dialogue around the work and its reception, in the form of broadcasts with
    commentaries, reviews, social and print media, such as press coverage for Purcell-Gates’
    ‘Tarrare’ project in the Guardian, The Times and other publications.
  presenting individual artist-centred perspectives that inform current cultural debates, such
    as Saunders’ piece for Ensemble Modern/Arditti Quartet at Wien Modern which used a
    programme text, extended radio interview, and post-concert audience discussion to
    exchange ideas about group dynamics.


Page 5
    contributing to new artistic methods and processes by working directly with other
     practitioners in training contexts, such as Enright working with criminal justice and social
     welfare organisation Geese Theatre, and Purcell-Gates working with Diverse City,
     Extraordinary Bodies, Hijinx Theatre and Puppet Place on developing puppetry and
     disability performance.

 The outcomes we achieve are:
  communicating conceptual and issue-based contexts around artistic work through
    performances with associated contextualisation including programme texts, audience talks
    and panel discussions, radio broadcast and interviews (Seeing Sound ICS UoA33-1 CSP,
    Medical Humanities ICS UoA33-3 DMG).
  writing and talking about our artistic research in online and print media, in the form of blog
    posts, social media, articles, and interviews. (Seeing Sound ICS UoA33-1 CSP, Medical
    Humanities ICS UoA33-3 DMG).
  working with other practitioners in training contexts, such as guest lectures, summer
    schools, and short courses, to develop shared understanding of new artistic methods and
    processes.

 3. Policy and social change

 Our research impacts on society through questioning moral and ethical behaviours, considering
 how artistic practices can promote reflection and change. We use interdisciplinary academic
 research to develop new artistic processes and practices designed to question aspects of
 society and human behaviour.

 The impact is created through:
  changing perceptions of societal structures and attitudes, such as Purcell-Gates’ use of
    puppetry within medical humanities to investigate behaviour towards people with non-
    normative bodies (Medical Humanities ICS ICS UoA33-3 DMG).
  developing situations that empower stakeholders to reflect on and change their lives, such
    as supporting the rehabilitation of prisoners in Enright and Simpson’s prison projects.
  making artistic work that uses social behaviour as material in order to expose how people
    behave, such as in Saunders’ ‘things to do’ which uses interpersonal cues to make the
    power structure of groups explicit for audiences.

 The outcomes we achieve are:
  making work using historical and autobiographical narratives to explore moral and ethical
    behaviour.
  working directly with stakeholders in challenging circumstances through reflective artistic
    practice.
  developing new processes and frameworks for interdisciplinary creative practice to embody
    societal attitudes rather than represent them.

 OPEN ACCESS
 The Unit’s strategy for open research is guided by the institutional strategy, policies and
 processes that are described in the REF5a Institutional Environment statement (IES 2.8.1).

 The University’s REF Code of Practice gives the Unit of Assessment Leader responsibility for
 ensuring that UoA colleagues “keep their details on ResearchSPAce [institutional open access
 repository] up to date”. Visibility of the Unit's outputs allows the Library repository team to
 gather full text or datasets, as appropriate, for open publication. The UoA Leader is able to
 monitor open research compliance by metrics provided through the University’s annual Quality
 Review.



Page 6
 The Unit closely collaborates with the Library repository team. All SRR staff are offered annual
 refreshers to maintain understanding of open research requirements, and there are open
 access progress reports at the bi-monthly UoA Leaders’ meetings. The Unit's online staff
 profiles are automatically populated with publication data from the open access repository,
 incentivising academic engagement. The University’s annual reviews of output quality and REF
 SRR status will only consider outputs that have been recorded in the University’s open access
 repositories. The Library team proactively monitor the open access status of the Unit's outputs,
 requesting full text content where publisher policies allow. The BathSPAdata repository is
 available to host accompanying research data from the Unit's outputs, in keeping with the UK
 Concordat on Open Research Data.

 Within the institutional strategy there is scope for the Unit to develop its own approach to open
 research, going beyond the minimum requirements of REF2021. The nature of the UoA has
 focussed our attention on the particular challenges of archiving and openly disseminating
 creative outputs. Many of the Unit's outputs are now made available through online open
 access to share our research widely beyond academia, including our institutional repository
 ResearchSPAce and research data repository BathSPAdata. Other examples include
 Saunders and Sergeant making their scores and documentation of performances, as well as
 critical texts, available via their websites to present resources for audiences. All software
 developed by Hyde and his collaborators on the APEX project will be made available on an
 Open Source (CC BY-SA v4.0) basis. Bayley is developing an online video resource of
 instruments and workshops, to be launched as an open access resource alongside her
 upcoming Routledge book on Turkish Makam Instruments and Voices in Contemporary Music
 (2021). The Library supports the Open Library of Humanities (OLH), a publishing model
 intended to drive the transition to full and immediate open access for scholarly journal titles
 (“Plan S”). This includes titles relevant to UoA 33 such as 'Body, Space & Technology' and
 'Journal of Embodied Research'.

 The Unit supports the principle that scholarly monographs developed with public funds should
 be made publicly available. Within resource limitations, the Unit is taking practical steps to
 realise this principle: by increasing the number of book chapters made openly available by the
 Unit's authors, utilising 'green' open access publisher policies, and by Library investment in the
 development of sustainable funding models for open access monographs. Examples of book
 chapters made openly available include Bayley, A and Dutiro, C (2016) 'Developing dialogues
 in intercultural music-making’ and Cassidy, G (2017) 'In good company: the authorial process
 of Anthony Neilson.’ The Library has pledged funds to the Knowledge Unlatched project, a
 consortial initiative to ‘unlock’ monographs for open access publication, including collections of
 Music and Arts titles. The Unit is able to monitor progress towards making its monographs
 openly accessible through the University’s annual Quality Review.

 RESEARCH INTEGRITY
 Research integrity and ethics are managed by the University’s Research & Ethics Committee,
 with a protocol for approval of all research activities in place for staff and PGR research, as
 well as UG and PGT projects and dissertations. Staff and PGR research is approved through
 the Ethical Review College, which comprises experienced researchers from different
 disciplines drawn from across the University. Taught students seek initial approval at course
 level, with more problematic cases being referred up to the full ethics and integrity review
 process. The University is committed to principles of good research practice, and has an action
 plan which is regularly reviewed to ensure on-going compliance with the Concordat for Support
 Research Integrity. Ethics and data management training is available to all staff and students
 through an on-line training platform and is mandatory for all academic staff.

 In BSMPA, issues in research integrity and ethics mostly focus on human participants and use
 of their data. All projects using human participants require ethics approval and consent from
 subjects regarding the use of their data. Examples include interview responses, audio/video
 documentation of performances and other activities, and safeguarding arrangements for

Page 7
 vulnerable participants. Where more challenging situations arise, such as research within the
 criminal justice system or with young people, we seek advice formally from colleagues in
 disciplines where such situations are the norm.

 SECTION 2. PEOPLE


 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 BSMPA is both a research unit and a separate academic unit within the university. Throughout
 the assessment period, BSMPA’s staffing and recruitment policy has consistently appointed all
 staff to long-term permanent contracts, except where posts are funded directly through time-
 defined research funds. New staff must be research-active and/or have high-level professional
 backgrounds. The aim, where practicable, is to convert professional experience into research-
 based activity, usually through practice as research. This approach is crucial to both BSMPA’s
 research strategy and its strategic pedagogical focus. Despite current sector-wide constraints,
 staffing has grown consistently in line with its increasing FTE, and where staff have departed,
 they have been replaced with staff of similar standing. Recruitment of researchers is compliant
 with the HR Excellence in Research award held by Bath Spa since 2012, which acknowledges
 alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for
 their Recruitment and incorporates the QAA Code of Practice for Research Degree
 Programmes and the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

 The success of BSMPA’s future management of research activity and succession planning is
 evident in the following figures. Over the assessment period, BSMPA has recruited 32% of the
 current staffing team, with a 55/45 split in favour of professional experience. In the same period
 10% of colleagues have acquired PhD status and moved into post-doctoral research, 5% of
 staff have initiated PhD study, and of these six staff have had their PhD research funded by the
 University. In addition, 10% of research-active staff have attained either reader or professorial
 status. Given our pedagogical need for a blend of research-active and professionally-active
 staff, the two are balanced 50/50. So, while we appoint research active staff, we are also
 developing the unit’s overall research capability.

 The equal balance is also crucial to the way BSMPA stimulates and facilitates knowledge
 exchange between academia and business, industry or public or third sector bodies.
 Recruitment as outlined above engages professionally-active staff and encourages them to
 convert their knowledge into research, the outcomes of which are shared back with industry.
 This is achieved through performance works that synthesise scientific and performance
 elements (Purcell-Gates), engender dialogues between international communities (Bayley,
 Calvert-Ennals) or through conferences and symposia organised by BSMPA that draw together
 researchers with key industry and community partners, across diverse subjects (Bayley, Hyde,
 Kampe). In each instance, focus is on sharing research beyond the academic community.
 Local projects connect research and knowledge with the local community. For instance,
 performances at The American Museum in Britain used research by history colleagues to
 support the museum’s WWI centenary project and its connectivity with local youth groups. Staff
 secondments funded by research grants or EU funding have enabled further exchange with
 industry partners and international communities.

 Through a workload planning system, all staff have a minimum of 180 hours research time,
 plus additional hours agreed with line managers or facilitated through external funding. Non-
 SRR staff use this for scholarly activity, supporting them in developing their work into future
 research activity. Seed funding supports small-scale projects, the development of outputs,
 networks, or funding bids via the QR allocation.

 The research group, centre and committee structures facilitate research management
 development for staff, with staff taking on responsibility for their research clusters and
 representing them at BSMPA and University-level. Mentoring by senior colleagues and the

Page 8
 Research Support Office enables staff to engage with research management mechanisms
 within the University and more widely through reviewing and external panel membership. The
 University QR allocation panel includes ESR to both develop staff experience and represent
 their voice in the decision process.
 Rewarding staff engagement in research is often through in-kind funding, by providing
 resources and facilities for staff to develop their practice-based research activity. BSMPA’s
 activity as a producer of events enables staff to increase the impact of research by
 broadcasting their findings across a wider academic and non-academic network. Bath Spa
 University has also developed an incremental pay scale for professorships and readerships to
 recognise the impact of staff research and BSMPA engages fully with this.

 Staff development is co-ordinated by the University’s Researcher Development Manager, who
 works closely with Research Leaders in BSMPA to deliver training, mentoring and support to
 staff at all stages of their research careers. In line with the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework, the Researcher Development Programme includes sessions on career
 development, and the Research Support officer works actively with our Careers and
 Employability team to offer appropriate training to all staff. Careers staff are able to offer one-
 to-one consultations with PGR students, and offer surgeries at our research site in Corsham on
 a regular basis. All ESRs have the opportunity to be allocated a mentor from across the
 research leadership community, and we have also brought in a professional external coach to
 offer them one-on-one coaching for the development of their careers, publications and profiles.

 We recognise that in addition to staff who have a background in academic research, many of
 our staff in BSMPA enter academia from an industry or practitioner background. Consequently,
 staff development also focuses on supporting these colleagues in incorporating research-led
 approaches to their scholarship and practice, while supporting personal scholarship and
 research around leading industry practice as an essential part of their professional roles, either
 through continuing industry work or teaching. This is managed through individual mentorship
 and participation in the University’s Researcher Development Programme.

 We support staff completing PhDs through fee remission and sensitivity towards teaching loads
 at key points in their programme. On completion, post-doctoral ESR staff are supported
 through the research groups, which provide a context to develop work into outputs and make
 connections with other researchers across the University in order to develop projects and
 funding bids. This includes presentation of new research in group meetings, joining existing
 projects, and taking on leadership roles within research management.

 SUPPORT, TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF PGR STUDENTS
 PGR students are recruited through three principal routes: alignment of research projects with
 Bath Spa staff, research groups and centres, and facilities; previous Bath Spa PGT students
 returning or continuing to PhD; or locally-based researchers for whom location is a significant
 factor. Additionally, our participation in the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral Training
 Partnership (SWW-DTP) has led to recruiting four composition students in collaboration with
 the University of Southampton. This has also led to registering a further two self-funded co-
 supervised students and developing a shared provision, which has included joint reading
 groups, performances involving students from both institutions, and participation in seminars
 and workshops. Bath Spa also periodically runs a PhD fee-waiver studentship, which has
 resulted in two registrations of international students in BSMPA. On registration, students are
 linked to one or more of our research groups to ensure there is a clear community and context
 for their work. We also ensure that research topics are linked to one or more of our research
 themes.

 Following registration, PGR students have two formal checkpoints to monitor progress. After
 three months students complete the Research Plan which formalises their programme of
 research following approval by the central Postgraduate Research Management Group

Page 9
 committee. After 12 months, students have a Progression Assessment to check progress and
 determine the form of their final submission through a viva voce with a panel drawn from the
 subject area and chaired by an independent senior researcher. The application interview and
 two formal checkpoints allow us to monitor and advise students on their progress in a
 supportive way.

 We support PGR students at different levels: locally by the Director of Studies and supervisory
 team; at subject-level by the Higher Degrees Co-ordinator, research group and centre leads;
 and centrally by the Graduate College and Research Support Office. Postgraduate research
 students benefit from supervisory teams drawn from disciplines outside of music and
 performing arts where appropriate, supporting the development of research methods from the
 humanities and education, as well as deepening their understanding of practice-led methods.
 We support students who are strongly engaged with campus-based research contexts, but also
 distance researchers who work remotely through video conferencing and file sharing. This has
 resulted in registration of students based in different countries (USA, Greece), widening their
 professional networks, and leading to wider dissemination of their outputs, such as through
 performance. The regular research group meetings provide a focal point for in-group
 discussion and lead to collaborative projects and performances by group members and
 students from other institutions (Southampton, Bristol, Exeter). Central support is provided
 through the Researcher Development Programme which includes sessions targeted at
 postgraduate research students, but also introduces them to the wider research community
 through sessions aimed at ESR staff and senior researchers. These training sessions include:
 research project structure; effective development and progress; productive writing; ethics and
 managing relationships; impact and public engagement; developing research proposals; and
 applying for research funding, as well as guidance on preparing for parts of the PhD (the
 research plan, progression assessment and viva). Students are encouraged to attend external
 events, including those run by the SWW-DTP and other research institutions such as the
 British Library. Postgraduate research student Matthew Dicken was elected student liaison
 officer for the British Forum for Ethnomusicology (2018-2021).


 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 The University’s Equality and Diversity Policy was developed by the Equality and Diversity
 Steering Group (EDSG) and representatives from the recognised trade unions. It is managed
 and monitored by the ESDG who work with the wider University management, and its
 implementation is the responsibility of all staff. Practical examples of the policy in practice
 include:

    the equal pay review which compares the pay of male and female employees who are doing
     equal work and checks to see if there are any differences and inequalities;
    diversity and unconscious bias training undertaken by all SRR staff, and additional REF-
     specific equality and diversity training for those with a responsibility for preparing the REF
     submission;
    the Developing Leaders Programme that aims to reduce the gender pay gap.

 As well as these measures, our institutional equality objectives bring to the forefront the
 recruitment, inclusion and retainment of women and BME staff and students, and actively
 support our female staff in their professional development. At an institutional level, we achieved
 Stonewall recognition in 2014 and are working towards bronze Athena Swan accreditation. Bath
 Spa also runs a Women's Leadership Network, LGBTQ+ Staff Network (SONDER) and a
 Disabled Staff Network, all of which hold regular meetings and events. These examples
 demonstrate specific instances of actions that represent our wider commitment to equality and
 diversity.

 Within BSMPA, we recognise that well-being and workload are closely connected and, where
 possible, ensure that staff have time to commit to research through flexible working hours and

Page 10
 locations. All staff are encouraged to work remotely when required and the University's policy
 of working from home is widely used. Reasonable adjustments to working schedules are
 always made, and continued dialogue with staff ensures that the unit identifies needs and
 addresses them proactively.

 Data related to protected characteristics can be found in the Equality & Diversity section of
 Institutional Environment Statement (section 3.5).


 SECTION 3: INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE, AND FACILITIES


 INCOME
 Our research income has developed significantly since 2014, predominantly through increasing
 the number of bids and making connections with external partners as part of consortia. The
 diversification of our income stream has contributed to a rise from GBP256,157 in REF2014
 (RAE2001 GBP10,000; RAE2008 GBP16,000) to GBP336,000 in the current REF period as we
 have applied to a wider group of funders to target research support more strategically. Since
 2014 we have shifted from a mostly AHRC-funded portfolio to one additionally supported by the
 European Research Council, Wellcome Trust, APEX (Royal Society, Royal Academy of
 Engineering, British Academy, Leverhulme), Newton Travel Fund, Arts Council England and
 charities such as Lottery Heritage Funds and Herschel House Trust. Spreading our income
 over more sources and engaging with different strategic partners has created greater
 resilience. For example, Laura Purcell-Gates’ puppetry and medical humanities project with
 Wellcome Trust generated follow-on funding to expand the research from her initial project as
 part of a national tour; Amanda Bayley is a co-investigator on two ERC projects, focusing on
 dialogue between Turkish and Western musicians (University of Bristol), and the development
 of research strategies and software to enable musicological research to engage more directly
 with sound (University of Huddersfield). Nurturing such relationships and building networks
 around them is a central focus of developing our infrastructure through adopting a diverse
 approach to funding.

 Since 2014, the unit has received funding for projects which have consolidated staff research
 linked to our research themes (materiality and corporeality, practitioner methodologies, and
 social engagement), leading to external collaboration with researchers and practitioners, and
 other institutions. There is a direct correlation between funding income and high-quality
 research outputs and impact. Hyde’s APEX-funded project ‘Exploring Molecular Data with
 Immersive Technology: Interactive Sonification in Virtual Reality’ with molecular science
 researchers at the University of Bristol and UWE has led to papers published in chemistry,
 physics and HCI journals, a presentation at the Royal Academy of Engineering, and a
 performance piece premiered at the Bloomsbury Theatre in London. Saunders’ work has been
 supported by commissions from BBC Radio 3, SWR/Donaueschingen, Wien Modern, and
 Ernst von Siemens Musikstiftung, resulting in compositions being performed at major European
 new music festivals.

 In addition, the unit has benefited from GBP127,770 of internal QR funding since REF2014.
 This has been used to support conference attendance and hosting, seed funding projects, and
 supporting dissemination and networking. This funding is made available to staff researchers at
 all stages of their careers through a competitive bidding process at University level, and
 through funds devolved to BSMPA to support targeted projects.

 INFRASTRUCTURE
 The researcher-led approach we adopted in 2016 led to six new research groups that emerged
 directly from clusters of staff research. Each group is predicated on artistic research and draws
 on the expertise of the practitioner-researchers in the group. From this point of research
 specialism, where each group contextualises staff and PGR research, our researchers can

Page 11
 make connections with researchers in other disciplines. This is evident in the funded
 collaborative research projects and bids; shared research seminar provision; and co-
 supervision of PGR students. Regular research seminars attached to each group are rich
 points of contact between researchers and visiting scholars and artists. The seminars are also
 a timetabled part of the PGT programme, giving Masters students a direct route into research.
 At University level, the research groups link to the institutional themes of environmental
 humanities, transcultural creativity and education, and the creative and cultural industries, and
 staff from UoA33 are members of the University Research Centres in these areas. Again, this
 re-enforces our determination to create a much wider context for research by making
 connections with cognate research outside of BSMPA.

 The unit’s infrastructure is built around our six research groups. The groups create a focus for
 the distinct areas of work through meetings, collaborations between group members, and
 through funded projects.

 The regular group meetings create a community around the research themes and supports the
 ongoing dialogue that is a key feature of developing a healthy research environment. For
 example, Open Scores Lab holds a monthly meeting in term time, featuring a visiting speaker
 (41 since 2016) and workshop presentations of new work by group members. The exchange
 between our own researchers and world-leading visiting composers supports the development
 of new work by group members in a structured way. It has led to short residencies in the Bath
 Spa TV Studios to film pieces with Bastard Assignments and cellist Anton Lukosevieze, and
 collaborative performances with ESRs from the University of Southampton.

 The groups also create infrastructure for collaboration between group members. Enright and
 Agate Vitale (Psychology) work together in the Arts and Social Change group to explore
 methods for drama-based interventions to support resilience and integration in refugee women
 living with HIV. In the Creative Corporealities group, Rew Lowe (Acting) and Matt Law
 (Geography) produced ‘The Last Hurrah (and The Long Haul)’, a collaborative practice-based
 research project responding to questions of ecological urgency through theatre performance.

 The research groups also provide a foundation for targeted external funding bids, such as
 Bayley’s ERC-funded research linked to her Intercultural Communication through Practice
 group, Hyde’s APEX funding linked to the Sonic Art and Visual Music group, and Purcell-Gates’
 Wellcome Trust funding linked to Arts and Social Change. These initiatives demonstrate how
 group activity drives and contextualises projects and provides a key element in developing
 funded projects and interdisciplinary collaboration.

 FACILITIES
 The unit provides researchers with access to highly specialist facilities and resources, many of
 which serve both music and performing arts activities.
  Corsham Court is the University’s dedicated postgraduate and research centre, offering a
    supportive working environment in which to undertake practice-led research, including a
    songwriting studio.
  On our Newton Park campus the Michael Tippett Centre is a 150-seat purpose concert hall
    with gallery space ideally suited for recitals, concerts and operas. The University Theatre is
    a 186-seat flexible performance space used for dance and theatre productions and a range
    of experimental performance projects. Our electronic studios and labs include seven audio
    studios and two computer labs. The campus also has an outside amphitheatre overlooking
    the lake and Italian Garden, both used for performances.
  The new Commons building houses Bath Spa TV Studio, which has been used to
    document research outcomes and work with external practitioner-researchers to film
    performances. BSMPA has a dedicated asset store containing industry-standard audio-
    visual equipment, run by a team of sound and image professionals who train academic staff
    and research students in its use.


Page 12
    Since REF2014, our facilities have expanded to include our Oldfield Park Theatre
     Workshops campus, a new purpose-built production facility for the design, build and
     rehearsal of productions, placing PGT students in an immersive and professional
     environment.
    Burdall’s Yard is our city centre arts venue with an audience capacity for 50-80 for small
     cabaret, fringe or gig style events and installations.

 The scholarly infrastructure for the UoA includes Library subscriptions to high impact and
 internationally excellent journals (SCImago international journal rankings), for example Journal
 of Research in Music Education, Dance Research Journal, Psychology of Music, TDR/The
 Drama Review, Journal of New Music Research, Popular Music and Society. Library
 collections directly relevant to the UoA include more than 300 journal subscriptions, 15,000
 books and 4,000 e-books. The Library’s extensive digital collections include Oxford Music
 Online, Drama Online, Digital Theatre Plus, Box of Broadcasts, and the International
 Bibliography of Theatre and Dance.

 Library resources for the UoA are underpinned by a team of Subject Librarians, who provide
 subject-specific support and a defined point of contact for research enquiries. The University
 has heavily invested in its infrastructure for open research, with both an institutional repository,
 ResearchSPAce, and a research data repository, BathSPAdata. The repositories are
 supported by two Research Publications Librarians, who work proactively with the UoA to
 develop its open research profile. The Library’s Writing and Learning Centre supports an
 inclusive research culture through one-to-one writing support, social media workshops (within
 the Researcher Developer Programme), 'Journal Club' workshops in scholarly writing (for early
 stage PG researchers), and research methods training with software such as Nvivo, R, and
 SPSS.


 SECTION 4: COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE,
 ECONOMY, AND SOCIETY


 RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY RESEARCH USERS, BENEFICIARIES AND AUDIENCES
 We have instigated research collaborations, networks and partnerships with users of our
 research through developing and implementing our impact strategy over the assessment
 period, with a focus on internationalisation. The three areas of focus of our strategy drive the
 ways in which we engage with research users, beneficiaries and audiences and enrich our
 research environment. Our focus on education, outreach and community engagement through
 the processes and outputs of our research is explicitly collaborative and develops ongoing
 connections with external research users. Much of our research is articulated through creative
 outputs, and the dissemination of artistic works and processes in cultural contexts creates a
 direct relationship with audiences. Applied uses of our research and its outputs focus on policy
 and social change through working with beneficiaries in social and institutional contexts.

 1. Education, outreach and community engagement

 We build relationships with beneficiaries of our research through working with professionals
 and communities in live education, outreach and community engagement contexts, embedding
 our research within societal settings. We develop community arts projects and professional
 training both as a research method and through application of research outcomes. For
 example, Kampe works with organisations to embed artistic practices in their training
 processes, such as his work on somatic practice methods with New Zealand Dance Company
 and Feldenkrais Guild UK. Our research also shows how creative arts practices can be a
 means of strengthening resilience and wellbeing, such as Enright’s use of verbatim theatre to
 explore women’s experiences as mothers in prison, which impacted on understanding of the
 complex issues surrounding this situation for prisoners and prison staff. Other work focuses on

Page 13
 artistic participation and community engagement, using creative work to develop accessible
 materials for non-professional musicians, such as in Sergeant (2019) and Saunders (2018)
 commissions from Contemporary Music for All (CoMA) to produce new works to enable
 musicians of all abilities to participate actively in contemporary music.

 2. Dissemination of artistic works and processes

 Our creative research outputs contribute to society through being commissioned by major
 festivals and funders and presented in international events. The works and surrounding
 dialogues in the form of texts, interviews, and discussions develop relationships with audiences
 through cultural frameworks such as performances, exhibitions, documentation and
 broadcasts. For example, Hyde’s ‘danceroom Spectroscopy 2.0’ collaboration comprises an
 immersive participatory installation for audiences to interact with a simulation of molecular
 physics, as well as a staged performance.
 We contribute to the economy through producing our work in public events and through
 broadcasts, generating income for arts organisations, performers and producers, as well as
 supporting industries that service these events. Our work is presented internationally, such as
 at Donaueschingen Musiktage, Wien Modern, and The National Theatre, and broadcast on
 national and international radio stations such as BBC Radio 3, BBC 6 Music, O1 (Austria),
 SWR2 (Germany). We release recordings of our work which generates income for independent
 labels such as SubText Recordings and another timbre.

 3. Policy and social change

 Our research contributes to society through artistic practices and programmes that promote
 reflection and change for individuals and groups. We work directly with stakeholders in
 challenging circumstances through reflective artistic practice, such as supporting the
 rehabilitation of prisoners in Enright and Simpson’s criminal justice arts projects. Using new
 practitioner methodologies, we build collaborative projects with specific societal groups, such
 as Kampe’s socio-cultural project ‘Punti-Di Fuga’ (2015) which brought together Dresden-
 based citizens and members of refugee communities through somatic-oriented workshop and
 performance events, and his research on emancipatory modernist body-cultures which
 introduced somatic working processes to product design students in Coburg, questioning how
 design processes can activate culturally-transformative embodied social-imaginaries,
 culminating in a symposium with contributions by international artists, local community
 organisations and politicians. Our work also uses historical and autobiographical narratives to
 explore moral and ethical behaviour, such as in Purcell-Gates’ use of practice-based puppetry
 research to investigate perceptions of and behaviour towards people with non-normative
 bodies, presenting her work in both public engagement and performance events.

 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND SOCIETY.
 We contribute to the research base, economy and society through the outcomes of our
 research strategy, and directly through our research outputs and activities. Strengthening our
 research clusters has created a focused identity for our work, which allows us to concentrate
 on how we engage with users of our research. Developing interdisciplinary and external
 academic and professional partnerships has enabled us to contribute to the research base,
 economy and society more widely, working with other researchers, professionals, and
 communities around our work. We also work collaboratively with other academic institutions
 and industry to enhance our postgraduate research environment.

 1. Strengthening research clusters

 Our research groups provide a targeted approach to contributing to disciplinary research bases
 in music and performing arts, alongside subjects with which we form interdisciplinary
 connections. By identifying clear areas of research focus, we facilitate interaction with our

Page 14
 subject networks and professional collaborators by providing structures and processes for
 working together. This includes instigating and hosting a biennial series of visual music
 conferences through SAVM’s Seeing Sound events (November 2013, 2014, 2016, 2018 and
 online in 2020 in the current REF cycle), hosting large international conferences such as the
 Performance Studies Network (2016), interdisciplinary conferences such as Ludo2017, and
 Kampe’s practice-led symposia on somatic activism (2017) and embodied learning (2019). By
 hosting visitors through events such as these and our ongoing research group meetings, we
 strengthen contacts with other researchers in order to enliven our research environment and
 contribute to the development of our research bases across the sector.

 2. Developing interdisciplinary and external academic and professional partnerships

 We contribute to the research base through forming national and international partnerships
 through formal institutional agreements, funded research projects, and professional
 connections.

 Our principal international network at institutional level is the Global Academy of Liberal Arts
 (GALA), a group of 19 institutions in 14 countries who collaborate to explore the relationship
 between creativity and social engagement. In practical terms this has led to exchanges and
 collaboration with Concordia University, Montreal (Purcell-Gates, Sergeant) to develop
 performance projects, and the University of Utrecht (Bayley, Saunders, Sergeant) to develop
 research into notational practices.

 In order to drive knowledge exchange between academia and industry, in November 2017
 Bayley hosted an interdisciplinary study day on Filming African Music, the second event of the
 UK branch of The Study Group for African Music (affiliated to the International Council for
 Traditional Music), in partnership with the Afrika Eye Film Festival, Bristol, supported by the
 British Forum for Ethnomusicology, Music and Letters, and BSU’s Research Centre in Creative
 and Cultural Industries. Bath Spa is also an official partner of the Cultural Literacy Everywhere
 programme, specifically the special interest group, Cultural Literacy and Creative Futures led
 by Dr Robert Crawshaw (Lancaster University). This includes the ICP research group hosting
 an annual workshop/seminar with input from a range of arts and humanities disciplines. The
 University also has an international partnership with Universidade Federal de Pelotas (UFPel),
 Brazil. In November 2017 a Newton Travel Fund enabled Bayley and Stakelum to speak at a
 symposium on Ethnographies of Musical Heritage, sharing their research with academics in
 ethnomusicology, anthropology and education from several other HEIs in South Brazil. In
 September 2018, Spring presented his research at the UFPel Music Research Meeting and
 performed in concerts with other early music specialists in Brazil.

 Through bids and funded projects we have developed formal links with other HEIs and industry
 partners. Bayley is a co-investigator on the ERC project Beyond East and West led by Michael
 Ellison (University of Bristol), which aims to systematise practical processes for intercultural
 musical collaboration with Turkish musicians. This has benefited Bayley’s ethnographic
 research into performance practice and composer-performer interactions, and led to links with
 Turkish institutions and performers while developing the project outputs. Hyde’s ongoing art-
 science collaborations through the danceroom Spectroscopy 2.0 project and his APEX project
 (with Tom Mitchell, UWE and David Glowacki, University of Bristol) which investigates
 sonification of molecular data, extend our partnerships in the region and with researchers in
 other disciplines.

 3. Enhancing the Postgraduate Research environment

 Since 2014, our interaction with the wider PGR research community has expanded both
 through the registration of more students, a corresponding increase in completions, and greater
 engagement with external partners. Bath Spa is part of the AHRC’s South West and Wales
 Doctoral Training Partnership, and through this we have received four co-supervised

Page 15
 studentships with the University of Southampton. This partnership has widened the network for
 PGR students by connecting them with peers in other institutions in a formal way. It has
 resulted in shared reading groups, collaborative performances, and support for each other’s
 research. In subject areas where there are relatively small numbers within each institution, this
 combined approach to PhD supervision and training is an essential factor in developing the
 discipline’s research base.

 Our researchers also contribute to the wider PGR community in the UK and abroad. We act as
 external supervisors for students at other institutions, and undertake external examining duties
 at universities and conservatoires. This interaction strengthens connections between
 academics and departments, and has also led to projects with students we have examined as
 their post-doctoral careers develop.




Page 16
