Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth


 Unit of Assessment: 10 Mathematical Sciences


 1   Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Building on our success to date, our continued focus is on producing excellent research in
 Applied Mathematics and Operational Research, from fundamental developments through to
 applications and impact motivated by societal and global challenges. We work with academic
 institutions, public sector bodies, and industry, to solve problems in sectors including the
 environment and sustainability, renewable energy generation and storage, transportation, and
 health. Our research output, networks and influence have grown, and our vision over the next
 decade is to be at the forefront of these pressing challenges while remaining rooted in excellent
 fundamental research.

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure

 All staff submitted to UoA10 are mathematicians from the School of Mathematics and Physics
 (SMAP) at the University of Portsmouth (UoP), formed in 2018 from the previously separate
 Mathematics and Physics departments. The School is part of the Faculty of Technology. The
 UoA has 19 staff (up from 11 in REF2014). Income, postgraduate research students and
 publications have grown since REF2014. There are two research groups: Applied Mathematics
 and Logistics, Operational Research, and Analytics (LORA). Both groups combine
 fundamental research with industrial, commercial, and interdisciplinary applications.

       Table 1: Mathematics research within SMAP. Key: *Left during assessment period.
  Logistics, Operational Research,            Applied Mathematics
  Analytics (LORA)
  RESEARCH AREA             STAFF                  RESEARCH AREA              STAFF
  Math. Programming         Li, Sim                Differential Equations     Cerasuolo, Kecker,
                                                   and Applications           Foster, Pickett, Lee*,
                                                                              Roustemoglou
  Multi-Criteria            Jones, Treloar         Dynamical Systems          Simon, Burbanks,
  Decisions                                                                   Osbaldestin
  Cutting and Packing       Song                   Probability, Stat. Phys.   Gnacik, Burridge
  Heuristic and Meta-       Ouelhadj, Khosravi     Topology and               Waters, Weiss
  Heuristic Algorithms                             Differential Geometry

 Applied Mathematics research has expanded in scope since REF2014, through increasing
 headcount and strategic replacing of retirees, and now covers four broad areas: (1) differential
 equations and applications, (2) dynamical systems, (3) interdisciplinary applications of statistical
 physics and probability, and (4) topology and differential geometry.

 LORA has achieved substantial growth in industry partnerships and income. Its research spans
 (1) mathematical programming, (2) multi-criteria decision making, (3) cutting and packing, and
                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (4) heuristic and meta-heuristic algorithms. LORA is supported in interdisciplinary research and
 applications by our cross-faculty Research Centre, the Centre for Operational Research and
 Logistics (CORL, see 1.2.2, 1.2.3), jointly founded and directed by LORA.

 1.2 Strategic Objectives: Past and Present

 Past strategic aims for 2014-2021: (1) increase the quality and quantity of research, (2) develop
 industrial and interdisciplinary applications, (3) enable impact including setting-up a Cross-
 Faculty Research Centre, (4) increase and diversify our funding streams, and (5) improve
 numbers of PhD students and postdocs.

 We now describe our achievements and plans in relation to past and present strategy.

 1.2.1   Increase quality and quantity of research (aim 1)

 To meet growing demand from external organisations in areas including renewable energy and
 transport, we allocated funds for the strategic appointment of new staff (Foster 2016, Lee 2015)
 working in industrial mathematics. This led to substantial funding success, publications and
 impact. We replaced retiring staff with research-active new-hires with interests that complement
 and broaden our Applied Mathematics research. New areas include mathematical biology
 (Cerasuolo 2014), applied probability and stochastic processes (Gnacik 2016, complementing
 Burridge), differential equations (Kecker 2014), and category theory and topology (Weiss 2016,
 complementing Simon and Waters). We strengthened research in LORA with new staff in
 optimization (Sim 2014) and computational approaches to applied problems (Khosravi 2014).
 Strategy and support mechanisms for developing new hires are described in 2.2.

 Future goals: (a) recruit to our strengths to support existing and emerging areas and aim to
 improve participation from under-represented groups, (b) allocate workload and support fairly
 and transparently to benefit research-active staff, while improving equality and diversity, (c)
 identify and support fledgling research sub-groups, targeting leadership training, mentoring and
 support. A promising avenue, in which we are growing local expertise and collaborations, is data
 and machine learning that will drive new innovations and has the potential to revolutionise
 traditional academic disciplines.

 1.2.2   Further develop interdisciplinary and industrial applications (aim 2)

 LORA’s development of industrial applications explicitly promotes interdisciplinarity. This has
 been particularly successful through the creation of our Cross-Faculty Research Centre
 (CORL). LORA has also been instrumental in setting up two further collaborative networks in
 partnership with Catapults [https://catapult.org.uk/], resulting in three interdisciplinary
 collaboration hubs:

 Our Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL, est. 2014) brings together
 researchers working on the mathematics underpinning operational research through to those
 working on business applications with external partners (see 1.2.3, 3.3, 4.2).

 The South Coast Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications (SCCoE, est. 2016) brings
 together academic institutions, businesses, Catapults, and local authorities (3.3, 4.2).

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Intelligent Transport Cluster (ITC, est. 2018), combines the expertise of 54 academics
 from 4 different faculties and brings them together with end users (3.3, 4.2).

 These clusters have enabled numerous external collaborations with businesses and local
 authorities, partnerships with Catapults (Renewable Energy, Connected Places, Satellite
 Applications), and a substantial increase in funding on collaborative projects, leading to impact
 (1.2.3, 1.2.4). Most recently Ouelhadj secured our role in the Solent Future Transport Zone
 (FTZ, £28.75m consortium) as PI (£1.8m to UoP, funded by Department for Transport) on
 sustainable solutions for transport of people and goods. LORA organises additional workshops
 and conferences with industrial practitioners (see section 3).

 A key aim of the Applied Mathematics group since REF2014 was to increase applicable and
 interdisciplinary research. This was achieved through strategic recruitment and our Research
 Leads actively encouraging staff to engage with other Portsmouth academics through the five
 University-wide interdisciplinary Research Themes [see Institutional Level Environment
 Statement, REF5aSections2,4].

 Foster’s work in industrial mathematics with chemists, engineers, and the automotive industry
 led to impact (see 1.2.3). Appointing Cerasuolo and Gnacik further strengthened
 interdisciplinarity. Cerasuolo secured consortium funding to work on crop diversification and
 collaborates internationally on experimental and theoretical models of prostate cancer. Burridge
 and Gnacik’s work applying probability and statistical physics to social systems with Cambridge
 collaborators attracted media attention and led to research fellowships (sections 2 and 3).
 Weiss is developing applications of his Topological work to problems in machine learning.

 Future goals: (a) further increase interdisciplinary research in Applied Mathematics, also
 exploring research synergies with physics; we aim to break new ground connecting mathematics
 with other disciplines to address global challenges in medical research, sustainability and
 environment, renewable energy, and data analysis, and (b) further increase knowledge transfer
 activities in LORA by involving a wider range of academic staff as project participants. We will
 increase interactions with academia and industry, stepping-up our seminar programme and
 number of joint proposals including cross-faculty projects facilitated by University Research
 Themes and cross-disciplinary hubs, to generate external contacts and impact.

 1.2.3   Enable and facilitate impact, creating a cross-faculty Research Centre (aim 3)

 We successfully delivered our REF2014 strategic aim to create a university-wide Centre for
 Operational Research and Logistics (CORL). LORA co-founded CORL with the Faculty of
 Business and Law. CORL provides focus for collaboration and impact-generating activities
 across the University and has facilitated new industrial and academic partnerships. Its rising
 profile led to hosting the Annual Conference of the OR Society (OR58, 2016), with Ouelhadj
 invited to Chair. Its first five-year review (2014-2018) reported 100 published articles of
 internationally excellent quality (target 60), £3m of income (target £1.65m) from 30 projects, and
 28 postgraduate research students (target 16) affiliated to the Centre, with LORA staff
 contributing income: Ouelhadj around £1m, Jones £652k and Song £9.6k.

 Our strategy to support interdisciplinary and industry applications (1.2.2) and impact led to
 collaborations that enabled Ouelhadj’s development of automated railway station ticket barriers

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 with Cubic Transportation Systems, Transport for London, Arriva UK and the Connected Places
 Catapult (see Impact Case Study, REF3:UoA10Gatelines). In Applied Mathematics, Foster,
 working on mathematical models of batteries, achieved substantial funding for postdocs. His
 work with the automotive industry delivered “significant economic benefit” (quoting a General
 Motors research scientist) by reducing the development costs of battery technology and
 improving reliability and safety (see Impact Case Study, REF3:UoA10Batteries).

 Further evidence of our infrastructure supporting interdisciplinarity and impact, including support
 from our institutional Research & Innovation Services (RIS) [REF5aSection4], is given in
 section 3.

 Future goals: (a) increase impact, particularly from our Applied group; we will engage in industry
 open days, meetings, and host visits from industry, brokered with the help of the University
 Themes, RIS, and our 3 collaboration hubs; we will support staff to engage in knowledge
 exchange fora including Newton Gateway and V-KEMS, (b) develop existing and potential
 partnerships through our MSc in Logistics & Supply Chain Management student placement
 programme, and (c) continue to lead on interdisciplinary hubs via LORA and seek to develop
 similar initiatives for Applied Mathematics to grow business partnerships leading to impact.

 1.2.4   Increase volume and diversity of external research income (aim 4)

 Prior to REF2014, research funding in Applied Mathematics (excluding Cosmology) was small
 (£101k) and mainly from one grant. We set strategic priorities to grow funding and diversify the
 range of sources. Our hiring plan and researcher support mechanisms to grow income are
 detailed in section 3.

 As a measure of success, Applied Mathematics income over the current REF period is over
 eight times larger (£873k) than at REF2014, and derives from eight funding bodies, both
 academically focused (EPSRC, Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, European Commission) and
 driven by commercial or industrial applications (Innovate UK, Aerogen Ltd).

 LORA’s success prior to REF2014, and increasing demand for its expertise, led us to identify
 Operational Research and Logistics as an important growth area, with impact as a priority. The
 cross-disciplinary hubs (CORL, SCCoE, ITC) have brought together colleagues spanning a
 wider range of applications, and pump-priming has helped secure roles in large grant consortia.
 The resulting funding now spans four areas - Renewable Energy, Transport, Healthcare, and
 Security and Risk - steered to align more closely with the University’s Research Themes.
 LORA’s funding has grown from £823k during 2008-2014 to £2.2m, excluding £1.8m income
 recently secured (Mar 2020) for the FTZ project.

 Future goals: (a) increase volume and diversity of external research income by supporting all
 staff to make high-quality (internally peer-reviewed) applications to a wider range of sources,
 aiming for £1m per year by the end of the assessment period, (b) diversify staff participation in
 high-value bids via mentoring, and (c) expand involvement in consortia by continued “pump-
 priming” for exploratory meetings and seek small-scale funds to support visits and workshops.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2.5   Increase the numbers of postdocs and PhD students (aim 5)

 We have increased PhD student numbers across the unit to 19 currently (8 at REF2014), with 16
 completions over the REF2021 period. We recruited 10 postdocs, with 5 currently in post, and
 for the first time have 2 in Applied Mathematics. Mechanisms supporting and maintaining growth
 are detailed in section 2.3.1.

 Future goals: (a) strengthen initiatives to grow PhD numbers using faculty-wide schemes,
 research income and bursaries aiming for 2 per year and a 1:1 staff to student ratio, (b) develop
 further links with potential partners and collaborators through international students, and (c) seek
 cross-faculty and cross-institutional collaborations to fulfil the criteria for participation in Doctoral
 Training Centres. We aim to maintain excellent results in the Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES).

 1.2.6   Progress on open research and integrity

 Our institutional Open Research Policy [REF5aSection3.2] goes beyond REF Open Access
 requirements. Timely deposit of all published outputs on the University Repository (Pure) is
 required, with progress monitored centrally. 98% of outputs since 2016 (whether selected or not)
 and 100% of submitted outputs are compliant. 100% of submitted staff have ORCIDs (cf. 43% in
 2018). 83% of submitted REF outputs and 91% of all 2019-2020 outputs met the goals of the
 institution’s Research Data Management Policy regarding publication of code and data.

 Under the University’s commitment to Research Integrity (informed by the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity), we refer ethical considerations not addressed at proposal stage to a Faculty
 Ethics Committee (with 2 staff from each school). Of two projects not meeting the required
 standards at first review, both gained approval after modification and further review, with one
 requiring a third review to satisfy the Committee’s rigorous standards.


 2   People

 2.1 Overview

 Since REF2014, investment in new staff, success in postgraduate recruitment, and replacement
 of retiring staff has enabled new appointments in Applied Mathematics and LORA to strengthen
 activity and expand into emerging areas of interest. New PhD student admissions increased
 from less than one per year on average before 2017 to over two per year after 2017. Postdoc
 numbers have increased steadily: 10 joined over the assessment period with 6 in the last three
 years. New staff were supported to establish and maintain internal and external collaborations
 including interdisciplinary activity. “Pump-priming” funds were provided to support collaboration
 building and early-stage participation in grant consortia.




                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 2.2.1   Staff Recruitment

 We met our REF2014 aim to recruit permanent staff in LORA (+2) and Applied Mathematics
 (+8), appointing research-active candidates with a track record of strong publications and
 potential for grant acquisition and/or impact.

 Our strategy was to recruit to our strengths while looking for opportunities to complement and
 expand our core research areas. Appointments were targeted at developing industrial
 mathematics (Foster, Lee), applied probability and statistical physics research (Gnacik),
 mathematical biology, theoretical ecology, epidemiology, and medical applications (Cerasuolo),
 topological data analysis (Weiss), and analytical (Sim) and computational (Khosravi) aspects of
 operational research. Lee was headhunted for a Professorship but retains close links with
 Portsmouth through visits and joint publications.

 Our strategy to help new staff realise their research potential focuses first on reduced workload
 and mentorship. New staff are freed from administrative roles for 1 year and given reduced
 teaching commitments. This enables them to make research progress, maintain remote
 collaborations and develop new ones, and initiate grant applications. We pair new staff with
 experienced mentors and prioritise them when allocating fully-funded PhD bursaries with
 experienced co-supervisors.

 2.2.2   Staff Development

 Staff development is nested within the University’s People Strategy 2016-2020, the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers (CSCDR) and central HR policies
 [REF5aSection3].

 Mentoring & Training including for Early-Career Researchers

 Treloar, Foster, Gnacik and Cerasuolo began independent research in 2014-2020. Treloar was
 mentored to restart his research, leading to publication. Foster was supported by targeted PhD
 bursaries, reduced workload and early mentorship from Lee. His Fellowship application was
 supported by the University’s Themes Research and Innovation Fund (TRIF) and the Research
 Innovation and Development Fund (RIDF). Under Burridge’s mentorship, Gnacik achieved
 research independence and promotion to Senior Lecturer. Gnacik and Cerasuolo were
 supported by bursaries and matched travel funding to develop collaborations.

 A representative of Early-Career Researchers (ECRs) attends faculty research management
 meetings. ECRs gain peer support and representation through the institution’s Researchers
 Forum; the Research Staff Network represents postdocs’ interests.

 We pair ECRs (as 2nd or 3rd supervisors) with experienced staff on PhD supervision teams to
 gain experience, increasing the future pool of 1st supervisors. This provides mentorship and
 opportunities for interdisciplinary work by including co-supervisors from outside the School.

 Induction Conferences and institutional RIS Development Programmes are available to all staff
 and postdocs, with 13 staff attending 17 programmes during 2014-2019, including Writing
                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Targeted Research Proposals, Research Data Management, Becoming Reader and Professor,
 Fellowship Applications, Impact and Engagement, and Media Promotion.

 Stimulating exchanges with academic peers and industry

 Regular research seminars in LORA and Applied Mathematics welcome national, international
 and internal speakers with gender balance monitored. We aim to develop additional seminar
 programmes with increased external participation including visits by eminent academics.

 We support visiting academics and host Visiting Industry Fellows (including internationals) as
 part of our global engagement strategy, providing office space, computing, and integration into
 departmental activities. The Annual Conference of the Operational Research Society (OR58)
 was held in the School. The School hosted a Collaboration Manager from the RIS Business
 Engagement Team to enable more direct support for initiating and strengthening collaborations.

 Support with fellowships, internal funding and sabbaticals

 We identify and support fellowship applicants at early and established career stages. Calls are
 disseminated and applications reviewed by senior staff. Selected applicants are supported via
 constructive feedback and a cohort training programme to engage in a University bid process,
 most recently Foster for a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. The School and Faculty commit to
 support successful applicants by appointment of postdocs, PhD students and teaching relief.
 Faculty and University support is facilitated by the Deputy Director of RIS and approved by the
 Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Innovation. Recent success includes Burridge for a
 Leverhulme Trust Fellowship and Royal Society APEX Award.

 All staff are encouraged and supported to seek competitive Faculty funding for postdocs, PhD
 students and sabbaticals. The University devolves REF2014 QR monies to faculties that
 generated them, helping enable a rolling programme of bursaries.

 The University Research Themes [REF5aSection3.2] strengthen focus, foster collaborations and
 provide financial support. The Future and Emerging Technologies Theme supported the
 successful cross-faculty Intelligent Transport Cluster with Ouelhadj as Director (£5k).

 A Strategic Fellowship from the Themes Research and Innovation Fund supported Foster
 (£7.4k). The RIS Research Development Fund supports innovative proposals (e.g., Burridge
 received £17k). The Faculty monitors achievement on sabbaticals, providing constructive
 feedback. Sabbaticals for Burridge and Waters (2017) led to outputs, funding, media coverage,
 impact activity, and collaborations.

 Development, reward and promotion

 All staff and postdocs have annual Performance and Development Reviews to review progress,
 set goals and assess development needs and career plans. Discussion of career plans forms
 part of postdocs’ regular supervision meetings in line with the Concordat (CSCDR)
 [REF5aSection2]. Staff development funds cover research visits, meetings, conferences and
 short-stay visitors (staff also seek external match funding).



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The School recognises research leadership by rewarding staff who consistently exceed
 benchmarks by encouraging them to apply for promotion. Research time forms part of the
 School's workload model. The University provides leadership training and has been quick to
 recognise contributions of staff through promotions, with 8 from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 3
 from Senior Lecturer to Principal Lecturer, Ouelhadj to Reader in 2015 and Professor in 2017,
 Burridge to Reader in 2019, and Foster to Reader in 2020.

 2.3 Research students

 2.3.1   PhD and postdoctoral recruitment

 Increasing our quality and quantity of research has attracted more high-quality PhD applicants.
 In 2020, there were 19 PhD students, with 16 completions during 2014-2020, compared to 8
 students and 6 completions at REF2014. Strategic pairing of new staff with experienced
 supervisors and targeted PhD bursaries has built a larger pool of first supervisors.

                    Table 2: Postgraduate recruitment and completion.
  PhD Student/Postdoc    2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020                         TOTAL
  New PhD students                -      1       1       2      3       2       2       11
  PhD completions                1       2       1       2      6       3       1       16
  Postdocs starting*             2       0       2       0      4       1      *1       10

 *Not including 6 new postdocs for the FTZ project (won March 2020) secured for 2020/21 (See
 section 1.2.2)

 The pipeline of future PhD students is developed by a range of activities. Talent is nurtured
 through Summer projects supported by small external grants, e.g., from the London
 Mathematical Society (LMS). These can lead to genuine research contribution and publications,
 boosting students’ enthusiasm and confidence and increasing their academic employability.
 Undergraduate modules and projects embed research thinking and students are invited to
 selected seminars. We launched (2017) a new 4-year MMath degree and MRes programme.

 We seek high-quality applicants and receive international applications, particularly in LORA. A
 rigorous interview (with a gender-balanced panel where possible) emphasises quality. All staff
 involved in recruitment are trained in Best Practice in Selection and Admission of Postgraduate
 Students. Supervisor training includes Best Practice in Supervision, Being a 2nd or 3rd
 Supervisor, Supervising Part-Time Students, Managing and Monitoring Projects, and conducting
 external and internal vivas.

 We explicitly encourage staff to collaborate on cross-school and cross-faculty project proposals
 for internal bursaries. Recent examples include a joint PhD with our School of Civil Engineering
 and Surveying on failure mechanisms for multi-layer materials. Proposals must address training
 and support to be provided. We provide feedback and share best practice to develop staff ability
 to scope support requirements for projects.

 The PhD cohort is funded by a combination of individual grants, bursaries, industry partnerships
 and self-funding. The Unit won nine internally funded competitive bursaries: 7 in Applied

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Mathematics (3 female, 4 male) and 2 in LORA (1 female, 1 male). These often benefit our best
 home-grown undergraduates.

 During 2014-2020 we recruited 10 postdocs with 11 in post during the REF period (6 male, 5
 female). We currently have 5 in post (4 female). Historically, these were funded by industry
 partnerships through LORA. We broadened this, securing two postdocs for Applied Mathematics
 working with Foster and Cerasuolo. The FTZ project alone will bring 6 new postdocs in 2020/21.

 2.3.2   Induction, Support, and Progress

 PhD students work in a large, shared office with access to dedicated space for workshops, mock
 and actual PhD vivas and meetings. New postgraduates receive induction, department training
 on mathematical techniques and software, and external training, e.g. from NATCOR (for LORA)
 and summer schools (for Applied Mathematics). The University Graduate School
 [REF5aSection3(2.2)] runs a Development Programme including research design, doctoral
 process, publishing, and careers. Our staff contribute specialist sessions, including on LaTeX
 and Machine Learning. Students are encouraged to engage in our institutional GPROF
 programme to gain accreditation for delivering seminars and lectures.

 All students meet at least one supervisor weekly. We encourage students to submit a summary
 of progress and agreed goals using the Skills Forge system provided by the Graduate School.
 Students have annual reviews with independent reviewers that are also used to explore career
 plans and identify support. In preparation, students practise mini-seminars informally as a group
 and present them to staff for feedback.

 To immerse postgraduates, ECRs and other new staff in our research culture, we run regular
 meetings and weekly seminars. Students and postdocs are expected to present within their
 group’s seminars and externally. Regular large workshops and conferences are run by CORL,
 which funds additional travel and collaboration.

 Students and postdocs must present a poster or seminar at annual Faculty Research Days,
 which provide cross-disciplinary networking for students, postdocs and staff, and further prepare
 postgraduates to present externally. Bursary funding includes costs for conferences and
 equipment, augmented by School provision.

 2.3.3   Skills development and preparation for careers

 The School gained the highest results across the University in the PRES in 2018, with a 100%
 satisfaction rating. Burridge was awarded Faculty Outstanding Supervisor of the Year.

 We want our students to become independent researchers, rather than merely to complete and
 defend a thesis. Career aspirations are discussed in regular supervision meetings of students
 and postdocs, emphasising transferable and academic skills. Successes include a student who
 is now a postdoc in the Business School, another whose PhD was funded under an initiative to
 revitalise Iraqi universities and is now a lecturer at Basrah University, one is now a junior data
 scientist, one works for BAE Systems in defence research, and one is a lecturer in Saudi Arabia.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Over 70% of students whose work led to publications are BAME. We aim to further increase
 publication rates among students.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 We have made progress towards improving inclusion in a field that is traditionally male
 dominated: 32% of our REF submitted staff are female (27% in REF2014). Among eligible staff,
 42% are female. The gender pay gap shows median female pay 4% lower and mean female pay
 6% lower in 2020. We are committed to closing this gap. The School has an internationally
 diverse staff from 13 countries (31% British, 27% EU, 42% Non-EU International). All permanent
 eligible staff members were submitted to this REF.

 To ensure no significant differences in E&D were introduced in preparing the REF submission,
 outputs were reviewed by gender-balanced groups and approved by a panel trained in E&D.
 Under the University Code of Practice [REF5aSection3(3.1)], no staff members are expected to
 contribute specific numbers of outputs, regardless of characteristics, although E&D is considered
 during selection if a quality tie-break occurs. Of staff submitted, 22% are BAME (29% of eligible
 staff are BAME). An Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) revealed that 23% of submitted outputs
 were attributed to female staff and 25% to BAME. The differences in gender and BAME profiles
 between submissible and eligible staff result from postdocs who do not meet institutional criteria
 for research independence. The numbers do reflect our success in attracting BAME and female
 postdocs (nationally only 15% are BAME) and our commitment to building a pipeline of future
 independent researchers with diverse backgrounds.

 All staff undertake mandatory training including Bullying & Harassment, Unconscious Bias, and
 Equality & Diversity. Staff involved in preparing this REF submission had additional training
 related to our Code of Practice.

 The University retained its Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2018. The Department of Mathematics
 received the Bronze Award in 2016. We identified and achieved key aims including the creation
 of an E&D committee with diverse representation, more women in senior roles, rescheduling
 activities within core hours, recruitment materials that emphasise diversity and flexibility, and
 additional funding for programmes such as Aurora [REF5aSection3(2.1)]. E&D is now integrated
 into the agendas of all School committees. We encouraged male staff to do outreach, to balance
 the higher staff time previously invested by female staff. We will seek a renewed Award for the
 newly constituted School of Mathematics and Physics.

 The School supports the LMS Good Practice Scheme and Institute of Physics Project Juno. We
 aim to support a Women in OR and Analytics Network (WORAN, Ouelhadj is on the Steering
 Committee). Osbaldestin, as Chair of the Heads of Departments of Mathematical Sciences
 (HoDoMs), helped develop the “Advancing Women in Mathematics” report commissioned by the
 LMS and launched at the House of Commons.

 We ensure all staff are aware of their rights to flexible working. No staff are currently part-time or
 have declared disabilities, but several worked flexibly in 2014-2020. We supported staff dealing
 with and returning from long-term illness and with caring responsibilities with adjustments to
 duties, via relevant HR and Occupational Health policies, including compassionate leave and
 processes for timetable adjustment. To support home working in 2020 we provided students and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 staff (including professional staff) with IT, including tablets for handwriting mathematics, and a
 local “Keeping-in-touch” programme of weekly contact emphasising wellbeing. Postgraduates
 are supported by the Student Wellbeing Service.

 Departmental, faculty and institutional meetings are scheduled carefully to avoid unfairly
 disadvantaging anyone. Staff submit requests for timetable constraints to a central team who
 consider E&D. We have pursued increased cross-gender and cross-characteristic representation
 on interview panels and committees while aiming to minimise additional burden for staff with
 protected characteristics. Several institutional staff networks provide peer support covering
 protected characteristics (e.g., Parents and Carers Network) augmented by a confidential 24-
 hour Employee Assistance Programme [REF5aSection3]. Additionally, CORL’s new 5-year plan
 includes three diversity goals: to ensure all members can (1) participate in an externally funded
 project, (2) co-supervise a PhD, and (3) contribute to research likely to produce high quality
 outputs. Progress is monitored by the Director (Jones) with senior academics.


 3   Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Value of funding secured

 We have delivered on our aim to increase the volume and diversity of external income by
 improving support for staff to make high-quality applications to a broader variety of sources (see
 also 1.2.4). LORA has been the most successful, having extensive involvement in consortia with
 international and UK business and the public sector. The Applied group has secured competitive
 fellowships and individual awards.

 The University's Research Information Database (Pure) shows total awards to UoP (2014-2020
 by award date) of new grants or partnerships secured involving staff in the UoA as £3.122m,
 with £2.325m having UoA staff as PI and £0.797m as Co-I, of which portions are received by the
 UoA. Income received within the REF period allocated to the UoA [REF4] was £1.655m
 (compared with £0.327m at REF2014).

 3.2 Infrastructure and strategy supporting income generation

 Our hiring plan focused on recruiting research-active individuals (and/or those with the potential
 for independent research) with an emphasis on industrial and interdisciplinary applications. New
 hires were supported to achieve their potential and we provided mentoring in an open and
 collaborative research environment. Alongside guaranteed funding for conferences and visits,
 staff were successfully encouraged to apply for University-wide pump-priming funds. This helped
 build external networks and collaborations and support larger grant applications by funding
 short-term focused sabbaticals, travel, and workshops.

 Early and mid-career staff were mentored to seek internal funding for sabbaticals and “pump-
 priming” activities for collaborations and travel, small external grants (including for working-in-
 pairs), participation in consortia as Principal Investigator (PI) or co-Investigator (Co-I), or
 individual fellowships. Many funding calls are collected by Faculty and disseminated to the
 School where suitable applicants are identified by group leads and the Associate Head
 Research, and staff are encouraged to look for suitable opportunities.

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff are supported from the moment they express an intention to apply (by completing an
 electronic form). This triggers the review of outline proposals by School and Faculty, providing
 initial feedback. For those which progress, seven RIS Grants and Development Officers support
 drafting and costing with finance officers. Best practice is shared within the School by individuals
 with a track record of success who offer additional editorial, costing and personnel advice. The
 University Peer-Review College provides further feedback and ensures quality [REF5aSection4].
 “Grant Hothouse” workshops provide mock proposal reviews. Faculty administration collects and
 manages bid information from intention through to post-award.

 The University Themes and our collaboration hubs provide targeted support for income
 generation (3.3, below).

 Of the staff who generated income in excess of £100k during the assessment period, 50% are
 female. The School recognises and appreciates all contributions. Successes have been
 reflected in targeted support and in promotions. A diversity goal of CORL’s new 5-year plan
 (2019-2023) is to ensure all researchers can participate in an externally funded project.

 Funding of individuals including competitive and prestigious awards

 Successes include an EPSRC New Investigator Grant for Foster’s work on lithium-ion batteries
 (£310k, 4.2.2 and REF3:UoA10Batteries), a Royal Society APEX Award (£61k) and Leverhulme
 Trust Fellowship (£46k) for Burridge’s interdisciplinary work at the interface of mathematics and
 social sciences. All were supported by School co-funding to enable teaching relief. Song
 received Royal Society funding (£9.6k) for a project on resilient blood supply chain system
 design for disaster relief, which was supported through co-funding visits.

 3.3 Infrastructure supporting consortia, industry partnerships, and impact

 3.3.1   Pump-priming

 We recognise the importance of meetings that can lead to collaboration and, ultimately, national
 and international funding consortia and industry partnerships. We support staff to engage early,
 knowing that outcomes are uncertain but that investment is necessary to ensure we play a
 pivotal role. We help staff build collaborations, cost projects, and plan staffing cover. RIS and the
 Themes help identify expertise and bring together optimal cross-disciplinary bid teams.

 We described in REF2014 how pump-priming led to an EU project (“2OM”: Offshore Operations
 and Maintenance Mutualisation) and to LEANWIND (Consortium €15m, European Commission)
 that pursues cost reduction across the offshore wind farm life-cycle. LORA built on this
 experience, accessing mainstream EU funding, supported by our pump-priming initiatives.

 We funded Ouelhadj to attend an EU 2-Seas Interreg brokerage event leading to the SLIC
 (consortium €4m; UoP £192k) and NEREUS (consortium €7m; UoP £223k) projects. SLIC is
 developing energy savings, efficiency and renewable energy use in public lighting, to increase
 uptake and reduce carbon emissions. NEREUS will transform wastewater into a valuable
 reusable source of water, nutrients and energy. We funded Jones for two visits to Norway,
 producing a collaboration with Arctic and North Atlantic Coastguards on ARCSAR (EU
 consortium €4m) to support frontline security and an Emergency Preparedness Network.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3.2   Consortium and partnership formation

 Sustained activity since 2014 and the need to diversify beyond EU sources led us to bolster our
 infrastructure. We created a network around a core team from LORA and the University,
 experienced in developing consortia and industry partnerships, to respond to new opportunities
 and mentor staff (by pairing on projects). Successes include the recent FTZ project (1.2.2),
 Intelligent Gatelines (funded by Rail Safety Standards Board; consortium £1.3m; UoP £241k),
 and WASP (Innovate UK; consortium £900k; UoP £153k). WASP will design an integrated
 autonomous vessel delivery system for offshore wind farm maintenance.

 In Applied Mathematics, an example instigated through pump-priming, pairing and mentoring, is
 Cerasuolo as PI on the European Commission funded project Diverfarming on Crop
 Diversification and Low-Input farming (£165k), which recently produced high-quality output.

 3.3.3   Identifying and supporting impact

 We foster early impact through a variety of channels. We supervise sponsored international PhD
 and MSc students on placements with industrial partners, brokered with the aid of RIS. We liaise
 with RIS and our Press Office to publicise our expertise and initiate external relationships,
 culminating in regular visits to non-academic partners for whom we run Continuing Professional
 Development courses. We host long-stay visiting academics and Industry Research Fellows
 from existing and prospective partners.

 We train and support our researchers in identifying, understanding and achieving impact, with
 help from a Faculty Impact Team and the central RIS Impact Team and Collaboration Managers
 [REF5aSection4]. Our pump-priming funds for staff travel to exploratory meetings and
 international project preparation events lead to engagements with local companies and public-
 sector bodies and with large networks of partners. Knowledge transfer is additionally supported
 by internal funding schemes for innovative proposals and via external KTPs (e.g. Innovate UK).

 Supporting infrastructure is enhanced by the University Themes, RIS, and our three
 interdisciplinary hubs (CORL, SCCoE, ITC):

 Our cross-faculty Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL) brings together
 interdisciplinary teams of researchers from across the University (in mathematics, technology,
 business and industrial research) with partners in the public and private sectors, to address their
 challenges in areas including technology, efficiency and sustainability.

 The South Coast Centre of Excellence (SCCoE) in Satellite Applications is supported by a
 consortium of 20 academic, industrial, government and third-sector partners to address
 challenges spanning healthcare, media, education, construction, environmental resource
 management, tourism, and agriculture. It helps businesses to gain a foothold in satellite
 applications by supporting them to develop collaborative projects, share expertise, identify and
 gain funding, and network with academia. It gained funding for its second phase (2019-2022)
 from the UK Space Agency and the Satellite Applications Catapult (total £600k, UoP £300k).

 The Intelligent Transport Cluster (ITC) builds on 10 years of collaboration with the Connected
 Places Catapult (and its precursors). It unites users with academics (54 across 4 faculties of the

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 University) to address goals of the Industrial Strategy and Future of Mobility Grand Challenge in
 land, air and marine transport. It aims to meet the market need in the South Coast region, home
 to the UK’s largest marine and maritime sectors. The Solent area alone generates 10% of the
 sector’s UK GDP, provides 48,000 jobs locally and supports over 3,000 businesses.

 3.3.4   Infrastructure Leadership

 Staff in our LORA research group comprise 50% of the management of CORL (Jones: Director,
 Ouelhadj: Director of Innovation & Enterprise, Song: Scientific Research Coordinator), 50% of
 the management of SCCoE (Ouelhadj: Director of Operations), and 100% of the management of
 ITC (Ouelhadj: Director).

 These hubs and the University Themes provide administrative and financial support for
 networking, planning, and collaboration. CORL’s first 5-year report (2014-2018) noted £3m
 income (target £1.65m) generated from 30 projects. SCCoE (2016-2020) established
 outstanding business and local authority collaborations generating income around £18m. The
 ITC launch event (2019) gained support from the Future and Emerging Technologies Theme,
 attracting 145 delegates (with 80 from transport businesses and local authorities).

 3.4 Additional infrastructure including computing facilities

 Academic staff, postdocs, and students are housed in the Lion Gate Building of the University’s
 City Campus adjacent to several collaborating departments. Academics have individual or
 shared offices and a staff room (with kitchen) that helps encourage informal discussions.
 Postdocs have shared rooms and students have a large, shared office with a library area. The
 University Library and central administration are within walking distance, enabling face-to-face
 discussions with RIS, marketing, and other functions that support impact.

 All staff receive desktop and laptop computers with central and local IT support. We provide
 licenses for specialist software including Mathematica, Maple and MATLAB.

 Staff and PhD students can access the SCIAMA 1000+ cores distributed-memory High-
 Performance Computing cluster (at the University’s Institute for Cosmology and Gravitation), via
 dedicated client software with support from a supercomputing technician, enabling large-scale
 parallel computations.

 During 2014-2020 we employed additional professional staff: one to develop the CORL website,
 to improve its external face, with Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) funding, and one to
 support bid writing.


 4   Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Overview

 Collaborations with national and international academic partners, industry, and non-commercial
 organisations have risen substantially over 2014-2020. Our research has reached its target



                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 audiences, including commercial end-users, mathematicians, other disciplines, and the public,
 disseminated through industrial links, research visits, outreach and the media.

 4.2 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 4.2.1   Collaborations within academia

 Collaborations are supported by funding short-term research visits from external collaborators,
 often combined with seminars, by flexible funding for travel and conference fees accounting for
 individual circumstances, and via our research centre and clusters supported centrally by RIS
 and the University Research Themes. We supported applications for exchange grants to foster
 new partnerships. Alongside University pump-priming funds, this initiated fledgling collaborations
 that led to new and interdisciplinary research directions and outputs.

 LORA members have formed academic partnerships in the USA, China, Brazil and Iraq: CORL
 funded Sim to visit Georgia’s Institute of Technology to work with a world-leading team on
 mathematical programming, leading to high quality publications. Supervising a PhD student (now
 lecturer at Basrah University) under a scheme to rebuild Iraqi academic expertise yielded
 ongoing collaboration. We developed links with Brazilian (multi-objective optimization and
 biomathematics) and Spanish (Heuristics, transportation algorithms) universities. The latter was
 supported by research exchange visits with staff from Oberta De Catalunya University (2014)
 and the Public University of Navarra (2017) funded by ERASMUS.

 Incoming and outgoing visits by staff, funded by the Newton Scheme, ERASMUS and
 international funding councils led to many good quality publications. Extended visits and visiting
 research students have also helped build academic partnerships in China: Li was supported by
 CORL and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) to build collaborations with
 Shanghai University of Finance and Economics. Song was supported by the Royal Society to
 visit Shanghai Jiao Tong University (2019). Our School supported and hosted reciprocal visits
 for the project, leading to strengthened Chinese collaborations. This created new research
 avenues to develop a resilient blood supply chain after earthquakes, leading to several
 publications, invitations to speak, and contribution to a review article. The work gained the
 attention of NHS Blood and Transport (NHSBT). Further funding from MRC is being sought.

 The School hosted Summer internships (May-August, 2013-2018) from City University, Hong
 Kong. We also attracted researchers supported by national and international scholarships
 including Villa (Della Riccia fellowship 2014) and Barbosa (UNESP, Brazil, 2018).

 These initiatives strengthened interdisciplinarity in the Applied group, exemplified by Cerasuolo’s
 recent collaboration with Consiglio Nazionale Delle Ricerche (Italy) for a project funded by GW
 Research Ltd (Cambridge) on the TRAMP model for prostate cancer. We provided travel
 funding, which included tickets for Cerasuolo’s dependents. An LMS Research in Pairs scheme
 supported work on plant pathogens with Naples University. She was also external collaborator
 and mentor of the lead applicant on the Newton International Fellowships 2018 for Cappelli,
 Chiara Natural History Museum project “Choosy fungi”, and has local collaborations with
 colleagues in Health Science and Marine Biology, one supported by a joint Masters Research



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 student developing a tuberculosis model accounting for human behaviour and another modelling
 the influence of climate change on algal growth.

 Other interdisciplinary collaborations include Burridge’s work with quantitative linguists from
 Cambridge and Pennsylvania on spatial models of language evolution. Internal support led to
 two competitive fellowships (Royal Society 2018, Leverhulme Trust 2016) producing multiple
 articles in high-quality journals, media coverage and invited lectures. Internal funding enabled
 outreach talks to schools, participation in a city-wide project on local dialect, and statistical
 support to Bristol and Portsmouth doctors for COVID-19 aerosol “cough” experiments. Burridge
 and Gnacik adapted linguistics models in early 2020 to understand social distancing behaviour.

 The School and the Czech Science Foundation (GAČR) jointly funded research visits for Gnacik
 (2016-present) to form collaborations with the Czech Academy of Sciences Department of
 Abstract Analysis. The new results on doubly stochastic matrices have led to seminar invitations
 at Oxford University and to the 23rd Conference of the International Linear Algebra Society in
 Galway. Recent funding (May 2020) from a University Impact Accelerator Account (funded by
 STFC) provided a postdoc to analyse social distancing using satellite images.

 4.2.2   Collaborations outside academia

 Collaborations outside academia have been driven mainly by LORA, both directly and via our 3
 collaboration hubs (CORL, SCCoE, ITC). The main non-academic user groups span public-
 sector organisations and authorities, and commercial organisations in transportation, healthcare,
 and renewable energy (including multinationals, especially in port and maritime logistics, freight
 and passenger transport, and offshore wind). They face challenges of managing complex flows
 of resources amid conflicting objectives, performance targets, and constraints. They look to
 LORA for techniques to help analyse the complex inter-dependencies of their business. Our
 researchers work directly with users to build bespoke models employing optimisation, prediction
 and simulation modelling, heuristics and meta-heuristic methods, and multi-criteria decision
 making, enabling them to plan and optimise robust operations across potential scenarios. Work
 with these groups, alongside contributions from Applied Mathematics, provides the basis for our
 Impact Case Studies.

 Renewable Energy and Sustainability

 During 2012-2016 LORA applied their theoretical work on multiple objective decision support
 optimisation and scheduling to marine renewable energy. Having jointly secured the “2OM”
 project (covering the Channel Interreg zone; southern UK and northern France, with 11
 partners), they jointly founded LEANWIND (EU funded, with 31 partners) to develop and apply
 decision support tools. LEANWIND addressed challenges posed by the entire life-cycle of wind
 farms including selecting sites, planning, managing supply chains, constructing, monitoring,
 maintaining, and decommissioning. It spans configuration and scheduling of land-based and
 port-based infrastructure, servicing by marine staff and routing autonomous service vessels over
 the Mediterranean and English Channel. Benefits to stakeholders are reductions in cost and
 environmental impact. Support for organising workshops enabled LORA to build a further
 relationship with Polaris Consulting Ltd as part of a KTP with Innovate UK. The work generated
 15 publications and was supported by an internally funded PhD.


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In Applied Mathematics, Foster established collaborations with Oxford, McMaster (Canada) and
 Southampton universities and industrial partners including General Motors and Dassault. His
 work with General Motors provided enhanced theoretical understanding and modelling
 capabilities that led to new methods to improve the lifetime, performance, safety and reliability of
 Lithium-ion batteries (see REF3:UoA10Batteries). This is crucial to the future uptake of electric
 vehicles, contributing to societal goals to reduce emissions and waste, and significantly reduces
 the time and cost of product development. An EPSRC New Investigator Grant (£310k) allowed
 the appointment of a postdoc (2020-2023). Foster is part of the Faraday Institute Challenge
 (award £216k) to support multiscale modelling, in which he is training an additional postdoc.

 Transport and Maritime Systems, Risk and Security

 During 2012-2018, Ouelhadj, Khosravi, and others were supported to undertake research in
 optimisation, scheduling, heuristics, meta-heuristics and stochastic simulation and (2016-2020)
 applied this to optimise passenger flow through gate lines (ticket barriers), crucial for efficient
 throughput of people and for crowd management, reducing congestion and improving safety.
 Funded by the Rail Safety and Standards Board, with industrial partners including Cubic
 Transportation Systems Ltd, Transport for London, Arriva UK Ltd, and the Connected Places
 Catapult, the resulting self-reconfiguring gate line solutions are widely applicable (see
 REF3:UoA10Gatelines).

 The WASP project (in collaboration with Renewable Energy Catapult, L3Harris, Holders Ltd, and
 SeaRoc Ltd) and AntsOnDeck (in collaboration with Polaris Consulting Ltd, L3Harris, and BMT
 Argos) support development and optimal routing of autonomous vessels for wind farm
 maintenance and for defence.

 Early-stage institutional support, including visits by a RIS Collaboration Manager (from the
 Business Engagement Team) to an EU Security brokerage event in Brussels and pump-priming
 funds for two subsequent visits by Jones to Norway, nurtured a LORA partnership with Arctic
 and North Atlantic coastguards on the ongoing EU ARCSAR project to tackle transnational
 maritime threats and enhance safety and security.

 To enable focussed collaboration and foster new connections, the School appointed and hosted
 Visiting Industry Research Fellows from our industrial collaborators including Fletcher (Cubic
 Transportation Systems), Galatioto (Connected Places Catapult), Cheeseman (Offshore
 Renewable Energy Catapult), Trafford (Fawley Waterside), and Fennessey (BAE Systems
 Maritime Services).

 4.3 Wider activities and contributions to research base

 4.3.1   Indicators of wider influence and contribution

 Journal Editorships include Jones (Mathematical Problems in Engineering and Advances in
 Operations Research), Foster (guest editor IOP Progress in Energy) and Li (guest editor Pacific
 Journal of Optimization). Staff throughout the department peer review for over 50 journals.

 Approximately half our staff were invited to present in 2014-2020. Notable examples include
 Ouelhadj (keynote OR60), Jones (keynote, Spanish MCDM Group Conference), Foster (invited

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 talks at German Physical Society Meeting, Oxford IAM seminar series and Fields Institute for
 Research in Mathematical Sciences), Burridge (Cambridge, Edinburgh, Southampton, Yale and
 IMA Budapest), Waters (Finite Dimensional Integrable Systems Conference, Barcelona and
 Laboratoire Dieudonné, Nice), and Cerasuolo (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science,
 funded by Royal Society, and UNESP Botucatu, Brazil).

 Staff represent the institution at events where national and international policies are discussed.
 Osbaldestin’s roles included LMS Representative, Chair of the Institute for Mathematics and its
 Applications Higher Education Committee, Council Member and Treasurer of the IMA, Chair of
 the Heads of Departments of Mathematics, and member of the MSOR Subject Benchmark
 Statement group. Burbanks is Isaac Newton Institute and International Centre for Mathematical
 Sciences Correspondent, disseminating information about the Mathematics infrastructure and
 representing the University. Burbanks was a panel member for the joint LMS/IMA Christopher
 Zeeman Medal (2020).

 Ouelhadj is on the Assessment Committees of EU Interreg 2 Seas, France Channel England
 and of the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research on Complexity in Transport and
 Logistics. She is on the Advisory Boards of Transport for the South East (representing 12
 universities), of Solent Transport, and the 2017 Year of Autonomy cluster, led by Southampton’s
 National Oceanography Centre, is treasurer of the Committee of Professors in OR, member of
 the European Intelligent Transport Forum, Chair of the Southern OR Group, and Southern
 Regional Representative to the General Council of the OR Society.

 Our LORA group leads SCCoE’s knowledge exchange activities, organising and chairing 41
 major events, producing collaborations and major income from business and local authorities.
 Regional benefits resulting from this include business investment in satellite applications, plus
 expanding access to satellite facilities and know-how.

 Ouelhadj is Academic Lead for the University’s 10-year collaboration programme with NATO,
 USA. Funding from the University Theme Security and Risk helped secure the project that
 provides training, workshops (6 in 2019 with 100 delegates) and collaborations on topics
 including optimisation, intelligence and AI, including plenary sessions at I3 (Initiate-Innovate-
 Imagine) held at NATO, Virginia (Feb 2020). The partnership created collaboration opportunities
 for the Themes Future and Emerging Technologies and Security and Risk.

 Foster reviews grants for the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada.

 Weiss is co-author of the Springer Undergraduate textbook “A Primer on Hilbert Space Theory”,
 downloaded 19,000 times (First Ed., 2016).

 4.3.2   Conference organisation

 LORA receives support from the OR Society and Southern OR Group for workshops and
 conferences with industry. Ouelhadj chaired the OR58 Conference (2016) hosted in Portsmouth
 with record attendance (195 academics, 175 practitioners) and was on organising committees
 for the 2nd IMA Conference on Mathematics for Robotics (2020), Connected Everything (2017,
 2018) and the IMA/OR Society Conference on Mathematics and OR (2017). Song chaired
 “Emerging Technologies in Humanitarian Supply Chain Management” in the 9th IFAC

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Conference MIM (2019), and sessions in OR58 and OR60, and organised the 12th International
 ESICUP (2015).

 In Applied Mathematics, Cerasuolo organised the mini symposium modelling epidemics in
 human and plant populations at BAMC, Surrey (2017). Weiss is organiser of the 22nd Galway
 Topology Colloquium to be hosted in Portsmouth (2021) supported by the LMS.




                                                                                      Page 19
