Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1.     Context and structure
 The College of Biomedical and Life Sciences is home to staff from the Schools of Psychology and
 Medicine (the Division of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences). Consistent with
 REF 2014, these staff form the basis of our submission to UOA4 for REF 2021, with an increase
 in returned staff from 69.33 to 116.09 FTE.
 Our research concerns the science of human and animal behaviour, as a foundation to
 understanding the nature and treatment of a broad range of psychiatric, neurodevelopmental and
 neurological disorders. We have 7 research themes: Social & Environmental Psychology; Health
 & Developmental Psychology; Developmental Psychiatry; Psychosis & Major Affective Disorders;
 Neurodegenerative Disorders; Cognitive Science; and Neuroscience. These themes generate
 social, medical, and economic impacts across three interacting domains: Environmental
 Sustainability; Health & Wellbeing; and Enterprise.

                      Social & Environmental Psychology

                                                              Environmental Sustainability
                                                              (e.g., Climate and energy policy)
                      Health & Developmental Psychology
                      Developmental Psychiatry                Health & Wellbeing
                                                              (e.g., Clinical guidelines)
                      Psychosis & Major Affective Disorders
                      Neurodegenerative Disorders             Enterprise
                                                              (e.g., Products and processes)

                      Cognitive Science, Neuroscience


        Figure 1. How our 7 underpinning research themes support our research impact.
 Our research and impact is driven by people who work in a vibrant and supportive environment
 (Section 2), with shared access to infrastructure and state-of-the-art facilities (Section 3), enabling
 extensive local, national and international interdisciplinary collaborations (Section 4). Since REF
 2014 we successfully delivered, and exceeded, our research objectives (Section 1.2.2), increasing
 research capacity, sustainability and vitality through:
   •      Strategic open-ended T&R staff appointments (31)
   •      Externally funded fellowships (35) and PGR training (423 awards)
   •      Research awards (£119.7M)
   •      New research infrastructure and facilities (£108.2M)
   •      Enhanced interdisciplinary and translational research across our 7 research themes
 1.2.     Delivery of research strategy from REF 2014
 1.2.1. Openness, integrity and interdisciplinarity
 Our researchers lead national and international research communities, developing open science
 initiatives – including those that foster reproducibility – and effective scientific communication with
 all stakeholders (see Section 4.1). This commitment to open science is reflected in the Unit’s Open
 Research Working Group. It has over 40 members from across our community, dedicated
 professional support, and leadership roles recognised in our workload model. Our researchers
 also embraced open research practices: ensuring that their publications were open access, using
 pre-print publication of manuscripts (e.g., bioRχiv), and making data openly available to the
 research community, through leadership of international consortia and in-house data repositories.



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We share a fundamental commitment to research integrity. All researchers undertake mandated
 Cardiff University research integrity training and ensure that research follows University policy on
 research ethics/integrity; including compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (see Institutional Statement, REF5a). School and NHS Ethics Committees provide bespoke
 support, with representation from the Unit on the University Open Research, Integrity and Ethics
 Committee.
 Our research is inherently interdisciplinary. Research from all 7 research themes (see Figure 1) is
 supported by externally funded collaborations with researchers from different disciplines (see
 Section 4.2). Significant new external investment in interdisciplinary research centres increased
 our interdisciplinary research and impact (see Figure 3 in Section 3 and Section 3.2). Securing
 these investments was an explicit component of our REF 2014 research and impact strategies.
 Our researchers are also involved in interdisciplinary University Research Institutes, University
 Research Networks, and Centres of Excellence that are an integral part of the University strategy
 (see Institutional Statement), including the Systems Immunity and Neuroscience and Mental
 Health University Research Institutes.
 1.2.2. REF 2014 strategic aims
 Our overarching strategic aims from REF 2014 were to reinforce our position as a leading UK
 centre of excellence, with research strength across the scientific study of psychology, psychiatry
 and neuroscience. We also sought to strengthen our international reputation for basic and
 translational research informing understanding of major psychiatric and neurodegenerative
 disorders. We had four specific research aims that are presented below. In addition to fulfilling
 these four aims, our new externally funded interdisciplinary centres enabled us to advance beyond
 our original strategy, supporting greater research translation aligned to societal, medical and
 economic impacts (see Section 1.3).
 1. Establish a new world-leading neuroimaging research facility. The Queen opened our new
 Cardiff University Brain Research Imaging Centre (CUBRIC) in 2016. CUBRIC supports cross-
 university interdisciplinary imaging groups undertaking imaging science, cognitive neuroscience,
 and clinical research. The facilities include: a 7T MRI scanner; an ultra-strong-gradient
 Connectome MRI scanner (the 2nd worldwide); two 3T MRI scanners; MEG; TMS; EEG; NIRS
 (near infrared spectroscopy); cognitive/clinical laboratories; enhanced imaging-linked computing
 cluster facilities; sleep laboratories; and purpose-built clinical suites and physiological monitoring
 to support clinical trials and integration with the NHS and industry. These facilities also enable
 collaborations between researchers interested in child and adolescent imaging within CUBRIC
 and the Cardiff University Centre for Human Developmental Science. CUBRIC supports many of
 our research themes: Neuroscience, Health & Developmental Psychology and
 Developmental Psychiatry, Neurodegenerative Disorders, and Psychosis & Major Affective
 Disorders.
 The micro-structural scanning system attracted researchers from institutions in the UK (UCL, KCL,
 Manchester, Nottingham, Brighton and Sussex), and internationally (Australia, China, France,
 Germany, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, USA). CUBRIC has award holders across
 Wellcome’s portfolio: Sir Henry Wellcome Fellows (2 men, 2 women), Sir Henry Dale (2 men),
 Career Re-entry (1 woman), Senior Research Fellow (1 man) and an Investigator Award (1 man).
 It attracted an ESRC Fellow and a Sêr Cymru Fellow (both men), and international awards
 (NSERC, Canada; Marshall-Sherfield, USA; Rubicon Fellowship, Netherlands; Swiss National
 Science Foundation, Switzerland; 2 men, 2 women). CUBRIC hosts our MSc in Neuroimaging:
 Methods and Applications (87 graduated since 2014), and leads the interdisciplinary University
 Research Network in Mind, Brain & Computation.
 2. Develop the translational potential of our research. We delivered this aim across our
 research themes (see Figure 1 and Section 1.3). For example, we received new funding for the
 MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics (henceforth MRC Centre; £2M; with 4
 associated new open-ended appointments), and for the Cardiff University Neuroscience & Mental
 Health Research Institute (henceforth NMHRI; 2014 and 2019, £4M), a cross-institution entity
 bringing together behavioural and cognitive neuroscientists, behavioural geneticists, and
 molecular and cellular biologists. We established strength in fundamental molecular and cellular

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biology by supporting a group in stem cell biology (led by Li). Our functional genomics and
 molecular biology capability was enhanced with the appointment of 4 new lecturers and senior
 lecturers. We enabled our leading psychiatric genomics to be translated into improved disease
 models and therapeutic targets through the newly established Medicines Discovery Institute (see
 Section 1.3.3) and a large-scale strategic partnership with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company
 Limited (£4M). These aim to identify novel psychiatric drug targets using genetics, and undertaking
 molecular, cellular and phenotypic target characterisation and modelling (see Section 3.2.4).
 Translational research was enhanced through a newly appointed clinical imaging chair (Harrison)
 and clinical senior lecturer (Tallantyre). Translation of our genetic research is a key mission of our
 new Cardiff UK Dementia Research Institute Centre (£23M to Cardiff), and the new Wolfson
 Centre for Adolescent Mental Health (£10M; see Section 3.1); both interdisciplinary centres were
 awarded in national competitions. The Dementia Research Institute at Cardiff, opened in 2018, is
 directed by Williams and has 5 core research programmes.
 3. Link more effectively with the NHS in Wales. We strengthened links with the NHS in Wales
 and wider UK through two rounds of renewed Welsh Government funding for our Health and Care
 Research Wales (HCRW, Biomedical Research) Centres: the National Centre for Mental Health
 (NCMH; £9.7M) and the Brain Repair and Intracranial Neurotherapeutics (BRAIN) Unit. These
 investments were complemented by 5 new lecturer and senior lecturer posts, which support four
 of our themes: Developmental Psychiatry, Neurodegenerative Disorders, and Psychosis &
 Major Affective Disorders and Neuroscience. The NCMH expanded cross-disorder recruitment
 of over 20,000 participants to its cohort; delivered award-winning public engagement; developed
 an extensive programme of work in learning disability; embedded Welsh collaboration through
 including Swansea and Bangor Universities; united centres of research excellence across Wales
 with the NHS and social services; and attracted substantial new collaborative funding (see Section
 3.2.3). We also supported NHS research and service improvement through partnering with Cardiff
 and Vale University Health Board to utilise electronic health records as part of our MRC mental
 health data pathfinder grant (£1M) with Cardiff School of Social Sciences. The BRAIN Unit (£2.7M)
 develops new therapies for neurological and neurodegenerative conditions including Huntington’s
 disease, epilepsy, Parkinson’s disease and multiple sclerosis. It established a dedicated NHS
 clinical neurosciences research facility, the Neuroscience Research Unit at the University Hospital
 of Wales, and a ‘Good Manufacturing Practice’ laboratory for processing cells for clinical
 application. As well as supporting career development and research training for NHS staff, our
 HCRW Centres transformed clinical academic training through the appointment of 17 clinical
 fellows (6 men, 11 women), with 10 gaining externally-funded competitive fellowships (4 men, 6
 women; see Section 2.3). Our new Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental Health jointly funded 3
 positions with the NHS.
 4. Increase our funding from European sources (Horizon 2020). We secured £9.44M of new
 awards from European sources, including 3 ERC starter grants and 3 ERC consolidator grants.
 This new funding complemented ongoing projects and supported new research across our
 research themes. For example, our researchers led an EU project on the assessment and
 development of neurofeedback for treatment of psychiatric disorders (2013-2018; €5.9M), and a
 workstream of the EU Gene Environment Interactions FP7 project (2010-2016; £3M). We also
 lead the European COST Action Maximising Impact for Research of NeuroDevelopmental
 DisorderS (MINDDS) project (2017-2021; £600K), and were part of COSYN, a major H2020 multi-
 centre grant investigating the neuroscience of neurodevelopmental disorders (2016-2020; £167K;
 leading work package 2), and the EU FP7 Flagship Human Brain Project (2016-2018; £224K;
 leading medical informatics for functional gene annotation). EU infrastructure funding (£3.5M) was
 also key in establishing our new Medicines Discovery Institute (see Section 1.3.3).
 1.3.   Delivery of impact strategy from REF 2014
 Our overarching REF 2014 impact strategy was founded on enabling researchers to develop the
 impact of their research through working more closely with users and beneficiaries. The delivery
 of this overarching strategy was underpinned by the three components that are presented
 in the three sub-sections below. The effectiveness with which this strategy was implemented is
 exemplified in our impact case studies, two of which are highlighted below. The remainder are
 described in the context of our contribution to society, medicine and the economy in Section 4.5.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.1. Enhanced support for the delivery of research impact
 Impact Champions facilitated the development of research impact across our 7 research
 themes in three domains: Environmental Sustainability, Health & Wellbeing, and Enterprise
 (see Figure 1). The broad engagement of our research community can be evidenced by the
 involvement of our PGR and ECR communities in impact development activities.
    A research impact journey: Butler, a mature ESRC 1+3 PhD student and former
    firefighter, built on his MRes distinction to help develop a system (THINCS) to assess
    nontechnical skills (e.g., decision making, leadership, personal resilience) for firefighters in
    the UK Fire and Rescue Services. Cardiff University funded gold open access for the
    associated publication with his PhD supervisors, who led the research, and they secured
    funding for a THINCS app through an ESRC Impact Acceleration Account project (£9K).
    The app was developed with MyOxygen Ltd (a Bristol-based SME). The National Fire Chiefs
    Council (NFCC) supported the deployment of the THINCS user guide, training modules and
    app, which can be downloaded under license from the University to the UK Fire and Rescue
    Services, and aligned national and international services for a nominal fee (£1). This journey
    is aligned to an impact case study led by Butler’s supervisors (Honey & Cohen-Hatton).
 Led by Langley, impact champions conducted a root-and-branch impact audit in 2014, which
 identified 17 members of academic staff pursuing research impact who then received an allocation
 of 100 hours within their annual workload; increasing to 20 members in 2018. Since 2014, our
 Performance Development Reviews generated 18 successful applications for University Research
 Leave of between 6 and 12 months; all included developing impact or pathways to impact from
 research. We also provided internal support for impact activities through our research committees.
 Since 2014, we funded 7 projects (ranging from £600 to £8K), and our impact champions
 supported 26 successful applications for ESRC Impact Acceleration Account projects (value: £3K
 to £25K). We secured a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) with St David’s Children
 Society, developing innovative pathways supporting the adoption of children with complex needs
 (which result in these children being “hard to place”), aligned to the impact case study led by
 Shelton. Another KTP with Cerebra developed third-sector pathways of support and service
 access for children with neurodevelopmental conditions and their families.
 1.3.2. Closer and stronger relationships with users and beneficiaries
 Significant external funding supported translational research across our three domains of impact
 (see Section 1.3.3). This funding was complemented by a range of individual relationships with
 beneficiaries, supported in a variety of ways. For example, our ESRC Impact Acceleration projects
 involve partners including: Action on Postpartum Psychosis; Airbus; British Fertility Society;
 Government of Japan; National Fire Chiefs Council; Northamptonshire Police; NHS; Science
 Media Centre; Transport for Wales; Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health; Welsh
 Government; WHO. Moreover, our NCMH engaged with key stakeholders and partners, including
 the NHS and third-sector organisations (e.g., Hafal, BipolarUK) and service users. The ESRC
 Impact Acceleration projects and NCMH helped shape our research priorities, enabling strong
 research impact.
 1.3.3. Increased external funding for translational activities and research
 Environmental sustainability. Our environmental psychology research group was awarded an
 ESRC Centre in Climate Change and Social Transformations (CAST; £5M). This interdisciplinary
 centre involves Cardiff, Manchester, York and East Anglia Universities, and the charity Climate
 Outreach. CAST works closely with industry, local/national governments, and charities to tackle
 climate change; and supports impact involving our Social & Environmental Psychology
 research theme.
 Health & Wellbeing. The MRC Centre (led by Owen until 2019 and now by Walters) constitutes
 the largest research grouping within our submission, and its work aligns with the NMHRI (Section
 3.2). It plays a key role in enabling translation and impact from core research themes:
 Neurodegenerative Disorders, Developmental Psychiatry, Neuroscience, and Psychosis &
 Major Affective Disorders. It cemented its position as a major facility for psychiatric genomics,
 leading international consortia in schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and dementia genetics, and

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training the next generation of researchers in psychiatric genetics, bioinformatics and biostatistics,
 and clinical academic psychiatry. The MRC Centre attracted additional income of £105M in this
 REF period for research, staff and infrastructure. Figure 2 captures its translational research
 activities and achievements from 2014.
 We established the Cardiff University Centre for Human Developmental Science. Initial University
 funding for laboratory refurbishment (£223K) enabled a single 1034m2 building to become a hub
 for aligned research, impact and education. The hub includes the Wales Autism Research Centre,
 established with Welsh Government funding in 2010, and the Neurodevelopmental Assessment
 Unit (NDAU, led by van Goozen), established with Waterloo Foundation funding (£287K) in 2016.
 NDAU addresses an unmet need in children, young people and their families for rapid access to
 clinical and educational assessments, while creating a valuable research resource. The Centre
 also hosts the Fertility Studies Research Group, our Doctoral Programme in Educational
 Psychology, and a new MSc in Children’s Psychological Disorders (first intake 2018, from which
 28 students have graduated). The Centre for Human Developmental Science actively supports
 translational research in our Developmental Psychiatry, Health & Developmental Psychology,
 and Cognitive Science themes, via joint partnership with users and beneficiaries.




                           Figure 2. Achievements of the MRC Centre.

 Enterprise. The Medicines Discovery Institute (MDI) was launched in 2019 (see Section 3.2). It
 exploits Cardiff’s leading knowledge of psychiatric genomics, brain function and disease
 mechanisms. The MDI was established with funding from Cardiff University and Welsh
 Government of £14M, and £500K from the Wolfson Foundation for a Target Validation equipment
 suite. Welsh Government provided support for a Professorship in Translational Drug Discovery.
 Ward and co-director Atack (School of Biosciences) established the state-of-the-art drug
 discovery facility to identify drug targets and compounds for neuropsychiatric illnesses. Its mission
 is to identify and develop novel drugs for the treatment of mental health and neurodegeneration
 disorders with a significant unmet medical need. In 2020, the MDI, together with CUBRIC,
 secured £6.6M from Wellcome to deliver innovative new research on a novel drug to treat
 schizophrenia in partnership with a local CRO, Simbec-Orion. In parallel, the MRC Centre and
 NMHRI established a strategic partnership with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited in
 2018, through an initial four-year grant of £4M from the company. The partnership focusses on
 schizophrenia drug target identification and validation. It combines our expertise in psychiatric
 genetics, human stem cell and primary brain tissue neuronal models, and extensive patient
 cohorts, with Takeda’s expertise in drug discovery as a multi-national pharmaceutical company.
 The MDI, and the Takeda partnership, accelerated our ability to deliver impact from our
 Neurodegenerative Disorders, Neuroscience and Psychosis & Major Affective Disorders
 themes.
 We established the Human Factors Excellence (HuFEx) group in 2017, which provides a nexus
 for industrial and strategic partnerships and innovation requiring human factors expertise. It has
 >30 external partners from industry, government organisations, and the emergency services (see

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 4.3), and secured grants for translational research from various sources and partners,
 including: Airbus (>£600k), ESRC (£507K), EPSRC (£605K), European Regional Development
 Fund and Welsh European Funding Office (£535K), and National Cyber Security Centre (£100k).
 For example, Morgan leads an ESRC-JST grant (£700K), delivering interdisciplinary research with
 Japanese Universities (e.g., Kyoto, Osaka) on the impact of artificial intelligence on society and
 the economy. HuFEx, and Cardiff’s new Centre for Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Human-
 Machine Systems (£4.6M; see Section 3.2.4), facilitates research translation involving four of our
 research themes: Cognitive Science, Health & Developmental Psychology,
 Neuroscience, and Social & Environmental Psychology.
 1.4.     An integrated research and impact strategy for the next 5 years
 We want to increasingly align our research contributions to the delivery of global social, medical
 and economic impact. Our 6 specific aims are enabled by recent investment in infrastructure and
 facilities (Section 3), thereby accelerating our ability to undertake interdisciplinary research, and
 translational projects with external partners:
 1.     Integrate our child and adolescent developmental and mental health research with social
        sciences (schools-based research and complex interventions), genetics and neurosciences
        research. This aim will be pursued through the new Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental
        Health (see Section 3.1) and the Cardiff University Human Developmental Science Centre. It
        will include deploying our new capacity for multi-modal imaging of children to assess
        longitudinal brain development in typically and atypically developing children, and expanding
        on our genomics and functional biology capability (through the NMHRI).
 2.     Develop a new multidisciplinary centre focussing on health and wellbeing; including
        phenotyping at scale using innovative methods (e.g., wearables, online phenotyping) and
        electronic health records, enabling linkage to genomics data for the development of an
        industry-friendly platform for precision medicine research.
 3.     Exploit the insights from psychiatric genetics from the MRC Centre, as well as expertise in
        the NMHRI and the Medicines Discovery Institute, to establish a new university Centre,
        focussing on the translational application of genomics for drug discovery and psychiatric
        clinical practice.
 4.     Enhance our portfolio of impact-enabling collaborations with national and international
        partners in governmental, industrial and third-sector organisations. This will be facilitated
        through the: ESRC Centre for Climate Change and Social Transformations; Human Factors
        Excellence group; NCMH; Medicines Discovery Institute; Wolfson Centre for Adolescent
        Mental Health.
 5.     Enable our PGRs and ECRs to realise impact from their research by increasing opportunities
        for extended placements and secondments with new and existing external partners (e.g.,
        those linked to HuFEx). We will also strengthen ECR involvement in impact-related activities
        at School, College and University levels. For example, increasing the visibility of and
        recognition for research impact by complementing existing recognition and rewards for
        research (e.g., for PhD researchers), with showcases and training, funding and recognition
        for impact (see also, Institutional Statement).
 6.     Increase the number of new industrial and strategic partnerships, and strengthen existing
        external partnerships (e.g., with the NHS, the Office for National Statistics, Airbus and Takeda
        Pharmaceutical Company Ltd) facilitating greater basic and applied research. This will be
        enabled through the: Human Factors Excellence group; Medicines Discovery Institute;
        NMHRI; Cardiff UK Dementia Research Institute Centre.
 2. People
 2.1.     Staffing strategy and staff development
 We are committed to a research culture where Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) are
 embedded, enabling all staff to reach their full potential. This commitment was recognised by an
 Athena SWAN Silver Award in 2016 to the School of Psychology, and a Bronze Award to the
 School of Medicine, including the Division of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.   Staff recruitment strategy
 Our recruitment has been informed by three requirements:
 1. Excellence in underpinning research and the potential for societal and economic impact,
 enabling vibrant research-led teaching.
 2. Expertise spread across our 7 research themes.
 3. A balance between senior staff and Early Career Researchers (ECRs), supporting succession
 and progression planning, and the sustainability and vitality of our research environment.
 We focus on recruiting ECRs, including clinical academics, supporting their development into
 research leaders (see Section 2.3). We are also committed to diversity within our staff profile
 aligned to our Athena SWAN ambitions to diversify our staff and student communities. We now
 conduct Equality Impact Assessments for all new open-ended posts (T&R), which includes an
 assessment of our values and behaviours in relation to recruitment strategy. This process
 encompasses impact in relation to protected characteristics, including ethnicity, which led us to
 widen our advertising campaign to reach under-represented groups. More broadly, Vann is part
 of the Royal Society’s Diversity Committee, which will report on BAME staff and students in STEM;
 and the BMA race equality charter has been adopted by the School of Medicine. We also give
 individuals the opportunity to identify in ways other than the binary categories of “male” or “female”
 or not to disclose gender; these numbers are small (n<5), allowing individuals to be identified, and
 consequently will not be reported here.
 Between 2014-2020 we made 31 appointments: 16 Lecturers (6 men, 10 women), 15 Senior
 Lecturers/Chairs (9 men, 6 women). These appointments enhanced existing strengths, and
 provided a basis for interdisciplinary research associated with new facilities.
 Key appointments supported our underpinning research and primary areas of research impact.
 These were augmented by investment in a new High Performance Computing team, together with
 core laboratory, managerial and administrative support, across all major infrastructures (see
 Section 3). Our professional support staff are an integrated part of our Team Science approach
 across our 7 research themes. We only recruit fixed-term academic staff when there is a specific
 requirement (e.g., due to a secondment, parental leave, or research leave). 53 staff from our REF
 2014 submission of 69.33 are included in our REF 2021 submission; of those who left, the majority
 retired or moved to positions at other HEIs. This level of retention, alongside our staffing and
 recruitment strategy and promotions procedures (see Section 2.8), creates a good balance of
 sustainability and vitality in our research community.
 2.3.   Staff development
 We provide a supportive environment for individuals from the outset of their careers. The packages
 of start-up support for ECRs is needs-based, and includes fully-funded PhD studentships,
 research assistant support, and equipment. It also includes a deposit into their strategic fund
 (£10K), an annual budget (£2K), and free access to facilities (e.g., scanning in CUBRIC). Seedcorn
 funding and conference bursaries are also provided (e.g., from the NMHRI). All new academics
 receive a maximum of half the usual administrative and teaching duties for the first year, allowing
 time for them to establish their research and develop collaborative networks.
 We facilitate the research of our staff throughout their careers. For all academic staff, an annual
 reference point is performance development review (PDR), which is a live, dynamic review
 process to support careers and meet our strategic vision. PDR is person-centred, with an
 emphasis on individual aspirations and broader school-level expectations, alongside identification
 of training needs and resources. Research forms a significant component of PDR, including an
 objective-based review of planned research and impact activities, and the progress and mentoring
 of PGR students. A panel of senior staff carry out PDRs, meeting before one-to-one meetings with
 individuals to review all of the forms (one from each academic). This ensures a consistent and
 supportive approach and detects those ready for promotion. In the one-to-one meetings, all
 aspects of an academic’s role are discussed, and priorities agreed to best underpin career
 development. Task-specific mentoring needs are identified (e.g., grant writing, engagement
 activities). Areas where an individual’s expertise could be shared with others is also explored.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SMART objectives are set for successful senior staff to mentor and share expertise with junior
 staff and vice versa. Our clinical academic staff also benefit from PDR, aligned with clinical
 appraisals and job planning, managed with the NHS.
 PDR is part of our supportive environment, where staff share expertise and act as positive
 sounding boards for each other. Internal peer reviewing is another way in which all researchers
 support each other. This is provided for all grant and fellowship applications, with at least one
 specialist and at least one generalist providing detailed feedback and advice. This support is
 complemented by formal opportunities to pitch to peers. We encourage all staff to undertake
 Cardiff’s Leadership Programmes (see Institutional Statement), and have systems to monitor,
 encourage and develop applications for promotion for all staff at appropriate career stages,
 particularly those who are traditionally under-represented at senior levels.
 Our approach is successful: we supported 35 successful applications for externally funded
 fellowships (16 men, 19 women), and 2 successful UKRI Future Leader Fellowships (both
 men). The 35 include junior ESRC fellowships, MRC and NIHR fellowships, EU schemes
 and the full range of Wellcome fellowships.
 We developed research capacity by expanding training of research clinicians. We prioritised
 clinical academics, given the nature of the research that they underpin. Since 2014 we secured
 17 of the 51 available Welsh Clinical Academic Training fellowships (providing 9 years’ training
 including PhD), and 10 further externally funded training and postdoctoral/intermediate clinical
 research fellowships (funded by Wellcome and MRC). We engage medical students in our
 research through our Winter School in Psychiatry, offering Student Selected Components (>100
 since 2014) and intercalated research projects. Cardiff medical students were awarded 10 of 26
 national pathfinder awards (as of 2019) from the Royal College of Psychiatrists for future academic
 psychiatrists. We supported 4 non-clinical ECRs through our Future Leaders in Neuroscience
 Research programme. The development of the future generation of mental health researchers is
 supported through the MRC Centre Summer School in Brain Sciences. The clinical mentorship
 scheme of our MRC Centre successfully mentored 30 trainees, with 8 gaining fellowships and 4
 entering academic careers. In addition, our MSc programmes in Psychiatry, and Biostatistics and
 Bioinformatics, trained over 100 clinicians in research.
    A career development journey. Peall investigates the mechanisms that underpin dystonia,
    a neurodevelopmental movement disorder, and how they contribute to the psychiatric
    phenotype in patients with dystonia. She was appointed in the inaugural round of the Welsh
    Clinical Academic Training (WCAT) programme as a neurology specialist trainee. Following
    her PhD, she undertook a clinical-research fellowship at the UMCG, Groningen, The
    Netherlands. She subsequently secured her first independent funding at Cardiff with an
    Academy of Medical Sciences Clinical Lecturer Starter Grant, and was awarded an MRC
    Clinician-Scientist Fellowship in 2017 (£850K). Peall established the Welsh Movement
    Disorders Research Network, Move Wales, which facilitated the first UK-wide dystonia
    network study, now recruiting at >15 sites. She was appointed as a medical advisor to The
    Dystonia Society UK, sits on the scientific committee of the International Movement
    Disorders Society, and is a lead expert in the International Myoclonus Dystonia Study
    Group. Peall leads the international Myoclonus Dystonia Registry, with recruitment sites
    across Europe, Australasia and North America. She supports the development of the next
    generation of clinician-scientists as the University lead for the WCAT programme,
    establishing a flourishing mentoring circle for clinical-academic trainees. Peall was awarded
    a place on the SUSTAIN programme run by the Academy of Medical Sciences.
 We provide ongoing financial support for all staff to develop their research programmes. 20% of
 grant overheads are returned to staff, enabling the development of new lines of research, and
 academic staff receive an annual budget (£2K) to support their research, irrespective of grant
 income. Our Research Leave Scheme provides staff with one semester without teaching and
 administration. We also help staff to develop strong applications for submission to the University
 Research Leave Scheme, which provides additional funds for replacement teaching costs and
 research expenses. For example, in 2019, 6 staff received University Research Leave and we
 appointed three ECRs (Livingston, Paine and Petrican) via the Darlithwyr Disglair (Brilliant
 Lecturers) Scheme (see Institutional Statement). We alert all colleagues to the Staff Development

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Programme at Cardiff and external training opportunities (e.g., Advance HE’s Aurora leadership
 development initiative) and target eligible individuals as appropriate. Professional and research
 staff apply to the University’s Cardiff Futures scheme, where Graham runs the research
 component.
 2.4.   Recognising, rewarding and supporting impact
 The achievement of research impact is facilitated through providing mentorship, resources and
 recognition. Section 1.3.1 described the mentoring role of impact champions. Achieving research
 impact, alongside research excellence, is considered during annual PDR as a basis for promotion
 and salary enhancement. Ten of our senior clinical academics were granted UK national clinical
 excellence awards (1 platinum, 2 gold, 2 silver, 5 bronze). Cardiff University holds annual
 Innovation and Impact Awards in several categories: Business Innovation, International Impact,
 Innovation in Healthcare, Impact on Policy, and Medical Innovation. Between 2014 and 2020, our
 researchers won individual awards, as well as the People’s Choice Award and overall winner on
 2 occasions. Within the School of Medicine, our researchers won 3 STAR awards, which were
 launched in 2016 to recognise the achievements and contribution of staff across the School of
 Medicine. Our researchers also won national awards for innovation and impact (see Section
 4.5.4).
 Interactions between academia, industry and third sector bodies are supported through a variety
 of mechanisms. As noted in Section 1.3.3, establishing the Medicines Discovery Institute and the
 Human Factors Excellence group enabled new large-scale collaborations with industrial partners
 (Takeda and Airbus respectively). For example, the appointment of Morgan supported the
 development of impact through his leadership of HuFEx alongside his secondment to Airbus,
 where he is lead for Cyber Psychology and Human Factors, and the Airbus Accelerator in Human-
 Centric Cyber Security (see Section 4.3). This role includes leading a team, with Cardiff
 researchers and PhD students delivering new industry-identified impact outcomes (funded through
 Airbus Endeavr Wales). We also encouraged partnerships through the ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Projects (see Section 1.3.2), and PhD studentships (see Section 2.5).
 2.5.   Research students
 We highly value the contribution of PhD students and invest considerable resources to support
 them. PhD students have personal desk-space throughout their studentships, a new computer
 with access to printers, and tailored support during the pandemic to support home working. They
 receive financial support to present research at conferences (£1300) and a research budget: £300
 per year for participant payments, up to £5K per year for students working in the Behavioural
 Neuroscience Labs, and £29K of scan costs for students working in CUBRIC. Students receive
 additional support from their supervisors’ research funds and can apply to our research
 committees for funding (e.g., for external training events that add value to their postgraduate
 experience). Our PhD students attend and present in research group meetings, organise their own
 seminar series and informal meetings, run an annual conference, and are encouraged and funded
 to present at national and international conferences to gain additional feedback and networking
 experience. In fact, many students secure external funding for international conferences (e.g.,
 through learned societies, including Experimental Psychology Society, Guarantors of Brain,
 Harold Hyam Wingate Foundation, ISMRM) and return with prizes for their research presentations.
 Former PhD students now working outside of academia (e.g., Airbus; the Cabinet Office;
 Charitable Organizations; ONS) return annually to give current students the benefit of their
 experiences.
 Highlighting their significant contribution to our research, PhD students are co-authors on
 65 of our 270 outputs for REF 2021.
 Postdoctoral researchers and fellows develop their research, teaching and PhD supervision skills
 with mentorship from academic staff who have significant experience developing ECR careers.
 Our postdoctoral researchers hold lunchtime seminars with our postgraduates to share their
 experiences and provide pointers on applying for postdoctoral positions. There is also extensive
 support from School, College, University and Doctoral Academy for fellowship applications (see
 Institutional Statement), which are effective in enabling success. As noted, we supported 35
 successful fellowship applications, and 2 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship applications.

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.5.1. How our research students are recruited and resourced
 Undergraduate students gain an appreciation of life as a postgraduate researcher via paid
 research placements: The Cardiff Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (a
 University scheme) and our own Research Internship scheme both operate during the summer.
 Both schemes resulted in many successful applications for PhD studentships. PhD applications
 from candidates with diverse backgrounds and protected characteristics are encouraged through
 our websites, and we support part-time students by paying their fees. Our funded programmes
 have bespoke recruitment approaches, which results in the cross-fertilisation of best practice
 (including SWBio3 measures to promote inclusive recruitment). Formal recruitment involves
 advertising through www.findaphd.com and a broad range of University websites. After triage, the
 consistent interview process across PhD programmes includes brief research presentations
 followed by questions about the research, PhD programmes (see next paragraph), projects and
 careers.
 We have a broad portfolio of funding to support postgraduate research across our 7 research
 themes. We secured UKRI studentships: BBSRC (4; including CASE studentships, 2014-2019),
 EPSRC (9), ESRC (18; including 2 interdisciplinary), MRC (2), and clinical training (PhD)
 fellowships from the EU, MRC and Wellcome (7). We also secured studentships from charities:
 Leverhulme and Waterloo Foundation (4), and Hodge (5); complemented by studentships
 associated with the MRC Centre (13), NMHRI 50% studentships (11), and a Wellcome Strategic
 Grant (DEFINE: 3; see Section 3.1). Aggleton leads the Cardiff Wellcome Trust Integrative
 Neuroscience Programme (£5.4M; 30 students from 2014-2019), and Owen leads MRC GW4
 BioMed (£6.6M; 6 yearly cohorts from 2016). Peall leads the Welsh Clinical Academic Training
 programme. Our researchers lead both the Psychology pathway for the University-led ESRC
 Wales DTP (£15M; 6 yearly cohorts from 2017) as we did for the previous ESRC DTC (£12.5M; 6
 yearly cohorts from 2011), and two large-scale cross-institutional doctoral training programmes:
 BBSRC SWBio2 (£8.0M; 5 yearly cohorts from 2015) and SWBio3 (£18.5M; renewed funding for
 5 yearly cohorts from 2019). Involvement in these programmes shows that our research and
 research training is valued and coheres with UKRI strategy. Externally funded studentships on
 these major programmes are complemented by 4 matched institutional studentships, and 79 fully
 funded studentships from within our own budgetary envelope. We host Welsh Government-funded
 Doctoral Programmes in Educational Psychology and Clinical Psychology.
 2.5.2. How we support the development of our PGR students
 Our PGR students are central to our mission, and we are committed to supporting their transition
 to fulfilling careers. While there is variation in training associated with the requirements of different
 funders, Cardiff University mandates that all of our PGR students have 6-monthly and annual
 monitoring, which includes a bespoke analysis of their training needs, and all have at least two
 academic supervisors. Mock vivas build skills designed to ensure a positive award outcome (see
 Institutional Statement). In addition to project-specific support within their research groups, all
 PGR students have access to a broad range of training opportunities and events throughout the
 academic year, run by the Cardiff Doctoral Academy. The success of our approach to training is
 evident in our high completion rates (e.g., >90% of our PhD students submit within 4 years), and
 our students’ contributions to our REF 2021 outputs (noted above). The value of our training is
 evident from the range of careers chosen by our PhD students, which include: academic careers
 (e.g. UKRI PDRA positions, Wellcome Fellowships, and lectureships), working in industry (e.g.
 Airbus), and the public sector (e.g. policy-making in the Cabinet Office). For example, Cohen-
 Hatton is now a Cardiff University Fellow who co-produces research with us and helps to supervise
 our PhD students. Since her PhD, she became one of the most senior female firefighters in the
 UK Fire and Rescue Service, as Chief Fire Officer of West Sussex Fire and Rescue Service. All
 graduates from our professional doctorates secured positions as Educational Psychologists or
 Clinical Psychologists.
 Between 2014-2020, a total of 423 PGR students graduated: 253 PhDs (89 men and 164
 women); 96 Professional Doctorates in Clinical Psychology (20 men, 76 women); and 74
 Professional Doctorates in Educational Psychology (8 men, 66 women).



                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.6.   How we embed equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are central values within our environment. Staff share ownership
 of championing equality, diversity and human rights as core tenets of our working environment.
 Central to this approach is our vision to promote fairness, inclusivity and diversity at all levels, and
 to provide a supportive culture for all (see Section 2.7). Over 50 staff and students volunteered to
 promote and develop EDI activities. Working together, EDI committees and task groups
 requested, collated and listened to the views of our staff and students. They then created and
 enacted new policies, procedures, activities and actions, aiming to build and embed a working
 culture characterised by inclusivity and equality of opportunity for all. The work of EDI Committees
 ensured that we: are a family friendly workplace (e.g., parental buddy scheme, baby changing
 facilities); protect wellbeing in staff and students (our internally staffed Wellbeing Team provides
 confidential advice and promotes wellbeing through regular events); support staff and student
 career development (e.g., helping to establish the new ECRs Forum, the Maintaining Women in
 Science group, and an annual academic promotion review panel); and simplify everyday working
 life by improving communications (e.g., embedded comms team, comms screens in buildings
 highlighting EDI and wellbeing initiatives). The most recent University Staff Survey indicated that
 90% staff felt respected by their colleagues, and that their work was interesting to them. Two
 examples of where we improved our local culture during this REF period are: recruitment and
 induction processes.
 Recruitment. Every advertised post notes our Athena SWAN awards, the University’s EDI policy
 and our work-life balance commitments. We also follow University policy for fair recruitment for all
 posts (see Institutional Statement). Application packs contain equal opportunities monitoring
 forms, with all new vacancies considered for flexible working. For academic posts, we seek a
 diverse applicant pool by advertising to diverse audiences, alerting peers, and convening search
 teams (of men and women) to systematically identify and approach candidates. We now work in
 collaboration with the Race Equality Supervisory Panel and use gender de-coding software across
 all applicable posts. We have parity in applications from men and women, but fewer applications
 from ethnic minorities. There was no evidence of bias in appointments based on gender during
 the REF 2021 period. Shortlisting and interview panels are always constructed with equality and
 diversity in mind. We consult candidates about interview dates to allow those with caring
 responsibilities to attend. Presentations are attended by a cross-section of staff who provide
 feedback, which is summarised for the interview panel by two independent members of staff. We
 now include undergraduate students to provide feedback on teaching. All panel members
 complete mandatory University EDI and unconscious bias training, including training in work-life
 balance.
 Induction. We prioritise ensuring that those starting their careers enter a supportive environment,
 including the provision of start-up packages described earlier. Induction includes a one-to-one
 buddy system, ‘meet the teams’, FAQs, University and School structure diagrams, explanations
 of School systems, an induction checklist, information about career development, flexible working
 and University support networks (e.g., Black Minority Ethnic +; University Carers). Members of
 senior management and HR Advisors meet all new appointees to discuss the University’s Positive
 Working Environment, which has gender equality and protected characteristics as core elements.
 We are also committed to diversity in external speakers, with the aim of providing appropriate
 career roles models for staff and students. We strongly encourage staff to invite diverse speakers
 to all of our seminar series and aim to represent a range of career stages. Speakers are asked to
 be available before their talks to meet with staff and students. Our three-year data indicate
 presenter balance by career stage and men/women (but not yet for other protected characteristics,
 e.g., race). Audience data show similar numbers of staff and postgraduates, with a small number
 of undergraduates.
 2.7.   How we enable the engagement of all staff and students with research
 We enable flexible and remote working, and support people returning to work. All staff and line
 managers are informed about the University’s flexible working policy, our guidelines, and how to
 apply for different flexible working arrangements including: part-time; compressed hours; term-
 time working; staggered hours; and job share arrangements. The fact that these processes were

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 embedded and well supported left us well placed to respond effectively to Covid-19. An HR advisor
 helps tailor new arrangements to personal circumstances, and staff can undertake a 12-week trial
 to gauge its suitability. On returning to work (e.g., following parental leave or ill health), line
 managers update staff on changes during their absence, and discuss structured re-integration into
 work. We have private rooms for expressing and storing milk, and the University nursery is
 available for staff and students throughout the year. As part of the University Positive Working
 Environment scheme, there is a salary sacrifice childcare voucher system. We set aside funds for
 costs associated with leave, including replacement teaching and administrative support, which
 can extend into post-leave periods. Staff returning from parental leave or ill health receive at least
 50% reductions in teaching and administrative workloads for at least the leave duration (up to one
 year). Support is also provided to maintain productive research during leave, such as funding
 research assistants. A senior member of staff (e.g., the Head of School) consults staff before and
 on return from parental leave to discuss their needs.
 We recognise and address difficulties faced by (part-time) staff. For example, caring commitments
 are acute in early morning, mid-afternoon and evening, and we therefore have a policy that all
 meetings occur between 10:00 and 15:30. Attendance at these meetings remained above 85%
 with no evidence of a gender difference. We also attempt not to arrange meetings in school
 holidays (including half-term) within the constraints of the academic calendar. Nearly all seminars
 are scheduled between 12:00 and 15:00. Research groups hold lunchtime seminars in which
 postgraduate students participate. Most formal and informal social gatherings were switched from
 17:00 to fall between 10:00 and 15.30.
 Our policies for PhD students and postdoctoral researchers are designed to help them maintain
 research careers, and achieve the same successes (e.g., publishing) as they would have done
 without parental leave; and our policies also facilitate unbiased recruitment (e.g., by ensuring that
 parental leave does not hamper delivery of funded research projects). During parental leave, PhD
 students retain access to University email, and administrators have informal contact with students
 as well via telephone or email. They can also apply to the research committee for a £300 travel
 bursary to support childcare costs associated with conference attendance.
    Supporting the careers of carers. Powell was one of our PhD students who became a
    research associate, and was concerned that starting a family could have a significant impact
    on her career development. She became the first research associate to benefit from a new
    formal scheme that provided a 6-month extension to her fixed-term contract to compensate
    for maternity leave following the birth of her son. Powell now has an independent 3-year
    fellowship from Health and Care Research Wales.
 2.8.   Our promotion procedures take all activities into account
 Promotions are primarily based on excellence in research or teaching or innovation, civic mission
 and international. Our researchers achieve promotion with diverse portfolios, sometimes reflecting
 individual circumstances that may have constrained them. The University Director of Leadership
 and Staff Development runs promotion workshops to inform applications to the University annual
 round of promotions (see Institutional Statement), supported by university committees (including
 men and women). We support all staff in their applications for promotion, with the PDR process
 enabling us to identify individuals whose performance and contributions suggest suitability for
 promotion. The staff member is advised to discuss promotion with members of the Promotion
 Panel (e.g., Head of School), who have completed unconscious bias training, and they are
 allocated a promotion mentor. 15 staff have been promoted to personal chair (9 men and 6
 women).
 2.9.   Supporting staff and PGR wellbeing
 We are committed to the delivery of a positive staff experience matching the student experience.
 Our biennial staff survey monitors progress to this target, with a University ambition to be in the
 top quartile amongst our (Russell Group) peers for our staff recommending Cardiff University as
 a great place to work. We have established a Wellbeing team. They arrange weekly activities (from
 exercise to mindfulness), trained staff members in mental health first aid, and volunteer as
 wellbeing advisors. Close links with student and staff support services enable rapid signposting of
 advice. This information is shared with new staff via an induction pack and is regularly

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 communicated to existing staff. These arrangements, supplemented by online formal and informal
 research group meetings in response to Covid-19, enabled us to support our researchers and
 complement the wellbeing days organised by Cardiff during the pandemic.
 2.10.       Construction of our REF 2021 submission
 Our submission was driven by the ambition to represent the full breadth of our research and
 impact. Recognising individual circumstances, we undertook an assessment of outputs
 underpinned by principles enshrined in the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA), to which Cardiff University is a signatory (see Institutional Statement). Outputs were
 assigned to individuals (when co-authored with colleagues) by Directors of Research and Heads
 of School. These decisions were informed by reviews from a gender-balanced group of reviewers.
 All individuals received bespoke REF EDI training, and were informed about the benchmarks for
 evaluation. The development of impact case studies was formally assessed at School, College
 and University levels (including external assessment). Decisions about research staff
 independence were based on the University’s REF 2021 Code of Practice (see Institutional
 Statement), and made by the Directors of Research and Heads of School, who received additional
 REF EDI training and were supported by a designated REF Panel Link Member of the REF
 Committee.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1.        Research income and income generation strategy
 Our researchers have access to state-of-the-art infrastructure and facilities that provide unique
 opportunities for complementary studies across methodologies, and for interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary collaborations involving a variety of stakeholders. Figure 3 provides an overview
 of our infrastructure, facilities and associated investments, and illustrates how these support our
 underpinning science and research impact across Environmental Sustainability, Health &
 Wellbeing, and Enterprise.

              = Additions                   Environmental Sustainability
                                    Understanding Risk Group research suites £0.5M
              = Renewed
                                    ESRC Centre for Climate and Social Transformations £5M
         £    = Investments


   Underpinning Science                           Health & Wellbeing
  Psychology Tower Labs           MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics £2M   Climate and energy policy

  CUBRIC £44M                     UK Dementia Research Institute £23M

  Neuroscience & Mental Health    National Centre for Mental Health £10M
  Research Institute £4M                                                                      Clinical guidelines
  Behavioural Neuroscience Labs   Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Immunology £1M

  BRAIN Unit £2.7M                Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental Health £10M
  Huntington’s Centre                                                                         Products and processes
                                  Centre for Human Developmental Science £0.5M




                                                          Enterprise
                                    Medicines Discovery Institute £5M
                                    Human Factors Excellence £0.5M


         Figure 3. Infrastructure and facilities supporting interactive pathways to impact.
 Support for research and impact activities is available to all researchers from PGRs to Professors,
 and is delivered at multiple levels across the institution. At school level, there are pitch-to-peer
 events, internal peer reviewing of grants, PDRs, and annual research away days. At College level,
 ECRs can participate in internal research-funding panels (e.g., for the £7M Wellcome Trust ISSF
 at Cardiff). At University level, there are regular courses and events run by the Graduate Academy
 and our Research and Innovation Services (e.g., dedicated support for fellowship applications;

                                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 see Institutional Statement). We identify specific funding calls for researchers, and use bespoke
 automated funding information through emails (e.g., research fingerprinting). School, College and
 University level support exists for generating bids and preparing for interviews, often entailing
 iterative reviewing and multiple mock interviews (e.g., for Wellcome fellowship applications).
 These activities are advertised widely (e.g., through emails and College Bulletins), with specific
 needs being identified through PGR monitoring, discussions with the mentors assigned to every
 ECR, and through the staff annual PDR process. Two large-scale examples of the success of this
 strategy are the Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental Health and the UK Dementia Research
 Institute.
 The £10M Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental Health was funded competitively in 2019. It
 is led by Rice and Collishaw. Its mission is to reduce anxiety and depression in young people
 through partnerships with the Welsh Government, the NHS and the Office for National Statistics.
 The centre is truly interdisciplinary, bringing together experts in child and adolescent psychiatry,
 genetics, social science, clinical records research and public health to illuminate adolescent
 mental health and develop novel preventative approaches and interventions. It supports research
 and research impact in three of our themes: Health & Developmental Psychology,
 Developmental Psychiatry, and Psychosis & Major Affective Disorders.
 The UK Dementia Research Institute, established in 2017, combines expertise in biomedical
 and translational research using novel technologies and interdisciplinary approaches to build
 knowledge leading to new treatments for neurodegenerative conditions. Cardiff is one of seven
 centres: Cambridge, Edinburgh, Imperial College London, King’s College London, Care Research
 & Technology at Imperial, and UCL. The Cardiff centre is led by Williams and aims to bridge the
 gap in knowledge between how the healthy brain functions and what leads to its degeneration.
 Research is developing better models of disease and translating research findings into new
 diagnostics, treatments, and, in the longer term, cures. The Cardiff centre received £23M funding
 for five core research programmes, linking particularly with colleagues in immunological research,
 and supporting research and the development of impact from our Neurodegenerative Disorders
 and Neuroscience themes.
 Our mean research awards per annum increased from £8.3M (REF 2014) to £17.1M (REF
 2021; total = £119.7M). The largest source of funding was UKRI (£48.3M), with the next being
 UK charities (open competition; £31.3M) to which Wellcome made the largest contribution.
 Thus £79.6M of our awards were obtained through highly selective, peer-reviewed
 competitions.
 This funding supported research across our 7 research themes and included large-scale
 interdisciplinary projects and strategic grants in addition to those noted in Section 3.2. For
 example, the MRC supported research characterising brain network differences during scene
 perception and memory in APOE-e4 carriers, using multi-modal imaging with the Avon
 Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (£1.7M; led by Graham). Our researchers also
 received two strategic grants from Wellcome: one to integrate basic and clinical neuroscience to
 explore mental disorders (DEFINE: £5.2M; led by Owen); and the other to undertake a multi-modal
 assessment of coupling in healthy and diseased brains (£4.9M, led by D. Jones). We next highlight
 how our infrastructure and facilities enable our research and impact, including interdisciplinary
 research with local, national and international academic and non-academic partners (see also,
 Sections 4.2 and 4.3).
 3.2.   Research infrastructure and facilities
 Our 7 research themes are supported by extensive shared infrastructure and facilities, allowing
 the delivery of our REF 2014 research and impact strategies (see Sections 1.2 and 1.3) and
 supporting the delivery of the corresponding REF 2021 strategies (see Section 1.4).
 3.2.1. Supporting our underpinning science
 The Psychology Tower Labs include extensive bespoke space for research on cognition,
 emotion, perception, and social psychology, supported by a broad range of funders (e.g., ESRC,
 EU, EPSRC, Leverhulme Trust, MRC). The Psychology Tower is also home to our Doctoral
 Programme in Clinical Psychology. CUBRIC has state-of-the-art scanning technologies and

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilities for cognitive and clinical imaging (see Section 1.2.2). The total investment in CUBRIC
 was £44M, with £27M coming from external sources (EPSRC, MRC, Wellcome Trust, Wolfson,
 and Welsh Government). New funding included awards to undertake imaging genomics,
 neurodevelopmental, and psychiatric and clinical neuroscience imaging projects. For example, in
 addition to the MRC and Wellcome grants noted above, our researchers are also involved in a
 cross-institutional MRC-funded project to map neurodevelopmental trajectories for adult
 psychiatric disorders (total value: £2.2M).
 The Neurosciences & Mental Health Research Institute has extensive research space in the
 Hadyn Ellis Building, and provides a base for interdisciplinary researchers who conduct basic and
 translational work. The Hadyn Ellis Building is close to CUBRIC, Cardiff’s Experimental MRI
 Centre (EMRIC) for animal imaging, and the Behavioural Neuroscience Labs. Dedicated
 laboratory space within the Hadyn Ellis Building now includes enhanced provision for testing
 children and patients with neurological and psychiatric disorders. The institute is also home to the
 Wellcome Trust PhD programme in Integrative Neuroscience (with 87 students graduating since
 2014). The Behavioural Neuroscience Labs, including the Henry Wellcome Laboratories for
 Behavioural, Transgenic, and Molecular Neuroscience, support the use of extensive state-of-the-
 art techniques to investigate learning and memory processes in non-human animals at the
 behavioural, molecular, cellular, neural and genetic levels. Research is supported by funding from
 the BBSRC and MRC (£1.6M), the Wellcome Trust and other charities (£4.2M). These labs,
 together with Cardiff’s expertise, were a vital draw for a successful application for a Welsh
 Government Sêr Cymru Rising Star Fellow (O’Neill; £665K).
 As noted in Section 1, the BRAIN Unit develops new therapies for brain diseases, and
 complements the Huntington’s Disease Centre, which brings together researchers and
 clinicians from across South Wales, and is a leading UK centre for research into Huntington’s
 Disease. It also provides specialist advice and care for people who have or are at risk of
 developing Huntington’s Disease, and their families and carers.
 3.2.2. Supporting research and impact in Environmental Sustainability
 The Understanding Risk Group occupies newly refurbished laboratory and office space within
 the Psychology Tower, providing a base for its interdisciplinary research. The research informs
 government policy across climate change risk, energy system change, energy practices and
 everyday life, industrial policy and the circular economy, greenhouse gas removal, sustainable
 housing and environmental protection. The group, led by Pidgeon, attracted £3.1M from the
 EPSRC, ESRC, EU, Leverhulme Trust and NERC, and an addition £600K from other sources
 (including the Welsh European Funding Office). Our new ESRC Centre for Climate Change and
 Social Transformations (£5M) works closely with industry, local and national governments, and
 charities to tackle climate change. This will be a flagship Centre in the new sbarc | spark building
 (Social Science Research Park) on Cardiff’s £300M Innovation Campus (see Institutional
 Statement), which aims to provide a nexus for interdisciplinary social sciences research, including
 with external partners.
 3.2.3. Supporting our research and research impact in Health & Wellbeing
 The MRC Centre received renewed core funding (£2M) for 5 years in 2014 and is located within
 the Hadyn Ellis Building. Its principal achievements are summarised in Figure 2 in Section 1.3.3.
 Research focusses on identifying genetic risk factors for disorders including schizophrenia, bipolar
 disorder, Alzheimer’s disease and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. For example,
 researchers pioneered studies of the genetic overlap between disorders, with important
 implications for the way we diagnose mental illness. They also identified novel potential targets
 for new treatments. The UK Dementia Research Institute at Cardiff occupies bespoke space
 within the Hadyn Ellis Building, with two Momentum Fellows and two Sêr Cymru Rising Stars
 leading externally funded independent research groups within the institute. The National Centre
 for Mental Health is also located in the Hadyn Ellis Building, and received £9.75M through Health
 and Care Research Wales (Figure 4 in Section 4.6 shows its contribution to our stakeholder and
 public engagement strategy). Welsh NHS R&D funding provided £0.5M for clinical studies funded
 through the Research for Patient and Public Benefit scheme. The Hodge Centre for
 Neuropsychiatric Immunology within the NMHRI has an interdisciplinary remit to bring together

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 neuroscience and immunology expertise to understand mental health disorders such as
 Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. Recent discoveries, many led by our researchers, provide
 new ways of understanding the causes of these conditions, and open up the potential to develop
 novel treatments for them. Our new Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental Health is another
 interdisciplinary research centre (see Section 3.1), and complements the Cardiff University Centre
 for Human Developmental Science, with purpose-built laboratories funded by internal and
 external investment (see Section 1.3.3).
 3.2.4. Supporting our research and research impact involving Enterprise
 The Medicines Discovery Institute attracted research income of £14.6M. The Institute also
 played a key role in collaborating with L. Jones, to secure funding from a spin-out (LoQus23
 Therapeutics) financed by the Dementia Discovery Fund. This diversification into non-academic
 funding will be extended to include commercialisation of assets (e.g., an AMPA receptor drug for
 the treatment of schizophrenia) as well as the formation of additional spin-out companies. The
 Institute aims to establish itself as a hub for innovative drug discovery creating academically
 funded projects and spin-out companies, but also training the next generation of drug discovery
 scientists. The institute complements our strategic alliance with Takeda Pharmaceuticals
 Company Ltd. As already noted, our Human Factors Excellence researchers contribute to the
 new Cardiff University Centre for AI, Robotics, and Human Machine Systems (£4.6M), an
 interdisciplinary collaboration between our human factors researchers, researchers within the
 College of Physical Sciences and Engineering, and external partners. It created enhanced and
 new academic research capacity, strengthening critical masss, and aims to deliver transformative
 research through working with industry and the public sector. The associated Simulation Lab
 occupies extensive ground floor space in the Psychology Tower Labs, and includes a 6mx6m
 360° immersive dome with a full surround screen, a transport simulator with autonomous
 capabilities, and command and control provision to support research with our partners, including
 the emergency services (e.g., UK Fire and Rescue Services) and industry (e.g., Airbus).
 3.3.   Research and research impact is supported by core Cardiff University infrastructure
 and facilities
 Core infrastructure and facilities that supported REF 2014 and REF 2021 research and impact
 strategies include: dedicated postgraduate support (e.g., Doctoral Academy); administrative
 support (e.g., Research and Innovation Services); support for the development of laboratories
 (including CUBRIC, CUCHDS, Medicines Discovery Institute, and the Understanding Risk Group);
 and research space within the Hadyn Ellis Building (including the DRI and NMHRI); Advanced
 Research Computing provides high-performance computing and e-research services for
 researchers; Central Biotechnology Services provides a central ISO 9001 and 17025 accredited
 “core” facility (see Institutional Statement).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our researchers have local, national and international collaborations, involving academic and non-
 academic partners. Our 9 case studies, developed via external partnership working, provide
 examples of how our published research makes valuable contributions to society, medicine and
 the economy. These complement a wide range of public engagement activities, with a focus on
 patient, family and carer participation, as well as many other non-academic collaborations with
 industrial and other sectors (e.g., charities and the NHS).
 4.1.   Contribution to the research base
 Research conducted across our 7 research themes influenced the disciplines of psychology,
 psychiatry and neuroscience (see Sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.7), as well as how scientific discovery
 in our discipline is pursued and communicated. We highlight our approach to the latter below:
 4.1.1. Underpinning open and reproducible research practices
 Our researchers lead worldwide initiatives promoting open, reproducible research practices,
 aligned to our ambition to facilitate ongoing innovation in this domain (see Section 1.2.1). Our
 Open Research Working Group has over 40 members and is led by Chambers and C. Morey. We
 created the Registered Reports article type, which aims to prevent publication bias and reporting

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bias by undertaking peer-review and output acceptance before authors conduct their research.
 Since 2014, Registered Reports are now included in over 200 journals. We played a leading role
 in developing the Transparency and Openness Promotion guidelines, now adopted by over 5000
 journals and organisations, as well as the Peer Reviewers’ Openness Initiative, the Accountable
 Replications Policy at the Royal Society, the UK Network of Open Research Working Groups, and
 the recently established UK Reproducibility Network. Our researchers teach open research
 practices and shape external policies and practices. For example, Chambers chairs the
 Registered Reports committee supported by the Centre for Open Science and serves on the
 Credibility Advisory Board of the British Neuroscience Association.
 4.1.2. Field-leading statistical analysis
 The development of Bayesian statistical analysis techniques, pioneered by R. Morey and his
 international collaborators, is now built into the IBM statistical software package SPSS 25. This
 package is used across the world, an approach made possible because Morey publishes his code
 and procedures transparently (and IBM was able to verify and utilise his code in their work). In
 addition, his code is used in two additional open-source statistical packages, JASP and jamovi,
 employed by researchers across the world.
 4.1.3. Responsible communication of scientific discoveries
 Our leadership in open science, reproducibility, and statistical analysis is complemented by our
 influence on how science and health findings are communicated responsibly in the media. We
 conducted ESRC-funded interdisciplinary research, with the School of Journalism, Media and
 Culture, on exaggerations versus cautious communication in University and Journal press offices
 and the national and international media. This research, led by Sumner, influenced how findings
 are communicated by press officers and the approach taken to their training (e.g., revised
 STEMPRA guidelines). It also resulted in the Academy of Medical Sciences making 4
 recommendations concerning exaggeration of health news to: the Science Media Centre,
 STEMPRA, UK Research & Innovation funders, and to the Research Excellence Framework. The
 work influenced the development of new science media centres and health communication
 networks across the world (e.g., Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand).
 4.2.   Local, national and international collaborations
 4.2.1. Local collaborations
 Collaboration between our researchers across the University is fostered by shared research
 interests, infrastructure and facilities (see Figure 3 in Section 3.1). We previously mentioned the
 externally funded interdisciplinary centres that our researchers lead (see Section 3.2). The
 College of Biomedical and Life Sciences further promotes interdisciplinary collaboration via its
 major research themes, one of which is Mind, Brain and Neuroscience (with Singh as Theme
 Lead). The University encourages further collaboration across Colleges via its University
 Research Institutes and Networks, which includes our leadership of the NMHRI and the University
 Research Network in Mind, Brain and Computation. The Institute provides an axis for strategic
 joint appointments between Psychology, Medicine and Biosciences. Significant interdisciplinary
 research was also undertaken with the Schools of Architecture, Computer Science and
 Informatics, Engineering, Geography and Planning, Journalism, Media and Culture, Optometry
 and Vision Sciences, Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Physics and Astronomy, and
 Social Sciences.
 Our new Joint Research Office with Cardiff and Vale University Health Board (£0.75M)
 streamlined research governance and contractual arrangements enabling increased engagement
 with clinicians. We host 51 CAT-C honorary research NHS staff (28 men, 23 women), with access
 to libraries, research infrastructure and laboratory space. They make important contributions to
 our environment: training early career researchers, working alongside our researchers in clinical
 trials, and supporting the recruitment and engagement work of our NCMH. 5 NHS consultants and
 clinicians were mentored to NHS research awards, allowing protected research time (1-2 days
 per week) for up to 3 years. NHS clinicians making substantive research contributions receive
 Honorary Professor status. These include Hamandi (Consultant Neurologist), who fosters clinical


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 neuroimaging research in CUBRIC, and Jolles (Consultant Immunologist), who received NHS
 research funding with our researchers for interdisciplinary research in psychiatric immunology.
 4.2.2. National collaborations
 The GW4 Alliance of universities (Cardiff, Bath, Bristol and Exeter) supports extensive
 collaboration within the region (including 4 UKRI innovative doctoral training programmes). We
 also collaborate with many other institutions (e.g., Aberystwyth, Bangor, Bath, Bristol, Cambridge,
 Edinburgh, Exeter, Francis Crick Institute, Glasgow, Imperial College, Kings College, Manchester,
 Nottingham, Oxford, Queen Mary, Swansea, UCL, UEA, and York). For example, as already
 mentioned, Williams leads the Cardiff UK Dementia Research Institute Centre, and Owen co-led
 the Neurodevelopmental Group for the Wellcome Trust UK10K initiative (one of the first large-
 scale genetic sequencing studies of 10,000 UK participants). Our researchers with CU
 researchers in social sciences were also one of seven centres awarded funding under the MRC
 mental health data pathfinder programme (£1M; 2018-2020). The College of Biomedical and Life
 Sciences supported this programme of work by establishing a lectureship focused on integration
 of genetic, clinical and electronic health data. The pathfinder involves national collaboration via
 joint work packages delivered through other pathfinder projects (with Cambridge University, King’s
 College London, Oxford University and Swansea University). The ESRC Centre of Climate
 Change and Social Transformations is a national interdisciplinary collaboration, which works
 closely with industry, local and national governments, and charities to tackle climate change. The
 centre builds on the success of The Climate Change Consortium of Wales (C3W), led in Cardiff
 by Pidgeon, and involving a cross-HEI collaboration with Aberystwyth, Bangor, and Swansea
 Universities. It was funded by the Welsh Government through the Higher Education Funding
 Council for Wales (£4M). Our researchers also lead Cardiff’s involvement in two multi-centre
 psychosis studies: MRC SPRING (£4M) with Manchester and Nottingham; and MRC STRATA
 (£5M) with Edinburgh, King’s, and Manchester.
 4.2.3. International collaborations
 Our researchers benefit from strategic partnerships that Cardiff University developed with
 universities in China and Europe (see Institutional Statement). They also have collaborations
 including the Broad Institute, MIT and Harvard; Mount Sinai; Karolinska Institute; Universities of
 North Carolina; Granada; Toronto; Trinity College Dublin; Aarhus; Oslo; Vrije Universiteit;
 Amsterdam; and institutions in many other countries (e.g., Brazil, India, Japan and Zambia). For
 example, Pidgeon co-led the risk perception theme of the US NSF’s Centre for Nanotechnology
 in Society co-ordinated by UC Santa Barbara from 2006-2015. van Goozen worked with Leiden
 University on two large Dutch Science Foundation (NWO) grants (combined value €1.3M) on
 biomarkers of aggression in children, and early interventions to reduce aggression in infants.
 O’Donovan and Walters co-chair the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC) Schizophrenia
 Group, the largest consortium in psychiatry with other 160 international collaborating PIs from 32
 countries. Holmans co-leads the Systems Biology group within the same consortium. Smith was
 a partner in FLAGSHIP, a 53-month, part EU-funded project (€10M), focusing on improvement of
 safety, environmental friendliness and competitiveness of European maritime transport. We also
 led two EU-FP7 Programmes: BRAINTRAIN (Linden, €5.9M), a study exploring the therapeutic
 use of brain imaging; and REPAIR-HD (Rosser, €6M), a preclinical study to develop human stem
 cells for transplantation in Huntington’s Disease; co-led three EU-FP7 work packages
 (O’Donovan, Owen, Holmans, €3.7M; see Section 1.2.2).
 4.3.   Industrial and strategic partnerships
 Our researchers have established strategic partnerships. The Medicines Discovery Institute and
 HuFEx provide an important basis for the development of industrial and strategic partnerships
 (see Section 1.3.3). Significant successes include a drug discovery partnership established by our
 researchers with Takeda Pharmaceuticals Company Ltd, who made an initial investment of £4M
 over four years, and has more recently acquired Shire plc, another pharmaceutical company, in a
 £46 billion acquisition. This significant expansion provides further opportunities for collaboration.
 HuFEx has >30 external partners from industry (e.g., Airbus, Aston Martin Lagonda, Atkins, BAE
 Systems, BMT Defence, Environment Resource Management, GDUK QinetiQ, Thales),
 government organisations (e.g., GCHQ, National Cyber Security Centre, Welsh Government),

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emergency services (e.g., National Fire Chiefs Council, NHS, Police UK), and charities (e.g.,
 AgeUK, Guide Dogs). Morgan, HuFEx Director, secured a 3-5-year 80% FTE secondment with
 Airbus in the area of Human Factors and Cyber Security (see Section 1.3). The Medicines
 Discovery Institute and HuFEx provide the foundation for our translation research ambitions for
 the foreseeable future.
 4.4.   Contributions to the sustainability of our disciplines
 A core part of our mission is to train the next generation of increasingly interdisciplinary scientists,
 and to equip them for exciting careers as future leaders within and outside academia. Our PGR
 students are supported by a broad range of innovative training, and we graduated 423 PGR
 students in the period (see Section 2.5). We also lead the provision of other types of formal and
 informal training, including the MRC-funded (£1M) UK MEG consortium, which seeks to build
 multi-site clinical research capacity in magnetoencephalography; and MSc courses in
 Neuroimaging: Methods and Applications, Psychiatry; Biostatistics and Bioinformatics; and
 Children’s Psychological Disorders. Our researchers deliver Summer Schools in Brain Sciences
 (attracting >150 UK and international ECRs) and the Winter School in Psychiatry (attracting >350
 students from across the UK). This provision provides an effective pipeline from undergraduate to
 future leader, enabling us to attract and expand the number of research fellows we host.
 Leadership of international conferences: Aggleton, British Neuroscience Association; Dwyer,
 Associative Learning Symposium; Metzler-Baddeley, UK Dementia MRI conference; I. Jones,
 Chair of the International Congress of the Royal College of Psychiatrists; Owen, Genomics of
 Brain Disorders, Wellcome Genome Campus; D. Jones, International Society for Magnetic
 Resonance in Medicine (ISMRM); Wilkinson, European Meeting on Glial Cells in Health and
 Disease; Hall, Cold Spring Harbour Schizophrenia Symposium.
 Contributions in leadership positions and on research boards: Bisson, Director Health and Care
 Research Wales; Owen, Mental Health Research UK, Trustee and Chair of Grants Committee,
 and Council (elected) Academy of Medical Sciences; Williams, Chief Scientific Adviser in Wales.
 Graham, Deputy Chair, MRC Non-Clinical Training and Career Development Panel, and MRC
 Council; Hall (Deputy Chair), O’Donovan, Rosser, MRC Neuroscience and Mental Health Board;
 Harrison, Wellcome training fellowships board.
 Cardiff University signing the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) is
 reflected in our researchers accepting invitations to be Editors or on the Editorial Boards for >30
 international peer-reviewed journals from across the impact factor spectrum. They also served on
 funding and strategic committees for national and international funding bodies (e.g., Autistica,
 ESRC, European Research Council, NERC, the Norwegian Research Council, the Wellcome
 Trust), and in leadership roles for many learned societies and charities (Academy of Medical
 Sciences, Alzheimer’s Dementia Charity, BRACE, Climate Outreach, European Society for
 Human Reproduction and Embryology, Federation of European Neuroscience Societies, Learned
 Society of Wales, Royal Society).
 4.5.   Contributions to the economy and society
 Our 9 impact case studies illustrate how our research leverages public value. Below we provide
 further information about broader contributions to society, medicine and the economy that are
 aligned with these case studies, and other facets of our research impact.
 4.5.1. Environmental Sustainability
 We influence policy and practice through participation in Science Advisory Committees (e.g.,
 Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy; Department of Energy and Climate
 Change; Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs; Government Office of Science; the
 Science Council of the UK Department for Transport). These influences reflect the research
 conducted by Demski and Pidgeon, which forms the basis of the impact case study led by
 Pidgeon. Our researchers also provided expert evidence to Parliamentary Select Committees and
 UK Ministers, and presented research to policy audiences (business, third sector, Westminster,
 Scottish and Welsh Governments, ), including our research about single-use packaging that
 underpins the impact case study led by Poortinga.


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5.2. Health & Wellbeing
 Our researchers contribute to health policy, guidelines and advisory committees. They contribute
 to University Health Boards (R&D Chair, Bisson); the Welsh and UK Governments (CAMHS
 review: Thapar; DoH genetics consultation, Owen, Walters); the National Institute for Health and
 Care Excellence (Bisson, I. Jones); Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Authority
 (Walters); British Association of Psychopharmacology (Hall); Royal Colleges (I. Jones, Walters);
 and international organisations including the World Health Organisation (Owen and I. Jones - ICD-
 11 taskforce). Recently, Pidgeon informed discussion at the Cabinet Office and Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office International Comparators Joint Unit for assessing responses to Covid-19.
 Our researchers have had significant impact. For example, the “Everybody’s Business” campaign
 with the NHS, chaired by I. Jones, resulted in over £375M in new funding for specialist perinatal
 mental health teams across Wales and England, with further progress anticipated in Scotland and
 Northern Ireland (see impact case study). Also, Kerr’s research led to a further impact case study
 on development of the Cardiff Health Check, a tool allowing GPs in Wales and England to identify
 formerly undiagnosed (and unmet) health needs in adults and young people with learning
 difficulties.
 4.5.3. Enterprise
 We influence policy and practice in energy companies (Demski, Pidgeon). Industrial partnerships
 aligned to HuFEx, together with a broad range of stakeholders, enabled co-produced research
 and impact. For example, we engaged in collaborative product development with technology-
 based SMEs (e.g., fertility animations and awareness apps, Boivin and Gameiro; the THINCS
 training and evaluation app for the UK FRS funded by the ESRC, Honey; and the MiND cognitive
 biomarkers app funded by a £490K MRC-ESRC GCRF award, Graham). Research relating to
 fertility awareness (e.g., using animations and apps) informed fertility policy in Japan, which forms
 the basis of Boivin’s impact case study. Our research also informed staff training, development
 and evaluation in the broader emergency services, and we are represented on the Academic
 Reference Group for Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services
 (Honey).
 4.5.4. The impact of our research was recognised nationally and internationally
 Shelton and van den Bree received the Innovate UK Best of the Best Award in 2015 for a KTP
 with Llamau, the leading homelessness charity in Wales. The KTP addressed the vulnerability of
 young homeless people to mental health problems. Shelton’s second KTP with St. David’s
 Children Society (which aligns with her impact case study) was awarded the Innovation Award
 2018 at the House of Lords by the Institute for Collaborative Working and British Standards
 Institute. Honey and Cohen-Hatton received the BBSRC Innovator of the Year Award 2018 for
 their research and its impact on decision-making in the emergency services; this award aligns
 with their impact case study. Their underpinning research received the American Psychological
 Society’s Raymond S. Nickerson Prize in 2017, recognising the potential for enduring impact in
 the area of applied experimental psychology; and Cohen-Hatton (now a Cardiff University Fellow)
 won the American Psychological Association New Investigator award 2017. Craddock and I.
 Jones won the British Medical Association Innovation in Medicine award in 2014 for their
 development of Bipolar Psycho-education programme. The PÂR group received the 2018 Health
 and Care Research Wales Public Involvement Award. Thapar received a CBE in 2017 for services
 to child and adolescent psychiatry. D. Jones received an MBE in 2019 for services to medical
 imaging and the promotion of engagement in science. Owen was knighted in the 2014 Birthday
 Honours list for services to neuroscience and mental health. Pidgeon received an MBE in 2014
 for services to Climate Change and Energy Security Policy. The MRC Centre was recognised with
 a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for achieving outstanding transformative insights into causes,
 diagnosis and treatment of mental illness.
 4.6.   Stakeholder and public engagement strategy
 ECRs drive our science communications and public engagement programmes through bespoke
 events (e.g., Brain Games, Brain Night, Einstein’s Garden at Green Man Festival, Hay and
 Cheltenham Science Festival talks). These events attract tens of thousands of visitors. For
 example, Brain Games attracted 3,670 attendees in 2019. Our ECRs also gained funding (e.g.,

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wellcome ISSF public engagement awards) to develop public engagement, including computer
 games development with a mental health theme (JAMMIND), animations on ADHD and other
 disorders, and artistic events such as How the Light Gets In – Conversations between Art, Science
 and Health, an exhibition which explored the process of taking part in genetic and mental health
 research through art. We also developed Brain Box to support understanding of brain function in
 schools. The kit consists of a set of interactive games and demonstrations (used by >400 students
 during lessons across 20 schools in Wales), and an aligned VR MRI brain scan (viewed >126,000
 times on YouTube).
 We enhanced dissemination of our research to stakeholders through new websites (e.g., fertility
 awareness), videos (e.g., CU’s annual Innovation and Impact Awards), Open Days, and visits by
 sixth formers (e.g., Nuffield Research Placements). The NCMH engaged the public and wider
 stakeholders in their research (see Figure 4). It recruited 28 ‘Research Champions’ who featured
 in associated videos talking about their experience of mental health problems and why they chose
 to participate in research with the Centre. Finally, our research received frequent coverage on
 radio, TV and print media including a major BBC TV documentary presented by Charlotte Church
 and a half-hour radio Wales documentary focussing on the NCMH.
 Patient, family and carer engagement and participation is a central mission. This mission is
 exemplified by the Partnership in Research (PÂR) initiative and the work of the Wales Autism
 Research Centre (WARC). PÂR encourages service user and carer involvement in mental health
 research (see Figure 4) and hosts regular surgeries where researchers can get feedback to shape
 grants applications. Among other activities, researchers in WARC developed a short film, The
 Birthday Party, which supported broader understanding of autism across international
 stakeholders. The research on which the film is based underpins the impact case study led by
 Leekam. Relatedly, research highlighting the benefits of the ‘Supported Employment’ model for
 people with autism and learning disabilities underpins the impact case study led by Beyer. The
 platform and ethos of PÂR and WARC ensure our research will continue to have broad and
 sustainable impact in the future aligned to successful delivery of our future aims (Section 1.4).




          Figure 4. Making a difference with the National Centre for Mental Health.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.7.   External recognition
 Prestigious awards and honours across career stages include: Gameiro, Welsh Crucible/Learned
 Society of Wales Award for the Best Collaborative Welsh Crucible Project 2011-2015; D. Jones,
 James Bull Medal 2019, British Society of Neuroradiologists 2019; Livingstone, BPS Neil
 O’Connor Award; C. Morey, Psychonomic Society Early Career Award 2017; R. Morey,
 Psychonomics Early Career Impact Award, Federation of Associations in Behavioral & Brain
 Sciences 2017; Owen, Lifetime Achievement Award, International Society of Psychiatric Genetics
 2016; Walters, Academic Researcher of the Year, Royal College of Psychiatrists 2019; Thapar,
 Professor of Psychiatry Club Academic Women in Psychiatry Award (joint) for enhancing the
 careers of academic women in psychiatry 2017, Learned Society of Wales Frances Hoggan Medal
 for outstanding research by women in Science 2017, Royal College of Psychiatrists' President’s
 Medal 2015 for contribution to policy, public knowledge, education and meeting population and
 patient care needs.
 The following have been awarded fellowships: Thapar, Learned Society of Wales, Academy of
 Medical Sciences; Culling, Acoustical Society of America; Williams, Gruber, Memory Disorders
 Research Society; Haddock, Society of Personality and Social Psychology; Peall, European
 Society of Neurology.
 Keynote and plenary addresses at national and international conferences include: Aggleton
 (2016), Honey (2017), D. Jones (2015), British Psychological Society; Culling, Ted Evans Lecture
 at the British Society of Audiology 2016, Tohuko Forum for Creativity 2018; Gameiro, European
 Society for Embryology and Human Reproduction 2019; Hall, Owen, Thapar, Royal College of
 Psychiatrists International Congress (2015-2019); D. Jones, International Society for Magnetic
 Resonance in Medicine; Lewis, International Conference on Computational Creativity 2018; R.
 Morey, Royal Statistical Society 2018; Morgan, Symbiotic Intelligent Systems Osaka 2019;
 O’Donovan, Ming Tsuang Lifetime Achievement Award Lecture 2020; Pidgeon, Decarbonising UK
 energy, Royal Society 2017; Rees, American Endocrine Society 2019; Thapar, Academy of
 Medical Sciences 2020; Walters, European Society of Human Genetics 2019; Williams,
 Alzheimer’s Association International Conference 2017.
 Best papers and academic books in the field include: Culling, Jos Miller Prize, British Journal of
 Audiology 2018; D. Jones, Editor’s Choice Human Brain Mapping 2014. Chambers’ book, The
 Seven Deadly Sins of Psychology: A Manifesto for Reforming the Culture of Scientific Practice,
 has received many accolades, including the British Psychological Society Academic Monograph
 Award 2018. In 2020, Graham with international collaborators won the British Psychological
 Society Academic Monograph Award for The Evolution of Memory Systems: Ancestors, Anatomy
 and Adaptions.
 4.8.   An integrated approach to research and research impact
 Our researchers have resources that enable them to thrive, including extensive support for career
 development and innovation activities, and state-of-the-art facilities. Interdisciplinary research is
 supported locally, regionally, and internationally. We have structures in place to facilitate our
 ambition to grow future industrial and strategic partnerships. This integrated approach will enable
 our researchers to continue to make important contributions to the research base, economy, and
 society, providing a platform for achieving of our strategic aims in the next decade.




                                                                                               Page 22
