Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 17 (Business and Management Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 The UCL submission for Business and Management Studies comprises the UCL School of
 Management, which was established during the current REF period in 2015. The creation of the
 School of Management marks a substantial investment in the area of Business and Management
 Studies at UCL. The investment included the opening of new facilities dedicated to the School in
 Canary Wharf in 2016, facilitated by an infrastructure investment of £20M from UCL’s Capital
 Investment Programme, and a further investment of £30M to enable the School to expand and
 double its footprint in 2020. In addition, the School has undertaken a strategic recruitment drive to
 hire researchers from leading universities globally. The UCL REF submission in 2014 was made
 under the name of the Department of Management Science and Innovation, which has since been
 incorporated into the School of Management.
 The UCL School of Management has a research portfolio spanning the full spectrum of business,
 management and finance domains, but differentiates itself from other business schools by
 focusing on the themes of technology, innovation, analytics, and entrepreneurship, studying the
 impact of technology, data, and artificial intelligence on the practice of management.
 1.2 Structure
 The UCL School of Management is organised around five research groups: (1) Strategy &
 Entrepreneurship, (2) Organisations & Innovation, (3) Marketing & Analytics, (4) Operations &
 Technology, and (5) Finance, Accounting & Economics. Each research group is led by a professor
 responsible for subject-level research activities, recruitment and mentorship. Other research
 support activities are organised at School level, including the annual recruitment of research
 assistants to support domain-level research activities. Research activities are coordinated by the
 Research Committee, chaired by the Director of Research, and comprising the School Director,
 and representatives of each of the groups.
 The UCL School of Management is an integral part of a world-leading university and the main
 focal point for business and management research and education at UCL. The School has
 maximised the potential for collaboration with scholars across UCL in science, engineering, and
 social sciences. When the School was established, a strategic decision was made to focus its
 efforts on those areas of business and management studies that have the highest synergy and
 compatibility with the research strengths of other UCL departments, including Economics (e.g. in
 financial economics), Psychology (e.g. in business psychology), Computer Science (e.g. in
 artificial intelligence), Statistics (e.g. in data science), and Population Health Science (e.g. in
 healthcare management). The School’s organisational situation within the Faculty of Engineering
 Sciences further creates opportunities for collaborative projects with researchers from engineering
 and computer science disciplines.
 1.3 Research
 The School’s vision is to be a world‐leading centre of research excellence, conducting theoretical,
 empirical and experimental analyses of managerial, organisational, and operational dynamics in
 innovation‐intensive organisations. In keeping with UCL’s tradition of interdisciplinarity and
 contribution to the public benefit (REF5a 2.1), the UCL School of Management aims to (1) create
 impactful research for the complex, interconnected world of the future, guided by the dual priorities
 of creating new knowledge and having a tangible impact on the key challenges facing businesses
 and other organisations worldwide; (2) educate the entrepreneurial business leaders of tomorrow,
 by re-imaging management education with programmes that are interdisciplinary and grounded in
 the latest thinking and research from mathematics, economics, engineering, and the social
 sciences; (3) help organisations succeed and change the world, by creating impactful and applied
 research, providing executive education and training graduates to help entrepreneurs, high-growth


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and multinational businesses and policy makers succeed in a deeply complex, interconnected and
 data-driven world.
 The Business and Management UoA at UCL has seen significant expansion during the REF
 period, exceeding the REF2014 objective to recruit an additional 20 researchers, expanding the
 department/school from 15 to 39 academics. In that same period, we have increased our research
 groups from two to five, each one linked the School’s focus areas in entrepreneurship, innovation,
 analytics and technology. We have recruited leading academics from top universities such as
 Cambridge (Claus, Gladstone), Harvard (Doshi, Tsay, Fisher), MIT (Ching), Stanford
 (Thatchenkery), Berkeley (Liu), Northwestern (Yoon), Cornell (Krause), Duke (Deng), UCLA
 (Danbold), Carnegie Mellon (Korpeoglu, Singh), and London Business School (Lee,
 Malherbe).The School’s research has also seen a significant expansion in that period, with the
 overall number of research outputs increasing by more than 300%, all of which have been made
 open-access.
 Moving forward, the School will focus on growing each of the research groups in order to secure
 a critical number of researchers in each group. The goal is to enable a rich and diverse research
 environment, aiming to recruit another 20 faculty members and double the annual rate of research
 outputs. In the areas of finance and economics, the School closely collaborates with the UCL
 Department of Economics, for instance through joint appointments (e.g. Malherbe, Gorbenko,
 Yang), in order to foster interdisciplinary collaboration and research across the two units at UCL.
 The expectation is to make 2-3 joint appointments per year until a sustainable group of 12-15
 academics is established.
 The School aims to create a world-leading research environment through the following
 mechanisms:
   Recruitment of academic staff: The School is home to 39 scholars, recruited from leading
    universities around the world. The School’s faculty is also global (67% from outside the UK and
    EU), and since its inception, very few faculty (5) have left the School.
   High quality and impact: A focus on high-impact research, published in top-tier international
    journals, with a focus on quality and global impact rather than mere quantity of research.
    Faculty are encouraged to focus on research that makes a substantial contribution in their field,
    without short-term targets for the number of publications. Faculty are given ample research
    time, at least 60% of their total time, with low teaching loads (60 contact hours per year),
    enabling dedicated periods of time for research, while education quality remains at the highest
    level.
   Strong research support: Academics have access to state-of-the-art research facilities (e.g.
    labs, high-performance computing), research funding provided by the School (£10-15k p.a. per
    researcher to support conference attendance etc.), and access to a pool of research assistants
    (typically PhD students from various London universities) to support their research.
   A vibrant interdisciplinary research culture: Academics frequently collaborate across research
    groups, and with academics in other UCL faculties, including engineering (e.g. on operations
    management), computer science (e.g. on artificial intelligence), psychology (e.g. on negotiation
    and decision making), economics (e.g. on contract theory) and the medical school (e.g. on
    access to health care and drug development processes). Each research group has a research
    seminar series in which renowned scholars and rising stars from around the world are invited,
    for instance Gans, Cachon, Allon, Netessine (Wharton), Simchi-Levi, Perakis, Carroll, Stern
    (MIT), Taylor (Berkeley), Ching (Johns Hopkins), Ghose (NYU), Tang (UCLA), Sudhir (Yale),
    Nair, Johari (Stanford), Misra (Chicago), Maglaras (Columbia), Lariviere (Northwestern),
    Bernstein (Duke), Ansari, Chick (INSEAD), Kavadias (Cambridge). Also, each research group
    has a weekly “reading group”, where their research in progress is discussed.
   Comprehensive staff development: Colleagues are supported through all stages from lecturer
    to professor with mentoring by senior academics within and beyond the School through a global
    network of contacts. The success of the approach is demonstrated by the fact that all promotion
    cases put forward by the School have been successful.
   Wide engagement: The School’s research is informed and developed by rich interactions with
    industrial sectors and policy makers, supported by the School’s Deputy Director for Enterprise.
    An example of such collaborations is the School’s research in the transportation area, with

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    major research projects with the UK Department for Transport, Network Rail, Heathrow Airport,
    and Eurocontrol.
 Within the UCL School of Management, there is strong emphasis on developing and maintaining
 a culture of research integrity. Faculty members are first introduced to UCL’s Statement on
 Research Integrity and Code of Conduct for Research during induction. Thereafter, faculty and
 PhD students participate in weekly reading groups in which working papers are shared and openly
 discussed with colleagues. These activities promote adherence to UCL’s principles of research
 integrity that include honesty, rigor, transparency, and research ethics. In addition to the internal
 collaborative activities to promote research integrity, researchers are also encouraged to pre-
 register their studies and to present their work in progress at international conferences and at peer
 schools. In this way, by encouraging exposure of the ongoing research to experts in the field, the
 School promotes quality and the continued trust and confidence of the wider academic community.
 Within the School, all research projects, including those of students, are subjected to scrutiny
 concerning research ethics and the care and respect for human subjects. The School has recently
 set up an ethics committee for this purpose.
 1.4 Impact
 A core aim of the School is to help organisations succeed and change the world, by creating
 impactful and applied research, providing executive education and supporting entrepreneurs,
 high-growth businesses, and policy makers succeed in a deeply complex, interconnected and
 data-driven world. The School’s impact strategy and activities are overseen by the Director of
 Enterprise. Each faculty member is given time in the School’s workload model to engage in impact
 activities (at least 10%), which are discussed, agreed and appraised with the Head of relevant
 research group on an annual basis. Administrative and professional support is provided by the
 School’s communications and marketing team as well as UCL Enterprise and Innovation. The
 School’s approach to impact focuses on building relationships and maximising the benefits of its
 research for key user groups through:
(1) Transfer of specialist knowledge and expertise to practitioners, policy makers and the
    public, via:
   Publications in practitioner journals, magazines, newspapers and social media. The
    School’s faculty are encouraged and incentivised through annual appraisal and promotional
    review processes to share research findings, not only through top-tier academic journals, but
    also through outlets directed at professionals. For example, Gladstone is a regular guest on
    BBC World News and his research has been profiled in The Wall Street Journal, Time
    Magazine, The Economist, and The New York Times; Tsay’s research has featured in The
    Economist, Times, The Wall Street Journal, BBC, Forbes, Fox Business, Harvard Business
    Review, Huffington Post, Le Figaro, and Le Monde.
   Conferences and events organised by the School which provide a forum for staff
    engagement with practitioners and policy makers. For instance, Malherbe organised the 2018
    the European Financial Intermediation Network Conference at the School.
   Presentations and practitioner conferences. Faculty are encouraged (with funding) to
    attend and contribute to practitioner and policy conferences, facilitating a dialogue with this
    important user group, such that they are able to ensure the on-going relevance and utility of
    their work to them. Examples include De Reyck’s presentations at Eurocontrol Agency
    Research Team Workshop on Airport Capacity (Madrid, 2016) and at the Eurocontrol Airport
    Operations Team Workshop (Brussels, 2016), Kilduff’s multiple contributions to the World
    Brand Summit practitioner conference, Tsay’s presentations for the UK Department for
    International Trade, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, the
    United States Military Academy at West Point, the Curtis Institute of Music, the Children’s
    Hospital of Philadelphia, and the Association of British Orchestras.
(2) Applied research and research collaborations
   Encouraging academics to work on problems that are directly relevant to business practice and
    in collaboration with industry partners is a key component of the School’s approach to
    generating impact. The benefits of the School’s work to for-profit and non-profit organisations


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      are typically achieved through applied research and consulting projects. Notable recent
      examples include (1) a project commissioned by the UK Department for Transport to improve
      forecasts of timelines and budgets of major UK infrastructure projects, resulting in the
      Department of Transport’s “Transport Analysis Guidance” (www.dft.gov.uk/webtag/), (2) a
      project commissioned by Eurocontrol to improve the transfer passenger process and
      experience at Heathrow airport, resulting in a system currently in operation at Heathrow, (3) a
      collaborative research project with the Noble Group, a global supply chain manager of energy
      products, to optimize their transhipment operations in Asia, and (4) social entrepreneurship
      projects with UNICEF, Amnesty and Plan International for which Klaus was awarded Carolyn
      B Dexter Award in 2017.
     The School fosters impact-focused research at the earliest career stage, with graduate
      students being required to undertake projects that address organisation-specific problems, and
      a large number of graduate students undertake research while based within a host
      organisation. These placements also constitute an important channel for the development of
      the School's network of external partners and for the transfer of research expertise to those
      companies. Examples include Fragkos' work with the UK Department for Transport and
      Network Rail, and Guo's work with Heathrow Airport.
 The submitted impact case studies underscore the centrality to the School’s approach to impact
 of collaborative research projects with commercial organisations and policy makers; they
 demonstrate the potential that such collaborations offer to solve the School’s partners’ business
 and organisational challenges. For those case studies, key research findings were published in
 academic outlets as well as professional journals, and presented at practitioner conferences to
 increase the reach of their impacts by sharing relevant findings with a wide variety of
 organisations beyond those for which the new frameworks were developed.
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Strategy. The composition of the School’s academic staff is very international, with 87% non-
 British citizens or dual nationals. The School’s staffing strategy consists of hiring distinguished
 scholars and promising early career academics from rigorous PhD programmes, and providing an
 environment that allows them to achieve their full potential in terms of producing research that is
 innovative and impactful. The School offers market-competitive salaries, which enables the
 recruitment of leading scholars in their field as well as promising junior faculty.
 Composition. The School currently has 39 category-A academic staff members, a growth of 24
 since the previous REF, and the strategic plan includes the provision to recruit 20 more academic
 staff over the next five years. In addition to academic staff, the School also has five research
 fellows (both internally and externally funded), who support the research projects of the academic
 faculty. Table 1 shows a breakdown of academic and research staff. Altogether 32 academics
 hold a fellowship of the Higher Education Academy, including education-focussed faculty.


 Table 1. Staff (headcount)
                          Age <30 <40 <50 <60 >60 Male Female                    Total
    Academic    Lecturer       1   17  4   1   0   17     6                       23
                Associate          4   6   0   1    8     3                       11
                Professor
                Professor          2   2       1    4     1                        5
    Research    Research           4   1            2     3                        5
                Fellow
    Total                      1   27  13  1   2   31    13                       44
 Induction. New faculty members participate in a series of induction events and training through
 which the School communicates its approach and support for research, as well as its commitment
 to diversity and research integrity. Induction starts with a one-day event during which new faculty

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members get to meet the School’s Senior Management Team, their immediate line manager, and
 other relevant members of the School. The induction day is also an opportunity for new faculty to
 establish early connections across the School’s five research groups. Other induction events are
 coordinated through a Moodle site which prompts new faculty members to sign up for training and
 important resources related to research integrity, EDI networks, and public engagement.
 Appraisals and promotions. The School has a clear procedure for career development and a
 rigorous promotion review process for academic staff. The review process includes an interim
 review after 3 years and a promotion review that typically takes place at the end of the 6th year,
 although earlier promotion is possible. During this period, staff development and support is
 provided through annual appraisals with the Heads of the research groups, to agree on research
 targets, provide research guidance, identify potential areas of improvement, and to discuss other
 aspects that contribute to a successful research career, as well as teaching, enabling and
 knowledge exchange with the non-academic community. During the current REF reporting period,
 8 academics were promoted to associate professor, and 2 to professor.
 Teaching and Research Support. In order to achieve its vision of becoming a world leader for
 research and impact, the School limits the teaching load of its academic staff, with flexibility to
 concentrate teaching duties in order to create large blocks of uninterrupted research time. In
 addition, each member of academic staff is given an annual research budget (£10-15k p.a.) that
 enables them to attend international conferences and collaborate with researchers around the
 world. Academics are entitled to a one-term sabbatical after every three years. Moreover, faculty
 returning from maternity leave are given a term of study leave, and a 50% reduction in their normal
 teaching load for one year.
 Support for early-career researchers. Academic staff in the first few years of their careers are
 assured that the development of their research careers is the first priority. This is made manifest
 in a number of ways: (a) a reduced teaching load during the first years, ensuring the transition to
 a full academic position does not interfere with their research momentum, (b) allocating start-up
 funds to set up a research activity, and (c) access to research assistants. Furthermore, the School
 allocates each new recruit an academic mentor to advise on all matters that affect their work from
 understanding local administrative procedures to taking a strategic view of their research goals.
 2.2 Research students
 Strategy. The School’s PhD programme provides rigorous research training to highly motivated
 and talented students interested in pursuing an academic career as a faculty member in a leading
 business school. The programme is competitive with less than 5% out of 1,120 applicants securing
 a place during the REF reporting period, a total of 43 students. The intake will be gradually
 increased, in line with the recruitment of new academic staff. The programme consists of a one-
 year MRes programme, followed by a four-year PhD programme. A total of 10 students were
 awarded a degree during the REF period. The School’s PhD strategy mirrors its overall research
 strategy focusing on high quality and high impact research. The PhD programme is therefore kept
 at a small size, ensuring that that each student receives personal attention and guidance from
 faculty members throughout their doctoral study, an essential foundation for a successful
 academic career.
 Funding. The School views PhD students as an integral part of the research community and
 therefore offers fully funded scholarships and stipends to all of its students, including overseas
 students. The School’s budget for doctoral scholarships was £885,000 in 2019-20, having
 increased from £320,000 in 2013-14. Students can also access School-provided funding to stay
 as visiting scholars in an overseas institution.
 Support and supervision. The School views PhD students as an important investment to the
 viability and sustainability of the discipline and an integral part of the School’s research community.
 Doctoral students are fully integrated in the School’s research activities and culture. All the
 students are guided by at least two supervisors who have attended training provided by UCL Arena
 for research supervisors: Introduction to Research Supervision (16 supervisors), Effective
 Supervision (3 supervisors), and Examining Doctorates (6 supervisors). Students get further
 guidance on their research by submitting work to reading groups within their research groups,
 which are held weekly during term-time and attended by all academics. This process of peer-

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 review provides doctoral students with an excellent training in how to produce robust and high-
 quality research. Students not only receive feedback on their own work, but are also able to
 observe how the work of senior academics develops over time. Doctoral students are also given
 the opportunity to attend a wide range of research events, including seminars delivered by visiting
 academics, bi-annual School-wide meetings and social events organised by the School.
 Moreover, the School’s new facilities in Canary Warf have been designed to foster interaction
 between students and academics within each research group. The doctoral students have a desk
 in an open area surrounded by the offices or their advisors and other academics from their
 research group.
 Skills development. The School offers PhD students advanced training in research methods as
 well as in their subject area. Students are first enrolled into a one-year Masters of Research
 programme, which includes several advanced research-oriented postgraduate courses. Given the
 interdisciplinary nature of the research performed in the School, the PhD programme offers access
 to a wide variety of courses not just in the School itself, but also in other UCL departments (e.g.,
 Economics and Psychology) and other London-based universities (e.g., London Business School
 and LSE). This arrangement gives the PhD students access to faculty in other UCL departments
 and London universities. Similarly, students from other UCL faculties and schools take PhD
 courses offered by the School. Additionally, students have access to a wide range of research and
 career training provided through the UCL Doctoral Skills Development Programme.
 Research training is enhanced through further support provided by the School:
   Full funding to attend and present papers at prestigious international conferences, with
    students winning best paper awards at these conferences (e.g. in 2018, Lee was Winner of the
    Best Paper Award, MOC Division, Academy of Management and Guo was Winner of Winner
    of the 2018 INFORMS Decision Analysis Society Best Student Paper Award).
   Facilitation of a research stay of at least a semester, and up to a year, in a top global business
    school as a visiting scholar. Previous visits include the University of Chicago, Michigan
    University and Boston University. This initiative, fully funded by the School, ensures that PhD
    graduates are connected to top scholars globally as well as in the UK, which is important for
    ensuring their success as early-career lecturers.
   Interaction with industry to ensure real-life research impact. For instance, PhD students have
    worked with the Department for Transport, Network Rail, The UK Behavioural Insights Team,
    the Noble Group, and start-ups in London (e.g. nPlan) and Silicon Valley (e.g. Vungle).
   To have at least one paper in an advanced review round for a top journal before graduation.
    Students develop their publications with the guidance of their advisors and through
    participation to weekly reading groups in which they get feedback on their work. A manuscript
    is typically reviewed by a reading group multiple times before it is submitted for publication.
    Reading groups also provide support for dealing with the review and resubmission process
    with tenured academics having experience from publishing in particular target journals.
 Student progress and support is monitored through an annual cycle of activities. Supervisors and
 students submit twice-yearly progress reports to the Director of the PhD programme. These are
 designed to ensure that any difficulties or specific needs can be identified and resolved at an early
 stage. In addition, all research students are required to record all key stages of their progress on
 UCL’s online Research Student Log. The online log is designed to monitor each student’s
 progress, but the log also helps to identify skill gaps and direct students to specific training
 courses.
 Students discuss job search and market strategies with their supervisor(s) and typically identify a
 list of target universities based on the disciplinary area of the students’ doctoral work and personal
 preferences. They also prepare an academic CV and a job presentation with the help of academics
 from the School. Students graduating during the current REF period have secured employment at
 the Robert H. Smith School of Business at the University of Maryland, ESSEC Business School,
 IE Business School, Rotterdam School of Management, University College Dublin, University of
 Bath, and the University of Warwick.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3. Equality and diversity
 Values and organisational structure. Since its inception, the School has fostered equality and
 diversity in operating the School and providing support to academic staff. Since 2016, all staff
 have been required to take diversity training related to protected characteristics and on bullying
 and harassment. This training has included workshops such as “Where do you draw the line”,
 “Taking the Lead”, and “Ally”. All research group leads who have been involved in REF
 preparations and assessment of outputs have attended this training. In addition, they have
 attended training provided at institutional level about unconscious bias with 100% completion rate.
 The School’s senior management team includes three men and three women, and the team
 considers equality and diversity indicators on a regular basis (on recruitment, research
 performance, promotion, etc.), taking action when needed in alignment with the School’s EDI
 action plan. In August 2019, the School institutionalized equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)
 values and policies by formally appointing a Director of EDI, setting up an EDI taskforce, and
 formally including EDI as a recurring item on the agenda of key school meetings and developing
 assessment tools to identify EDI issues and staff opinions (e.g. through bi-annual surveys,
 interviews and focus groups). The School is systematically including statements about diversity
 and equality on its job adverts, promotional material and communications. It also regularly reviews
 the visual diversity of its communication material ensuring that photos and graphs reflect the
 School’s diverse staff and student body. In May 2020, the School was awarded Athena SWAN
 Bronze.
 Staff composition. In 2020, among the Schools’ academic staff, 26% are female and 46%
 identified as BAME. The Schools’ analysis for its Athena Swan submission revealed some gender
 disparity in the past three-year recruitment and promotion data, and as a result the School has set
 target gender ratios to achieve by 2022 (30% female in Grade 10 - professor; 40% female in Grade
 9 - associate professor). The relatively low proportion of women at full professor level is partially
 caused by a low number of female applicants for senior positions; for instance, in 2018/19, only
 15% of applicants for professorial positions were female. When women have applied, however,
 they have been likelier to be shortlisted than men; in 2018/19, 50% of the shortlisted candidates
 were women. It has, however, been challenging to convince female candidates to accept an offer
 for a faculty position because other schools are also seeking to hire female talent to enhance their
 diversity, creating a very competitive environment. Therefore, the School has developed a plan to
 attract more female applications at professor level. This plan includes a creation of a network of
 international female scholars who are directly invited for research visits and job vacancies at the
 School. Moreover, the School will sponsor and host special events directed at female academics
 during major international academic conferences. In contrast to external recruitment, the School
 has been successful in promoting female academic staff internally; in the latest senior promotions
 round, 50% of professorial promotions were women, and in the entire REF period, 45% of all
 senior promotions were women. During the REF period, an equal number of successful senior
 promotion candidates identified as white and BME, which is in line with the proportion of
 white/BME staff in the School.
 Supporting career progression. In terms of offering academics flexible working arrangements
 and leave (e.g., maternity, paternity, special leave), the School follows UCL’s institutional policy
 but with room for extra support at the request of individual academics. The School provides for
 flexible working arrangements through planned remote working, flexitime, and requested timetable
 slots for teaching when possible. According to a 2017 survey, 89% of respondents (90% of all
 female respondents, 89% of all male respondents) agreed that they were able to use flexible work
 arrangements as long as they got the job done. A separate survey revealed that 70% of
 respondents noted that they had benefitted from School arrangements for flexible and/or remote
 working; 67% of respondents with caring responsibilities and/or ill health had had conference
 attendance or other necessary travel to support research facilitated by the School; 80% of
 respondents noted that equality and diversity considerations were taken into account with regard
 to support for funding and access to research resources; and 89% of respondents believed that
 the School had been supportive of their well-being. In alignment with institutional policy within
 UCL, female academics are given a term of study leave and a reduced teaching load when they
 return from maternity leave. The School is also encouraging male academics to use the
 opportunity to take shared parental leave by enhancing awareness of this possibility because

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interviews conducted by the School’s EDI team with male academics have revealed that they are
 not always aware of the university’s parental leave provisions. Several male academics have now
 taken up shared parental leave.
 REF submission. The School has paid due attention to equality and diversity issues during the
 construction of its REF submission. All researchers involved in REF preparations and assessment
 of outputs have attended UCL’s REF EDI training. The REF review and selection group monitored
 equality issues on an ongoing basis, making adjustments where possible, for instance by
 prioritizing outputs deemed of equal quality based on EDI characteristics. The School’s leadership
 also made it clear that the selection or non-selection of outputs would have no impact on the career
 development of the colleagues involved.
 Looking at the School’s REF submission, no significant gender disparities were found in both past
 and current REF submissions. In 2014, 100% of eligible (i.e., independent researcher) females
 and 85% of eligible males were submitted to the REF. In the current submission, 100% of both
 eligible male and female staff were submitted, as required by the new REF guidelines. In terms of
 submitted outputs, 23% of selected papers submitted were by female authors, more or less in line
 with the 26% proportion of female staff. There also was no strong evidence of gender disparity in
 terms of the number of outputs submitted per individual. Among the staff for whom four or five
 outputs were submitted, 25% were female, in line with the 26% proportion of female staff. Among
 the staff for whom only one output was submitted, 33% were female, slightly above the 26%
 proportion.
 There are also no clear ethnicity-related disparities in the current REF submission. 100% of eligible
 BAME staff were submitted as per the REF regulations. 42% of selected outputs were submitted
 by BAME staff, more or less in line with the 46% proportion of BAME staff. Also, 42% of those who
 submitted four of five outputs have a BAME background. Among those who submitted one output,
 47% have a BAME background.
 Finally, no evidence could be found in the REF submission of disparities related to sexual
 orientation or disability. As per the REF rules, 100% of staff were submitted, including one declared
 LGBTQ+ and one declared disabled member of staff. The LGBTQ+ member of staff was submitted
 with five publications, and the member of staff with a declared disability was submitted with three
 publications.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The School’s income has increased substantially over the REF period from £10M pa in 2013/14
 to almost £35M pa in 2019/20. Approximately 55% of the School’s revenues is re-invested in the
 School, with the remainder contributing to central university expenses and investments (for
 instance in new physical space).
 The School’s research activities are partially funded through QR funding and grant income from
 research councils such as ESRC (e.g. Kilduff on the dynamics of distributed innovation; Kang on
 accountability, capacity and trust to improve learning outcomes), EPSRC (e.g. Dave Chapman on
 intelligent positioning in cities using GNSS and enhanced 3D mapping; Kang on a systems
 approach on causal and probabilistic approaches for complex transportation networks), MRC
 Future Leaders Fellowships scheme (e.g. Aristidou on examining new models of work and novel
 organizational forms emerging in partnerships between the public and third sectors), Innovate UK
 (e.g. Yoo and De Reyck on using AI to optimise supply chains; Jong on developing business
 models and value systems for new medicines), Horizon 2020 (e.g. De Reyck on business process
 reengineering to improve European airport operations), the National Institute for Health Research
 (e.g. Jong), the Technology Strategy Board (e.g. De Reyck’s BRITS project), and industry councils
 such as the European Office of Aerospace Research and Development (e.g. Kilduff on the effects
 of network perceptions on leadership effectiveness and the effect of enmity on social network
 perceptions). In addition, some of the School’s tuition fee revenues (approx. £1.65M pa) are
 dedicated to supporting research (e.g. through providing PhD student funding, research
 assistants, hardware and software) and for providing each faculty member with an individual


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research budget (£10k-£15k pa) for attending conferences, running research experiments,
 purchasing access to data sets, and acquiring research equipment.
 The organisational infrastructure for supporting research and impact includes a structure of
 research related committees, research leadership roles, research assistants, professional
 services staff (e.g., to support writing and costing research bids, and to publicize and disseminate
 research findings), and IT support (e.g., to support high-performance computing needs).
 In 2016, the School moved into its new premises in Canary Wharf, with state-of-the-art research
 and education facilities dedicated to the School, an investment of £20M. In 2020, the School
 expanded by doubling its footprint in Canary Wharf, a further investment of £30M by UCL.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Arrangements to support research collaborations
 The School’s faculty collaborate closely with researchers around the world to ensure the global
 relevance and impact of their research. All academics in the School pursue research
 collaborations which are typically international in nature. Academics have co-authored with
 researchers from universities such as Harvard (Fisher, Thatchenkery, Tsay, De Reyck), Stanford
 (Thatchenkery), University of Pennsylvania (Fisher), Chicago (Zhang), Columbia (Gladstone),
 Duke (Deng), Northwestern (Gladstone), Carnegie Mellon (Korpeoglu), Michigan, UCLA
 (Gokpinar, Smith, Yoo), NYU (Ibrahim), INSEAD (Stan, Vanneste), Melbourne (De Reyck),
 London Business School (Harvey, Kilduff, Lee), and Cambridge (Klaus).
 Research collaborations are facilitated by the School in three ways. First, the School hosts a series
 of research seminars where faculty members from other universities are invited to present their
 research, with speakers selected in order to explore and pursue research collaborations. The
 seminars are overseen by a committee and enabled by a budget to pay for the travel and
 accommodation expenses of the speakers. There are on average 2/3 seminars per week.
 Speakers have included faculty from a wide range of international schools from the US, Asia and
 Europe. Many publications included in the School’s REF submission have emerged from the
 resulting collaborations. The School also provides funds to enable collaborations to bring research
 partners to the UK, e.g. Christopher Tang (UCLA) and Sergei Savin (Wharton).
 Second, the School promotes and enables research stays in other institutions for both faculty
 members and research students. Such stays are facilitated by flexibility in teaching arrangements,
 sabbaticals, and a budget for paying for related expenses. Research stays have been pursued in
 a number of leading business schools globally (e.g. De Reyck at Harvard, Kang at Stanford, Ching
 at Columbia, Kilduff at Singapore Management University, Gokpinar at Georgia Tech, Ravasi at
 Copenhagen Business School, and Vanneste at the University of New South Wales). The success
 of the stays is demonstrated by the publications coming out of the research stays as included in
 the School’s submission.
 Finally, in line with UCL’s Grand Challenges programme (REF5a 2.2.3), the School has pursued
 interdisciplinary research related to global health (e.g., Gladstone on financial planning predicting
 mortality), sustainable cities (e.g., De Reyck on airport and air traffic control management), cultural
 understanding (e.g., Claus on child marriage in Indonesia), human wellbeing (e.g., Ibrahim on
 modelling of health care systems), justice and equality (e.g., Tsay on biased evaluations in
 aesthetic competitions and Lee on gender differences in responses to competition in the
 workplace), and transformative technology (e.g., Deng on cyber security for the NHS and Forti on
 digital platforms for freelance labour).
 4.2. Fostering relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 Academics also collaborate with non-academic organisations on major research projects,
 including the Department for Transport, Network Rail, Transport for London, Eurocontrol, and the
 Noble Group. Relations with research users and other constituents are also fostered through the
 roles held by faculty on advisory groups and committees, e.g. Malherbe on the Academic Advisory
 Group, Bank of England’s One Bank Research Steering Committee (OBRSC), and Rietveld’s
 contributions to the Digital Markets Taskforce at the UK Competition and Markets Authority.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has its own marketing and communications team that works together with UCL
 Communications to disseminate research findings to relevant audiences. As a results, research
 by the School’s academics has been covered in media outlets across the world including the UK
 (BBC, The Economist, The Times, The Financial Times), the US (The Wall Street Journal, The
 New York Times, TIME), France (Le Monde, Le Figaro), and Germany (Der Spiegel, Deutsche
 Welle, Die Presse, Die Welt).
 4.3. Contributing to the sustainability of the discipline
 All faculty members contribute to the sustainability of the discipline by reviewing for top academic
 journals and as members of editorial boards. Several faculty members are regularly recognised
 for their contribution through outstanding reviewer awards, e.g. Fisher for Academy of
 Management Journal and Organizational Behaviour, Harvey for Academy of Management Review
 and Journal of Organizational Behaviour, and Vanneste for Organization Science. Members of the
 department have acted as editors and associate editors on a variety of journals, including
 Administrative Science Quarterly (Kilduff), Academy of Management Journal (Kilduff),
 Management Science (Ibrahim), Operations Research (Ibrahim), Journal of Operations
 Management (Gokpinar), Manufacturing and Services Operations Management (Ibrahim), and
 Strategic Management Journal (Vanneste).
 Faculty members also contribute to professional associations and conferences through a variety
 of roles from chairing conferences and disciplinary tracks, to serving on best paper committees,
 e.g. Rouba co-chairing the 2015 Young European Queueing Theory workshop and the 2018
 Stochastic Modelling Conference, Kilduff chairing 2020 Organization and Management Theory
 Division of the Academy of Management Meeting.
 Faculty members also serve on research grant committees, e.g. National Science Foundation
 (Kilduff), Swiss National Science Foundation (Kilduff), Flemish Fund for Scientific Research (De
 Reyck), and Academy of Finland Research Council (Tsay).
 The influence and contribution of faculty has been recognised through prizes and awards. The
 School’s early career researchers have had a particularly strong impact as acknowledged through
 international prizes, including the 2017 Forbes 30 under 30 (Gladstone), the 2018 Association for
 Psychological Science Rising Star Award (Tsay), the 2016 INFORMS TIMES Doctoral
 Dissertation Award Competition (Korpeoglu), the 2016 Academy of Management Conference Best
 Paper (Krause), the 2018 Wiley Blackwell Outstanding Dissertation Award (Thatchenkery). Senior
 faculty have also won several awards, e.g. Kilduff winning the 2015 Academy of Management
 Annals Best Paper Award, the 2018 Ihnatowycz Institute for Leadership Best Article Award, and
 the 2019 Academy of Management Best Symposium Award.
 The School also collaborates with London Business School, Imperial College Business School,
 LSE and City University Business School to provide research training at the doctoral level. Each
 of the institutions hosts doctoral training courses attended by students from the other institutions.


 Summary

 The UCL School of Management has made significant progress since UCL’s submission to REF
 2014. £50M has been invested in new dedicated facilities for the School’s research and education
 activities. The School’s academic staff has grown above and beyond the targets set out in 2014,
 with its REF submission growing from 13 to 39, the establishment of five research groups, and the
 number of research outputs growing by 300%. The School’s leadership intends to continue this
 growth during the next REF period, by hiring and developing more world-leading scholars and
 creating an environment that supports high-quality research with maximum impact, while
 maintaining research integrity, and with a firm eye on equality and diversity.




                                                                                              Page 10
