Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 27 (English Language and Linguistics)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 English Language and Literature at Aberdeen builds on a distinguished history of research that
 reaches back to the study and teaching of rhetoric and criticism at King’s and Marischal Colleges
 in the C18, and was consolidated with the establishment of our Regius Chair of English
 Literature in 1894. We have a leading international research presence across a range of
 specialisms in English studies, with distinctive strengths in Scottish literature, languages and
 culture and Creative Writing. We collaborate with other disciplines to intervene in fields including
 performance studies, science and technology studies, postcolonial studies, interarts studies,
 environmental and medical humanities, and intercultural communication. Through our work on
 Scottish literature, languages and culture, we engage a variety of public audiences and
 contribute to the cultural enrichment of our region. Our expertise in language use in North East
 Scotland enables us to influence public policy and increase cultural understanding nationally and
 internationally.
 UOA27 has 23 (22.6 FTE) permanent staff members. We are part of Language, Literature,
 Music and Visual Culture (LLMVC), one of twelve academic Schools at Aberdeen. English
 Language and Literature encompasses English Literature (medieval to contemporary),
 Language & Linguistics, Creative Writing, and Celtic & Anglo-Saxon Studies. LLMVC also
 includes Modern Languages, Film & Visual Culture, and Music, as well as the Elphinstone
 Institute (for ethnographic research). The focus of our research in Language & Linguistics is on
 the applied linguistics of English (taken broadly and including Scots), meaning it is returned to
 UOA27.
 The School’s unitary structure facilitates our collaborative and interdisciplinary activity; enables
 strategic investment in our research; and provides administrative, policy and financial support,
 including match-funding contributions and PhD scholarships. The Head of School oversees
 research strategy and policy, working with Directors of Research (DoR), Postgraduate Studies
 (DPGS) and Postgraduate Research (DPGR), a Research Ethics Officer, and an Equality,
 Diversity & Inclusion lead. Research strategy is developed by the School Research Committee
 (chaired by DoR), constituted by discipline research leads, School impact lead, and School PGR
 Director. Postgraduate strategy is developed by the School Postgraduate Committee (chaired by
 DPGS). Interface with institutional strategy and policy is via the University Research Policy
 Committee (representation from DoR), Postgraduate Committee (representation from DPGR)
 and Committee for Research Ethics & Governance in Arts, Social Sciences & Business
 (representation from Research Ethics Officer). Internally, Research and PG Committees report
 to School Forum and EDI Committee (for Athena SWAN implementation).
 The School Office provides administrative support for research, PGRs, and Athena SWAN. The
 University Postgraduate Research School (PGRS) manages doctoral training partnerships, and
 coordinates central provision of postgraduate training, monitoring and support. Research &
 Innovation (R&I) provides institutional support for funding applications, horizon scanning, grant
 management, impact activity and knowledge exchange (see REF5a).
 Our research strategy is to maintain and develop an environment that enables researchers to
 pursue their respective interests, facilitating opportunities for collaboration and intellectual
 exchange. Building on our success in REF2014, we have expanded our achievement of high-
 calibre research across a range of periods, regions and languages. Through major grants and
 new appointments, we have enhanced our profile in Scottish and medieval Icelandic literature,
 second language acquisition, creative writing, and Victorian and Modernist literature.
 Our vision for the unit is rooted in North East Scotland’s rich cultural heritage but extends
 outwards to engage globally. Through our partnerships in Australia (Curtin University) and China
 (Wuhan University), we advance the international theme of the University’s long-term strategic
 plan, Aberdeen 2040 (REF5a). Through our Research Centres, we take forward the University's
 interdisciplinary strategic theme, fostering collaborative activity and cross-cutting initiatives that

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capitalise on the School's diverse combination of disciplines. Our work is positioned at the
 intersection of literature, language, culture, society, history and politics.
 Our strengths in Scottish language and literature, linguistics, and creative writing align with the
 University’s social diversity and cultural inclusion research priorities. Led by UOA staff in
 Creative Writing, the WORD literary strand within the University’s highly successful annual May
 Festival (2012-) demonstrates one way in which we contribute to public understanding of
 languages, cultures and histories, engaging diverse audiences and collaborating with external
 partners, such as Creative Scotland, to achieve impact.
 Prior to REF2014, the School developed Research Centres to harness shared interests across
 its disciplines, making 1,GBP000/year available to each for their activities. Centres facilitate
 research methodologically by providing a context for comparative and interdisciplinary work, and
 adapt to reflect the interests of the staff and PGRs who populate them. They have catalysed
 research collaboration, PGR recruitment and impact activity. Three are built on UOA27
 strengths: WSRC (Walter Scott Research Centre), co-directed by Lumsden and professor
 emeritus Hewitt, and involving History of Art and Music; CLR (Centre for Linguistics Research),
 directed by Millar, with links to Education and Medicine; WORD Centre for Creative Writing, co-
 directed by Lynch and Price, with a focus on public engagement in North East Scotland. Two
 support comparative and interdisciplinary methods: Sir Herbert Grierson Centre for Textual
 Criticism and Comparative Literary History, co-directed by Pugh and Wheatley, involving
 Divinity, History and Philosophy; and CN (Centre for the Novel), directed by Ifill, involving
 Modern Languages.
 Research Centres enable the production of world-leading publications, building on effective
 partnerships outside the University. WSRC secured private donations in 2014 to support work on
 the Edinburgh Edition of Walter Scott’s Poetry (EEWSP, 10 volumes, 2018-, lead editor
 Lumsden). CLR brought to completion Millar’s and Barras’s AHRC ‘Fisher speak’ project,
 about dialect death in Scottish East Coast fishing communities, with the publication of a
 monograph. Collaboration between CLR and Medical Education led to a successful application
 to the Scottish Medical Education Research Consortium for a project on effective communication
 in multidisciplinary cancer care teams (PI Fahey Palma [Education], 2017-19). WORD has
 secured regular funding from Creative Scotland for the WORD strand of the May Festival (PI
 Lynch).
 Centres supporting comparative and interdisciplinary methods have sponsored ambitious
 programmes of conferences, visiting lectures and public readings. Led by Pugh, Grierson
 hosted a symposia series (2014-17) about classical reception, culminating in two edited
 volumes. In 2018 Wheatley staged a conference on modern poetry and translation, addressing
 language politics, bilingualism, and translation as creative strategy. Led by Hutchison, CN
 secured a Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) workshop grant (2015) for a project on women in
 science and scientific narratives, also hosting a public panel, ‘Women Writing Science’, at
 Techfest, North East Scotland’s annual festival of science.
 Our contribution to Research Centres based in and beyond the School extends interdisciplinary
 networks and collaborations. Gordon co-directs CEMS (Centre for Early Modern Studies, co-
 funded by the School of Divinity, History and Philosophy [DHP]), which facilitates research
 networks, for example, organising linked conferences on religion and the archive (Aberdeen,
 2018; Chicago, 2019) as a Consortium partner of the Newberry Library Center for Renaissance
 Studies. Craig directs RIISS (Research Institute of Irish and Scottish Studies), promoting multi-
 disciplinary research on the comparative study of Ireland and Scotland. Under the imprint of
 Aberdeen University Press (AUP), RIISS publishes world-leading journals, including Journal of
 Irish and Scottish Studies. The school now co-funds CSS (Centre for Scandinavian Studies)
 (with DHP), the interdisciplinary concerns of which are typified by O'Connor's work on Icelandic
 literature.
 As part of our research strategy, we encourage and support staff whose research is made
 available to a larger audience through critical editions. Our expertise in textual editing,
 highlighted in REF2014, is carried forward in EEWSP. The first two volumes of the Edition
 appeared in the census period: Marmion (2018), and Shorter Poems (2020). The Lady of the

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lake (Lumsden, ed.) will appear in 2021. Research by medieval and early modern staff on
 textual transmission, notably O’Connor’s work on Mágus saga jarls and Elliott’s work on the
 history of the Bannatyne Manuscript, represents another strand of editorial inquiry.
 We have long-standing critical, historical and theoretical interests in linguistic variation and
 change; place, identities and culture; the reception of the classical world; and culture mediating
 social, historical and political transformations. Barras and Millar investigate local and Scottish
 language use, while Edelstein works on syntactic theory. Connor draws on cognitive linguistics
 to examine individual differences in second language learning. Through writing about
 Aberdeen(shire), south Wales, Poland, and Ireland, Lynch, Price and Wheatley find common
 ground in the synchronicity of the lived experience of place, and the place of writing. Work on the
 reception of classical literary culture is continued by O’Connor, on imitation and emulation of
 classical texts in Irish sagas; Pugh, on the reception of classical literature in Spenser’s poetry;
 and Lynch, on Milton’s engagement with classical and Renaissance political theory. Rist
 examines Renaissance poetry and poetics in relation to contemporaneous religious
 controversies and practices. Gordon’s work examines mobility: from the dissemination of texts
 to ideas of mobility in the cultural imagination on the page. Craig investigates the distinctiveness
 of post-Union Scottish culture, while Jones explores ideas of cosmopolitanism and nationalism
 in C19 European and US literature and music. Hutchison works on the cultural impact of World
 War One in the US. Alcobia-Murphy investigates trauma in Irish history, literature and culture.
 Wheatley explores similar concerns in his work on Northern Irish Troubles poetry. Baker works
 on contemporary fiction, focusing on both Scottish culture and environmentalism.
 New arrivals connect with existing School strengths in C19-C20 literature, Scottish literature,
 second language acquisition, and creative writing. Anderson, Ifill and Sharp have brought new
 perspectives to CN and RIISS: Anderson works on spirituality and gender in C20 women’s
 writing; Ifill focuses on Victorian popular fiction; and Sharp works on the C19 Scottish periodical
 press, and Scottish diaspora literature. Greenier’s work on approaches to language teaching
 has added a more practical facet to CLR’s interest in second language acquisition. Warner is a
 novelist and short story writer with expertise in film adaptation, whose appointment enables
 collaborations between WORD and the School’s Film & Visual Culture subject area.
 Over the next five years, Research Centres will be focal points for research, public engagement,
 PGR recruitment, and work with external partners. WSRC’s focus will be EEWSP. CLR will
 develop work in dialectology and sociolinguistics, and second language acquisition. WORD will
 build on links with local cultural hubs, and with the universities of Curtin and Wuhan. Grierson
 will focus on a project on verse letters. CN will pursue work on textual editing (e.g. Hutchison’s
 edition of The Turn of the Screw for the Cambridge Henry James Fiction Edition, 2022); it will
 also develop activities around ecological themes, in association with a School research cluster.
 CEMS is developing new collaborative projects around its core themes of materiality, and print
 and manuscript culture, as well as supporting creative research-performance partnerships.
 RIISS is planning an international symposia series to address future relations between Ireland
 and Scotland in a post-Brexit environment.
 We are committed to maximising the benefits to the economy, society and everyday life from our
 research. REF2014 helped us identify cultural enrichment and influence on public/political
 debate as key to our impact strategy. These have been taken forward during the current
 census period. Developing mutually beneficial and effective strategic partnerships with culture
 and heritage organisations is central to our strategy of cultural enrichment. We collaborate with
 library and museum professionals at Abbotsford, Scott’s home in the borders, resulting in
 enhancements to heritage preservation and interpretation, as well as the development of a
 MOOC (Lumsden, reflecting the work of WSRC). We collaborate with the Edinburgh Old Town
 Development Trust, enabling the generation of new forms of expression of local identity, and
 community participation in the arts (Elliott, reflecting the work of WSRC and CEMS). In relation
 to cultural enrichment and public/political debate, we influence Scots language planning and
 education, including raising the status of local varieties across Northern Scotland and beyond
 (Millar, reflecting the work of CLR and Elphinstone Institute). We focus on these examples in
 REF3 to demonstrate how our research contributes to creativity, culture and society, and
 understanding, learning and participation. Via RIISS, we are in discussion with representatives

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Irish and Scottish governments about the future development of research collaboration
 between Ireland and Scotland (stemming from Craig’s involvement in the RSE-funded project,
 ‘Twenty Years Hence: Irish and Scottish Studies and the State of the Nations’ [PI Maria-Daniella
 Dick, University of Glasgow], 2019-20).
 Festivals and other public events play a key role in our impact strategy, facilitating engagement
 with the communities of our region and beyond. Led by Lynch, the WORD strand within the May
 Festival attracts substantial audiences each year, with attendance numbers growing from c.1000
 in 2014 to c.1500 in 2019. The WORD strand features UOA staff with regionally-based and
 international authors in readings, talks and workshops. Due to Covid-19, the May 2020 Festival
 was cancelled. Nevertheless, in September 2020, WORD hosted its first online literary festival,
 WayWORD, with 1160 attendees, demonstrating our successful adaptation to a virtual
 environment. We continue to develop our partnerships with schools and community groups in
 North East Scotland, e.g. establishing and overseeing the Literary Lights Creative Writing
 competition, sponsored by the Lewis Grassic Gibbon Centre, Laurencekirk (2015-).
 Our impact strategy is coordinated by the School Impact Lead and overseen by the School
 Research Committee. Research Centres submit impact plans for review as part of annual
 reporting to the Committee. Institutional support comes from PERU (Public Engagement with
 Research Unit) for public engagement events, and from Communications for media work.
 Individual annual research meetings with UOA leads include discussion of impact opportunities;
 internal applications for research funding and study leave require reflection on impact plans. The
 Impact Lead supports impact planning for grant applications, liaising with R&I impact officers for
 humanities and public policy.
 Effective research dissemination is vital, and we seek to enable open access (OA) wherever
 possible, supported by the Scholarly Communications Service (REF5a). During the census
 period, journal articles that were OA from point of publication increased from 22.2% in 2014 to
 81.8% in 2019. However, we recognise that the best place to publish, in terms of reach,
 audience or profile, is sometimes in international journals which are not OA compliant. To ensure
 the best academic impact for our work, we support publication in non-OA compliant journals
 where there is a strong rationale for this.
 All staff have ORCID IDs. We circulate regular reminders about OA requirements and use of the
 institutional repository (AURA). As Interim University Librarian (2018-19), Hutchison was
 custodian of AURA, and led the institutional response to UKRI’s consultation on Plan S (2019),
 which emphasised the University’s support of the principle that research should be accessible,
 especially where it is funded by public and charitable money. The response noted the need for
 dialogue and innovation around models of delivery to make OA sustainable across disciplines.
 We are encouraging staff to go beyond minimum OA requirements and use the institutional
 repository for monographs and book chapters. Institutional support for OA is also provided by
 AUP, which publishes the peer reviewed, open-access journals, Journal of Irish and Scottish
 Studies and Journal of Scottish Thought. Working with the University Library, AUP plans to
 become an entirely OA publisher during the next census period.
 Research Centres and individuals use websites and social media to disseminate their research
 findings and activities. For example, in 2014, WSRC launched six searchable online databases,
 arising from research undertaken for the Edinburgh Edition of the Waverley Novels (EEWN, 30
 volumes, 1993-2012, general editors Hewitt, Alexander and Lumsden), listing quotations from
 and allusions to the Bible, Shakespeare and other authors in Scott’s fiction.
 We adhere to research ethics and governance frameworks set out in the institutional
 Research Governance Handbook, which in turn is aligned with UKRI, UUK and EU concordats
 and policies on research integrity (REF5a). The importance of compliance is regularly stressed
 in School Forums. Biennial School ‘Health Checks’ on research ethics and governance are
 reviewed by the Research Policy Committee. The University makes research integrity training
 mandatory for all staff and PGRs. Research ethics and governance training is strongly
 encouraged for staff and mandatory for PGRs.
 The Research Ethics Officer (Pugh, 2015-) provides advice on ethics review to staff and
 students; signs off ethics approvals at School level; and sits on the Committee for Research

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ethics & Governance in Arts, Social Sciences & Business. As Committee co-Chair, the Dean for
 Cultural Strategy and Research Governance convenes management boards to oversee projects
 with complex governance, ethics and risk assessment requirements.

 3B   2. People
 We have made five appointments since REF2014 following moves, retirements and strategic
 investment. We have focused on early-career recruitment, with four appointments at Lecturer
 and one at Senior Lecturer level. All appointments are to open-ended contracts, in common with
 other UOA staff. Appointments have consolidated areas of strength in second language
 acquisition (Language & Linguistics); developed expertise in comparative and interdisciplinary
 methodologies; and opened up new areas of research in Scottish and C19-C20 literature
 (English Literature). The appointment of a major international writer has strengthened Creative
 Writing.
 English Literature has been enhanced with three appointments (Anderson, 2017, Ifill, 2019,
 and Sharp, 2019), one of whom (Sharp) is a joint appointment with RIISS. Anderson’s
 expertise is in feminist theory and women’s writing. Ifill’s expertise is Victorian popular fiction
 (especially in connection with gender, science and medicine), while Sharp’s is Scottish literature
 (including Scottish diaspora literature). In Language & Linguistics, Greenier (2018) brings new
 perspectives to the theory and practice of language teaching. In Creative Writing, novelist and
 short-story writer Warner (appointed 2019), with professional experience in film adaptation and
 screenplay writing, fulfilled our strategic aim to strengthen creative writing following the
 retirement of award-winning author Spence (2015), and enhances our public engagement and
 outreach activity.
 While recruitment has focused on early-career staff, existing staff have taken on leadership roles
 in the School, and been supported in gaining promotion. Four staff were promoted from Lecturer
 to Senior Lecturer (Baker, Connor, Elliott, Price, 2W/2M), three from Senior Lecturer to Reader
 (Lynch, Pugh, Wheatley, 2W/1M), five from Senior Lecturer/Reader to Professor (Alcobia-
 Murphy, Gordon, Hutchison, Jones, Millar, 2W/3M), and one from Professor to Regius
 Professor (Lumsden, 1W). Staff have also taken on institutional leadership roles, e.g.
 Hutchison, Interim University Librarian (2018-19).
 The School works with the University’s Researcher Development Unit to support staff
 development through a set of interlocking arrangements, aligned with Vitae’s Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers in terms of building an inclusive research
 culture and a productive environment for career development and progression. Aberdeen’s
 strength in this area is reflected in its HR Excellence in Research Award (REF5a). Staff have
 Annual Review meetings with their Academic Line Manager (ALM), which include reviewing
 research plans, career planning and promotion. ALMs are School academic staff formally
 appointed to the role, and receive HR training in management skills. Each manages 10-12
 academic staff, with responsibility for staff support, development and wellbeing. Head of School
 and ALMs also provide guidance and feedback on promotion applications.
 Staff have annual meetings with UOA leads to discuss research plans and ideas, including
 collaborative and impact-related activities. Meetings complement Annual Review by focusing
 solely on research in conversation with a colleague working in a cognate area. Peer research
 support groups, introduced in 2014, provide an informal context to discuss work-in-progress,
 working drafts, grant applications and impact ideas. An annual School research conference
 helps share ideas, increasing knowledge of colleagues’ work.
 As ALMs, Alcobia-Murphy, Hutchison, and Jones, in collaboration with the Head of School
 (Welch, Modern Languages), revised the workload model during the census period to improve
 transparency in workload allocation and activity, and better identify pressure points. This
 includes research allocation at 40% for T&R staff; 50 hours/year for CPD; explicit recognition of
 research leadership roles (e.g. Research Centre Directorship); and a stated expectation that
 T&R staff have at least one day a week free of teaching during term, supporting research
 activity. All staff within UOA27 benefited from this arrangement during the census period. To
 support work-life balance, the School introduced an email good practice policy in 2017 (which

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was subsequently adopted by the University), with guidance on avoiding email use during
 evenings, weekends and research days. As part of its Athena SWAN Action Plan, it will monitor
 attitudes to workload pressure and transparency through staff surveys, paying close attention to
 the impact on research of the Covid-19 pandemic, and revisit the workload model accordingly.
 The School’s research leave policy is one half-session in every six. Staff join the research leave
 rota after probation. Discipline-level rotas are approved by the School Research Committee.
 Staff with external grants supporting relief from teaching and administrative duties maintain their
 position in the internal leave rota as an incentive. The rota is adapted to accommodate EDI and
 specific circumstances. Leave can also be advanced to support staff approaching deadlines,
 undertaking impact activity, or urgently completing a major output. All UOA27 non-probationary
 staff have benefited from research leave during the census period.
 Arrangements are in place to support the research of early career/probationary staff at Lecturer
 level: they have reduced teaching and administration during the first two years of appointment
 (75% in Year 1, 85% in Year 2). Additionally, they have a dedicated academic mentor as part of
 the institution’s probationary framework, and membership of a peer research support group.
 Probationary mentors provide advice on career development, including research activity and
 training opportunities. Probationary targets for research include publications, funding
 applications, networking and opportunities for impact. Probation is accelerated in instances of
 strong performance.
 Researchers each have access to GBP750/year via the School Research Committee for archival
 work, conference attendance and research costs (e.g. indexing, image permissions). The fund is
 open to fixed-term staff on teaching-focused contracts to enable them to maintain research
 activity during their period of employment. Funding for activities is available via the annual
 allocations to Research Centres.
 The School Director of Research (Jones, 2019-) coordinates development of external grant
 applications, which are double peer reviewed before submission, and organises brainstorming
 sessions to develop major grant applications, involving colleagues experienced in running or
 assessing large grants. Institutional support is provided by the Grants Academy (REF5a);
 PERU (planning for public engagement); Impact Team (identifying potential non-academic
 audiences and partners); and Governance Officers (support for research ethics and
 governance).
 While we have students registered for research degrees in all our core disciplines, our
 postgraduate recruitment strategy reflects our emphasis on interdisciplinarity and collaboration.
 There have been thirteen co-supervisions to completion involving Education, French, Gaelic,
 History, History of Art, and Politics, with three current co-supervisions involving Ethnography,
 Spanish and Latin American Studies, and History. Through an AHRC-funded studentship from
 the Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) and Centre for Doctoral Training
 in Celtic Languages, we co-supervise with Glasgow (O’Connor co-supervisor). Via an AHRC
 Collaborative Doctoral Award, we work with the National Library of Scotland (Jones lead
 supervisor). Via our Aberdeen-Curtin programme in Creative Writing (2017-), enabling PGRs to
 spend one year at the partner university, we have co-supervised 7 PGRs (three Aberdeen, four
 Curtin).
 Research Centres are important for embedding PGRs within a supportive research culture. Our
 cohort of PGRs working on Scottish and/or Irish literature has grown to sixteen students
 (fourteen Aberdeen-based, two Curtin-based, with thirteen completions in the census period).
 They have associate membership of WSRC, CN and RIISS, and participate in Centre/Institute
 activities. CLR plays a similar role for PGRs in Language and Linguistics. Since 2020, PGRs in
 Applied Linguistics benefit from inter-institutional mentoring through telecollaboration via the
 Aberdeen-Curtin partnership (Greenier and Julien Chen, Curtin). Staff associated with CLR run
 three successful MLitt programmes and have supervised nineteen completed PhDs in the
 census period. PGRs in Creative Writing benefit from association with WORD, participating in
 the University’s May Festival and symposia with Curtin. Grierson, CEMS and RIISS have had
 significant success in supporting a PGR community through their seminar series.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 While Research Centres provide a focal point for our students, they also benefit from the
 diversity of the School’s wider PGR community. We have strengthened its cohesiveness through
 a range of support, networking and training opportunities. In 2015, the School introduced a ‘PG
 Research Gym’, led initially by Hutchison, to provide training tailored to humanities researchers,
 and opportunities for new postgraduates to network. Taken by all new PhD students, it covers
 key skills including academic writing, publication strategies, time management and presentation
 skills. Since 2017, two other Schools have asked to participate, providing our students with
 additional networking opportunities. In 2020, online sessions in the virtual learning environment
 were introduced to better support part-time and distance students. Residential workshops, such
 as the annual CEMS weekend at The Burn, an Angus country house, provide opportunities for
 first research papers and training sessions while fostering a supportive research community.
 PGRs are encouraged to contribute to student publications, e.g. Elphinstone Review and
 Causeway/Cabhsair: A Magazine of Irish and Scottish Writing.
 The School invests in fee waivers and fully-funded scholarships, which are awarded on a
 competitive basis. PhD students receive GBP750 of School funding over their period of study to
 support research activity. A dedicated bequest provides fee waivers and maintenance for PGRs
 in English Literature. Teaching opportunities are available from PhD Year 2, with compulsory
 training from the institution’s Centre for Academic Development. The student-run PG Forum
 meets monthly, and includes papers from PGRs and staff, as well as online sessions. The
 DPGS runs weekly drop-in sessions (online during the pandemic), providing a first point of
 contact and support.
 School provision complements the Researcher Development Programme offered by the PGRS,
 which covers leadership, enterprise, knowledge exchange, impact and employability; research
 methods, including qualitative methods and digital tools; resilience and well-being; and
 mandatory training on Research Ethics and Governance, Information Security & Data
 Management, and Equality, Diversity & Inclusion. The PGRS focuses on student wellbeing,
 working closely with PhD supervisors and Student Support where required. It also provides
 compulsory training for new supervisors, and refresher training for more experienced
 supervisors (REF5a).
 PhD students have access to training organised by the Scottish Graduate School for Arts &
 Humanities (SGSAH) and the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences (SGSSS). Via
 SGSAH Discipline+ Catalysts for Creative Arts & Design/Literature/Linguistics
 (Elliott/Millar/Lynch) and SGSSS Pathway for Linguistics (Barras), we help develop training
 events from academic, industry and third sector experts for doctoral researchers in the arts,
 humanities and social sciences. We contribute to the building of expertise at partner universities,
 e.g. summer school courses in Scottish literature and creative writing at Wuhan University
 (2019) (Lumsden/Price).
 The PGRS tracks student progress through six-monthly monitoring completed by the student
 and supervisory team. This is supplemented within the School by a progression review at nine
 months (including chapter/chapter extract), and annual review meetings thereafter, conducted by
 academic staff independent of the supervisory team. All PhD students present their work at an
 annual School PGR conference in Year 2 or 3 of their studies. We (co-)supervised 71 PhD
 students to completion during the census period (59.8 FTE), 8 with funding from UK external
 bodies (AHRC, Soillse, and the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland). They have
 progressed to a range of careers, including international academic posts and roles in
 arts/university administration.
 We foster an inclusive culture which reflects the diversity of our community. Our staff and
 students come from Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and North America. We engage with
 issues of equality, diversity and inclusion through research on minority languages (Millar) and
 post-conflict resolution and the arts (Alcobia-Murphy). Our PGRs research topics including
 disability, gender and civil rights.
 The School achieved an Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze Award in April 2019 (Lumsden co-lead).
 While focused on gender equality and removing obstacles for women, the AS Action Plan
 provides a foundation for our wider EDI actions. Central to the Action Plan is enhanced support

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for career progression. In particular, the School wants to see an increase in successful
 applications from women for promotion to Senior Lecturer/Reader and Professor. It is also
 investigating the length of time spent at different grades, the reasons for this, and what barriers
 to promotion need to be overcome.
 Career planning and concerns about promotion have emerged as important factors for all staff,
 and we are working to address these via the development and support arrangements described
 above. Annual Review is used to discuss career development in terms of leadership
 opportunities (e.g. Research Centre Director, central leadership roles) research funding and
 publication strategies, career breaks, and work-life balance. An initial indicator of the positive
 impact of the measures is promotions in 2019, with successful outcomes for all female
 applicants (1xProfessor, 2xReader, 1xSenior Lecturer) from UOA27.
 The School supports career breaks, and flexible and part-time working. Requests for flexible
 working and contract reductions are enabled whenever possible, with a review of contract
 changes after twelve months. There is one part-time staff member in UOA27. We have a tailored
 approach to reintegration after parental and other leaves, e.g. by enabling research leave to
 follow on from maternity leave, or through phased returns. The School’s AS Action Plan
 proposed that dedicated breast-feeding rooms be created across the University to facilitate
 childcare; these are now in place.
 Nevertheless, AS surveys highlighted concerns over the impact of parental leaves and career
 breaks on career progression. In response, additional training to support those on and returning
 from leave is being developed for ALMs with HR. The School’s AS Health & Wellbeing Lead is
 improving awareness of parental leave and flexible working through increased communication.
 The University’s Parents’ and Carers’ Network, established in 2019 for staff and PGRs, provides
 peer support and shares good practice. Via membership of the institutional Equality, Diversity &
 Inclusion Committee (Lumsden), we are informing discussion on EDI implications of the Covid-
 19 pandemic for research and career development.
 EDI and AS Action Plan implementation are standing items on School Research and PG
 Committees, and both report to the School EDI Committee. We are adapting the Action Plan to
 acknowledge intersectionality, reflecting Aberdeen’s membership of the Race Equality Charter
 since 2020. Actions for the Research Committee include ensuring Research Centre activities
 and the REF reviewing pool reflect gender balance and diversity. Actions for the Postgraduate
 Committee focus on enhancing the PGR community by using video conferencing/VLEs to foster
 inclusion of part-time/distance-learning PhDs; ensuring PGR activities address religious
 observance; providing additional networking opportunities and career development guidance
 through the Research Gym programme.
 All School meetings are held during core working hours (10am-4pm), and Research Centres
 hold most events during these hours. We use the University’s Diversity Calendar when planning
 activities to help us engage with all members of our community. We encourage staff to
 participate in university support networks (BAME, Disability, LGBT+, Menopausal,
 Parents/Carers, Women’s). We use part-time and distance-learning modes to cater for PGRs
 with different needs, and encourage switching to them or suspending studies where appropriate.
 Institutional online EDI training is mandatory for staff and PGRs, and there was bespoke EDI
 training for staff involved in REF decision-making, including selection of the output portfolio.
 Unconscious bias training is mandatory for appointing panels, and is available to all staff.
 At submission, our gender profile was 11W/12M (48%/52%). We have a higher proportion of
 early career women to men (3W/1M, 75%/25%), and this feeds through to our submitted outputs
 (25 by women/ 45 by men: 36%/64%). Amongst those returning more than 2.5 outputs, there
 were proportionally more men than women (70%/30%). As part of our implementation of the AS
 Action Plan, we will be investigating additional support for career progression that might be
 beneficial in addressing this imbalance, examining issues around workload and career breaks.
 Our REF output selection process was compliant with the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment and the institutional Code of Practice. All outputs had at least two internal
 and/or external reviews, ensuring gender balance of reviewers. Staff were invited to declare
 circumstances that could entitle the unit to a reduction in the number of outputs required. We

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 selected the strongest output for each researcher, and the remaining outputs according to
 quality, consulting with staff so that selected outputs represent their activity appropriately.

 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 We secured over GBP1.19 million income during the census period (GBP52.5k/FTE). We have
 developed a diverse funding portfolio, with grants from UK research councils, international
 funding bodies, charities and local authorities, supporting collaborative and individual projects
 across our specialisms.
 WSRC attracted private donations of GBP125k, managed through the University’s Development
 Trust, to support work on EEWSP (2014). The donations enabled the employment of two
 research assistants to test the Edition’s planned methodology in the first two published volumes.
 Donations also contributed to the costs of manuscript and print collation, and the high-level
 typesetting and proofreading required for scholarly editions. In addition, WSRC received in 2014,
 via the University’s Development Trust, a private donation of GBP5k to enable PGRs to attend
 that year’s International Scott Conference.
 WORD has secured regular funding from Creative Scotland (PI, Lynch, 2014-19, GBP61k), as
 well as grants from the institution’s cultural fund (PI, Lynch, 2018-20, GBP32k), for the WORD
 strand within the University’s May Festival, supporting events showcasing the work of regionally-
 based and international writers, including staff, students and alumni of the institution. WORD’s
 contribution to North East Scotland’s cultural life was further enhanced by grants totalling
 GBP14k from Aberdeen City Council supporting Lynch’s research on the region’s traditional
 music and song culture, leading to a songbook (2015) and a collection of contemporary Scottish
 tunes in traditional style (2017). University pump-priming funds have supported the development
 of WORD’s collaborative research initiatives with Curtin.
 Other collaborative projects involving WORD include an AHRC-funded project aiming to widen
 the range of people learning about and contributing to local heritage (Curtis [Education] PI,
 Lynch Co-I, 2017-18). CEMS and WORD collaborated on a performance and community
 engagement project, ‘What Country Friends Is This?’, funded by Aberdeen City Council, centring
 on a 1601 visit by the King’s Players to Aberdeen (Gordon and Lynch, 2017, GBP10k). Grants
 supporting individual creative writing projects include Wheatley’s Arts Council of Ireland grant
 for research and writing of his next poetry collection, Child Ballad (2019, EUR15,000).
 Jones and O’Connor were recipients of Leverhulme Trust awards. O’Connor won a
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship for his project on perceptions of historicity and fictionality in
 the textual transmission of Icelandic sagas (2015-17, GBP30,877), leading to scholarly articles
 returned in REF2. Jones was awarded a Leverhulme Trust International Academic Fellowship,
 held at the Scaliger Institute, Leiden University, for her project on the history and historiography
 of anatomy in northern Europe in C17 and C18 (2018, GBP27,349), thanks to which she
 undertook archival research in The Netherlands, and participated in interdisciplinary seminars on
 the history of museums and collections. Craig was successful in his co-application, with Endre
 Szécsényi, to the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research Fellowship Programme (2014-16,
 GBP220k), a European Union scheme enabling staff to conduct research away from their home
 institution. At RIISS, Szécsényi developed his work on the history of aesthetics, focusing on
 Francis Hutcheson.
 Through a RSE grant, Jones undertook archival research on Scots in The Netherlands in C17
 and C18, leading to conference papers and scholarly articles (2017, GBP4000). Other grants
 from the RSE have supported collaborative projects. Elliott and Hutchison won RSE workshop
 grants: Elliott’s supported a series of events to complement the publication of The Evergreen, a
 new anthology of poetry, prose and visual media inspired by the cultural legacy of the Bannatyne
 Manuscript (2015, GBP8851); and Hutchison’s supported a collaborative network on the impact
 of science on C19 and C20 women’s writing (2014, GBP7280). Lumsden secured a RSE
 network award for a project on popular print material held at Abbotsford (2017-21, GBP12,866).
 We have secured funding to collaborate with public organisations in Scotland. Jones received
 an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership studentship, with the National Library of Scotland,

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for a project on Caribbean slavery in the Scottish consciousness from 1750 to 1834 (2018,
 GBP70,717). Public-facing work is built into this studentship, including a 6-month placement at
 the National Library, involving training in cataloguing, exhibition curating, and website design as
 well as opportunities to present project research to public audiences, in person and online.
 RIISS is the ongoing beneficiary of monies from the Glucksman family to support the Glucksman
 Chair in Irish and Scottish Studies, currently held by Craig. RIISS is also the beneficiary of the
 Margaret Jones legacy of GBP400k, which is part-funding one post in UOA27 (Sharp), has
 supported our research, e.g. a collaborative project on contemporary Irish culture and trauma (PI
 Alcobia-Murphy, 2013-15, GBP9k), and has underwritten conferences, e.g. ‘Scotland and the
 First World War’ (organised by former PhD student, David Rennie, 2018). Via the Development
 Trust, we are the ongoing beneficiary of a GBP200k legacy from the Ledingham family to
 support English Literature PGRs. Five students received bursaries from this source in the
 census period.
 Our funding portfolio is intentionally diverse, reflecting the breadth of our activity, both
 collaborative and individual, ranging from quantitative fieldwork to archival research. The
 geographical and methodological diversity of our research means we target a variety of funders,
 including those which emphasise international capacity building, policy development and
 interdisciplinarity. Four of the AHRC’s current priority themes (Research unlocking cultural
 assets, Understanding cultural value, Arts and science/Arts in science, Interdisciplinarity for
 contemporary challenges) map onto our strengths in heritage, language acquisition and
 language planning, literature-environment studies, inter-medial studies, and cultures of science.
 Two of the ESRC’s current priority themes (Living with technology, Changing populations) map
 onto our strengths in discourse analysis, language variation and change, and cognitive
 linguistics. We will build on our collaboration with the Newberry Library, and compete for funding
 from them, and other independent research libraries, for our work.
 We recognise that different types of research suit different scales or types of grant and help staff
 to identify the most appropriate funding. Annual Review and research planning meetings assist
 staff, particularly ECRs, to develop funding strategies for their projects. Through our cumulative
 experience in winning a range of fellowships and large grants, we support them in applying for
 smaller external grants, such as the RSE portfolio, gaining experience in grant application and
 establishing a track record of external funding (e.g. Anderson’s RSE grant to develop a project
 on Naomi Mitchison and Sylvia Townsend Warner, GBP2890, 2020).
 Central support for funding applications is provided by the Grants Academy (horizon
 scanning/grant writing), PERU (public engagement planning) and the Impact Team (identifying
 non-academic partners and audiences). Grant management, including support for ethics and
 governance, is provided by dedicated officers in R&I. Pump-priming funding from R&I enabled
 workshops with external facilitators to develop our impact case studies.
 Research infrastructure was greatly enhanced in 2012 with the opening of a new University
 Library (REF5a), providing state-of-the-art IT and research facilities, dedicated exhibition
 spaces, a Special Collections area and seminar room, and meeting rooms across seven floors.
 Many seminars and events now take place there, making it the hub of humanities research in the
 University.
 The Library contains over a million books and manuscripts, including rich early-modern
 collections (relevant to CEMS), a world-class collection of C18 and C19 fiction (dating from the
 time when the University was a copyright deposit library), enhanced by the acquisition in 2002 of
 the Bernard C. Lloyd collection of Walter Scott material (a focus for WSRC and CN), and a wide
 collection of C19 periodicals (relevant to CN and RIISS). It manages open access and
 dissemination of research through the AURA repository and the PURE research portal, and
 supports Gold Route publishing through Open Access block grant funding. In 2018-19,
 Hutchison led the project to replace the existing library software with a cloud-based system to
 improve management of the library catalogue. The project also provided a new version of the
 Primo online portal, improving access to the University’s historic and modern resources.
 We draw on special collections for public engagement projects, working with dedicated officers
 in Archives and Special Collections. The Bernard C. Lloyd collection has been used for

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exhibitions by Lumsden (2014, Scott International Conference; 2016, Textual Editing Workshop
 for PGRs); the C19 novels and periodical literature for an exhibition by Hutchison (2014, Henry
 James International Conference); and the rare first editions of novels by Charles Dickens by
 emeritus senior lecturer Schlicke (2016, to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Dickens’s
 appearance at the Music Hall, Aberdeen).
 The School commits GBP7k/year to support additional subscriptions to e-journals and
 bibliographical databases (MLA Bibliography, LION, and JSTOR). Book budgets are devolved to
 individual disciplines, with priority given to newly-appointed staff so they can build resources in
 their research area. Staff and PGRs each have access to interlibrary loans worth GBP50/year.
 Input into Library strategy is through liaison between Library Information Consultants and School
 Library Representatives (Anderson/O’Connor for UOA27); and by School representation on the
 Museums and Special Collections Academic Forum (Gordon/Lumsden). WSRC has
 longstanding links with the National Library of Scotland and the Abbotsford Library. CEMS is part
 of the Newberry Library Consortium, and has links with the Herzog August Library (Germany).
 All staff have individual offices with IT facilities. PGRs are guaranteed shared office space for
 three years, with offices in the main School buildings. IT Services provide licensed software (e.g.
 NVivo), data storage, archiving and management, with 2TB of data storage via personal network
 drives with auto-backup.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 We have worked within the major bodies and structures that support English studies, and the
 arts, humanities, and social sciences more broadly. We undertake research collaborations
 globally, nationally and regionally, helping us to build research capacity in our disciplines,
 address important societal questions, and contribute to social and cultural enrichment.
 Awards and prizes
 Our success in maintaining high quality publications is demonstrated by the number of awards
 and prizes achieved by UOA staff and emeritus staff. The RSE awarded Hewitt the Sir Walter
 Scott Medal in recognition of his work on EEWN (2014). Millar’s, Barras’s and Bonnici’s Lexical
 Variation and Attrition in the Scottish Fishing Communities was shortlisted for the Saltire Society
 Research Book of the Year (2014). Craig’s The Wealth of the Nation was shortlisted for the
 Saltire Society History Book of the Year (2018). Price’s Fossil Record was chosen by Carol Ann
 Duffy as one of four ‘Laureate’s Choice’ 2015 poetry collections. Warner won the 2013 James
 Tait Black Memorial Prize for his novel, The Deadman’s Pedal. Baker’s Writing Animals won the
 2019 annual book prize of the British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies. Jones’s
 Literature and Music in the Atlantic World won the 2015 annual book prize of the British
 Association for American Studies. Pugh’s Spenser and Virgil won the 2017 International
 Spenser Society’s Isabel MacCaffrey Prize, to recognise the best book in Spenser Studies
 published in 2015 or 2016.
 Visiting scholar positions
 In 2014, O’Connor was Distinguished Visiting Scholar at the Centre for Medieval and
 Renaissance Studies, UCLA. In 2017-18, Jones was visiting fellow at the Scaliger Institute,
 Leiden University, and held a visiting fellowship at the Kunstkamera, St Petersburg, and the
 Netherlands Institute in St Petersburg (November-December 2018). In 2019, Millar was
 Distinguished Visiting Professor, Northern Minzu University, Yinchuan, China.
 Journal editorships and peer review
 Five staff are editors of major journals: Alcobia-Murphy, General Editor of Review of Irish
 Studies in Europe; Craig, General Editor of Journal of Irish and Scottish Studies and the Journal
 of Scottish Thought; Ifill, Associate Editor of Victorian Popular Fictions; Millar, General Editor of
 Scottish Language and the online Publications of the Forum for Research on the Languages of
 Scotland and Ulster; and Pugh, Contributing Editor to Spenser Review. Elliott was associate
 editor of Journal of the Northern Renaissance (2011-19). Editorial board memberships include
 Alcobia-Murphy (Breac: A Digital Journal of Irish Studies); Gordon (Literary London);
 Lumsden (Studies in Scottish Literature); Pugh (Spenser Studies); Millar (English World-Wide).

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Reflecting our diverse expertise, we peer review for over fifty journals. Examples include Baker,
 for Literature and Theology, C21 Fiction; Elliott, Philological Quarterly, Review of English
 Studies; Ifill, Gaskell Journal, Wilkie Collins Journal; Jones, Journal of the Royal College of the
 Physicians of Edinburgh, European Romantic Review; Lumsden, Scottish Literary Review,
 International Review of Scottish Studies; Millar, Journal of Sociolinguistics, Northern Scotland;
 and Rist, Studies in English Literature, Renaissance Drama.
 Consultancy and advisory positions
 Staff are active in publishing consultancy. Lumsden serves on the Advisory Board for the
 Oxford Edition of the Works of Robert Burns; the New Edinburgh Edition of the Collected Works
 of Robert Louis Stevenson; the Edinburgh Edition of the Works of John Galt; and the Edinburgh
 Edition of the Works of Arthur Conan Doyle; and Gordon for Routledge’s ‘Material Cultures’
 series. Staff read proposals and manuscripts for a wide range of publishers, including
 Cambridge UP, Oxford UP, Edinburgh UP, Cork UP, University of Pennsylvania Press, Palgrave
 Macmillan, Ashgate, Routledge, and Brill.
 Advisory positions on international editorial projects are held by Elliott, who serves as focus
 group member on the Leverhulme-funded ‘Bannatyne MS Project’, which will establish the first
 digital edition of this collection of late medieval Scottish verse (PI, Lucy R. Hinnie, University of
 Saskatchewan, 2019-); and by Lumsden, a member of the steering group for the Walter Scott
 Minstrelsy Project (PI Sigrid Rieuwerts, University of Mainz), which will establish the first critical
 edition of Scott’s Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border (2011-).
 Staff play prominent roles in national and international subject associations, and serve on
 influential advisory panels. Craig serves on the Fellowship Committee of the RSE (History,
 Literature) and was chair of the Modern Language and Literature (post 1830) section of the
 British Academy (2017-20). Jones was President of the Eighteenth-Century Scottish Studies
 Society (2014-16). Lumsden was President of the Association for Scottish Literary Studies
 (2015-19). Millar was Chair of the Forum for Research on the Languages of Scotland and Ulster
 (2009-18). Pugh is a Council Member of the Society for Renaissance Studies (2017-). Wheatley
 is a Board Member of Literature Alliance Scotland (2018-), and served as a judge of three
 prestigious poetry prizes (Popescu Prize, 2013, National Poetry Competition, 2015, and Forward
 Prize, 2020).
 Several staff have national and international external evaluator roles. As Chair of the Modern
 Language and Literature Section of the British Academy, Craig has coordinated assessment for
 all British Academy award schemes in that field (Post-Doctoral Fellowships, Mid-Career
 Fellowships, Senior Fellowships, Leverhulme Small Grants, and Newton International
 Fellowships). Alcobia-Murphy evaluates for the British Academy, Lumsden for the RSE and
 the Carnegie Trust, Elliott for the Leverhulme Trust, Millar for the Swiss Research Council, and
 O’Connor for the Irish Research Council. Elliott and Lynch review for SGSAH funding
 competitions. Barras and Millar review for SGSSS funding competitions.
 Invited keynotes and lectures
 Invited keynotes/lectures include Alcobia-Murphy, on ‘Intertextuality and the Poetry of Witness’
 at the ‘Poetry and Crisis, 1968-1998’ conference, Linen Hall Library, Belfast (2018); Craig, on
 ‘The Cause of Scotland’ at the 55th Congress of La Société des Anglicistes de l’Enseignement
 Supérieur, Toulouse (2015); Gordon, on ‘Imprinting Community in 1611’ at the ‘Gender and
 Political Community’ conference, University of New England, Australia (2018); Jones, on ‘The
 Diaries and Correspondence of Robert Areskine, Physician and Counsellor to Peter the Great’ at
 the Kunstkamera, St Petersburg (2018); Lumsden, on ‘The Abbotsford Chapbooks and Popular
 Print Project’ at the 11th International Scott Conference, Paris (2018); Millar on ‘Scots as a
 Sociolinguistic Entity’, at University of Giessen (2018); and O’Connor, on ‘The Ulster Cycle:
 History, Fiction or Literature?’, at the 5th Ulidia conference, National University of Ireland,
 Maynooth (2016).
 Projects



                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Under the lead editorship of Lumsden, EEWSP brings together an international team of
 scholars from Scotland, England, USA, and Australia. The project builds on networks developed
 within the unit over three decades, as the editorial base of EEWN.
 Other international collaborations pursued in the census period include those by Gordon, who
 organised a series of conferences in epistolary studies, from 2010 to 2015, with James Daybell
 (University of Plymouth), hosted and partly funded by CEMS and Plymouth University, leading to
 two co-edited volumes: Cultures of Correspondence in Early Modern Britain (Pennsylvania,
 2016), and Women and Epistolary Agency in Early Modern Culture (Routledge, 2016). Building
 on the institution’s partnership with Curtin University, Price organised and hosted via WORD an
 inaugural Aberdeen-Curtin symposium (2017), which featured a wide range of interdisciplinary
 creative projects, resulting in a special issue of the Australian journal Axon: Creative
 Explorations (2018).
 Networks
 All staff are involved in academic networks in their areas of interest. Pugh, for example, is
 founding chair of the Aberdeen and North of Scotland Centre of the Classical Association of
 Scotland (2019-), which regularly hosts visiting speakers from across the UK and USA. At the
 invitation of Notre Dame University, Jones joined (2020) the Nineteenth-Century Experimental
 Song Collective, a newly formed international society for the emerging field of historical song
 study, bringing together musicology, literary criticism, history and folklore. Jones was also an
 invited member of the RSE-funded Romantic National Song Network (PI, Kirsteen McCue,
 University of Glasgow, 2017-19).
 Collaborations outside the academy
 Warner collaborated with the Scottish film director Michael Caton-Jones on the writing of a
 screenplay based on Warner’s 1998 novel, The Sopranos, a version of which, written mainly by
 Caton-Jones, was accepted for production by the American entertainment company, Sony
 Pictures, in 2018. Under the title Our Ladies, the film premiered globally at the 2019 BFI London
 Film Festival, and in Scotland at the 2020 Glasgow Film Festival.
 RIISS fosters knowledge and understanding of Irish and Scottish cultural and political relations in
 historical contexts with impact on the Scottish government’s development of policy. Craig is part
 of a team planning the future of Irish-Scottish studies, including discussions with representatives
 of the Irish government and the Irish consulate in Edinburgh, and with representatives of the
 Scottish government based in Ireland, to develop more integrated and better-funded Irish-
 Scottish research.
 Lumsden collaborates with Abbotsford on Scott’s library and museum collections (cf. ICS1) as
 Honorary Librarian, Faculty of Advocates Abbotsford Collection Trust (2015-), and as Trustee,
 Abbotsford Trust (2019-). In her work on the cultural legacy of the Bannatyne Manuscript, Elliott
 collaborates with Edinburgh’s Old Town Development Trust and other partners including
 Edinburgh Council, Scottish Poetry Library, and the Patrick Geddes Centre (cf. ICS2). Millar, in
 association with the Elphinstone Institute, engages with Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire
 councils on the development of a Doric Language Plan (cf. ICS3).
 Creative Writing staff work regularly with local writers groups and schools (e.g. WriteFest
 workshops, and the Nan Shepherd Prize for Creative Writing), and engage the public more
 broadly through events like the University’s ‘Director’s Cut’ series (e.g. Warner in conversation
 with Marcus [Modern Languages], and the Café Lit series [in association with Waterstones
 Aberdeen]). They also contribute frequently to literary festivals in Scotland and beyond, giving
 readings and talks, and chairing panels.
 Public lectures, seminars and festivals
 CEMS and CN host annual public lectures, featuring major scholars, writers and broadcasters.
 Pre-dating Covid-19, CEMS expanded its activities to run public virtual seminars and online
 performance events, extending access to a community beyond Aberdeen. Recent highlights
 include the first screening of a lockdown performance made with Scottish actors, exploring
 separation and isolation through the lens of correspondence in Shakespeare’s Love’s Labour’s

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lost and other early modern sources (Gordon, in collaboration with theatre director Alasdair
 Hunter, 2020).
 The WORD strand within the University’s May Festival has involved the unit in sustained
 interaction with regional audiences via readings, talks and workshops. During the census period,
 it has featured UOA staff, students and alumni, together with invited authors drawn from 11
 countries (including Wioletta Grzegorzewska, 2015, Sinéad Morrisey, 2016, Daljit Nagra, 2016,
 Janice Galloway, 2017, Bernard MacLaverty, 2018, and Liz Lochhead, 2019).
 Staff giving public talks include Hutchison, lecturing on Mary Borden at the British Library
 (2014); Lumsden, on Nan Shepherd at the North East Mountain Trust Winter Lectures series
 (2018); and Millar, on national language revivals at the Scots Language Society Collogue, Perth
 (2014). O’Connor gave a public lecture on medieval Irish and Icelandic sagas at the UCLA
 Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (2014). Wheatley gave a public lecture on Irish
 poetry at the Seamus Heaney HomePlace museum, Bellaghy, Co. Derry (2017).
 Media contributions
 Print and broadcast media contributions include Barras, discussing radio drama The Archers as
 a resource for tracking how society’s speech has changed (BBC Radio 4, 2016). Craig gave an
 interview to BBC Radio Scotland on his book, The Wealth of the Nation (2019). Hutchison
 spoke on Radio New Zealand about her book, The War that Used Up Words (2015). Lumsden
 was a guest on Billy Kay’s A History of Scottish Literature series (BBC Radio Scotland, 2014).
 Price gave an interview to BBC Radio Scotland about his novel, Mercy Seat (2015). Wheatley
 writes regularly for various newspapers and journals, including Times Literary Supplement.
 In sum, our supportive School environment and a set of dynamic Research Centres enable us to
 pursue our individual specialisms and capitalise on opportunities for collaborative activity. We
 work with partners from around the world while at the same time participating in the social and
 cultural enrichment of North East Scotland. In doing so, we ensure that Aberdeen’s contribution
 to the diversity and impact of research in English Language and Literature is substantial and
 sustained.




                                                                                          Page 14
