Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Institution: CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY

  Unit of Assessment: UoA26 - Modern Languages and Linguistics

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Unit Context and Structure

The submitting Unit comprises staff from the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages
and Linguistics (MMLL), and the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse, and Celtic (ASNC).
In 2019, the name of the Modern and Medieval Languages Faculty (MML) was changed to
MMLL, in order to recognize more fully the integral part played by Linguistics in the
Faculty. Until 2017, MMLL was administratively organized by language/area
‘Departments’. An administrative and structural reorganization has dissolved these
separate Departments into a single administrative and pedagogical framework, while
informally maintaining language/area ‘Sections’. The Faculty now comprises six Sections
(French, German and Dutch, Slavonic, Italian, Spanish and Portuguese, Theoretical and
Applied Linguistics), together with the Centre for Film and Screen, and a number of other
associated research centres and networks. While the Sections maintain the original
teaching area/language groupings, this administrative restructuring of the Faculty is being
used as a basis for encouraging Faculty-wide comparative perspectives (in both teaching
and research). For administrative purposes, ASNC is associated with the Faculty of
English, but its research interests and methods coincide more closely with those of MMLL:
both institutions are engaged in the study of language(s), literatures, linguistics, texts and
their historical and cultural contexts. While there are many specific disciplines and
subdisciplines across that spectrum, the intellectual coherence of the two institutional
structures, and their linked research environment, comes from a shared research agenda.
As a result of this shared history, inter- and multi-disciplinarity, which characterize all
sections within the UoA, have become the guiding principles of its research activity.
        The different Sections of the MMLL Faculty and ASNC are each large enough to
constitute distinct research environments. Typically, each has sufficient research-active
members of academic staff to cover a wide range of period, language and disciplinary
specialisms. Research in the language Sections deals with every period from the medieval
(the particular domain of ASNC) to the contemporary, and incorporates the study of
literature, linguistics, philology, history, the visual arts and film, thought, and culture, in the
broad sense of that term, including related language areas within the remit of several
sections (e.g. Ukrainian, Catalan). Research in Theoretical and Applied Linguistics (TAL)
likewise covers a comprehensive range of the language sciences and offers theoretical
and empirical research in a broad spread of fields from historical linguistics and
comparative syntax to language processing and computational linguistics.
Both MMLL and ASNC form part of the School of Arts and Humanities. The Unit's research
and impact strategy informs and responds to the strategy of the School in which it sits,
which makes available further streams of research and impact funding. The School is also
responsible for a number of interdisciplinary research centres and activities, in which the
UoA plays an active role (see below for details). The strategic direction of research in
MMLL is led by the Research Strategy Committee (RSC), on which ASNC has been
represented since 2011. All major research grant and postdoctoral applications, from every
Section/Department, are closely vetted prior to submission by the RSC (or by the ASNC
Departmental Committee, as well as local funding competitions and fellowship
assessments). Supervision and assessment of research students in MMLL and ASNC are

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

conducted according to School- and University-wide policies, in line with national
standards set by UKRI.
       The 31 Colleges, which are self-governing institutions within Cambridge University,
are also a key part of the Unit’s research environment. Most crucially, they host and fully
fund 17 lectureships which are fully integrated into the UoA’s teaching and research
framework. They also foster interdisciplinary collaboration through formal and informal
interactions, and regular research seminars and colloquia frequently take place in Colleges
in tandem with the Unit. They provide office space for University and College staff, which is
primarily used for research; they award postdoctoral Research Fellowships, fund
postgraduate studentships, and assist both staff and students with research expenses;
they also foster research collaboration outside Cambridge through Visiting Fellowships.
Currently the Unit has 75 University-employed Lecturers, the vast majority of whom have a
College affiliation, seven Research-only staff (employed by the University), 17 College
Teaching Officers, and 12 Research Fellows (attached to individual Colleges).


Research Strategies and Objectives

In 2014, our UoA had three specific goals:

   1. to ensure that the range of languages and cultures studied within the Unit is
      maintained and, where possible, enhanced;
   2. to develop interdisciplinary collaboration within the research clusters across the
      language Departments and ASNC; and in the Language Sciences under the
      auspices of the University's Strategic Research Initiative in this area.
   3. to encourage and enhance research in Film/Screen Media Studies.

We can confidently state that we have met the goals of our 2014 submission:

   1. The range of languages and cultures studied within the Unit has been both
      maintained and enhanced: in the Department of ASNC, three recent new
      appointments, including a newly established lectureship in medieval manuscript
      studies and the filling in 2019 of the Elrington and Bosworth Chair of Anglo-Saxon
      (by Professor Rosalind Love) testify to the increasing strength of its research and
      teaching culture; in the Slavonic Studies Section, a University Lecturer position in
      Polish Studies, filled by Dr Stanley Bill, was fully funded through a permanent
      endowment from the Polish government and made permanent in 2017 after a four-
      year pilot project to introduce this new language and area of research for the
      Faculty, and funding was secured for a new Russian Language Teaching Officer;
      the appointment of Dr Caroline Egan, in Spanish, enabled for the first time in the
      MMLL Faculty the teaching of and research into materials relating to American
      indigenous languages, such as Quechua and Nahuatl; Portuguese teaching
      provision has been enhanced to 3.5 members of staff and Catalan language
      teaching is now guaranteed by the Batista i Roca Fellowship at Fitzwilliam College;
      the relocation of Dr Joanna Page’s post from POLIS (the Department of Politics and
      International Studies) to MMLL also bolsters research and teaching in Latin
      American studies and enhances the Faculty’s already strong links with the Centre
      for Latin American Studies (CLAS); the reendowment of the Chair in German by the
      Schröder Foundation has also been strengthened by a fund of around £60,000 per
      annum to support teaching and research in German Studies; the launch in June
                                                                                      Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       2019 of the Cambridge Centre for Greek Studies, jointly established by the
       Faculties of MMLL and Classics, and bolstered by the transfer to MMLL of the
       Lewis-Gibson Fund for Modern Greek (currently worth £900,000), is further proof of
       the enhancement of the range of languages and cultures, with the specific brief to
       promote the study of the history, culture and language of the Greek peninsula and
       associated territories, from prehistoric times to the present day; moreover, Prof
       Adam Ledgeway has instituted courses in Romanian offered to students of
       Romance Linguistics.

   2. Interdisciplinary collaboration within the UoA has been encouraged by the
      restructuring of the MMLL Faculty, which is leading to internally funded collaborative
      ventures, with the introduction of annual Faculty-wide research allowances and
      funding for cross-Section seminars and workshops; the AHRC Open World
      Research Initiative-funded project, MEITS (Multilingualism: Empowering Individuals,
      Transforming Societies), involves members of TAL, Spanish, Slavonic Studies, and
      other departments within the University; collaboration between medievalists and
      linguists across MMLL and ASNC continues to bear fruit (and the new University
      Lecturer post in manuscript studies within ASNC will enhance this still further); the
      establishment of the cross-School DAAD Research Hub for German Studies (co-
      director Prof. Chris Young) has enabled the stimulation of research on German
      subjects across many disciplines, most prominently History, Law, Economics,
      Divinity, Philosophy, Literature and Linguistics; the Cambridge Italian Research
      Network, launched in 2013, draws together researchers from a dozen faculties for
      cross-disciplinary enquiry; the Cambridge Committee for Russian and East
      European Studies (CamCREES), founded in 1987, continues to promote
      interdisciplinarity across Faculties and Colleges within the University; the active
      participation of the UoA in the newly formed trans-disciplinary Centre for the Study
      of Global Human Movement (Associate Director: Dr Jenny Mander) engages with
      one of the greatest societal challenges of the 21st Century, that of human
      movement, dispersal, mobility, and migration.

   3. Film/Screen Media Studies continue to play an increasingly prominent role, with
      two recent newly established University Lecturer appointments (Dr JD Rhodes and
      Dr Laura McMahon), the first lectureships to be made specifically in this field in the
      Unit, to complement the extensive research interests in film already present in the
      language Sections, and further enhanced by new appointments with interests in film
      since 2014 (Cameron, Mukhida), the establishment of the Centre for Film and
      Screen, and a burgeoning new PhD programme in Film. We aim to continue the
      enhancement of Film/Media Studies, building upon our association with digital
      humanities and research in visual culture.

For the 2021 submission, our three interconnected main goals will be:

       1. to enable ongoing interdisciplinary collaboration and related grant capture
          across the UoA, through joint research projects, open structures, innovative
          practice, and the development of new spaces for collaborative exchange;




                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       2. in particular, to develop further the existing collaboration within the UoA between
          arts/humanities and science/technology, leading to new and creative strategies
          and research directions;
       3. to play a leading role in the University’s commitment to Global Humanities,
          especially through the UoA’s diverse research projects relating to global
          movement and migration.


Support Structures for collaboration and interdisciplinary research

We maintain an active series of research seminars and events, both within individual
(language/area-based) Sections, and across chronological and conceptual groupings (e.g.
Renaissance; Film and Screen Studies; Romance Linguistics). There are approximately 15
research seminar groups meeting regularly across the UoA as well as regular symposia,
including several run by postgraduate students with Faculty support; additionally, members
of the UoA participate in, and benefit from, the rich range of interdisciplinary seminars
across the University, in particular through the Centre for Research in the Arts, Social
Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH); the Cambridge Language Sciences Interdisciplinary
Research Centre; the Centre of Latin American Studies (CLAS); the Cambridge
Committee for Russian and East European Studies; the Cambridge Italian Research
Network; the Centre for the Study of Global Human Movement; the Cambridge Late
Antiquity Network (CLANS); the Cambridge Endangered Languages and Cultures Group
(CELC); the several Faculty-funded seminars and reading groups, such as the seminar
series on Voice (run by Franklin-Brown) and Science and Culture (led by James), set up
with the aim of securing external funding for future research projects. A cross-disciplinary
seminar series from 2018-19, entitled ‘Tactics and Praxis’, coordinated by McNeill,
Haywood and Evans and devoted to siting creativity at the centre of academic life and
thereby questioning patriarchal and hegemonic power systems, resulted in a publication,
‘Tactics and Praxis: a manifesto’, in a special issue on feminist pedagogies in MAI: a
Feminist Journal of Visual Culture (2020); owing to COVID19, a major conference to be
held at CRASSH in July 2020 was postponed to July 2021, but the seminar series
continues to be held online.
        Interdisciplinary research in the UoA is particularly evident in the following areas:
Area Studies (with scholars working across cultural, historical and political disciplines),
Language Sciences (where the Interdisciplinary Research Centre for Language Sciences
functions as a catalyst for much of the multidisciplinary language research involving
specialists within the UoA and in the School of Arts and Humanities, but also colleagues in
disciplines such as Psychology, the Social Sciences, Engineering, the Department of
Computer Science and Technology, and the Medical School, as well as Cambridge
Assessment, and the MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit), Medieval Studies (with two
recent University Teaching Officer appointments in the MMLL Faculty, and two in ASNC,
and regular collaboration between MMLL and ASNC as well as with medievalists in the
Faculties of Divinity, English and History), and Film and Screen (where our UoA has
established itself as the centre for teaching and research in the University, involving other
Faculties, such as Architecture and History of Art, Geography, Asian and Middle Eastern
Studies, and English). With interdisciplinary research in mind, the MMLL Faculty has lined
up an upcoming vacancy (2021) to be repositioned from French to create a comparative
post in Postcolonial Hispanophone and Francophone Studies. Other major current and
recent collaborative research projects (all of which have resulted or are resulting in major
research outputs) include:


                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   • MEITS (Multilingualism: Empowering Individuals, Transforming Societies; PI Ayres-
       Bennett), one of four interdisciplinary flagships funded by the AHRC under its Open
       World Research Initiative to revitalize Modern Languages and shape UK language
       policy by showing how multilingualism can empower individuals and transform
       societies, and already producing a wide range of published outputs, including
       articles on linguistic standardisation and language policy, autism research, humour
       in Catalan satirical cartoons and comics, and questions of languages and national
       belonging. The Linguistics group is engaged in a number of projects and initiatives
       such as the Cambridge Bilingualism Network and MEITS’ Policy Journal that seek
       to inform language education and policy development within the UK and abroad,
       while others make a number of targeted contributions in the area of Public Health.

   ● ‘Domestic Devotions’ (ERC Synergy grant; PI Brundin), which included a major
     exhibition, ‘Madonnas and Miracles’, held at the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge in
     2017, and resulted in many outputs, including the book The Sacred Home in
     Renaissance Italy (OUP, 2018).

   • ‘Rethinking Comparative Syntax’ (PI Roberts), which led to numerous outputs,
       including Roberts’s 700-page monograph Parameter Hierarchies and Universal
       Grammar and OUP mini-series of monographs (Studies in Rethinking Comparative
       Syntax); and ’Lexical Acquisition across Languages’ (PI Korhonen), all funded by
       the European Research Council.

   ● ‘LION (Literature-based discovery for cancer biology’ (PI: Korhonen) and
     ‘PheneBank’ (PIs Collier, Korhonen), both funded by the Medical Research Council.

   ● ‘CLIC (Centre for Lifelong Learning and Individualised Cognition)’ (PI Hendriks),
     established with the support of the Singapore National Research Foundation.

   ● The Leverhulme Trust-funded ‘Fading Voices in Southern Italy’ (PI Ledgeway) and
     ‘Expressing the Self’ (PI Jaszczolt); the ESRC-DFID-funded ‘Multilingualism and
     Multiliteracy in India’ (PI Tsimpli).

   ● the DAAD-funded Research Hub for German Studies; the ‘Kaiserchronik Project’
     (PIs Young, Chinca), and the Schnitzler Digital Edition Project (PI Webber), both
     funded by the AHRC.

   ● In the ASNC subject areas, ‘Text and Meaning: Contributions to a Revised
     Dictionary of Medieval Irish’ (AHRC; PI Ní Mhaonaigh), ‘Brittany and the Atlantic
     Archipelago’ (Leverhulme; PI Russell), ‘The Gersum Project: the Scandinavian
     Influence on English Vocabulary’ (AHRC; PI Dance), ‘Vitae Sanctorum Cambriae’
     (AHRC; PI Russell), ‘Latin Arthurian Literature and the Rise of Fiction’ (Leverhulme;
     PI Love), 'Mapping the Medieval Mind: Ireland's Literary Landscapes in a Global
     Space' (Leverhulme; PI Ní Mhaonaigh); 'The Íslendingasögur as Prosimetrum'
     (AHRC-Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft: PI Quinn).

The collaborative nature of all these projects has led to many fruitful connections within
Britain and across the world, showing the national and international standing of our UoA
and underlining our commitment to continued cooperation with different sectors of society.




                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Support for Open Access/Open Research/Research Integrity and Ethics

The UoA has followed the University in its mission to contribute to society through the
pursuit of education, learning, and research at the highest international levels of
excellence by promoting and supporting Open Research. In doing so, we aim to improve
discoverability and transparency of our research outputs and to maximise access to
knowledge: two particular examples, the Kaiserchronik project (with fully searchable
access to digital facsimiles) and the Schnitzler digital edition (maintaining free access to
all), epitomise our commitment to such openness. We see an Open Research Culture as
an essential way of furthering the global reach of our research and of enabling researchers
within the UoA to use open research materials from other scholars in order both to
accelerate the pursuit of knowledge and to foster international collaboration. The UoA
liaised with the University Open Access team to educate and train researchers in Open
Access requirements and ways in which an Open Research culture can increase
inclusivity and collaboration. The Office of Scholarly Communications in the University
Library offers regular training and information sessions on Open Access for research staff,
and members of the UoA have attended a number of these sessions.
        The UoA is fully committed to the highest standards of research integrity and ethics
and remains aware of its responsibilities in the pursuit of excellence in research and
scholarship. The Faculty of MMLL has a Research Ethics Committee (currently chaired by
Dr Dora Alexopoulou), and the UoA’s Research Strategy Committee regularly monitors
questions of integrity and ethics at its meetings. For a number of Impact Case Studies in
particular and other Impact work more generally, especially regarding work in prisons and
with refugees, careful attention has been paid to questions of ethical responsibility.


Impact Strategy and Objectives

Much work has been done within the UoA to embed Impact into our research strategies at
individual and collective levels. To this end, the UoA has established two dedicated Impact
Officers – the Chair of Research Strategy (Prof. Emma Widdis, succeeded by Prof.
Rodrigo Cacho) and one other (in the years since REF2014 Prof. Mari Jones and Prof.
Henriette Hendriks) – who have worked to build awareness of, and a positive attitude
towards, the Impact agenda.
       Since the beginning of the academic year 2016-17, regular training sessions for
UoA members have been organized. Six of the sessions (2016-17), conducted with
guidance from the University’s Impact Office, were targeted specifically at each of the
MMLL Faculty’s academic Sections and the discussion therein was tailored to the research
interests of a particular Section (including more overarching ‘institutional impact’). The aim
of the 2017-18 workshops, in which members of ASNC were also involved, was to
complement the subject-specific events with a more cross-subject approach. Two
workshops took place focusing on the themes of ‘Heritage’ and ‘Policy’ (14 and 10
attendees respectively), and two ‘Masterclass’ type workshops were held, at which
members of the Unit who provided Impact Case Studies for REF 2014 and/or who were
successful in obtaining the School of Arts and Humanities Impact awards presented their
work. All academics within the UoA are encouraged to keep regular personal Impact
working notes and to place them in the University Impact repository, resulting in a good
take-up of around 80 cases submitted. These were used as a basis for working up and
developing Impact case studies for REF2021, but the purpose is also to place Impact at
the heart of the Unit’s research activities beyond 2021. As a result, work continues to be
done with scholars and funding has been made available with the explicit intention of
supporting Impact-related studies that will be developed and will bear fruit in future years.
                                                                                       Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Contact is maintained with the impact work of other UoAs within the University, and Prof.
Jones’s membership of the School of Arts and Humanities Impact Steering Group has
been crucial in this regard.
         The UoA has actively supported postgraduate training initiatives at both Faculty and
School levels: 28 postgraduates participated in an AHRC DTP training event on Impact
(2017) and training sessions were run for TAL and ASNC PhD students (both in 2018). A
session devoted entirely to the REF and its importance for those interested in academic
careers, with particular emphasis on the ways that Impact could help shape their future
research projects, was attended by 15 MMLL postgraduates in 2019. The Research
Excellence Framework (from both an environment and Impact perspective) is now
embedded into the postgraduate training programme, with the aim of preparing and
training those doctoral students who will be moving on to academic posts after their
degrees.
         The portfolio of Impact Case Studies for REF2021 emerged directly from the new
Impact-related initiatives described above. Although each case study has been developed
and nurtured independently, the wider Impact work within the Unit has allowed certain
shared themes and goals to emerge, reflecting upon the Unit’s wider objectives. While the
Unit’s aim to enhance cross-disciplinarity remains central to the Impact portfolio for
REF2021, multilingualism and its impact upon individuals and society play an especially
important role in many of the case studies, bringing to the fore a number of urgent
questions related to languages in the 21st century. ‘Changing the value of languages’
(Ayres-Bennett) is concerned with shifting the national debate about languages and
championing the value of languages across government in key areas such as educational
policy, social cohesion, business and innovation. The benefits of a multilingual education
lie at the core of ‘Harnessing multilingualism in Indian primary schoolrooms’ (Tsimpli), and
the study continues to have a major impact on government organisations, policy-makers
and teachers. ‘Cambridge Bilingualism Network’ (Katsos) explores the benefits and
challenges of bilingualism by sharing its findings with researchers, teachers, clinicians and
parents of bilingual children. Language endangerment and social exclusion inform four
other Impact Case Studies, with the preservation and/or dissemination of
endangered/ancient languages central to three studies (Jones, Sitaridou, Ní
Mhaonaigh/Dance), and the value of literature/film in one other (prisons in the study by
Gilby). The research within all of the Impact Case Studies maintains a contemporary
relevance, whether through the current political situation in Poland (Bill), or popular culture,
with the development of award-winning video games (Rowe).




                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  2. People


Staff

The strong academic standing of our colleagues’ research is evidenced in the fact that, of
the 75 University-employed permanent teaching and research staff in our UoA, 31 are full
Professors (15 female; 17 male), and 25 are Readers (11 female; 14 male).
        In many diverse areas, the research environment of the UoA is buoyant. The Unit
currently has approximately 100 MPhil students and 170 doctoral students, as well as 43
research-only staff (22 female, 21 male), which includes 13 postdoctoral Research Fellows
in collegiate Cambridge.

Staffing strategy
The great majority of research-active staff in the Unit are employed by either a Faculty or a
College or both, on contracts involving both teaching and research. The remainder are
postdoctoral researchers attached to a particular funded project, or Research Fellows
(normally postdoctoral) appointed by Colleges. The areas in which University
appointments are made reflect the strategic commitment to sustaining existing branches of
the subject areas and developing new ones, both in research and in undergraduate and
postgraduate teaching. Outstanding research quality, proven or potential, is an essential
criterion in the selection of candidates at all levels. Within the time period of the current
REF process, there have been 17 permanent University Lecturer (UTO) appointments
within our UoA (11 female, 6 male). Examples of new appointments that have been
informed by a continued vision of interdisciplinarity, reflecting the new cross-Section
structures within MMLL, include those in 2017 of Dr Caroline Egan, who works on
peninsular and colonial materials in both Spanish and Portuguese, in 2018 of Dr Laura
McMahon, whose recent work concerns the animal in both film and philosophy, Dr Leila
Mukhida, whose research interests include German and comparative visual culture and
cinema, and in 2019 of Dr Mary Franklin-Brown, who researches in medieval writing in
French, Occitan, Latin and Catalan. The forthcoming comparative post in post-colonial
studies will further enhance the Unit’s development of cross-disciplinary posts.
Recruitment in ASNC has been buoyant in diverse research areas, with the appointment in
2016 of Dr Alison Bonner (specialist in Pelagius and manuscript transmission in the fourth
and fifth centuries), and in 2019 of Dr Rory Naismith (whose primary research interest
concerns coinage in Anglo-Saxon England) and Dr Erik Niblaeus (who works on church
history and manuscripts in German-speaking Europe and Scandinavia in the central
Middle Ages).
        When a College appoints a College Teaching Officer (CTO), representatives of the
relevant University Department are normally invited to take part in the selection process,
and research contribution is always taken into account. CTOs are fully-integrated
members of the research communities, within the UoA, participating in and often
organizing research seminars and undertaking PhD supervision. The outputs of all CTOs
within our UoA have been included, reflecting not only the high quality of research of
College-based academic staff but also the integral role that they play within the Unit’s
research environment.




                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Early Career Researchers
       Mentors and heads of section/department actively encourage early career
researchers to participate in the comprehensive range of compulsory and voluntary
training schemes that the University provides for early and mid-career staff, covering all
aspects of research, teaching, administration and leadership. Throughout the census
period four British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowships and one British Academy Mid-
Career Fellowship have been held in the Unit, as well as three Leverhulme Early Career
Fellowships, and 19 research posts associated with research grants funded from sources
such as the AHRC, ESRC, ERC, Leverhulme Trust and Marie Curie Foundation. The
opportunity to interact with world-class research within the UoA, through research
seminars, workshops, and association with research projects, provides an excellent
starting point for these researchers to progress with their careers, and many are already at
the top of their respective fields.
       The Colleges also expand and enrich the research base by their appointments to
three- or four-year stipendiary Research Fellowships, typically awarded to outstanding
postdoctoral researchers following elections which generally attract well over 100 (and in
some cases several hundred) applications across multiple disciplines for each fellowship.
Within the assessment period around 8-10 Research Fellows (RFs) per year have been
elected in fields coming within this Unit of Assessment. Most of these early career scholars
go on to distinguished academic careers, including in recent years Acedo-Matellan
(Oxford), Callander (Cardiff), Counter (Oxford), Flechner (University College Dublin),
Goodman (Oxford), Naismith (KCL and Cambridge), Polgovsky Ezcurra (Birkbeck), Ring
(UCL), Roach (Exeter), Soper (Oxford), Thornbury (Yale), White (Nottingham), Williams
(Oxford).

Staff development
        In addition to the University’s induction programmes for all newly-appointed staff,
the UoA provides extensive support. Early-career staff are provided with a mentor from a
different Section who oversees, and advises on, the development of their work in the
Faculty (this applies to CTOs, RFs, and externally-funded postdoctoral researchers as
well); where possible, they are allocated lighter teaching and administrative loads during
the (normally three-year) probation period; they are annually appraised. Other members of
staff are appraised biennially, but may request annual appraisal. As part of the new
structures within MMLL, appraisals are now generally carried out by one of the Co-Chairs
of the Faculty, usually with the head of Section to which the appraisee belongs. The
University Personal and Professional Development Office runs an extensive programme
for staff development, catering for all categories and career stages and covering such
matters as research integrity and ethics.
        University and College Teaching Officers are entitled to one term of sabbatical
leave on full pay for every six terms of service so that one year can be accumulated by six
years of continuous service. Most staff make full use of this entitlement, often at other
universities overseas and with University/College assistance towards travel costs. The
University has considerably more generous maternity/paternity and adoption leave
provision than required by law. It also offers a graduated return to work plan, flexible
working arrangements and recommends that major meetings should be held during core
working hours so that parents of young children are not excluded. Since 2016, MMLL
changed the start of Faculty Board meetings to 1.45pm, explicitly in order to avoid clashes
with childcare arrangements. Subsequently, all other main Faculty Committees have start

                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

times after 9.30am or before 2pm. The University have established a Returning Carers
Scheme to help staff members (male or female) resume their research work on their return
to work following a career break arising from caring responsibilities. It offers varying
amounts to meet particular circumstances, e.g. buying out teaching and/or administrative
duties, funding attendance at conferences or providing research support. The UoA has
participated fully and successfully in this scheme (with lecturers like Dr Heather Webb,
who through the assistance scheme have managed to maintain their active research
profile).
        For University Lecturers, promotion to Senior Lectureships, personal Readerships
and Professorships is run through an annual highly-structured competitive exercise with
final decisions made by a Committee chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. Promotion requires
evidence to demonstrate significant international research reputation, supported by
objective criteria and strong external support. The HR Division offers support to those
making applications for promotion by appointing a suitable senior academic as mentor to
guide them through the process. All applicants are given support within the UoA, through
the University promotion mentor scheme, and through appraisal discussions, where
promotion is always addressed; Chairs of Faculty advise all eligible University Teaching
Officers on promotion and provide feedback in cases of unsuccessful applications. During
the assessment period, 12 members of the UoA have been promoted to Professor (seven
female, five male), 11 to Reader (seven female, four male), and 10 to Senior Lecturer (five
female, five male).


Equality and Diversity

The UoA remains committed in its pursuit of academic excellence to a proactive and
inclusive approach to equality, supporting and encouraging all under-represented groups,
promoting an inclusive culture and valuing diversity. The nine protected characteristics of
the Equality Act 2010 – age; disability; gender reassignment; marriage and civil
partnership; pregnancy and maternity; race; religion or belief; gender; sexual orientation –
are essential components of our work in this domain but are not exclusively so; we remain
mindful of other areas, such as economic inequality. The Faculty of MMLL Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion Committee, which has been working in tandem with the Faculties of
History and English (of which the department of ASNC is administratively a part), is
chaired by Dr Jenny Mander, and meets termly, reporting to the MMLL Faculty Board. It
aims to achieve a culture within the UoA that promotes and values equality, diversity and
inclusion across all areas of teaching, learning, examining, research, recruitment and
administration.
       While ASNC, as part of the Faculty of English, hold an Athena SWAN bronze
award, MMLL were ready to make a submission for an Athena SWAN bronze award in
April 2020 before the coronavirus crisis led to Athena SWAN postponing all submissions.
       Individual Sections within the UoA continue to devote time to ways in which
diversity and inclusion can be reflected in both the teaching syllabus and matters of
research: for example, in May 2018, the French Section dedicated an away day to this
subject, which resulted in every area of study changing its corpus of texts and themes.
       The UoA actively supports the University’s Equal Opportunities Policy in all matters
relating to staffing. Four members of the UoA, Professors Sarah Colvin, Helena Sanson,
and Andrew Webber, and Dr Louise Haywood, are University Equality Champions, with

                                                                                    Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

the express purpose to demonstrate leadership and support for equality and diversity
matters. During this period, 5 UoA members were supported by the University during
maternity/paternity leave, with two members making use of the Returning Carers Scheme.
      Equality and Diversity considerations played a key part in the construction of the
REF submission by this UoA and appeared as an item on every agenda for REF
committee meetings.


Research students

Integration into research culture
Both collectively and within its different Sections, the Unit has developed a thriving
research culture into which research students are fully integrated. Graduate students in the
UoA receive a large number of training opportunities, such as:
    ● transferable skills training provided by the Graduate School, specially designed to
       help in the completion of the doctoral thesis and to prepare for life beyond the PhD;
    ● expert advice and tuition in areas such as project management, writing skills
       (including research proposals and writing for publication), digital resources and
       presentation skills;
    ● a Graduate Training Framework intended to ensure that research students receive
       appropriate preparation and training and intended to be flexible and above all
       relevant to individual students' needs; this is undertaken as part of the student's
       Personal Development Plan.
    ● core generic skills, honed by both in-house sessions and broader provision within
       the university; Faculty training includes sessions on research methods and skills,
       language teaching, supervisions, how to write a lecture, paleography, statistics.
       developing a profile in modern languages, how to organize a conference, getting
       published and career development; introduction to the REF process in preparation
       for future academic careers
    ● subject-specific training covering topics such as the understanding of theoretical
       issues, specific research contexts and related fields, as well as the development of
       relevant research skills and methodologies; generally this is delivered at Section-
       level and features at least one research colloquium as a central element.
    ● attendance and speaking at conferences, nationally and internationally, encouraged
       by the provision of grants from various Faculty funds, to help students to gain
       experience; the School, Faculty and CRASSH also provide funds for planning and
       running graduate-led conferences.
    ● attendance at relevant Faculty and Section seminars, which are often co-organized
       by research students, as an integral part of their research training. In addition to
       talks by distinguished outside speakers, there are opportunities for PhD students to
       present papers.
    ● In addition to Departmental/Section seminars, a very busy programme of visiting
       lectures is available: for example, in recent years visiting lecturers have included
       Professors Terence Cave, Nils Langer, Stephanie Bird, Thomas Elsaesser, Mark
       Franko, Rebecca Schneider, Karen Pinkus (as Leverhulme Visiting Professor,
       2019-20), Jo Labanyi, Jay Atlas, Susan Irvine, Catherine McKenna, Greg Toner,
       Laura Mulvey (jointly organized with the British Film Institute), Virginia Cox, and Dr
       Uliana Suprun, Minister of Health of Ukraine. Additionally, the Faculty of MMLL

                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     holds an annual Faculty Lecture, usually addressing pressing concerns connected
     to the learning of languages, including a roundtable discussion on the theme
     ‘Encountering Brexit’, and lectures by leading figures such as Thomas Bak, Bridget
     Kendall, Steve Eadon and Bernadette Holmes. The 2019 Annual lecture was given
     by Professor Michael Moriarty, to mark the 100th anniversary of the Drapers
     Professorship in French at Cambridge University, and was attended by leading
     academics from across the country.
   ● the interdisciplinary focus of the UoA has enabled exciting links with major figures,
     such as the Filmmaker in Residence at the Centre for Film and Screen (including
     Todd Solonz, Joanna Hogg, Gianfranco Rosi, and Lucrezia Martel).

Every Section/Department within the UoA holds regular Graduate Research Seminars
between 2 and 4 times a term, addressed by many distinguished national and international
speakers. Larger Sections hold separate seminars devoted to periods or themes.
Additionally, the different Sections within the UoA hold progression workshops in which
graduates (at both MPhil and PhD level) are provided with the training skills mentioned
above. The Department of ASNC, and the Sections of French, Italian and TAL hold an
annual graduate-led colloquium, attracting graduate student speakers from across the
world, and to which speakers with international reputations are also invited, with the
papers being published in journal (ASNC: Quaestio Insularis) or book (French: published
by Peter Lang) form, edited by the students themselves. Many research students from
within the UoA are also involved in organizing and attending interdisciplinary seminar
series at CRASSH. In addition to the various Section seminars, some more specific
information is given below.

ASNC: The Departmental seminars are augmented by three named lecture series, the
contributions to which are published annually. The Department also takes turns to host two
annual ‘exchange’ symposia (one in the Celtic languages and one in Old English and Old
Norse plus Latin) with Oxford and London, at which graduate students are the primary
contributors. For more than ten years, moreover, ASNC has participated in an annual
Graduate Symposium on Old Norse studies at the University of Bergen, where graduate
students give papers; and graduate students were also involved in presenting their
research in a series of exchange events with Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (Munich) in
2019 (funded by the Cambridge-LMU Strategic Partnership).

French: The French Section holds regular medieval, early modern, 19 th-century and
modern research seminars, as well as seminars in linguistics, attended by academic staff,
graduate students, and visiting scholars. Since 2014, links between different seminars
have been used creatively, such as the joint early modern and 19 th-century seminars held
over one term in 2016 (which included a paper by John D. Lyons), and the joint early
modern and modern seminar in 2018 (given by Yves Citton). The continuing interest in
transdisciplinarity has been reflected in the developing collaboration between the modern
seminar and the Film and Screen Studies research seminar, with invited speakers like
Sarah Cooper in 2019, and in talks such as that given in 2019 by the art historian A.J.
Clark to the 19th-century Seminar. In addition, a French Graduate Research Seminar,
organized by the students themselves, has been held on a regular basis (8-10 seminars
per year) for the past 16 years.



                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

German: The Section cooperates with the Freie Universität Berlin and Chicago in doctoral
exchanges and graduate conferences, on themes ranging from Discourses of Death
(Chicago, 2015) to Epiphanic Realities (Berlin, 2017) to Economic Subjects (Cambridge,
2018) and Post-critique (Chicago, 2021). Research students also participate in special
visitor events, such as the screening and lecture by Thomas Elsaesser (2018), and attend
the Schröder and DAAD Hub Lectures, with such speakers as Tariq Ali, Christopher
Finlay, Katharina Karcher, Sulhaiymah Manzoor-Khan and Thomas Ostermeier. The
Tiarks Fund regularly supports the organisation of international conferences by graduate
students (e.g. Biological Discourses, 2015) and the publication of proceedings.

Italian: As well as hosting a regular research seminar run jointly by/for postgraduates and
senior members, the Section offers a postgraduate fund, ‘The Italianist Fund’, co-
administered by the Section with the Universities of Leeds and Reading, which is used for
graduate-run conferences and postgraduate training sessions. The Cambridge Italian
Research Network (CIRN), established in 2012, coordinates research activity on Italy in
Cambridge across all humanities and social science disciplines, drawing approximately
100 researchers from MPhil and PhD level upwards. CIRN offers research seed funding,
an annual lecture (given in recent years by Jane Garnett and Gervase Rosser, Richard A.
Etlin, Marina Warner, Nadia Urbinati, Miri Rubin, and Virginia Cox) and an annual
interdisciplinary research symposium (on topics such as the Home, Death, Crime and
Punishment, Stereotypes, and Food).

Slavonic: In 2017, the cross-Faculty Cambridge Committee for Russian and East
European Studies (CamCREES), where the Section plays a lead role, celebrated its 30 th
anniversary. The Section coordinates its regular seminars and those of CamCREES, and
these provide a key forum for research students. Recent events include talks given by
speakers like Victoria Lomasko, Robert Romanchuk, Ilya Vinitsky, Igor Fediukin, Natalia
Murray, Mark von Hagen, Tamara Hundorova, and Marta Dyczok, and there are bi-annual
public lecture series (e.g. 2019 ‘Cultural Histories of the Present’). The Section is also a
prominent member of the CEELBAS language-based area studies consortium, and
research students participate in coordinated training and seminars organized by this
consortium. The students also attend regular Ukrainian Studies research events held
within the Section.

Spanish and Portuguese: The Section runs a very active Graduate Seminar, with recent
invited speakers including Mary Vincent, Polly Savage, Catherine Boyle and Jo Labanyi.
Numerous conferences have taken place under the auspices of the Section and in
conjunction with CRASSH, such as ‘Eco-imaginaries and the Borders of Art’ (convenor:
Segre), ‘Subversive Intent and Beyond’ (convenor: Epps), ‘Between the Frames: Politics
and Visual Print Media’ (co-convened by Cameron and McGlade), ‘Limits and Extensions
of the Subject’ (co-convenor: Keown), ‘Mobilizing Affect: Populism and the future of
democratic populism in Spain’ (convenor: Cameron), ‘The Queer Art of Feeling’ (co-
convened by Maguire). Workshops have also been held, where graduate students have
been able to present their research not only to their peers but also to established staff in
the Faculty. Many of the graduate students participate in research seminars run in other
Sections, faculties, and institutions. They also attend the Centre of Latin American Studies
Open Seminars. The Section itself has a budget to which students can apply to organize
or participate in conferences.

                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


TAL: The Section’s close ties with the Cambridge Language Sciences Interdisciplinary
Research Centre, provides opportunities to PhD students and RAs on various funded
projects to participate in advanced training sessions. Presentation skills workshops are
offered twice a year to prepare graduate students to take part in the 1-minute talks and
poster exhibition at the Language Sciences annual Symposium. A separate symposium to
showcase research by early career researchers is held in June and attended by 50-60
PhD students and postdoctoral researchers. The Section’s research is focused around six
principal research clusters which bring together not only staff and postgraduate students in
TAL but also linguists from other Sections of MMLL and ASNC. Activities organized by the
Section include the Cambridge Linguistics Forum, talks and presentations, student-run
workshops, and reading groups in Syntax, Bilingualism and
Semantics/Pragmatics. Research students are given regular opportunities to present their
work, with the chance to receive feedback on their projects. The Section is also active in
organizing conferences in various domains of theoretical and applied linguistics, including
those arranged periodically by postgraduate students to showcase the work of outstanding
young researchers from the UK and abroad. These include: SyntaxLab, a weekly seminar
in Syntax where speakers from Cambridge and elsewhere present ongoing research;
Cambridge Comparative Syntax, an annual conference now in its ninth year, which attracts
speakers of the highest quality from all over the world and is attended by 80-100
delegates; the Cambridge Linguistics Society, a student-run fortnightly lecture series
bringing in speakers from outside Cambridge in all areas of Linguistics and Advanced
Core Training in Linguistics, a consortium of Linguistics Department in the South-East
(including UCL, Queen Mary, Oxford, Essex and others), providing advanced graduate
training in all areas of theoretical linguistics. There is also an online working-papers series
‘Cambridge Occasional Papers in Linguistics’ (COPiL), organised and edited by PhD
students.

Film and Screen Studies: In addition to the regular seminar series, which has featured
speakers like Linda Ruth Williams, Sarah Cooper and Victor Fan, the Centre has
established and funded a high-profile Filmmaker in Residence programme, as mentioned
above, in each case holding masterclasses, a research symposium, a film retrospective
and discussion events with the filmmakers. Postgraduate students have the opportunity to
attend regular film screenings and events such as the student-led MPhil research
conference.

       The examples above testify to the vibrancy and range of our research culture within
the Unit. Although much of our energy during the period of the current REF has been
devoted to sustaining and promoting cross-disciplinarity and cohesion across the Unit as a
whole, we remain committed to maintaining the specialist knowledge and cooperation that
such individual seminar series and events encourage.

Recruitment
Care is taken to ensure equality of opportunity in the admission of graduate students, by
allowing an element of flexibility in judging relative levels of achievement in first degrees,
and by offering telephone/skype interviews to selected applicants. Recruitment is fostered
by the availability of various funding sources: in addition to the cross-disciplinary sources
(AHRC, ORS, the Gates Foundation and so forth), there are specific local sources. The
University funds: a Cambridge Home and EU Scholarship Scheme (CHESS, ex-DRS) and
a Cambridge International Scholarships Scheme (CISS); the Cambridge Commonwealth
Trust; and the Cambridge European Trust. The Colleges too fund Research Studentships.

                                                                                       Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Thus in ASNC, of 33 students starting research in 2014 or later, 24 have obtained
studentships, including 15 from the AHRC (plus 3 fees-only awards), one from the Gates
Foundation, two from Colleges, two from the University’s Domestic Research Studentship
scheme, and two from the Cambridge Commonwealth, European and International Trust.
In MMLL, of 192 students starting doctoral work within the period, the vast majority have
received studentship funding (some from more than one sponsor). These include over 57
awards from the AHRC, 14 from the Gates Foundation, seven from CISS, nine from
CHESS, 30 from Cambridge Trusts and 73 from other sources. Roberts's ERC grant
funded four students to successful completion of their PhDs in 2011-16.

      Some funding sources are tied to particular areas, for instance, the Odette de
Mourgues Studentship (French), Schröder and Tiarks Scholarships (German), Sykes
Studentship (Italian), and Gibson Spanish Scholarship. Sections and Colleges support
research students with grants for specific purposes, such as travel for research.

Academia and business exchange
Within the UoA, TAL has led the way in helping research students to build links with
business. There are active links between Cambridge Enterprise, the commercialisation
arm of the University, and Cambridge Language Sciences. In 2019 2 graduate students in
the Language Technology Laboratory, Simon Baker and Gamal Crichton, won the
Cambridge Enterprise Postdoc Business Plan competition, with £20K funding and
business mentoring to develop their start-up company Versed AI. Constanza Conforti is
part-sponsored by Siemens to do her PhD as part of the NERC Data, Risk and
Environmental Analytical Methods (DREAM) Doctoral Training Centre, established
between the Universities of Cambridge, Cranfield, Newcastle and Birmingham. Collier’s
EPSRC-sponsored Semantic Interpretation of Personal Health messages on the Web
(SIPHS) project has also been involved in an (unfunded) industrial collaboration with the
SME Linguamatics. Korhonen, through her work on natural language processing, has links
with Huawei, Google, Adobe and Toshiba. Dr Stanley Bill has since 2016 been a member
of the steering committee of the annual Polish-British bilateral Belvedere Forum, which
seeks to strengthen and deepen the ties between the two countries by exploring
economic, social, political and cultural issues.

Monitoring and support
The pattern for arrangements for PhD supervision in ASNC and MMLL is broadly similar.
In both cases supervision involves a supervisor and an advisor, who is able to provide
appropriate complementary expertise. In addition to the benefit to the student, working in
teams makes it easier for junior colleagues to acquire their first experience of supervision
with appropriate support. A Registration Assessment takes place by the end of the third
term (for full-time PhD students), involving reports from two independent assessors,
evaluating a plan and a 10,000-word piece. Further assessments, always involving at least
one other colleague beside the supervisor, take place regularly (in MMLL by the end of the
sixth, ninth, and tenth terms, and (if necessary) by the beginning of the eleventh and
twelfth).

        Students are alerted to the range of training opportunities offered centrally by the
University (including the resources of the Language Centre, Computing Service and Staff
Development) and by the relevant Faculties (MMLL or English), such as postgraduate
seminars. Training is also discussed as part of the PhD Registration procedure at the end
of the first year, and each student keeps a record of her/his training, which is reviewed in

                                                                                     Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

the third-term registration meeting. Students are, moreover, strongly supported in
acquiring presentational and organizational skills by regular seminars and symposia run
for and by them in the Sections. Within MMLL, research students are provided with training
days on a wide range of research- and teaching-related skills; typically, first-year PhD
students are required to attend ten days of training per year, with a further eight days
required over the course of Years 2 and 3.




                                                                                  Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income
The generation of research income has been identified as a key part of the UoA’s research
strategy and has proved to be one of the UoA’s continued areas of success, with nearly
£19 million of research income having been generated during the current REF period.
Annual research income during the period has increased from £1,666,845 in 2013/14 to
£3,261,778 in 2019/20. The Unit has been awarded a number of large research projects
from sponsors such as the AHRC, ESRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust
(Alexopoulou, Ayres-Bennett, Brundin, Collier, Dance, Gordon, Graham, Korhonen,
Larsen, Ledgeway, Love, Meelen, Ní Mhaonaigh, Reich, Russell, Tsimpli, Widdis, Willis,
Webber). A wide range of funding for individuals such as early career fellowships, mid-
career fellowships, Leverhulme Prizes, British Academy small grants and research
fellowships have been awarded to the UoA. Internal funding schemes, such as the Newton
Trust and the Cambridge Humanities Research Grants Scheme, have been generous in
awarding research funding.

Posts funded by Trusts/donations
The Section of German and Dutch have a Schröder Research Associate paid for by the
Schröder Fund. In TAL, eight UTO posts are funded by the Applied Linguistics Fund
(Special Fund rather than Trust Fund) – one University Lecturer, five Readers, two
Professors, and one Research Associate.

Central Funds for research support
Members of MMLL can apply to a centrally held Personal Research Allowance Fund
(funded by the Faculty share of research overheads) for up to £500 each academic year to
help with personal research (travel/subsistence for conferences, publication expenses,
research assistance). Eligible staff are UTOs, LTOs and CTOs in all Sections apart from
German/Dutch and TAL. Staff in German/Dutch have access to similar funding via Trust
Funds held in that Section (Schröder, German Endowment), and doctoral students can
apply for research support from the Tiarks Fund. Staff in TAL (in non-grant funded posts)
can apply for up to £2000 per academic year for personal research funding. Also,
Linguistics Undergraduates and TAL MPhil students can apply for up to £100 during the
course of their degree for dissertation/thesis costs (typically payments to participants in
experiments). TAL PhD students can apply for funding of up to £450 for travel and £300
for participants in experiments during their course of their degree (i.e. up to submission).
All these Linguistics-related funds are financed from the TAL share of research overheads.
Staff in ASNC can also apply to a departmental research fund. Two University trust funds,
the Chadwick Fund and the Scandinavian Studies Fund also support research in ASNC
areas, for both staff and students.


Academic infrastructure and facilities

   The academic infrastructure in Cambridge is of a very high standard. Staff and research
students have access to the University Library, a legal deposit library since 1710, with
exceptional foreign holdings going back to the earliest printed books. The UL houses over
two million volumes on open shelves, making the Library one of the largest open-access
collections in Europe, with over nine million books overall, and attracting researchers from
across the world. It also offers a digital library open twenty-four hours a day to all
Cambridge members, providing access to full-text electronic journals, many databases and
                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

a rapidly increasing collection of electronic books. Of particular interest to researchers
within our UoA are a range of remarkable special collections, such as the Montaigne
Library, a unique collection of books connected with Montaigne's life and times, including
ten volumes owned by Montaigne himself, the Leigh collection of approximately 8000
volumes formerly owned by the great Rousseau scholar R.A. Leigh, the Stefan Heym
Archive, containing an invaluable collection of books and documents relating to this
important German-Jewish writer, and the Arthur Schnitzler Papers, consisting of
manuscripts and correspondence of the Austrian author and dramatist, and a large
collection of medieval manuscripts, of particular interest to researchers in ASNC and
medievalists in MMLL. The UL is supplemented by the Faculty Libraries in MMLL, which
houses c. 120,000 books, including the extensive German research Beit library, and 5000
films, together with journals, foreign-language magazines and newspapers, access to e-
books and e-journals, and English (for ASNC), which has more than 85,000 volumes, and
by the College libraries, many of which have extensive foreign language holdings.




                                                                                   Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Members of the UoA lead the field in their disciplines, both nationally and internationally,
and are actively engaged in a wide range of other activities. While the majority of staff
have personally organized conferences and workshops, a significant number have been
and remain engaged in different collaborative networks. All mid to late career academic
staff have served on AHRC peer review or research grant panels or similar national and
international committees, and many have been involved in national or international
University research advisory panels, and in external appointment panels. The vast majority
of Unit members have acted as referees for academic publications or research proposals,
have taken leading positions in various national and international societies relating to their
subject; and have examined doctorates in other universities both in Britain and beyond.

     The research carried out by members of the UoA has had considerable impact
elsewhere:


Major Journal editorships

Crowley, Gilby, French Studies; Chesters, Hammond, Early Modern French Studies;
Whaley, German History; Brundin,The Italianist; Sanson, Women, Language, Literature in
Italy; Kantaris, Bulletin of Latin American Research; Keown, Journal of Catalan Studies;
Reich, Russian editor TLS; Keynes, Love, Anglo-Saxon England; O’Bryen, Journal of Latin
American Cultural Studies; Quinn, Viking and Medieval Scandinavia; Rhodes, World
Picture; C. White, Nineteenth-Century French Studies; Hendriks, Language, Interaction
and Acquisition; Huot, Medium Ævum; Meelen, Journal of Historical Syntax; Willis,
Associate Editor, Language.


Book Series editorships

The majority of members of the Unit serve on editorial boards and edit book series. Book
series editors include: Dance, Exeter Medieval Texts and Studies (Liverpool UP); Roberts,
Tsimpli, Cambridge Monographs in Linguistics (CUP); Ledgeway, Roberts, Oxford Studies
in Diachronic and Historical Linguistics (OUP); Antonello, Gordon, Italian Perspectives
(Peter Lang); Jaszczolt: Oxford Studies of Time in Language and Thought (OUP); Ní
Mhaonaigh, Studies in Celtic History; Sanson, Gender and Women in Italy 1500-1900
(Classiques Garnier); Willis, Advanced Textbooks in Historical Linguistics (Edinburgh UP);
Wilson, Moving Image (Legenda); Young, Companions to Contemporary German Culture
(De Gruyter).


Awards of Note

Ayres-Bennett, Visiting Professorship, University of Amiens; Brundin and Cacho, Berenson
Fellowship, Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies; Gilby, Scaliger
Fellowship, University of Leiden; Ledgeway, Honorary Doctorate, University of Bucharest;
Ní Mhaonaigh, Senior Research Fellow, British Academy/Leverhulme Trust; Roberts, Life
Member of the Linguistic Society of America; Naismith, AHRC Leadership Fellowship;

                                                                                      Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Ruehl, Senior Fellow, Interdisciplinary Center for Enlightenment Studies, Halle, Germany;
Ruprecht, Fellowship of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation; Webber, Erich Auerbach
Visiting Chair of Global Literary Studies, Tübingen; Willis, Leverhulme Fellowship.


Book and Publication Prizes

Albé: the Thomas Mann Essay Prize of the English Goethe Society;
Alexopoulou: Albert Valdman Award for outstanding publication in Second Language
Acquisition;
Birch: Larry Schehr prize, for best work in the field of nineteenth-century French Studies by
an early-career researcher;
Brundin: Bainton History Prize, Sixteenth Century Society (USA) for best book in
History/Theology;
Conde: Robert and Meryl Selig Prize; Modern Language Association Katherine Singer
Kovacs Award for outstanding book published in English or Spanish in the field of Latin
American and Spanish literatures and cultures;
Franklin: outstanding contribution to literary and cultural studies prize, awarded by the
American Association of Teachers of Slavic and East European Languages (AATSEEL);
and University of Southern California Book Prize in Literary and Cultural Studies;
Mandelbaum: the Forum Prize (FMLS);
Naismith: North Book Prize, British Numismatic Society;
Reich: Best First Book from AATSEEL;
Serra: Vivien Law Prize for the best essay in the history of linguistics, given by the Henry
Sweet Society;
Shercliff: Johann-Kaspar-Zeuss Prize for the best PhD in Celtic Studies (international),
awarded by the Societas Celtologica Europaea;
Sottilotta: Polly Stewart Award, for research on women folklorists of Italy and Ireland, given
by the Women’s Section of the Americal Folklore Society;
Sugden: George Sand Association Memorial Prize, the Society of Dix-Neuviémistes
Publication Prize, and Larry Schehr prize (see Birch, above);
Choi, Feile Tomes, Gutiérrez Trápaga, Kendrick, Tanna: AHBI Publication Prizes,
Association of Hispanists.


Positions of Note

We have nine current Fellows of the British Academy, four of whom (Gordon, Ledgeway,
Webber, Whaley) have been appointed within the current REF period (the others being
Franklin, Huot, Keynes, Moriarty, Roberts). Keynes, Moriarty and Roberts have all been
Section Chairs for their respective subject areas at the British Academy. Several members
of the Unit are Fellows of other international boards of honour (e.g. Jones, Fellow of
Learned Society of Wales and Member of the Conseil Scientifique et Culturel du Parler
Normand; Watts, Council of Philological Society of Great Britain; Ní Mhaonaigh, Board
Member and Chair, School of Celtic Studies, Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies; Love,
Council member and publications secretary, Henry Bradshaw Society; Dance, Council
member, Early English Text Society; Hammond, Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts).
Numerous Unit staff are or have recently been in charge of national or international
Societies, such as Burgwinkle, President of the Society for French Studies; Colvin,
President, Association for German Studies in the UK and Ireland; Ayres-Bennett,
President of the Philological Society; Quinn, President of the Viking Society for Northern

                                                                                      Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Research. A good number of our staff serve as members of key national research funding
advisory boards (e.g. Franklin, advisory board for ‘Translating Cultures’). Many are
members of the AHRC Peer Review academic college or are assessors on ERC grants
(e.g. Roberts, Hammond, Conde). Others are members of British Academy/Leverhulme
Trust assessment panels (e.g. Franklin, Moriarty, Webber), the Review Panel of the Royal
Irish Academy (Ní Mhaonaigh), or the Italian VQR panel (Gordon, Ledgeway). We also
have two members of REF Panel D: Ledgeway (who was on the panel for REF2014 and
remains in place for REF2021) and Widdis (REF2021).

      The rich and diverse Impact-related research within the UoA is not limited to the
chosen Impact Case Studies alone. Many projects, a few of which have been earmarked
as potential future case studies, continue to thrive, such as the following examples:
   • Mander, whose research will be at the heart of the UoA’s continuing commitment to
      Global Humanities, has explored the dynamics of storytelling and their pertinence to
      the wellbeing of individuals and communities in today’s multicultural and mobile
      society, involving work with refugees, migrants and community inclusion initiatives,
      changing attitudes towards the ways in which personal stories are captured and
      generating new strategies using storytelling for empowerment and social inclusion;
   • Keown’s work on promoting knowledge and consciousness of Catalan has involved
      an interactive web-conference aimed at secondary and tertiary students in Valencia;
   • O’Bryen has been making films that narrate the impact of climate change in the
      Colombian Caribbean, concentrating on the cultural and environmental heritage of
      the lower Magdalena River region;
   • Antonello has worked in close collaboration with curators, museums and art
      galleries in expanding public knowledge of the work of the Italian artist and designer
      Bruno Munari, presenting public lectures and talks at exhibition openings and book
      launches;
   • As a part of the ongoing Arthur Schnitzler digital project, Neumann staged and then
      filmed a play at the Cambridge University Library (the first public performance of its
      kind there), linked to her digital edition of Schnitzler’s puppet plays;
   • Brundin has been instrumental in preparing and staging exhibitions relating to
      Italian book collections in English country houses, attracting large numbers of
      visitors;
   • Hammond has been exploring the sound worlds and street songs of early modern
      Paris in tandem with the professional musical group Badinage (with the 2019 winner
      of the Joan Sutherland prize at the Cardiff Singer of the World competition, Katie
      Bray), involving public concerts and a theatre project in development with a stage
      director.


Public Outreach

Although Research ‘Impact’ is crucially distinguished from the broader ‘Knowledge
Exchange’ and public education agenda, the UoA has also played an active role in public
outreach. The UoA currently participates and takes a leadership role in a number of
University-led initiatives, such as the highly successful ‘Festival of Ideas’ and the ‘Being
Human’ Festival. It also organizes a number of lectures open to the public such as the
annual Faculty, Schröder, CIRN and MacColl Lectures in MMLL, and the annual Quiggin,
Chadwick and Hughes Lectures in ASNC. Members of the UoA have also participated
regularly in events at other Festivals, such as the Cambridge Series at the annual Hay
Festival (e.g. Ayres-Bennett, Sanson), and the Durham Summer in the City Festival (e.g.

                                                                                     Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Hammond).

       We have particularly successful public education programmes linked to Ukrainian
Studies and Polish Studies, where the philanthropic endowment of the programmes has
been able to factor in dedicated funds to assure this kind of public-academic exchange.
The Linguistics group is engaged in a number of projects and initiatives such as the
Cambridge Bilingualism Network and MEITS’ Policy Journal that seek to inform language
education and policy development within the UK and abroad, while others make a number
of targeted contributions in the area of Public Health. A range of other schemes and
projects are currently being supported by the UoA. These include participation in the
Centre for Global Human Movement (Associate Director: Mander) that forms part of the
‘New Initiatives’ programme in the School of the Humanities and Social Sciences, and in
the ‘Learning Together’ project (in conjunction with HMP Whitemoor), and to which Dr
Emma Gilby and a team of lecturers and students from the French Section have made a
major contribution. HIRAETH, an arts outreach programme for unaccompanied asylum-
seeking adolescents and refugee children in Cambridgeshire and funded by grants from
the School of Arts and Humanities and Rayne Foundation, was established by Post and
Tsimpli, and included an experimental summer programme (2019) for 17 participants, with
the aim of providing space for free self-expression, self-narration and self-curation.

         The UoA continues to be proactive in its collaboration with these and other similar
initiatives in order to further develop the communication of its research to the wider non-
academic world and to policy makers in particular. More broadly, at an institutional level,
we continue to develop and strengthen cross-cultural and inter-lingual relations within
broader political and civil life, including collaboration with the cultural sections of the
embassies of those countries whose languages are covered by the Unit’s research and
teaching. The Unit’s focus on language, on national and international multiplicity and
diversity has the explicit aim of being outward-facing beyond academia, with the intention
of making a decisive impact and contribution, both ethical and political, to civil society. This
contribution will be affected in a number of ways, for example through collaboration with
civil society groups such as refugee support networks and migration organisations. Close
interactions with the Cambridge Centre for Science and Policy is enabling activities such
as the production and dissemination of language techniques in support of national (e.g.
Public Health England) and transnational public health organisation (e.g. the EC's Joint
Research Centre) and of diverse projects (such as the Engineering and Physical Sciences
Research Council Interdisciplinary Research Collaborations using text messaging). Also,
the Pop-Up World of Languages, a series of family-friendly activities and games, visited
Cambridge, Nottingham, Belfast, Edinburgh and London; underpinned by MEITS research,
it demonstrated that languages are fun and accessible.

        Since REF2014, members of the UoA have continued to contribute to public
debates in the national and international media, including appearances on Television (e.g.
Ayres-Bennett, BBC Breakfast, on language learning; Naismith, ‘Book Talk’ BBC
Parliament; Gordon and Antonello, Italian public broadcaster RAI, on the centenary of
Primo Levi’s birth); and on Radio (e.g. BBC Radio 2, 4 and 5 Live: Ayres-Bennett, on
language learning; BBC Radio 3, ‘Free Thinking’: Mander, on Encyclopedias and
Knowledge, and Webber, on Musil’s Man without Qualities; and BBC Radio 4: Cacho, ‘The
Forum’, on Magellan; Griffin, ‘In Our Time’, on Christine de Pizan; Naismith, ‘The Long
View’, as episode-long guest; Wickerson, ‘Equal As We Are’, on gender dynamics in
literary encounters). Several staff members have engaged with print and social media, in
some cases interacting with the most famous names in their respective disciplines, such
as the research of Roberts with Noam Chomsky on alien languages, as reported in the

                                                                                        Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

New Scientist (June, 2018), or Griffin’s work on and interaction with Bruno Latour on social
media. Amongst those who have taken part in regular podcasts, Reich contributed to
several Times Literary Supplement podcasts, and Naismith appeared in the Viking History
podcast

       During the Coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, contributions by members of the
UoA were both of practical use and played a part in public debate surrounding COVID19.
On the practical side, computational linguisticians Korhonen and Collier were involved with
colleagues in the Departments of Radiology and Applied Mathematics and Theoretical
Physics in developing an open-source AI tool that integrates chest imaging and clinical
data to support diagnosis and triaging for COVID-19. Members of the UoA who were
engaged in wider discussions about responding to and helping cope with the crisis
included: Naismith, who wrote a blog piece for CUP's Cambridge Reflections: Covid-19
series, released 14 May 2020; Hammond, who presented weekly podcasts on the values
of reading French literature during the shutdown on the Paris-based website Paris Update
(5300 subscribers); Marzella, who penned a series of articles for the newspaper ‘Avvenire’
on reading Tolkien during the pandemic; Keown, whose work on promoting the profile of
Catalan in Spain (encatala.vives.org) was, at the request of teachers in Spain, kept open
as a distance learning format for students while schools and universities were in lockdown;
Neumann, who published a blog post on how her ‘Performing Medicine’ project is informed
by and engages with the Coronavirus crisis; and Ruprecht, who participated in a podcast
on the Royal Ballet’s production of ‘The Metamorphosis’ in the context of lockdown and
social distancing.


Political Engagement and Influence

The UoA has engaged on many levels with policy-makers, relating our research to the
sustainability of the discipline and to national and international priorities. As an example,
academic members of the UoA have held regular constructive meetings with Policy
Fellows, including the following: Prof Brad Epps and Prof Wendy Ayres-Bennett each met
Linsey Farrell, Director of Urban Villages, Racial Equality and Interface Issues from the
Northern Ireland Executive, on a number of occasions (2017-18); Ayres-Bennett, along
with Dr Jenny Mander and Prof Ianthi Tsimpli, each held meetings with Nicola Davis, Head
of the Languages team at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (2019); Ayres-Bennett
has also met with leading figures at the Departments of Transport (2019) and Education
(2016), Home Office (2018) and Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government
(2016); Dr John Leigh met Craig Bennett, CEO of Friends of the Earth (2015); and Dr
Nigel Collier held meetings between 2015 and 2018 with high-ranking officials from the
Care Quality Commission, Food Standards Agency, Google DeepMind, and the Treasury.
A key feature of MEITS is the co-creation of research with over 30 non-HE partners,
ranging from large charities such as Age UK to local grassroots bodies. On the invitation of
Alex Burgart MP, Prof Simon Keynes gave a presentation on the Anglo-Saxon origins of
Westminster Abbey at the Houses of Parliament (November, 2018). Dr Stanley Bill’s Notes
from Poland website, as the leading independent source of English-language news about
Poland, resulted in its contributors being commissioned to write a major annual report on
Poland.




                                                                                     Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Supporting the Discipline Nationally and Internationally

Much of the work within the UoA is carried out with the aim of sustaining and developing
our respective disciplines in the wider world. A mark of the Unit’s success can be seen in
the numbers who have gone on to permanent employment. Between 2014 and 2017, a
sample period for which data is available, of those departing PhD students who responded
(about 80%), 76% moved directly to permanent employment and 14.6% to temporary
employment, with 35.4% going on to research positions and 34.4% to teaching/lecturing
positions. Many former PhD students and postdoctoral researchers published monographs
and other publications during this period, and have been conspicuously successful in
obtaining academic posts. Aside from appointments in Cambridge and temporary or
postdoctoral appointments elsewhere, the following are among those who have taken up
permanent university posts since 2014: Aberdeen: Krylova; Anglia Ruskin: Sheehan
(awarded personal Chair 2019);       Birkbeck: Polgovsky; Birmingham: Corr; Murakami;
Schifano; Bristol: Karcher (then Birmingham); Knight; Merchant; Randall; Mooney;
Cardiff: Callander, Whitfield; Coventry: Jones; Durham: Damlé; Dickson; Osborne (then
St Andrews); East Anglia: Elder; Essex: Kim; Exeter: Linge; Keele: Flood; KCL: C.
White (and then Cambridge); Bowden; Smale; Leeds: Jarman; Liverpool: Blejmar;
Manchester: Diazzi; Newcastle: Fehimovic: Nottingham: Godard, Harries; Nottingham
Trent: Hardy; Oxford: Choi, Counter, Williams, Wolfe; QMUL: Yaqoob; St Andrew’s:
Lennon; Sussex: Cieplak; UCL: Baker; Bollington; Ring; Warwick: Stone; Westminster:
Karatsareas; York: Clarke; Beijing Language and Culture University: Song; Bochum:
Laufer; Boston: Chang; Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel: Zellers;
Communication University of China: Li; Georgetown: Biggs; Goettingen: Hoehn;
Harvard: Camozzi Pistoia; Hong Kong: Perry, Lam; Konstanz: Walkden (Chair); Leiden:
Barany, van der Wal; Mannheim: Engemann; Marburg: Blom; Maynooth: Hayden;
Pacific Northwestern College of Art: Rogers; Peking: Hu; State University of Milan:
Berti; Thessaloniki: Micheloudakis; Trinity College, Dublin: Colasanti; University of
California, Santa Barbara: Hudley; UCL: Ring; UCLA: Silvestri; San Diego State: Dinkin;
Sydney: Stenberg.

        The large size of our UoA and the diversity of our interests are major strengths that
we are confident will enable us to pursue our three main goals of opening up new spaces
for collaborative exchange, pursuing links between arts/humanities and
science/technology, and placing global humanities at the heart of our research initiatives.
Although we do not underestimate the challenges that range and diversity can also
present, they are challenges that we will continue to embrace fully. We remain committed
to producing research outputs of the highest quality, to playing an active role nationally
and internationally, to promoting a rich and diverse research culture for graduate students
and academic staff alike, and to making sure that Impact remains at the core of what we
do. Even at a time of global uncertainty, we look forward to the future with confidence and
energy.




                                                                                      Page 24
