Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester

 Unit of assessment: 17 (Business & Management)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview & Structure

 Inspired by the city of Manchester’s history as a world leader in enterprise, innovation and
 creativity, the Alliance Manchester Business School’s (AMBS) research ethos can be
 defined as ‘Original Thinking Applied’ – undertaking cutting edge and intellectually
 influential research, which has a transformative impact on policy and practice. In the words
 of our first director, Grigor McClelland, AMBS is committed to getting “as near as can be
 expected to the heart of the matter”, through a pioneering spirit that places the School “at
 the frontiers” of business and management.

 The School, which comprises this Unit of Assessment for the purposes of REF, has
 continued to evolve this founding ethos over the last 55 years. AMBS has grown into one
 of the country’s largest business schools, with a range of disciplines and theoretical
 perspectives unrivalled in the UK. Our c. 250 academic and teaching staff, 183 of whom
 are independent researchers, provide the School with the scale and diversity required to
 address the complexity of contemporary business and societal challenges. For example,
 our role as the headquarters for the ESRC’s unprecedented recent £32million investment
 to address the UK’s productivity puzzle brings together researchers from 9 research
 organisations, and over 50 disciplinary backgrounds, including AMBS scholars from three
 of our research institutes working on strategy, sustainability and work and inequality. The
 breadth of our disciplinary perspectives allows us to foster important new areas of
 scholarship and practical application, such as combining innovation studies, decision
 science and finance in our new £2.5million FinTech venture.

 AMBS’s research ethos underpins three goals, which align with those of the University of
 Manchester (UoM)’s research strategy:

       To produce influential innovative research of the highest international quality
        that places AMBS at the empirical and theoretical frontiers of business and
        management, offering novel perspectives and exploring often overlooked
        themes.
       To develop world class engaged scholars, providing them with the resources to
        develop the most exciting and innovative research agendas which address
        some of the world’s most pressing and seemingly intractable challenges.
       To have impact beyond academia both locally and globally by creating new
        knowledge which informs policy and practice and in so doing yields lasting
        economic, social, and cultural benefits.

 Our research strategy has led to a number of significant achievements since REF2014.
 AMBS has:
    Pushed the frontiers of knowledge and practice through over 3,000 research
       outputs, including over 1,000 contributions to leading journals
    Supervised 354 PGR students to complete their PhD
    Increased engagement with business, generating over £2milion of research
       revenue, through the highest concentration of Knowledge Transfer
       Partnerships (KTPs) in any UK business school

                                                                                            1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Continued to grow the number and value of our research awards so that AMBS
         is now ranked as the leading business school in the north of England and
         second in the country for research income according to evidence gathered
         independently by the Chartered Association of Business Schools
        Secured over £20million in philanthropic donations, including a landmark
         £15million donation from Lord David Alliance
        Received the first award for a UK business school from the UK Research
         Partnership Investment Fund (UKRPIF) (£9.7million) which fed into new
         research facilities as part of the £85million redevelopment of our building

 1.1.1 Organisation
 To capitalise on our scale, the School has developed an ecosystem that breaks down
 silos, facilitating interaction and collaboration through a matrix of divisional disciplinary
 homes combined with interdisciplinary inquiry based research groupings. AMBS is
 organised around four core divisions: Accounting & Finance, People Management &
 Organisation, Management Science & Marketing and Innovation, Management & Policy.
 They provide a disciplinary base, with each division having directors of research and
 postgraduate studies.

  Table 1 Research Ecosystem
                                 Strategic Aims                              AMBS Research Units.
  Research          Long-term, cross-faculty, flagship            -   The Work & Equalities Institute
  Institutes        commitments by UoM to advance                 -   The Productivity Institute
                    knowledge and impact in areas of crucial      -   Manchester Institute of Innovation Research
                    importance to society                         -   The Sustainable Consumption Institute
  Research          Collaborations that have reached a critical   -   Decision and Cognitive Sciences Research
  Centres           mass and display a coherent and                   Centre
                    sustainable intellectual agenda through       -   Centre for the Analysis of Investment Risk
                    scholarly publications, research grant
                    funding and impact.
  Research          Nascent clusters of colleagues that           -   FinTech,
  Groups            organise around new themes.                   -   Digital Trust & Society.


 As Table 1 demonstrates, our disciplinary homes act as the point from which
 interdisciplinary research agendas develop – via groups and centres into large scale
 Institutes. AMBS is home to four of UoM’s 22 institutes, evidence of the vibrancy and
 significance found within our interdisciplinary research culture. In line with our REF2014
 strategy, AMBS launched The Work and Equalities Institute (WEI) (led by Rubery)
 which aims to identify and promote conditions for more inclusive and fair work and
 employment. Towards the end of the current REF period, AMBS was chosen to host the
 ESRC funded Productivity Institute (TPI) (led by van Ark), in a bid to help the
 government understand how to boost wages and living standards, whilst solving the UK’s
 productivity puzzle. These important new institutes complement our two long-established
 institutes: the Manchester Institute of Innovation Research (MIOIR) (led by Pinkse), a
 world leading centre of excellence for science and innovation policy and management and
 the Sustainable Consumption Institute (SCI) (led by Boons and run in collaboration
 with the School of Social Sciences) which is exploring how planetary boundaries, unequal
 access and digitalisation are shaping the future of consumption.

 AMBS has two research centres. Our Decision and Cognitive Sciences Research
 Centre (led by Yang) draws on strong links with the Department of Computer Science
 and the Alan Turing Institute to promote interdisciplinary research within decision

                                                                                                                    2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 sciences, cognitive sciences, data science and artificial intelligence (AI). Our Centre for
 the Analysis of Investment Risk (CAIR) (led by Quattrone) engages with the most
 urgent issues facing our financial systems.

 During this REF period AMBS has also seeded new research groups on themes such as
 FinTech and Digital Trust & Society. This work is already yielding results. For example,
 Allmendinger and Uyarra are part of a multi-million pound Digital Security by Design
 demonstrator led by the Hut Group and funded through the Industrial Strategy Challenge
 Fund.

 Our divisions, institutes, centres, and groups provide an ecosystem that enables
 engagement in new, complex problems at the frontiers of business and management
 knowledge. Not only does this ensure AMBS contributes to shaping global business
 practice and policy, it also provides us with an innovative and diverse portfolio of research
 that opens up new routes for investment. For example, our crosscutting expertise in data,
 decision and behavioural science enabled us to secure the first grant to a business school
 from Research England’s UKRPIF. This funding allowed us to invest £9.7million in a new
 Data Visualisation Observatory and new Behavioural Science Laboratory which
 significantly expands the scope and scale of the research questions that can be pursued
 across new interdisciplinary collaborations.

 1.1.2 Overarching Research Themes

 Our focus on the frontiers of business and management scholarship is built upon an
 awareness of the emerging social, technological, and organisational currents that will
 shape the future of business. This ethos in turn influences our overarching agenda setting
 themes which form the basis of broader cross-discipline research engagement with
 complex, systemic issues. These themes provide a critical mass for interdisciplinary
 discussion and debate at scale, and create a fertile ground for bold and imaginative
 collaborations which ensure that AMBS is positioned to inform cutting-edge debates at
 international, national and local levels.

 Our current overarching themes are:

    i.   The Future of Finance and Capital Markets
   ii.   Decision Making, Adaptation & Accountability in an Uncertain World
  iii.   Business Practices and Employment in the 21st Century
  iv.    Socially Responsible Innovation and Global Economic Growth

   i.    The Future of Finance and Capital Markets

 This theme draws together strengths in finance and financial technology innovation to
 engage with the fundamental questioning of the function of global capital markets since
 the financial crisis. Low interest rates, corporate governance reforms, disruptive
 innovation, political uncertainty and increased market volatility, along with a rise in socially
 responsible investing, creates the need for new understanding of the role of the market in
 allocating resources towards the most economic and socially efficient activity. Within this
 REF period there has been a growing focus on ESG (environmental, social and
 governance) investment megatrends; aligning with UoM’s global inequalities research
 beacon. There are currently 37 scholars working on this theme, including 11 lecturers and
 early career fellows, 6 mid-career, 20 senior colleagues. In addition, a number of other
 world leading scholars have been employed at various points since 2014 to contribute to
                                                                                                3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 this theme’s development, with the collaborations and partnerships initiated having a long
 lasting legacy on our work. During this REF period, this community produced over 700
 academic outputs that have advanced understanding of these issues and influenced
 practice. They have also been successful in securing funding from the ESRC (e.g.
 Zhang’s £200K award) and from financial services philanthropic donors (£2.5million).

 Drawing on insights from economics, econometrics, sociology and political science,
 research collaborations under this theme have made critical contributions to
 understanding transformation in macro issues associated with the evolution of financial
 markets, as well as micro problems associated with corporate governance and accounting
 practices. At the macro level, research has improved understanding of the fundamental
 risk factors driving the pricing dynamics of major asset classes. This Asset pricing
 research appears in leading journals in both finance and economics. Research by Aretz,
 Brennan, Konstantinidi, Kostakis, and Liu provides new insights into the role of real
 option models, financial uncertainty and macroeconomic risk factors in determining stock
 returns. This work has been extensively cited in journals and policy documents. Aretz,
 Kostakis, Liu, Poon, Bowe, Cho, Garrett, Kolokolova, Otsubo, Zhang, and Wang
 provide new perspectives on the impact of risk and uncertainty on the macroeconomy and
 financial markets. Cho, Hyde, Kolokov and Poon developed new econometric methods
 for estimating and comparing structural asset pricing models.

 In terms of market based accounting research, work by Lee, Strong, Ohlson, Zeng and
 Walker assess the effectiveness of new regulations, standards and institutional
 developments on market information efficiency. Research by Lee, Ohlson, Stark, Walker
 and Strong provides new understanding of the impact of accounting policy, corporate
 disclosure and analyst forecasts on company valuations. Research by Poon, Strong and
 Dutordoir, has generated new insights on the stock market effects of modern slavery
 regulation.

 Zhang’s ESRC Link programme provides new ways of looking at the societal impact of
 algorithmic traders in asset markets. While Zachariadis’ work on distributed ledger and
 blockchain technology in financial services and the effect of digital innovation on bank
 performance further expands our work on FinTech. Poon’s collaboration with Castlefield,
 a local fund manager, uses AI and machine learning to help with voting decisions at
 company AGMs.

 Our corporate finance and governance researchers have developed award winning
 studies on financial flexibility (Marchica and Mura) and governance regulations
 (Khurshed and Stathopoulos). This feeds into wider work on initial public offerings and
 their effects on corporate outcomes (Dang, De Cesari, Espenlaub, Khurshed,
 Marchica, Mura and Saadouni) and convertible debt and seasoned equity offerings
 (Dutordoir and Strong). Corporate policies (such as capital structure, cash holdings,
 mergers and acquisitions, payout, investment, and risk taking) have been explored by
 Aretz, Dang, De Cesari, Dutordoir, Gao, Marchica, Mura, Petry, Stathopoulos and
 Strong. Dang, De Cesari, Marchica, Mura, and Stathopoulos have focussed on
 corporate governance issues including managerial characteristics and compensation, as
 well as shareholder incentives.

 Collaborative research activities and visits to leading international Universities, including
 Cornell, Purdue, Konstanz, NYU, LSE and Toronto, have contributed to the development
 of this research. The reach and impact of the work has been increased through discussion


                                                                                             4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and debate with stakeholders such as the London Stock Exchange Group, the Financial
 Conduct Authority, Bank of England, Forbes and the Financial Times.

  ii.   Decision Making, Adaption & Accountability in an Uncertain World.

 Our pioneering work in this theme brings together behavioural scientists, accountancy
 scholars, and decision scientists to investigate business decision making, strategic
 adaption and accountability. There are currently 45 scholars working on this theme,
 including 11 lecturers and early career fellows, 12 mid-career staff, and 22 senior staff. As
 above, a number of other preeminent scholars have spent time at Manchester since 2014
 which has contributed to this theme’s ongoing development. During this REF period, this
 group of scholars produced over 900 academic outputs pertaining to decision making,
 adaption and accountability in a complex world in ways that are having major impact on
 practice. They have also been successful in securing major awards in collaboration with
 business from funders such as Innovate UK (including many of the School’s KTPs) and
 the EU (such as Mehandjiev’s €750K Horizon 2020 award with Airbus).

 Work by Yang, Xu, Papamichail, Allmendinger, Handl and López-Ibáñez makes
 pioneering theoretical contributions to the decision science underpinning advances in
 machine learning and AI. This research has resulted in new analytical techniques being
 applied to real world decision problems – for example, Yang and Xu’s Innovate UK Smart
 grant (£318K) applies AI to claims handling. This work builds on a KTP with Kennedys
 Law LLP (£188K) which applied machine learning to fraud detection. Indeed, much of this
 strand’s research has been co-produced with leading professional service and IT firms,
 resulting in critical theoretical and methodological contributions towards the development
 and application of data analytics, machine learning, AI and knowledge-based systems.
 This work influences digital transformation at the level of individual firms and broader
 supply chains, with substantial economic benefits. For example, Mehandjiev’s work
 (featured as one of our 10 Impact Case Studies) with the European aviation sector charts
 a pathway to enhancing the capabilities of European supply systems.

 Shaw was recently awarded £825K (ESRC) to develop guidance for local authorities on
 decision making in recovering from Covid-19. The International Standards Organisation
 has also invited him to write the International Standard on Recovery based on his research
 to date. Work by Healey and Hodgkinson continues to advance the nascent field of
 behavioural strategy. Their studies on the role of emotion and intuition in managerial
 organisational decision making and strategic adaptation, have led to new theoretical
 understanding at the interface of psychology and strategic management. Their research
 complements Quattrone’s work on the role of data visualisation and governance in
 decision making, including management accountancy. Begkos, Modell, Newman,
 Nicholson, Scapens, and Yang focus on processes of change in accounting practices
 and in information systems, including the implementation of new systems, techniques and
 practices, emphasising their social and behavioural impacts.

 Research by Humphrey, O’Dwyer, Samsonova-Taddei, Siddiqui, Turley and Yasmin
 provides new insights into audit practice, standard setting and oversight systems, audit
 reform in transitional economies, the regulation of the accounting profession, and ethical
 governance. The work of Georgiou, Humphrey, McPhail, O’Dwyer, Samsonova-
 Taddei, and Siddiqui illustrates the evolution of contemporary audit methodologies, audit
 innovation and the future of audit, the role of advocacy groups in enhancing corporate
 accountability, accounting for externalities and human rights, and the ‘worth’ attached to
 fair value accounting.

                                                                                             5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research by Kuasirikun, Humphrey, O’Dwyer, Samsonova-Taddei, Siddiqui, Yasmin
 additionally addresses varied NGO accountability systems and their development in
 different institutional arenas, the nature and impact of sustainability assurance, and the
 evolution of non-financial reporting innovations such as integrated reporting. Sinkovics
 (R), Sinkovics (N) and Siddiqui have studied the emergence and (in)effectiveness of new
 forms of social audit, whilst He (H) is exploring the links between corporate social
 responsibility and marketing. Stafford, and Stapleton published studies examining the
 accountability of public private partnership arrangements and the impact of broader public
 accountability reforms.

 Work by colleagues in this theme has been instrumental in understanding the crisis in
 corporate accountability and the trustworthiness of publicly disclosed company
 information. For example, Humphrey gave oral evidence to the House of Commons
 Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee as part of its Future of Audit inquiry
 and O’Dwyer, Turley and Siddiqui were all cited in the subsequent report. Humphrey
 was the only academic on the advisory board of the Independent Review into the Quality
 and Effectiveness of the UK Audit Market (led by Sir Donald Brydon) and his advice
 features prominently in the Brydon Review.

 iii.   Business Practices & Employment in the 21st Century

 This theme brings together expertise in organisational psychology, organisational theory,
 marketing strategy and employment to explore how changing business practices
 (including lean management, outsourcing, new employment forms, and digitalisation) are
 affecting work, wellbeing and inequality. There are currently 56 scholars working on this
 theme, including 11 lecturers and early career fellows, 17 mid-career staff, and 28 senior
 staff. The theme has also benefited from the involvement of a number of other leading
 scholars since 2014, creating collaborations and partnerships which have left a long
 lasting legacy on our work (e.g. Grimshaw’s work with the WEI first as a staff member and
 then via a secondment to the ILO). During this REF period, this community produced over
 900 academic outputs that have advanced understanding of these issues in new
 conceptual and impactful ways, something which is demonstrated by the four impact
 cases linked to this theme. These research insights have also played a leading role in
 important research awards including funding from the European Commission (e.g. work
 by Grimshaw, Rubery and Kaizer) and AMBS’s first UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship
 (Johnson (M)).

 Changing business practices have been put into historical context by Hassard’s highly
 cited (top one percent in Academy of Management Review) and prizewinning work on
 management and organisational history, which precipitated a broader historical turn within
 the field. Hassard and O’Doherty have both developed new innovative approaches within
 the field of organisational ethnography to understand and interpret the changing
 organisational context of work.

 One of the biggest recent changes in business practices has been the rise in digital
 technology and approaches. This is the focus of work by Lukas, Homburg and
 Evanschitzky who study how social media innovations and online advertising are
 transforming the way companies’ market and sell products. Burton and Jaakkola have
 analysed the impact chatbots have on customer experiences, whilst Zolkiewski and
 Chowdhury received EPSRC seed funding to advise charities on how to ensure the


                                                                                          6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 human touch is not lost as they are forced to deliver more services online due to the Covid-
 19 pandemic.

 This is complemented by activity around the influence of new technology on the future of
 work, with research by Howcroft, Dundon and Inversi highlighting the consequences of
 unregulated platforms for the quality of work. Ramlogan examines the effect of new
 technology on innovation practices, whilst Barrioluengo is working with Massini on how
 to address the growing skills gap in responding to digital disruption and transformation.
 Similarly, Hassan explores how digital tools can support micro-entrepreneurs in the global
 South. Our growing authority in this area is reflected in in our involvement in the ESRC
 Digital Futures at Work Research Centre (DIGIT) led by Sussex (Howcroft and Rubery
 Co-Investigators (Co-Is).

 Research on healthy workplaces is another key strength, with AMBS having pioneered
 the now widespread research on wellbeing that has broken down the traditional dichotomy
 between life within and outside the organisation. Niven, Holman, Hughes, Martin and
 Thomas’s research on emotions develops our understandings of the social experience of
 work, whilst Ng uses behavioural ethics to explore the impact of negative actions at work
 on employee mental health. Clarke’s work focuses on how to build psychologically
 healthy workplaces and follows her findings that human safety and risk management is
 instrumental in identifying psychological factors that lead to workplace accidents.
 Cooper’s research on ‘presenteeism’ – the tacit pressure to work long hours and attend
 work while ill - takes up another prescient issue with respect to health and safety at work,
 whilst his work on email overload and “techno stress” has made an influential contribution
 to debates on how to make digitalisation compatible with decent work environments.

 Healthy workplaces are also a driving factor in Hoel’s research on workplace bullying and
 harassment, with this having significant impact on organisational practice and policies.
 This work led Hoel and McBride to be invited by the Chartered Institute of Personnel
 Development (CIPD) to work with the British Standards Institute to develop a BSI Code of
 Practice for Diversity and Inclusion which launched in 2017. This is complemented by
 methodological advances in studying inequalities in employment through an intersectional
 lens by McBride, Hebson and Rodriguez. Marino and Martinez Lucio have explored
 issues of migrant representation while Banister has undertaken innovative work on the
 role of fathers in childcare. Rafferty provides new ways of measuring underemployment
 as an indication of discrimination for BAME women and Kauser received British Academy
 funding to explore the economic impact of Covid-19 on BAME communities through a
 gendered perspective.

 At a regional policy level, philanthropic funding for the ‘Just Work: fairness and justice at
 work in Greater Manchester’ project (£300K) brought together colleagues (including
 Martinez-Lucio, Dundon, Mustchin and Johnson (M)) to explore public and private
 sector employer practices and public policy attempts to improve working conditions. This
 led to influential reports on decent work for local councils and The Advisory, Conciliation
 and Arbitration Service (ACAS), as well as an ESRC CASE PhD studentship for work on
 women in precarious work. On a national policy level, Froud and Williams provided
 advice to the Welsh government related to their work on the Foundational Economy, an
 important legacy research area stemming from the ESRC Centre for Research on Socio-
 Cultural Change, which features in their impact case study.

 The findings produced within this theme also have international significance and reach.
 For example, Sinkovics (R)’s ESRC funded Rising Powers Project (£700K) brought

                                                                                             7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Corporate Social Responsibility perspectives to the study of the impacts of supply chains,
 while research by Greenhill looks to understand how digital skills can aid post-conflict
 economy recovery in West Africa and Giroud is exploring how the investment strategies
 of multinational firms impact on sustainable development and inclusion. Work on the
 benefits of collective bargaining (Martinez Lucio and Tavora) for the European
 Commission led to Grimshaw and Tavora being commissioned by the International
 Labour Organisation (ILO) and the Swedish government to carry out research which
 provided core input into the ‘Global Deal: Together for Decent Work and Inclusive Growth
 initiative’.

 iv.    Socially Responsible Innovation and Global Economic Growth

 This theme comprises a range of innovation scholars, organisational theorists and
 international business experts all exploring the fundamental transitions which are
 happening as policymakers and business leaders look for innovative ways to address
 issues around globalisation, innovation and sustainability. There are currently 45 scholars
 working on this theme, including 11 lecturers and early career fellows, 13 mid-career staff,
 and 21 senior staff. During this REF period, this community produced over 750 academic
 outputs that have advanced understanding of these complex and interconnected issues.
 This work has been aided by a number of large research awards such as the Synthetic
 Biology Research Centre grant where Shapira leads the Responsible Research and
 Innovation Group (BBSRC, led by the Faculty of Science and Engineering – total value
 £12.1million, AMBS value £600K), and projects on sustainable plastics (Boons, EPSRC,
 £150K) and intangible assets (Edler, Horizon 2020, £250K).

 This theme exemplifies our drive for leading research that informs interventions which
 meet emerging business and policy need. Geels’ role as a lead author of the UN’s
 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Assessment Report is a case in point, with
 his research now deeply embedded in the European Green Deal. As demonstrated in the
 letter of support accompanying Geels’ impact case, the President of the European
 Commission, Ursula von der Leyen comments “I am confident to say that it is the thinking
 of academics like Professor Geels that is pivotal to our society meeting challenges framed
 in the Paris Agreement, the Sustainable Development Goals and multiple other ambitious
 processes of European and global importance.” Geels’ work is complemented by
 research by McMeekin, and Boons which develops new theories of socio-materiality to
 consumption, demonstrating the importance of human needs, values, practices and habits
 in a transition to sustainable consumption. This saw Boons awarded a DEFRA Senior
 Research Fellowship.

 Another important link to policy in this theme has been Flanagan’s work with the
 Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) on their target to increase
 R&D spending to 2.4% of GDP. AMBS hosted a closed roundtable of academics and BEIS
 officials in 2017 to discuss the evidence base for assessing R&D intensity, which
 subsequently fed into government plans. Ribeiro, Flanagan and Uyarra have also made
 important contributions to the development of broader policy ecosystems at the national
 and international level, ensuring they foster both socially responsible innovation and
 economic growth. This work has led to collaboration with the Greater Manchester
 Chamber of Commerce and the Department for International Trade on the development
 of post-Brexit international trade and industrial strategy. It is also of relevance to the
 growing focus on productivity and ‘levelling up’, an issue addressed in Lampel’s role as
 scientific adviser to the UK wide “Ownership Effect Inquiry” which looked at the impact of


                                                                                            8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 employee ownership on UK productivity and was led by the Employee Ownership
 Association.

 At the firm level, Pinkse advances understanding of innovation adoption, whilst
 Constantinides explores innovations in digital infrastructures in sectors including
 financial IT infrastructures and mobile payment platforms. James, Lampel and Malik are
 Co-Is on an EPSRC £6.3million prosperity partnership that is studying the digitalization of
 R&D and manufacturing in collaboration with Unilever.

 Kafouros, Devinney, and Hashai all investigate the role of international business and
 strategy in developing innovation. Kafouros’ EPSRC funded work shows how the
 geographic dispersion of firms influences the effectiveness of their own innovative
 activities and performance. This aligns with Potter, Huq, Pischulov and Quariguasi
 Frota Net’s wide ranging research around lean and sustainable supply chain
 management, as well as Massini’s work on the global sourcing of innovation. Edler and
 Lampel are part of Globalinto, a Horizon 2020 project which seeks to advance theoretical
 and empirical research on intangible assets for improved innovation and enhanced
 productivity. This work builds on Edler’s research into Public Procurement of Innovation,
 which has influenced policy actors such as the European Commission and the OECD and
 is the basis of his impact case.

 Tether’s work on supporting innovation and entrepreneurship through creativity and
 design led to his appointment as Research Director of the Creative Industries Policy and
 Evidence Centre (led by NESTA, value to AMBS £350K), a £6.1million centre funded via
 the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF). He focuses on the growth and
 competitiveness of the creative industries.

 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy

 As outlined above, our research strategy seeks to develop renowned engaged scholars
 who produce influential research at the empirical and theoretical frontiers of business and
 management. This approach includes a focus on creating local and global economic,
 social, and cultural impact and has developed out of the three strategic priorities outlined
 in REF2014:

   i.    Develop existing and new research groupings and provide them with the
         resources to build influential research agendas.
  ii.    Further our research impacts on business and society by developing a world
         class community of engaged scholars.
  iii.   Enhance interdisciplinary research links.


 The section below outlines how our strategies for meeting these priorities have evolved
 during the current REF cycle to further enhance the vibrancy and sustainability of our
 research culture.

 1.2.1 Implementation of REF2014 objectives

   i.    Developing influential research agendas through existing and new research
         groups.



                                                                                            9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 To develop a dynamic environment which advances established, influential research
 agendas, while nurturing emerging ones, there has been a focus on growing areas of
 recognised expertise. This involved scaling up two already internationally renowned
 centres - the European Work and Employment Research Centre (EWERC) and the
 Fairness at Work Research Centre (FairWrk) combining them into the WEI. In addition,
 AMBS has been involved in the incubation of two further institutes. A collaboration with
 the Faculty of Biology Medicine and Health (FBMH) led to the amalgamation of our health-
 related research into the Institute for Health Policy and Organisation (IHPO) based in
 FBMH. And researchers such as Johnson (S) were heavily involved in setting up the
 Thomas Ashton Institute, a collaboration between the Health and Safety Executive and
 UoM based in the Faculty of Science and Engineering.

 As a result of a change of staff and individuals’ research interests, there was also a
 consolidation in the focus of our research. Three centres closed: The Centre for
 Comparative and International Business Research, The Centre for Development
 Informatics and The Centre for Infrastructure Development. The Centre for Research on
 Socio-Cultural Change was ESRC funded for 10 years and came to a natural end in 2017.
 This reorganisation released resource and enabled us to be more proactive and adaptive
 in seeding areas of emerging interdisciplinary inquiry.

 The School also developed a closer strategic relationship with UoM’s Division of
 Development and Alumni Relations, with the aim of growing resources by engaging alumni
 and friends of AMBS in the School’s research vision. This strategy has yielded over
 £20million in philanthropic donations that have been used tactically to develop existing
 and new areas of research. In 2014 AMBS received a landmark £15million donation from
 Lord David Alliance, £5million of which was invested in developing existing and new
 frontier research. For example, part of this money supported Williams to lead the ‘Making
 devolution work differently’ project which explored devolution in Greater Manchester and
 assessed how this could influence housing and transport priorities. This led to an
 influential report for local policymakers entitled ‘From developer regeneration to civic
 future’ and fed into an ESRC Research Grant on the future of urban mobility (Hodson and
 McMeekin, £800K).

  ii.   Ensure our research impacts on business and society by developing a
        world class community of engaged scholars.

 Our REF2014 strategy sought to combine the need for new fundamental theoretical
 research with the parallel need for research that is applicable to business practice. Using
 this as a basis, a culture of engaged scholarship has been developed. This entails a
 commitment to academically rigorous, curiosity driven research and the application of
 research to business and social concerns through engagement and coproduction.

 There has been a concerted effort to mainstream a culture of impactful research. This has
 been overseen by a new Deputy Director for Research Impact (Healey) who also
 coordinates a new Impact Support Fund. Impact activity has been incorporated into our
 workload model and our training on impact and policy engagement has been expanded.
 Furthermore, a new Business Engagement lead for research (Allmendinger) has been
 tasked with leveraging AMBS’s extensive business connections. As a consequence,
 AMBS has the highest concentration of KTPs in any UK business school, many of which
 pioneer interdisciplinary, cross-Faculty working (e.g. Sampaio’s KTP with the School of
 Computer Science and AV Unibrak). The impact of our KTP portfolio is demonstrated by
 the fact a KTP led by He (H) with British Salt won the Future Innovator Award in the
                                                                                          10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Innovate UK Best of the Best Awards. In 2018, the School leveraged the expertise of its
 Masood Entrepreneurship Centre to join the multi-institution ASPECT (led by LSE). This
 initiative aims to create new start-ups to address our most pressing social challenges
 through social science based market solutions via £5million funding from the Connecting
 Capability Fund.

 Our innovative approaches for engaging with business also sees AMBS act as a lead
 partner (alongside the Departments of Computer Science and Law) in the Manchester
 Law and Technology Initiative (LaTI), launched in September 2018. This subscription-
 based initiative provides a platform for law firms (e.g. Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer,
 DWF, and Weightmans), regulatory communities and academics to coproduce research
 on digital technology in legal services. LaTI’s impact was recognised with the Alliance of
 the Year award at the British Legal Technology Awards 2019.

 iii.   Building on Transformative Investments to undertake ground-breaking
        interdisciplinary research
 The £85million redevelopment of our building was completed in January 2019. It provides
 state of the art research facilities and is the first time since the merger of the Victoria
 University of Manchester and UMIST that all our research community and facilities are
 based under one roof. This development has been particularly transformative for our
 ability to foster interdisciplinary collaboration across our broad research base as
 colleagues can now easily meet, network and collaborate on emerging research agendas,
 such as a new collaboration between Accounting and Finance and MIOIR on the impact
 of climate change on corporate finance decisions (led by Dang).

 Our new building is part of a wider campus redevelopment by UoM and its local partners
 (including Manchester City Council and the NHS) to expand the successful innovation
 district along the Oxford Road corridor (which is home to UoM, as well as a number of
 other knowledge, business and cultural institutions). To maximise the impact of this
 regeneration on our research, there has been a focus on building strategic partnerships
 with a number of other new facilities, including the Henry Royce Institute: the UK National
 Institute for Advanced Materials and Innovation. This £105million investment is already
 leading to the development of broad-based collaborative research, for example,
 successful grant bids with SCI on single use plastics and the circular economy. Three
 AMBS researchers have also been appointed as fellows at The Alan Turing Institute, the
 United Kingdom's national institute for data science and AI, in which UoM is a partner.

 1.2.2 Future Research & Impact Strategy.

 Our four future priorities extend our existing strategy with the addition of one new area of
 regional engagement that aligns with a refresh of UoM’s overarching strategic priorities.
 This new priority aligns well with the need to use our cutting edge research to respond to
 the challenges created by the economic and social shock of the Covid-19 pandemic.

   i.   Continue to build disciplinary and interdisciplinary research approaches to
        engage with critically important challenges at the various interfaces of business and
        society.
  ii.   Further advance knowledge exchange through new research approaches
        (building on our experiences with the coproduction of knowledge).



                                                                                           11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  iii.   Persist with our efforts to diversify our staff and research output through effective
         equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) policies and incorporate EDI and
         sustainability objectives into our research.
  iv.    Combine transformative engagement regionally in the North West with our
         national and international reach to support local, national and global economic
         recovery from the Covid-19 related shock.
 Combining Global with Local Engagement

 AMBS’s impact and engagement strategy aims to combine global and local influence. In
 terms of our global influence, AMBS is the only UK business school with a presence in six
 international hubs. UoM has centres in Dubai, Hong Kong, São Paolo, Shanghai and
 Singapore which open up significant opportunities for our researchers. All our centres
 have strong links with their local business communities which are used to develop
 research collaborations, such as Sinkovics (R)’s Newton Fund supported work with FGV
 São Paulo on Global Value Chains.

 While our global assets and collaborations will continue to be mobilised to further
 internationalise our research, the School will also strengthen its strategy for local
 engagement. This aim reflects the renewed focus on place-based economic development
 policy seen during this REF cycle and will draw on best practice already seen across
 AMBS. For example, Zolkiewski and Burton’s impact case demonstrates how KTPs are
 used to engage local SMEs. Similarly, the School has played a key role in the development
 of a Local Industrial Strategy for the region via our involvement in the Greater Manchester
 Local Enterprise Partnership. AMBS also appointed a joint professor (Harding) with the
 Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA) to facilitate further collaboration. The
 work of the TPI, with its planned network of regional productivity forums, will be useful in
 developing this goal, as the Institute aims to collaborate with local stakeholders to help
 create an economy that works for everyone, with growth that is sustainable and regionally
 distributed.

 Section 2. People

 Table 2 HR Kitemarks

                                        Date Achieved                     Level
         Race Equality Charter     Achieved in 2015, renewed              Bronze
                                              2019
         Stonewall Workplace           2020: 47th of 503             Highest ranked
            Equality Index             2014: 158th of 369          University in England
           HR Excellence in           Renewed Feb 2020                  No levels.
           Research Award

 2.1 Staffing Strategy

 To help the School continue to produce world class research that meets the twin
 imperatives of scholarly excellence and impact, AMBS proactively seeks to attract, nurture
 and retain world leading scholars and the brightest Early Career Researchers (ECRs).
 This includes building a research environment where people thrive, with a sustained focus
 on developing a diverse community of motivated scholars working collaboratively across



                                                                                                 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 disciplines. Our academic staff cohort consists of 40 different nationalities, 91% hold
 doctoral degrees, 32% are women and 23% identify as BAME.

 A major strategic review of UoM’s staffing portfolio was undertaken during this REF period,
 the first review since the merger between the Victoria University of Manchester and UMIST
 in 2004. The growth and composition of our student body was assessed, alongside how
 our areas of research specialism could be harnessed to maximise future strategic growth
 and impact. As a result, approximately 40 colleagues participated in a voluntary
 redundancy scheme. It was a difficult period for AMBS, but it has enabled us to consolidate
 our efforts, with a renewed focus on our major research themes.

 2.1.1 Recruitment

 Recruitment is aligned to the research strategy and themes above and, as outlined in the
 university level environment statement, is designed to ensure that all candidates are
 treated fairly, in accordance with our unequivocal commitment to EDI (e.g. through the
 use of positive action statements).

 In the period 2014/15 to 2019/20 AMBS recruited 110 teaching and research staff. This
 includes 15 internal transfers (e.g. from Research Associateships). It also accounts for
 two major recruitment programmes: Project Diamond, aimed at established preeminent
 scholars and a new Presidential Fellows programme aimed at attracting the most inspiring
 future research leaders. There was also a new targeted approach to PhD scholarships.

 Project Diamond was a significant investment, engaging consultants to identify the most
 exciting business and management scholars worldwide that aligned with our research
 themes. This project brought influential scholars to the School, including Hodgkinson
 Kafouros, Lampel, and Pinkse. While it is recognised that scholars produce their best
 work in different ways, and accepted that sometimes colleagues prefer to work alone, a
 strong emphasis has nevertheless been placed in our recruitment processes on
 appointing senior colleagues who are committed to the development of the broader
 scholarly community within AMBS. For example, Kafouros is an Associate Head of
 Research, Pinkse has taken on the directorship of MIOIR and Hodgkinson served as
 one of two deputy heads of School (2016-2017), prior to becoming the Faculty’s Vice-
 Dean for Research (2017-present).

 A concerted effort has also been made to attract ECRs who have the potential to become
 inspiring leaders of the future. Eight new academics joined us through our Presidential
 Fellowship scheme, which provides a generous research time allowance, substantial
 research budget, and mentorship by a senior professor. They were appointed with key
 strategic areas in mind, for example, Ribeiro (recruited from the University of Salamanca)
 researches socially responsible innovation, while Gao (recruited from the University of
 Melbourne) studies corporate political strategy in emerging economies. Two of Gao’s
 publications have already appeared in the Academy of Management Best Paper
 Proceedings. Kleinhempel (recruited from Groningen University) explores comparative
 entrepreneurship research and won the most promising PhD proposal at the 2018
 European International Business Academy. While He (E) (recruited from Saïd Business
 School, Oxford University) investigates shareholder activism and the purpose of the firm.

 An additional decision was taken to further enhance our world class scholarship in
 Marketing Management & Strategy, an area perceived as crucial for understanding
 fundamental shifts in digital consumption and business models cutting across a number
                                                                                          13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of our research themes. In total seven new appointments were made, including two
 professors (Lukas and Araujo), two 0.2 fractional distinguished international professorial
 appointments (Homburg and Gustafsson), two senior lecturers (Jaakkola and Dost) and
 one lecturer (Hassan).

 2.1.2 Promotion and Revitalisation

 Academic staff are encouraged to apply for promotion and/or pay increments awarded in
 recognition of exceptional performance. Senior staff use promotion criteria which includes,
 amongst other things, staff’s knowledge transfer track record to proactively identify
 colleagues (with due regard to EDI) who may require encouragement to apply for
 promotions. They then work closely with them to help build their case. An annual
 promotion workshop open to all staff was introduced in 2016 to aid our promotions
 process. All members of the promotions committee are required to undertake training on
 Diversity in the Workplace and Unconscious Bias. From 2014/15 to 2019/20 62 colleagues
 were promoted. This includes, amongst others, 30 colleagues from lecturer to senior
 lecturer and 28 colleagues to professor.

 2.2 Equality & Diversity

 Equality and diversity are vital components of the School’s research culture, with our
 approach grounded in UoM’s commitment to Social Responsibility, a core strategic goal
 that sits equally alongside our commitment to leading research and outstanding student
 experience. Since 2014, AMBS has continued to foster a culture where concerns about
 diversity, sexual harassment and precarious work can be openly voiced and action to
 address these issues is positively encouraged, for example, through the University-wide
 ‘Speak Up! Stand Up!’ campaign, that empowers people to take action against
 harassment, hate crime and sexual violence.

 The proportion of female colleagues has remained relatively stable during the REF period
 at 32%, whilst the percentage of colleagues who identify as BAME has risen from 16% in
 REF 2014 to 23% in this REF period. The percentage of our professoriate who are women
 has increased, growing from 21% in 2015/16 to 25% by 2019/20. Female representation
 within AMBS’s senior leadership team (SLT) is high at over 75% (including Devine as
 Head of School). This is significantly higher than the 40% average in Business &
 Management Studies shown by 2018/19 HESA data. However, as is common across the
 business school sector, the proportion of female academic staff decreases between the
 lecturer and professorial levels (HESA data for 2018/19 shows 46% of lecturers and 25%
 of professors across Business & Management Studies are women). As part of our 45 point
 Athena Swan action plan a series of coordinated actions have been developed to
 understand why this is the case and to better support the recruitment and career
 advancement of women (e.g. ED&I representation is now incorporated into School
 committees and SLT meeting agendas as standard).

 One of the main research agendas of the WEI is to identify and promote conditions that
 are essential for more inclusive and fair work and employment, with WEI colleagues
 bringing their expertise in diversity to our School policy discussions on this issue. This
 includes Tavora who applies her academic expertise in gender inequality to chair a School
 Equality and Diversity Committee (E&DC). The Committee was established in 2016 and
 the School was delighted to be awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2019. Partly
 in response to staff consultations in the Athena Swan process, colleagues now have
 access to an annual £10K Carer Support Fund to cover expenses incurred through
                                                                                          14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 participation in conferences and Guidelines for Inclusive and Gender Balanced Events
 and conferences were developed. The annual promotions workshops aims to encourage
 and assist promotion applications from women and BAME colleagues. There is also now
 a core hours policy in relation to key School and department meetings and a series of staff
 events on various EDI related issues. For senior staff there is a UoM Women Professors
 Network to support networking, mentoring and further career development.

 2.3 Contract Research Staff

 UoM holds the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award as recognition
 of the processes put in place to support staff in line with the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. AMBS’s commitment to the Concordat sees all
 research staff provided with mentors and funding to support up to ten days of professional
 and career development activity (e.g. attending conferences and training events on
 publishing, preparing research grant applications). UoM Staff Learning and Development
 and the Library also offer a range of training and development opportunities. In this REF
 period, Martinez Lucio was appointed as academic lead for staff development, with a
 particular focus on Research Associates and ECRs.

 Between academic years 2014/15 and 2019/20, AMBS recruited a total of 112 contract
 research staff. Research only staff are most likely to be on fixed-term contracts (FTCs)
 given these posts are normally funded through time-limited external grants. UoM’s
 Contracts of Employment Policy aims to protect those on FTCs from less favourable
 treatment, to avoid the use of successive FTCs and to seek to employ staff on permanent
 contracts where possible. The University operates a redeployment policy, with all FTC
 staff classed as “redeployees” for the last four months of their contract, meaning they are
 eligible to be considered first for any vacant posts at their current grade. 39 colleagues
 were promoted from RA to lectureships in this REF period.

 2.4 Staff Support & Development

 2.4.1 Informal Processes for Staff Support & Development

 Our research groups, centres and institutes play a central role in developing collegiality
 and research excellence. These structures provide a framework for sustaining the
 intellectual life of AMBS and are the focal point for many research activities. These include
 thriving weekly staff research seminars, many with renowned international scholars,
 annual international workshops, grant writing workshops, publishing workshops with
 external editors, residential writing retreats, research away days, and doctoral training
 programmes. Longer, more strategic visits are supported through our visiting academic
 programme. Collectively, these activities work to engender a research environment
 conducive to the development of world class engaged scholars. This fundamental goal is
 supported through two basic mechanisms. First, through the active promotion of
 interactions with leading interdisciplinary scholars inside and outside the School. Second,
 multiple opportunities are created for collaboration with a broad range of practitioners and
 policy professionals, thereby ensuring our research engages with suitably challenging
 economic and social problems. Senior staff ensure all activities foster research excellence
 and are embedded within an overarching culture that values respect and research integrity
 (including promoting EDI in all aspects of our work). Central to all of this is a focus on
 supporting PhDs, postdoctoral and ECRs to pursue new intellectual projects that push the
 frontiers of business and management knowledge, and shape business practice and
 policy.
                                                                                            15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research ethics and social responsibility are crucial aspects of staff development. Our
 research ethics procedures are governed by a University Code of Good Research
 Conduct and projects involving human interaction must receive approval from both Faculty
 and AMBS Research Ethics Committees. Our work in this area is led by a Head of
 Research Ethics, Froud, who actively encourages staff involvement in and alerts them to
 various opportunities for training and development in this complex and fast developing
 arena. For example, it is mandatory for all staff involved in research to undertake training
 in research integrity.

 2.4.2 Formal Processes & Policies for Staff Support & Development

 Staff benefit from a number of formal development programmes. Induction for staff is
 organised at University, School, and Divisional level. New academic staff, up to Senior
 Lecturer level, participate in the mandatory Humanities New Academics Programme
 (HNAP), details of which are outlined in the university level environment statement. In
 addition, all colleagues have access to a wide range of formal support through UoM’s
 Learning and Development function, ranging from academic related skills, to personal
 skills development, and an enhanced coaching and mentoring offering. All colleagues in
 leadership roles are required to undertake our Leading at Manchester development
 programme. Over the last 2 years most members of SLT have also participated in the
 University’s Inspiring Leaders programmes.

 The School introduced a revised Workload Allocation Model in this REF period ensuring
 academics have standardised time allocations, which encourage participation in the full
 range of research activities (e.g. grant applications, impact work, doctoral supervision,
 preparing publications, reviewing, and research leadership roles), and ensure that
 teaching is distributed fairly.

 There is also an actively managed School research leave programme. Staff are
 encouraged to take either one semester’s research leave after six semesters, or a year’s
 leave after twelve. AMBS actively encourages staff to use leave as soon as they qualify
 and the take up is high. Senior staff work closely with colleagues to put forward clear,
 achievable plans for leave related to the development of research bids, research
 publications and/or new international research collaborations. Since 2014, 109 AMBS staff
 have benefited from research leave. UoM also runs a Professorial Enhanced Research
 Leave (PERL) programme for extended sabbatical to work on major projects. In this REF
 period 4 AMBS professors were awarded extended leave.

 All staff on teaching and research contracts receive an individual research allowance that
 has doubled to £5K since 2014. In addition, AMBS has invested significantly in a school
 wide Research Support Fund that has increased from £48K to £225K per annum in this
 REF period. Strategic funds support two rounds of competitive research funding (over 150
 awards in this REF cycle). Preference is given to interdisciplinary projects that bring
 together colleagues from different parts of UoM to focus on innovative new research and
 there is a dedicated strand for projects led by ECRs. Funding is reserved to help
 colleagues convert positive reviews from preeminent journals into accepted manuscripts
 (20 awards since its introduction in 2017). There is also dedicated internationalisation
 funding that provides support to develop international research collaborations with
 strategic partners.



                                                                                           16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues are helped to achieve their research goals through an annual appraisal system
 comprised of a personal development and research development plan. Led by senior staff,
 the process provides a structure to manage staff performance against discipline norms
 and University expectations, helps identify personal skills and career development needs,
 nurtures the creation of longer term personal research visions, and supports the
 enactment of more immediate research plans.

 2.5 Postgraduate Research Students

 Our PhD programme attracts outstanding students from leading international universities,
 as well as top students from the AMBS Masters programmes. This includes a strategic
 focus on postdoctoral scholars that align with our four overarching themes. Scholarship
 funding to support these students comes from a range of external sources (e.g.
 scholarships via UoM’s involvement in initiatives such as the ESRC funded North West
 Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership) and internal streams (e.g. AMBS school
 funded scholarships). During the current REF period a policy was implemented whereby
 over half of our annual school funded scholarships are targeted towards areas of existing
 expertise and new interdisciplinary areas where there is an opportunity to grow capacity,
 for example, FinTech, Healthy Ageing and Decent Work.

 Our doctoral programme is among the largest in Europe and is supported by a
 Postgraduate Director of Research (McBride), alongside a support office of six
 specialists. Since 2014, AMBS colleagues helped over 354 PGR students to achieve their
 PhD. In this REF period, the School’s strategy was to reduce the size of intake and focus
 on the quality of students. A new selection policy was adopted for PhD candidates
 whereby all research proposals are expected to demonstrate the capability to produce
 research and/or impact at levels that are internationally excellent or world leading. These
 two fundamental requirements mean that the annual intake has reduced from c.70
 students per annum to an average of c.40. 75% of our total student cohort since 2014
 have been EU or overseas students. 51% were female.

 Internal investment in our PhD programme has grown from £650K in 2014/15 (36% of
 students funded by School scholarships) to £2.1million (49% of students funded by School
 scholarships). This significant financial investment is evidence of AMBS’s commitment to
 developing the research base of the discipline. The majority of PhD fee income is
 reinvested in scholarships.

 Due to the size of the School and wider university, AMBS is able to offer PhD Students an
 unrivalled range of study options, from disciplinary specific research to interdisciplinary
 opportunities across faculties. Embedding our PhD students within AMBS’s research
 culture (including research institutes and centres) is central to a dynamic and sustainable
 research environment. Our new building enables the co-location of our PhD students
 which ensures PhD students are located close to their supervisors. Students are expected
 to attend AMBS’s research seminar series and its annual research conference, where
 they present their work and receive feedback from senior academics. The conference also
 includes career development sessions on topics such as publishing, grant writing, impact
 and knowledge exchange. The School has increased its emphasis on networking
 opportunities with generous funding available for national and international conference
 and workshop attendance.

 First year PhD students participate in a Research Training Programme to support their
 writing and research methods development. Throughout their programme they receive

                                                                                          17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 additional skills training to help them gain the research and transferrable skills for career
 development. Three new elements have been introduced in this REF period:
     A development event for all first year students that tackles specific challenges that
        PhD students face
     Second year students work with an external team of actors on skills for the
        effective presentation and dissemination of findings to academic and practitioner
        audiences
     Third year students participate in writing retreats, which gives them the skills to
        write effectively

 Given the demands of doctoral study, AMBS has placed increasing emphasis on student
 mental health and wellbeing. It intervenes and supports at key decision points on
 progression, return to studies after interruption, and at any time a student identifies as
 requiring support. AMBS also hosted the US Council of Graduate Schools 2019 Global
 Summit which brought together leaders from all continents to discuss Cultural Contexts of
 Wellbeing in Graduate Education.

 AMBS offers a substantial allowance (£3k for the duration of the programme, increasing
 from 1.5k in 2014) to support PGRs in a range of activities including conference
 participation, fieldwork, training, software etc. In addition to this fund (c.£70k),
 discretionary funding is available to attend international conferences and undertake
 additional fieldwork. Our PhD students also have access to training from across UoM and
 can take advantage of our graduate placements programme. Such support has
 contributed to several publications in high ranking journals by our PGR cohort. For
 example, Aroles in Organisation Science (with McClean), Dzhengiz in Journal of Business
 Ethics (with Niesten) and Bhora in Research Policy (with Massini).

 As well as fortnightly supervisory meetings, each PGR student has a mandatory mid and
 end of year progress review to ensure they are making satisfactory progress. Students
 have extensive support through their academic supervisor(s) and the research culture in
 which they are based in order to enable the timely completion of their PhD programme.
 The number of PhD completions in this REF period is 354, compared to 321 in the REF
 2014 period. Given the different lengths of the periods, we look at five year completion
 rates for full-time PhD students registered in AMBS. These rose from 73% (2011 PhD
 cohort) to 83% (2015 PhD cohort) over the course of this REF period.

 Many of our PhD students have secured positions in top business schools, leading policy
 institutions, and business. For example, Mylan carried out an ESRC funded PhD at AMBS
 and has been supported to progress to a lecture position at the SCI. Skandalis received a
 School scholarship before moving to work in Europe. He is now a lecturer at Lancaster. Li
 completed a PhD at MIOIR before securing positions at Tsinghua and Peking Universities.
 They are now part of the World Bank Young Professionals Programme, whilst another
 MIOIR graduate, Karaulova, is now a researcher at the Fraunhofer Institute. Johnson (M)
 has progressed from AMBS PhD graduate to researcher and then UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellow.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 AMBS’s research environment benefits from being closely integrated into a wider
 University infrastructure via the Faculty of Humanities and central UoM functions. These
 structures ensure that the School’s innovative research takes place on a scale that would
 not be possible in isolation as it opens up a range of interdisciplinary and cross-Faculty

                                                                                            18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    opportunities. The mutual value which AMBS adds to this UoM ecosystem is
    demonstrated by the fact the School has released James to serve as the Faculty
    Associate Dean for Business Engagement, Hodgkinson as the Faculty Vice-Dean for
    Research and Georghiou as UoM Deputy President and Deputy Vice-Chancellor.

    3.1 Grant Income

    Our strategy is to build on our strong tradition of research income generation to ensure
    AMBS continues to use funding opportunities to produce influential and impactful
    research. The external funding landscape has increasingly shifted towards a
    concentration on large interdisciplinary, challenged-based themes, exemplified by the
    Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) and the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund
    (ISCF). To reflect this change, our approach to the development of fundable projects was
    revised to ensure that external funding continued to be utilised to further the ambition and
    impact of our research. This includes ensuring that projects reach beyond the boundaries
    of the School.

    Strategically our grant activity has been aligned with the key social, technological, and
    business concerns that inform our overarching research themes. Faculty and University
    initiatives have been drawn on to substantially increase support by employing a fulltime
    Research Grant Writer, Impact Engagement Officer, and Business Engagement Lead to
    contribute to the development of high quality bids with clear pathways to impact. These
    investments provide strategic knowledge which means academics are not overburdened
    in grant development and so are supported to submit higher quality applications. It also
    provides an additional route through which our links to other areas of UoM and beyond
    can be developed.

    The benefit of our revamped approach is demonstrated by our increased success in
    bidding for large grants, including the recent £32million award to host the TPI. According
    to the most recent CABS report on research income for business and management
    schools (which covers HESA data up to 2018/19),1 AMBS secured £25million in research
    income during the current REF period and is second amongst UK business schools for
    cumulative research income over the last three years. £21.2million of this income is
    attributed to this UoA, with the remainder covering our interdisciplinary research in other
    UoAs.

    This funding has helped broaden the scale and impact of our institutes, centres and
    groups’ research agendas and has allowed our researchers to build collaborative links
    with staff in other Schools and Faculties (e.g. the WEI worked with the Global
    Development Institute based in the School of Environment, Education and Development
    on a GCRF project exploring decent work in global value chains). External funds have
    also allowed us to recruit new staff, provide additional research opportunities for
    postgraduates, deliver research workshops and seminars, and strengthen collaborative
    relationships with international partners.

    3.1.1 Examples of successful grant bids during this REF period
        Awards through collaborations fostered by our research institutes – Hodson’s
           ESRC Research Grant (£800K) on Digital Platforms and the Future of Urban
           Mobility built on the SCI’s extensive stakeholder networks.



1
    Research Income for Business and Management, CABS, April 2020

                                                                                              19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Awards which draw on interdisciplinary expertise to develop networks outside
         AMBS - The Centre in Advanced Fluid Engineering for Digital Manufacturing
         involved James, Lampel, Malik, Mehandjiev as Co-Is. This £6.3million EPSRC
         grant was led by colleagues in the Faculty of Science and Engineering and
         involved Unilever (£525K to AMBS). Similarly, the ESRC research centre Digital
         Futures at Work is led by Sussex with Rubery and Howcroft as Co-Is and
         focuses on digitalisation and the future of work (£250K to AMBS).
        Awards with a specific focus on engagement with policy and practice - The Global
         Innovation Policy Accelerator NESTA (£140K) involved Edler, and Flanagan,
         whilst Yang and Xu secured an Innovate UK Smart Grant (£318K) with Kennedys
         Law LLP. Walshe also secured £800K from the NIHR to explore the use of locum
         doctors in the NHS.
        Awards linked to impact cases - Shaw’s interdisciplinary work on disaster risk
         reduction was supported by ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding
         and has resulted in a UKRI Covid-19 Rapid Response award (£825K) to help
         English local authorities respond to the pandemic.
        Awards that support early career academics’ research agendas - Awards have
         ranged in scale from Begkos’ British Academy Small Grant (£10K) on measuring
         online platforms’ performance indicators, through to Li’s ESRC fellowship (£82K)
         studying the role R&D service firms play in the innovation system, to Johnson
         (M)’s Future Leaders Fellowship (£1million).

 Our approach of aligning grant activity with important social, technological, and business
 concerns gives us confidence that our research themes are the most appropriate to pursue
 and allows us to ensure that the grant writing activity supported is well suited to the
 objectives of funders. Our efforts to secure new funding are presently centred on:

        Productivity (including levelling up, work practices and wellbeing), leveraging our
         links with other universities via TPI (e.g. Glasgow, Cardiff, Queen’s Belfast,
         Sheffield, Warwick, Cambridge, King’s College London) and regional stakeholders
         (e.g. GMCA)
        The Impact of New Technology (including AI, data economy, digital security, next
         generation services, and the future of work), such as our cross-Faculty work on
         the Manchester Synthetic Biology Research Centre
        Global Development and Sustainability (including the circular economy,
         inequalities, clean growth and the impact of climate change on business), such as
         our work with Social Sciences through the Sustainable Consumption Institute
        Industry 4.0 (including Smart Manufacturing), such as through the Centre in
         Advance Fluid Engineering for Digital Manufacturing.

 These areas align well with our existing research institutes, centres and divisions.
 However, in reflection of the growing importance of interdisciplinary collaboration, they
 also allow us to create spaces that move beyond traditional groupings to bring together
 staff working on similar topics, albeit from different theoretical or methodological
 standpoints (including those in other Schools and Faculties). This has been supported by
 a dedicated stream of internal funding (via AMBS’s Research Support Fund) and research
 events to encourage networking and collaboration. Consequently, several AMBS
 academics have been involved in large cross-faculty bids, such as Boons’ involvement in
 the successful ‘Rethinking Resources and Recycling’ project which is led by the Henry


                                                                                          20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Royce Institute and funded by the Plastics Research and Innovation Fund (£991K of which
 £159K to AMBS).

 This focus on cross-cutting themes has also developed the way AMBS engages with
 external stakeholders. For example, from an initial mapping exercise on ‘the Impact of
 New Technology’, a hotspot of activity was identified around FinTech. This led to work
 with the Faculty’s Business Engagement team to develop a sandpit Innovation Lab in
 November 2017 which brought together companies interested in FinTech with academics
 to co-develop research ideas. From this, five new research projects were seed-funded,
 including with Barclays, Together Money and risk management consultancy Protiviti. The
 success of this first event has led to further sandpits on Healthy Ageing and Smart
 Manufacturing which have helped us build fruitful relationships with companies such as
 IBM, Samsung and Volkswagen.

 3.1.2 Grant Development Activities

 While many of our larger applications draw on a pool of senior staff with substantial track
 records of managing research income, systems have also been put in place to help
 colleagues less experienced in grant applications. This includes prioritised support from
 the Grant Writer, who has acted as a focal point of contact, offering feedback and general
 assistance to this group of colleagues.

 For bids of strategic importance (typically valued over £500K), the grant writer offers
 support that involves coordinating the entire bid development process, including partner
 liaison and the writing of the non-academic sections of proposals. This gives researchers
 time to focus on writing the academic elements of their bids. Additionally, a ‘grant
 incubation’ process was introduced, which was developed in response to the increasingly
 tight deadlines imposed by UKRI and other external funding bodies. It requires staff to
 engage with the grant writer far earlier in the development of their research plans, who
 advises how best to use seed corn and smaller external funds to build towards large grant
 applications. This means that staff are in a better position to respond to external funding
 calls with tight deadlines from the point of announcement, as research plans are already
 well developed.

 Strategic development activities, complemented by our internal funding schemes and
 dedicated strategic support from people such as the grant writer, has resulted in a wider
 pool of applicants applying to a broader range of funders and schemes. In the three years
 since our new grant strategy was introduced, AMBS has supported submissions to over
 60 different schemes run by over 25 different funding bodies. Although the ESRC remains
 the most common destination for our grant applications, the processes outlined above
 have been used to develop projects for schemes as diverse as the GCRF, ISCF, UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship, Wellcome Trust, British Academy, Arts Council and
 Government Equalities Office. This broader range of funders not only allows our staff to
 carry out an increasingly varied portfolio of research, it also helps the School spread the
 reach of its research activities beyond traditional boundaries.

 3.1.3 Faculty & University Level Funding Opportunities.

 AMBS’s research infrastructure has benefitted from a significant capital investment into
 our new building by UoM during this REF period. UoM support also extends to small
 research grants which are available through annual competitive funding calls at both the
 Faculty and University-level for new initiatives that align with UoM’s research and impact

                                                                                          21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 strategies. The University of Manchester Research Institutes (UMRI) Board has strategic
 oversight of all of the University’s flagship Institutes. AMBS colleagues have successfully
 applied to UMRI to establish the WEI and UMRI continues to support the SCI, MIOIR and
 is overseeing the internal governance of the TPI. UKRI also provides pump-priming for
 new interdisciplinary activities, with successful AMBS awards including Allmendinger and
 Mehandjiev (£37K) for an ‘Innovation Lab on Industry 4.0’, Poon (£34K) for an ‘Indian
 Network Development on Forced and Child Labour in Business Supply Chains’, and
 McPhail (£44K) to develop interdisciplinary perspectives on business and human rights.

 At Faculty level, the Simon and Hallsworth endowment funds visiting professorships and
 industrial fellows. Examples of Simon Visiting Professorships awarded to AMBS since
 2014 include Batt (Cornell University), Backer (Pennsylvania State University) and Latour
 (Paris Institute of Political Studies). Examples of Simon Industrial Fellowships include
 Khalid Malik, ex-director of the UNDP’s Human Development Report Office. Malik worked
 collaboratively with the WEI to develop a Human Development Report for Greater
 Manchester, the first ever such report at a subnational level.

 3.2 Infrastructure & Facilities.

 3.2.1 Physical Infrastructure

 The School’s new complex opened in 2019 with cutting edge research facilities. This
 includes the Data Visualisation Observatory, which is outfitted with 72 high resolution
 screens arranged in 320 degrees that support immersive image projection and interaction
 in 2D, 3D and Virtual Reality. The new Behavioural Research Laboratory can be used to
 collect, integrate, and analyse various types of behavioural response data, such as
 surveys, eye-tracking, electrocardiograms, and electroencephalograms. Each facility is
 supported by a dedicated technical staff member and an academic lead. The new building
 is the first time all AMBS academics are under one roof (previously AMBS was spread
 across 5 different buildings). This new arrangement includes dedicated space for our
 research centres, as well as collaboration and meeting spaces and a new library. These
 facilities are already acting as a catalyst for greater interdisciplinary working amongst
 research colleagues and business partners.

 These research endeavours are further supported by the central UoM library which offers
 a range of leading resources and services. The library provides access to a
 comprehensive array of specialist business databases, including a ‘Finance Zone’ within
 the new AMBS building with a dedicated Bloomberg suite. The central library team also
 offer a dedicated Business Data Service, which provides enquiry support, workshops and
 one-to-one consultations.

 The AMBS redevelopment is part of UoM’s £1billion campus redevelopment masterplan
 that positions AMBS within 500 meters of other new investments such as the £61million
 National Graphene Institute, £400million Manchester Engineering Campus, and
 £105million Henry Royce Institute. UoM is also developing its north campus into a
 £1.5billion Innovation District. As such, AMBS will be positioned at the heart of an
 unparalleled combination of business, engineering and technological developments that
 have the potential to change the business world, providing new opportunities for the
 School and developing research collaborations with these Institutes will be a key part of
 our ongoing strategy.



                                                                                          22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2.2 Organisational Infrastructure – Professional Services
 Research activity in AMBS is supported by a dedicated Research Office, which provides
 professional support for all aspects of research and impact. Strategic investment in new
 positions means that the Office now consists of:
     Two Research Support Officers headed by a Research Support Manager who
        assist in the preparation and management of grant applications and budgets
     A Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer who provides expert advice on impact
        and knowledge exchange activities
     A Research Grant Writer who works with academics to develop their research ideas
        and translate them into high quality funding applications
     Research Finance Officers responsible for the financial management of awarded
        projects
     Institute Managers for our research institutes
     A Research Manager who oversees research funded through donations,
        investment into research infrastructure and research strategy planning
 This is complemented by dedicated research communication and engagement support
 from AMBS’s Marketing, Communications and Recruitment Team of 8 specialists. They
 work with the Director of Research, and external partners to amplify the reach of our
 research and ensure it is disseminated in a targeted way to secure impact. The team are
 supported by additional resource in AMBS’s Institutes and Centres, as well as at the
 Faculty and University level (e.g. via Policy@Manchester, which proactively connects
 researchers with policymakers and influencers).

 Our research outputs, including expert commentary, are disseminated across mainstream
 and specialist media, with training provided to all staff and PGR students on how to
 effectively communicate research to a broader audience. Our communication resources
 include a biannual AMBS school magazine which features articles explaining where our
 latest research has made a difference. The magazine is disseminated to our corporate
 and policy contacts, including 60,000 alumni across the world. Our research is also
 disseminated via our website and social media channels (with over 120,000 followers
 across Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram). Examples of content produced for
 these channels include an animation series explaining the impact of our research which
 was designed to reach a broader audience. In 2019 alone, our audience reach from media
 coverage totalled 3.7billion (20% national, 80% international).

 3.3 Impact Infrastructure

 Our engaged scholar approach places greater emphasis on innovative and effective forms
 of research driven impact on business and society. Since 2014, our capacity and support
 for impact has been enhanced through four new appointments - Deputy Director for
 Research (Healey) with a brief dedicated to impact, a Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 Officer, an Industry Engagement Manager and a Business Engagement for Research lead
 Allmendinger). An annual Impact Fund was also introduced in 2018 with the purpose of
 supporting impact and knowledge transfer. This fund has supported several of our current
 and developing impact cases. For example, Williams and Froud in meetings with
 ministerial advisors to Welsh Government on the Foundational Economy, and Humphrey,
 O’Dwyer and Siddiqui to collate evidence presented to the Brydon Review on the quality
 and effectiveness of audit. All three awards resulted in impact cases strong enough for
 potential inclusion in our REF impact portfolio, with one included in our final submission.


                                                                                          23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AMBS has leveraged further institutional support from the ESRC IAA, which UoM
 administers for the development of impact activity. 11 awards have been secured totalling
 £185K from this scheme. For example, Johnson (S) secured support of £24K to establish
 a network for the co-production and dissemination of research findings on healthy ageing
 in the transport industry. Impact has been incentivised by incorporating impact activity into
 our workload model and defining key performance indicators in the research review
 process, including CASE submissions, knowledge exchange activity, researcher-
 practitioner publication goals, and grants targeted for user involvement.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society
 Our approach to building a vibrant and sustainable research environment within AMBS
 also considers the need to foster sustainable scholarly communities more broadly across
 our constituent disciplines. As such, colleagues have continued to be supported to grapple
 with the most innovative and relevant research agendas globally through collaboration
 with the very best people in their field.

 4.1 Research Collaboration Networks & Partnerships
 The development of international collaborative networks with academics, policymakers
 and business leaders have been supported to aid emerging research agendas (e.g.
 School funding has supported networking activities in, amongst others, Senegal, Brazil,
 South Africa and USA). Equally, based on our emerging strategy around regional
 engagement and impact, there has been a focus on ensuring our research is locally
 relevant (e.g. funding work by MIOIR into the growth of innovation industries in
 Manchester around Graphene). As explained earlier, the shift towards regional business
 and social interests is seen as an opportunity for AMBS to have regional, national,
 international, and global economic and social impact.

 4.1.1 Fostering International Research Collaborations.

 International collaborations are encouraged as a way of developing impactful scholarly
 research, something which has been strengthened by the appointment of Devinney as a
 new academic lead for internationalisation. Since 2014, AMBS colleagues held over 80
 visiting positions. Lukas is Honorary Fellow at University of Melbourne (2015-present).
 Chen is Visiting Researcher, Shanghai Jiao Tong University (2018-2019). Kafouros is
 Visiting Professor in UIBE at Beijing (2018-present) and Distinguished Professor in Hong
 Kong’s Open University (2016-present). Both Xu and Yang are visiting professors at Hefei
 China, Newman was Visiting Professor, University of Turku (2014-2019), Paxson is
 Visiting Professor of Finance, ISEG University of Lisbon (since 2018). Modell and
 Nicholson hold visiting positions in Bergen and Oslo, respectively. AMBS also has
 extensive research collaborations in Europe, including with HIVA Research Institute for
 Work and Society, KU Leuven, Belgium, The Stockholm Environment Institute, Sweden,
 the Applied Research and Communications Fund, Bulgaria, Fonden Teknologirådet,
 Denmark, Technische Universität Dortmund, Germany. Our staff have also held
 secondments and acted as advisors to a number of international organisations (e.g.
 Grimshaw was research director at the ILO) and government departments (e.g. Walshe
 is Director, Health and Care Research Wales). The appointment of Divinney will allow us
 to further develop the alignment between our research strategy and international
 collaborations. Strengthening European research links will be an important aspect of our
 strategic response to Brexit.



                                                                                            24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The most mature and systematic of our international research collaborations are
 supported through our institutes and centres. CAIR hosts an annual international
 conference series in the areas of Accounting and Corporate Finance (in collaboration with
 LSE), whilst the SCI has 8 strategic international collaborative arrangements in order to
 further develop its main research themes. This includes the Chinese Academy of Social
 Sciences, Shanghai University, Renmin University, SCORAI, Wageningen University,
 University of Copenhagen and Oslo University. MIOIR has a global visitors programme
 which in 2018 alone attracted 33 academic visitors and doctoral researchers from 13
 countries. Shapira also leads MIOIR’s Innovative Co-Lab, a collaboration of researchers
 at the UoM, Georgia Institute of Technology and the Beijing Institute of Technology to
 advance methods and analysis of emerging science, technology, and innovation. WEI is
 one of a core group of internationally renowned research institutes selected by the ILO to
 co-organise its Regulating for Decent Work Conference. It is also a partner in the CRIMT
 Partnership Project on Institutional Experimentation for Better Work, a multiannual (2017-
 24) network run from HEC Montréal and funded by the Canadian Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council. It covers 8 countries, 21 institutes and has over 150
 researchers and a large associated group of doctoral students.

 4.1.2 Fostering Impactful Business Research Collaborations
 Since 2014 a focus has been on better connecting our research strategy with the School’s
 extensive business engagement activities, overseen by the new academic lead for
 Business Engagement. As part of this work, a Corporate Relations Steering Group was
 established, which brings together external facing academics and professional service
 staff. Through this increased internal knowledge sharing, there is now better cross-
 fertilisation of business contacts between the various external-facing functions at AMBS,
 such as the MBA, Executive Education, The Masood Entrepreneurship Centre, The Scale
 Up Forum, sponsorship, and industry research projects. This has led to organising
 “discovery visits” via this Group for external stakeholders interested in engaging with
 AMBS research. Recent visits include Capita plc., Fujitsu, the Civil Service Leadership
 Academy, and Now Healthcare Group Ltd. These new business collaborations are leading
 to major grant funded research projects. This includes a fourfold increase in KTP revenue
 during this REF period (9 awards in total with partners including IPEC Ltd,
 Joineryworkshop.com Ltd, Dream Agility, Biopharm Services Ltd, British Salt Ltd, DWF
 LLP, and Kennedys LLP).

 Another strategic objective has been building collaborations that are locally relevant and
 impactful. For example, AMBS launched The Scale Up Forum in 2018 as a platform for
 rapidly growing local businesses to overcome barriers to growth. This initiative grew out
 of MIOIR’s Manchester Innovation Forum which fosters engagement between academics
 and the region’s business community, allowing firms to harness important research
 insights. Current areas of focus for the forum include Data, and the Workplace of the
 Future. This initiative has been fundamental to several research projects, including
 CityVerve led by Manchester City Council (funded by Innovate UK, AMBS value £134K).
 This project involved collaboration with partners such as Cisco, BT, and Siemens to study
 how the Internet of Things is redefining living and working in Manchester.

 An area of focus going forward will be ensuring successful business engagement within
 the TPI. The institute will develop its research and impact agenda through regional
 engagement with policymakers and business leaders from firms of all sizes, as well as
 bodies like HM Treasury, BEIS and the CBI. Via the network of nine partner institutions,
 TPI is currently creating eight Regional Productivity Forums across the country to work

                                                                                         25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 with these external stakeholders on critical productivity issues in the regional context. It is
 also forming a national Policy Reform Group to explore nationwide productivity issues with
 policymakers.

 4.1.3 Fostering Interdisciplinary Collaborations

 The growth in focus on interdisciplinary grand challenges within the external funding
 landscape has helped AMBS strengthen its range of links with stakeholders. This is
 exemplified by Boons’ work with both DEFRA and on the cross-Faculty EPSRC Plastics
 project mentioned above. The bringing together of stakeholders interested in LegalTech
 via LaTI is another good example. As well as the stakeholder engagement described
 previously, LaTI is being used to reach out to international institutions (e.g. University of
 Melbourne) as part of UoM’s Internationalisation agenda. Our growing FinTech portfolio
 has also been boosted by AMBS’s instrumental role in organising the FinTech North
 Conference since 2018 attended by over 300 delegates from a range of leading finance
 and technology companies.

 4.1.4 Fostering Impact Beyond Academia and Business

 Alongside collaborations with the business community, AMBS researchers are involved in
 extensive policy engagement on the regional, national and international level. These
 engagements ensure our research impacts policy and practice. It also shapes the
 questions our researchers explore. Many of these collaborations have been discussed
 above and form a strong basis to our impact case studies. Other high impact policy
 engagement activities from this REF period include the EU funded project ‘Industrial
 Innovation in Transition’, which saw Georghiou present at a Science Foundation Ireland
 event attended by the Irish Deputy Prime Minister. MIOIR researchers (including
 Flanagan, Edler and Shapira) have also worked closely with the Cabinet Office to
 contribute to policy debates on open innovation, the government’s 2.4% R&D funding
 target, and mission oriented research. In June 2018 Uyarra participated as assigned
 expert to the GMCA at a workshop in Brussels on Broadening Innovation and Diffusion.
 Shapira and Uyarra also served as Scientific Co-Chairs of the XVI International Triple
 Helix Conference, an international innovation policy conference which brings together
 industry, academia and government which Manchester hosted in 2018.

 Hoel was invited to present to the European Parliament in 2018, following commissioned
 research on sexual harassment. His research is cited in the final report by the European
 Parliament on the topic. Dundon presented WEI evidence submitted to a BEIS select
 committee on Automation and the Future of Work. Johnson (S) was invited to comment
 on the draft scope for the NICE guideline on wellbeing at work. Rubery has been invited
 twice to give oral evidence to the Women and Equalities select committee and Rafferty
 to the DWP select committee. Shaw has recently been invited to give evidence to a new
 House of Lords Select Committee on Risk Assessment and Risk Planning, with a remit to
 “consider risk assessment and risk planning in the context of disruptive national hazards.”

 Our policy engagement is aided by UoM’s cross-faculty Policy@Manchester initiative. One
 of the main objectives of this initiative is to translate research into policy impact via blogs
 and other publications, AMBS examples include ‘The hidden emergency in England’s
 NHS ambulance service’ by McCann (7000+ hits), ‘Worse than zero hours contracts:
 work, pay and (in)equalities in the gig economy’ by Dundon and Inversi (600+ hits), and
 ‘Could Greater Manchester’s plans for transport be bolder?’ by McMeekin and Hodson
 (500+ hits). Ribeiro was a major contributor to the Policy@Manchester publication, ‘On

                                                                                              26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 AI’, highlighting how social justice implications needed to be considered in the discussions
 around robotics and AI, and Hodgkinson contributed to the Policy@Manchester
 publication, ‘On Digital Trust’, pressing the need for cyber security initiatives in the
 workplace to incorporate the insights of behavioural science.

 As part of our engaged scholarship approach to reach beyond academic and policy
 audiences, over 100 commissioned reports have been produced since 2014 to
 communicate with potential research users and the public about the themes shaping the
 future of business. Media training has helped increase the number of colleagues who
 regularly take part in public engagement activities, including writing op-eds for the media
 and leading public debate and discussion. For example, Stathopoulos published with the
 Guardian on Mitsubishi’s move to dismiss Carlos Ghosn as chairman, while Humphrey
 was on BBC Radio 4’s The Bottom Line discussing the failure of company audits in
 detecting when a firm is about to go under. Pinkse has written various pieces for Forbes
 on taking the threats of climate change seriously and how industry not government is the
 key to the solution. Cooper appears regularly in the media, for example, on BBC Radio
 4's Today programme discussing ONS data on sickness absence and presenteeism and
 in the Financial Times in an article looking at wellbeing in the workplace. Williams has
 written about the future of the car industry for the Daily Telegraph. Banister has been on
 The One Show discussing ‘Generation Sensible’, while Rubery has written for the BBC
 on the gender pay gap.

 4.2 Contribution to the Research Base.

 Table 1 AMBS Contribution to Research Base

  Editorial Positions                                               > 170
  Peer Reviews for Journals and conferences                         > 3650
  PhD Completions                                                   > 350
  Presentations at National & International Conferences             > 2175
  International Visiting Positions                                  > 80

 4.2.1 Significant Editorships

 As the above table demonstrates, since 2014 AMBS colleagues have held over 170
 editorial positions, many in top international journals. For example, Clarke is Editor in
 Chief of the Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology (2016-present).
 Dundon was Editor in Chief of Human Resource Management Journal (2010-2016).
 Healey is Associate Editor of the Journal of Management Studies (2020-present) and is
 on the editorial review board of Academy of Management Review (2014–2020).
 Hodgkinson was Associate Editor of the Journal of Management (2016-2020). He is also
 on the editorial board of the Academy of Management Review (since 2002) and Strategic
 Management Journal (since 2013). Constantinides is an Associate Editor of MISQ (since
 2016). Handl is Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary Computation. Sun
 and Evanschitsky are Associate Editors of the British Journal of Management, whilst
 Kafouros is Associate Editor of International Business Review (2018–present). Howcroft
 and Martinez Lucio are Co-Editors in Chief of New Technology, Work and Employment.
 Hashai is an Associate Editor of the Journal of International Management and serves on
 the editorial boards of Strategic Management Journal, Journal of International Business
 Studies, and Global Strategy Journal. O’Dwyer is an Editor of Accounting, Organizations
 and Society (since 2020). Quattrone is Senior Editor of Organisation Studies (2020-
 present) and has been appointed its Co-Editor in Chief from September 2021. Clarke was
                                                                                           27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 appointed by the American Psychological Association (APA) to be the incoming Editor in
 Chief of the Journal of Occupational Health Psychology from 2021.

 Lampel sits on the editorial board of Academy of Management Journal and Organization
 Science. Lukas was on the editorial board of Journal of Marketing for 5 years (2013-
 2018), and currently sits on the editorial board of Journal of the Academy of Marketing
 Science (2013–present). Holman sits on the editorial board of Human Relations (since
 2014). Laasch is associate editor of Academy of Management Learning and Education,
 (2020-present). Sun sits on the editorial board of Journal of International Business Studies
 (2016–present) and Journal of World Business (2014–present). Tether is on the editorial
 board of Research Policy.

 4.2.2 Research Networks

 Many of our senior colleagues are engaged in significant international research networks.
 Geels remains Chair of the Sustainability Transitions Research Network. Rubery is
 founding Chair of IWPLMS International Working Party on Labour Market Segmentation
 (12 countries, over 100 researchers), WEI is a collaborating institute of the RDW
 (Regulating for decent work network, ILO, with collaborating institutes from 7 countries),
 Marino is a founding member of IMISCOE (International Migration, Integration and Social
 Cohesion network, with 45 European institutes and membership of over 700 scholars
 worldwide). Edler is president of the EU-SPRI Forum and Shaw is a Member of the UN
 Task Force with ISO on the development of standards to implement the Sendai
 Framework (2014-present). Modell sits on the AAA/MAS International Committee.

 4.2.3 Learned & Professional Societies
 Senior staff represent the academic profession in a range of professional bodies, funding
 councils and high level, independent public policy investigations. Rubery is a Fellow of
 the British Academy (2006–present) and Trustee and Council Member of the National
 Institute for Economic and Social Research (2019– present). Boaden, Cooper, Devine,
 Dundon, Geels, Hassard, Hodgkinson, Humphrey, Hyde, McPhail, and Stark are
 Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Cooper was President of the British Academy
 of Management (Jan 2015 – Jan 2019), is President of the CIPD (Dec 2015 – Jan 2021),
 and a fellow of the American Academy of Management. Kafouros is elected Secretary of
 the Academy of International Business UK&I (2016-present). Our CIPD fellows include
 Dundon (chartered), Hodgkinson, Martinez Lucio, and Rubery (academic). Geels is a
 Fellow of the Academia Europaea (2015–present) and has been invited to join the World
 Economic Forum Council on Economic Growth and Recovery. Sarantopoulos is a fellow
 of American Marketing Association (2016-present). Shaw was a Fellow of the Operational
 Research Society (2014-2019). Holman is an executive committee member of the
 European Association of Work and Organizational Psychology (2019-present). Handl,
 Papamichail and Poon are Alan Turing Fellows (2018-present). Zachariadis sits on the
 World Economic Forum’s Global Future Council on Responsive Financial Systems.

 Scapens is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales
 (ICAEW) (since 1968) and was a member of its executive committee until 2017. He was
 also a member of the Research Panel of the Chartered Institute of Management
 Accountants for over 30 years (until 2018). Stapleton is Fellow of the ICAEW (since
 1980). Humphrey was director of the ICAEW's Charitable Trusts and is currently on
 ICAEW's Audit and Assurance Faculty Committee. McPhail is an honorary fellow of the
 Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand. Lukas is a Member of the Academic

                                                                                           28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Council of the American Marketing Association (2018-present). Uyarra has been awarded
 Fellowship status with the Regional Studies Association.

 4.3   Recognition & Honours
 The major contribution of AMBS scholars to the academic community has been
 recognised through significant honours and awards by external bodies.

 Many of our emerging scholars have already received recognition for the contribution of
 their research. For example, Taeuscher won the Best PhD Paper at the Annual
 Conference of the Strategic Management Society (2017). Constantinides won the British
 Academy Rising Star Research Award (2015-2016). Zeng won Best Paper at the 5th
 Young Finance Scholars' Conference (2018). Begkos won the Broadbent and Laughlin
 Emerging Scholar Award 2016, while Sarantopoulos won the Academy of Marketing
 Science 2019 M. Wayne DeLozier Best Conference Paper Award. Niesten won Best
 Paper at the British Academy of Management Conference (2015) and Voulgaris was
 awarded the Multinational Finance Society Annual Conference Best Paper Award (2019).

 Our established researchers have also been recognised. Clarke won an Academy of
 Management Conference Best Paper (2017). Kafouros won the Emerald Citations of
 Excellence Award (2015) and Sun won Best Paper in International Corporate Governance
 from the Academy of Management (2016). Pinkse won Best Paper in Innovation from the
 British Academy of Management. Nieroda won the Stanley C. Hollander Award for Best
 Retailing Paper at the Academy of Marketing Science (2015). Shaw won Best EPSRC
 Newton Project 2018 for a collaboration between AMBS, the Faculty of Engineering and
 University of Chile.

 Hassard won the Journal of Management Studies ‘Article of the Year’ award (2019).
 Rubery won the Emerald Best Paper Award in Employee Relations (2016) and Rubery
 et al. won the Work, Employment and Society best paper award (2019). Froud and co-
 authors were awarded the Hans-Matthöfer-Preis für Wirtschaftspublizistik (2020). Holman
 won the best paper award (2015-2016) in the Journal of Occupational Health Psychology,
 while Marchica and Mura won the 2017 European Financial Management Reader’s
 Choice Best Paper Award. Geels and Pinkse were recognised as amongst the most cited
 scholars in the world in Clarivate’s 2020 list of Highly Cited Researchers.

 Colleagues have also been recognised for their service. For example, Pinkse received
 the Organizations and the Natural Environment Outstanding Service Award at the 2019
 Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management. Lampel received the Academy of
 Management Perspectives Special Prize (2019). Stapleton, Strong and Humphrey each
 received lifetime achievement awards from the British Accounting and Finance
 Association, while Cooper received a Knighthood for contributions to the social sciences
 (2014). Cooper also received the George Pepitas Memorial Award for global contribution
 to the field of human resource management by the World Federation of People
 Management Associations (2018) and Academy of Management Award: Chris Arygris
 Lifetime Achievement Award (2019). Rubery and Geels have both been recipients of
 University’s Researcher of the Year awards for Humanities. Araujo, has been awarded
 the British Academy of Management (BAM) Medal for Research. In 2019 Devine, Head of
 AMBS was awarded a CBE for services to social sciences.




                                                                                        29
