Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  OVERVIEW
  The University of Leicester (UoL) is proud to have developed a critical mass in physical
  activity research enabling our first institutional submission to UoA24. This is supported by
  the College of Life Sciences’ (CLS) strategic aim to embed physical activity research as a
  cross-cutting theme of excellence linking areas of clinical strength; diabetes, respiratory
  diseases, and chronic kidney disease. This strategic priority was formalised in 2012
  through the award of the NIHR Leicester-Loughborough Diet, Lifestyle and Physical Activity
  Biomedical Research Unit (BRU), and subsequently in 2017 through the successful NIHR
  Leicester Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) application. This strategy was in response to
  mounting policy recognition that national action is needed in targeting lifestyle behaviour
  through the NHS, evidenced by Healthy Lives, Healthy People (2010), the NHS Five Year
  Forward View (2014), the NHS Long Term Plan (2019), and the roll out of the Healthier You:
  the NHS Diabetes Prevention Programme (2016 – present).

  Our unit has been brought together by a combination of nurturing excellence internally and
  strategic appointments. This focus on people has been matched by a focus on place, where
  inward capital investment has built two bespoke physical activity testing, supervision and
  measurement laboratories; one situated within the Diabetes Research Centre (DRC,
  Leicester General Hospital), and a bespoke respiratory sciences research facility (Leicester
  Glenfield Hospital). These are adjacent to some of the largest NHS diabetes, respiratory and
  renal clinical services in the UK, encouraging crosstalk between physical activity research
  and clinical care. Our 9 (8.8 FTE) submitted researchers have generated a thriving portfolio
  of translational research that, over the submission period, has attracted £8.45M in research
  income (£0.96M/FTE), published 477 Scopus indexed articles (54/FTE) and generated
  >10,000 citations. We have informed national and international public health and clinical
  guidelines and translated evidence-based physical activity-focused prevention and
  rehabilitation

  STRUCTURE AND RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
  Our overarching aim is to build complementary interdisciplinary research capacities with
  which to generate evidence-based physical activity therapies for chronic disease
  prevention, management and rehabilitation.

  STRUCTURE
  Our researchers are part of the Departments of Health Sciences (5.8 FTE) and Respiratory
  Sciences (3 FTE) within CLS. Our collective research activity is coordinated and managed
  through the NIHR Leicester BRC, organised across clinical themes of diabetes, respiratory
  disease and renal disease (Figure1), and co-located with the corresponding clinical services
  within University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust (UHL).




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                Figure 1: Unit structure within CLS


  DIABETES: Yates, Edwardson, Rowlands, Harrington and Dempsey lead programmes
  of physical activity research within the DRC, which is recognised by the International
  Diabetes Federation and one of the largest Diabetes Research Centres in Europe with >150
  researchers and clinical staff, housed directly above a busy diabetes out-patient clinical
  service. Research is focused on harnessing the full physical activity-spectrum (i.e. from
  reducing sitting behaviour to high intensity exercise interval training) to develop evidence-
  based, physical activity therapies for the prevention and management of type 2 diabetes and
  related comorbidities. Our research is strategically supported by the Centre’s Clinical
  Directors, Davies CBE [UoA1] and Khunti [UoA2]; internationally renowned clinical
  academics who ensure our research is aligned to clinical need with subsequent impact on
  national and international routine clinical care pathways.

  RESPIRATORY: Singh, Greening and Evans lead the rehabilitation group, part of a wider
  respiratory research facility housing >50 clinical research and support staff embedded within
  the largest clinical service for acute respiratory admissions in the UK. Research is focused
  on the development, evaluation and implementation of in-patient and out-patient exercise-
  based rehabilitation, with a focus on those with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
  (COPD) and breathlessness. Research is supported strategically by Brightling [UoA1] and
  Steiner [UoA2].

  RENAL: Smith leads the Leicester Kidney Lifestyle Team of 6 postdoctorates and 5 NHS
  support staff within the large John Walls Renal Unit and kidney out-patient services at LGS,
  adjacent to the DRC. Research is focused on understanding the mechanisms underlying
  poor physical function and frailty in chronic kidney disease (CKD) and how exercise
  modalities can be optimised to combat underlying impairments in muscle physiology.
  Research is supported clinically by renal physicians Brunskill and Barrett [UoA1].

  Our unit is a key part of the NIHR Leicester BRC (£11.6M 2017-2022), led by Davies
  [UoA1], which is used to provide strategic research direction, as well as the management of

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  staff, equipment and resource allocation across our clinical areas. This enables our
  researchers to work as a coordinated whole with a shared research infrastructure (see
  section 3). The Lifestyle theme (one of three research themes) within the Leicester BRC is
  run as a collaboration with Loughborough University (as a subcontracted partner) and builds
  on the success of the NIHR Leicester-Loughborough Diet, Lifestyle and Physical BRU
  (£4.5M 2012-2017), the only NIHR BRU that was entirely focused on physical activity. NIHR
  BRUs and BRCs are awarded to institutions that can demonstrate a critical strength and
  depth of world leading translational research. Through the Leicester BRC our research is
  aligned with the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine East Midlands (NCSEM-
  EM)

  Our research is also coordinated and overseen by the CLS Research and Enterprise
  committee (Yates as member), providing a College-wide forum for sharing and supporting
  research and encouraging interdisciplinary initiatives.

  OUTPUT METRICS HIGHLIGHTING RESEARCH STRENGTH AND DEPTH
  Despite our small submission (8.8FTE), we have generated substantial research outputs.
  SciVal metrics for the REF environment census period evidenced we have co-authored 477
  articles (54 per FTE), with 26% in the top decile of the most cited articles internationally.
  Our articles generated >10,000 citations with field weighted citations impact factors of 2.47.
  This is a result of our strategy to publish in leading general medical (Nature Medicine, BMJ,
  PLOS Medicine), disease specific (Circulation, Diabetes Care, Am J Respir Crit Care Med)
  and physical activity (Br J Sports Med, Med Sci Sports Exerc, Int J Behav Nutr Phys Act)
  journals. Our outputs are disseminated within a culture of Open Research (Institutional
  Environment Statement [IES] section 2.6) through platforms such as FigShare and library
  funds for open access publishing. During the assessment period, 78% of our outputs were
  published open access, compared to the Russell Group average of 63% (SciVal).

  The quality of our physical activity research has ensured we rank highly within our areas of
  clinical expertise more generally. Yates and Singh rank within the top 0.1% of the most
  impactful type 2 diabetes and COPD researchers internationally, respectively (Expertscape
  July 2020).

  APPROACH TO TRANSLATIONAL PHYSICAL ACTIVITY RESEARCH
  Our track record in research excellence is underpinned by a focused translational research
  strategy, from hypothesis generation to improved public health and clinical care, Figure 2.
  This mirrors the Bench to Bedside research focus within the CLS, with the interdisciplinary
  nature of our research underpinned by the UoL Citizens of Change strategy [IES, 2.8].




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                               Figure 2: UoA24 Research Pathway


  Epidemiology
  Over the REF period, we have accrued 16,200 participants within clinical lifestyle research,
  with further cohorts (~3000 participants) recruited from community settings, generating
  unique datasets enabling the application of observational epidemiology for hypothesis
  generation, complemented by access to national datasets (UK Biobank, Health Survey for
  England). Statistical and methodological support is provided from the Real World Evidence
  Unit (hosted within the DRC) coordinated by epidemiologist Dr Zaccardi [UoA2].

  Highlighted findings
      Respiratory: Small quadriceps are an independent risk factor for unscheduled
         readmission or death in COPD (Greening).
      Renal: Habitual walking pace >3 mph is associated with 63% reduction in risk of
         mortality in CKD compared to slow walkers (Smith, Yates).
      Diabetes: High levels of sedentary behaviour and physical inactivity are
         independently associated with glucose regulation, markers of cardio-metabolic health
         and mortality; furthermore, when physical activity is undertaken, intensity is
         independent of volume in associations with health (Dempsey, Yates, Edwardson,
         Rowlands)
      Brisk walkers live up to 20 years longer than slow walkers (Yates).

  Experimental
  We test the efficacy of exercise-based interventions at targeting the key etiological pathways
  within specific chronic diseases.

  Highlighted findings
      Respiratory: Eccentric exercise produces lower ventilation and leg fatigue compared
         to concentric exercise for a given load in people with COPD (Evans).
      Renal: Intradialytic exercise does not exacerbate immune dysfunction and is well
         tolerated (Smith). CKD is associated with dysregulated intramuscular inflammatory,
         mitochondrial and myogenic responses to exercise, which are partially mitigated by
         exercise (Smith).

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Diabetes: Breaking up sitting with short (e.g., 5 minute) regular (e.g., every 30
         minutes) light-intensity physical activity (of various modalities) in people with
         diabetes, prediabetes and obesity improves postprandial glucose regulation, with
         strongest effects in those with low fitness, a high BMI, insulin resistance and a South
         Asian ethnicity (Yates, Dempsey, Edwardson).

  Effectiveness
  Once proof of efficacy is established, we generate proof of effectiveness.

  Highlighted findings
      Respiratory: Delivered the largest (n = 389) in-patient trial in chronic respiratory
         disease, showing that progressive exercise-based rehabilitation should not be started
         during the early stages of admission to hospital due to lack of effectiveness
         (Greening). Demonstrated a self-management programme (SPACE FOR COPD) is
         effective in a primary care population, and non-inferior to hospital-based
         rehabilitation (Singh).
      Renal: Undertook a 6-month programme of cycle exercise during dialysis provided
         clinically beneficial effects on cardiac structure and function, and reduced hospital
         admissions (RCT of 130 end stage CKD patients) (Smith).
      Diabetes: Conducted three major randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in over 3000
         individuals at high risk of developing diabetes (Let’s Prevent, Walking Away,
         PROPELS) demonstrating that pragmatic real-world pedometer-based interventions
         can increase physical activity over 12 months, but may not maintain changes over
         the longer-term (up to 48 months) (Yates, Edwardson). The Stand More AT
         (SMArT) Work RCT demonstrated that providing standing desks and behavioural
         support to office workers reduced sitting time and improved presenteeism,
         musculoskeletal health, work performance and quality of life over 12 months and was
         cost-effective (£3 returned for every £1 spent) (Edwardson, Yates).

  Implementation
  Working with the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration East Midlands (ARC-EM), led by
  Khunti [UoA1], we ensure our research is translated into practice.

  Highlighted activity
      Respiratory: Singh runs the Leicestershire pulmonary rehabilitation service through
         UHL, the largest exercise rehabilitation service in the UK with >2,500 referrals
         annually. Singh also led the development of the online rehabilitation programmes for
         COPD (SPACE for COPD), heart disease (Activate Your Heart) and COVID-19 (Your
         COVID Recovery); to support the clinical response to the COVID-19 pandemic; these
         programmes were made free of charge prior to July 2020 and used by >200 hospital
         trusts nationally.
      Renal: Kidney Beam, a free online platform for kidney disease patients to improve
         physical and mental wellbeing was launched in early July 2020, funded by Kidney
         Research UK https://beamfeelgood.com/kidney-disease.The Leicester Kidney
         Lifestyle Team (Smith) developed the physical activity content. By the end of July
         2020, 452 patients had registered.
      Diabetes: Harrington leads Leicester Cities Changing Diabetes (CCD). Leicester
         was the first UK city to join the network of global cities leading the fight against
         diabetes. CCD includes industry partner Novo Nordisk. Harrington brought together


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Public Health and Transportation teams at City Council level, the city’s professional
         sports clubs (Leicester City FC, Leicester Tigers, Leicestershire County Cricket Club,
         Leicester Riders) and numerous places of work and worship to embed physical
         activity and healthy lifestyles within usual ways of working. Each professional sports
         club has initiated community level physical activity initiatives under CCD. Harrington
         showcased CCD at the All Party Parliamentary Group International Diabetes
         Conference, 2018, alongside national (Minister for Public Health, National Clinical
         Director for Diabetes and Obesity, NHS England and NHS Improvement) and
         international (Health Mayor of Copenhagen, Italian MP and Vice-President of the
         Italian National Association of Municipalities, and members of Parliament for Western
         Australia) policy makers. In 2019 Leicester CCD won two national awards (‘Type 2
         Diabetes Prevention’ and ‘Research Project of the Year’). Further examples of our
         implementation activity for prevention (ICS2) and sedentary behavior (ICS1) are
         detailed in the impact case studies.

  Measurement and data processing
  Developing accurate and reliable measures of sedentary behaviour, physical activity and
  function underpins our research.

  Highlighted outputs
      Physical activity: Edwardson and Rowlands are at the forefront of establishing valid
         and reliable objective assessments of physical activity and sedentary behaviour. This
         includes the development of a free Java tool ‘Processing PAL’, (450 downloads July
         2020), new physical activity metrics using wrist worn accelerometer data (Sedentary
         Sphere, Intensity Gradient, MX metrics) and the development of novel machine
         learning methods (FilterK, collaboration with the Department of Mathematics).
      Physical function: The incremental shuttle walking test (ISWT) (developed by Singh)
         is used by 50% of rehabilitation services in the UK and was further validated during
         the REF period with 35 - 40 meters found as the minimum clinically important
         difference across disease groups. The ISWT was submitted to FDA for approved
         outcome status within pharmaceutical trials by a COPD Foundation consortium
         (Singh as member; application under consideration).
      Muscle function. We have optimised and validated (against MRI) the use of ultra-
         sound for the assessment of muscle size, quality and sarcopenia within chronic
         disease, which has been implemented in clinical populations (e.g. hospital
         inpatients). (Smith, Greening).

  ETHNIC MINORITY RESEARCH
  Leicester is the most ethnically diverse city in the UK. We work with the Centre for Black and
  Minority Ethnic Health (housed within DRC) to ensure our research represents this diversity.
  We tailor our methods and interventions to meet the needs of minority ethnic groups whilst
  also investigating how different ethnicities respond to physical activity interventions. We
  have shown that South Asian ethnicities gain a greater absolute metabolic benefit than white
  Europeans when breaking their sitting time and when engaging in high intensity interval
  exercise (Yates, Edwardson). We have also reported reference values of the ISWT in a
  South Asian population (Singh).

  INTERFACE WITH THE NHS
  A strategic aim of CLS since 2014 has been to strengthen research links with the NHS,


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  achieved through the Leicester Academic Health Partnership (LAHP), which includes the
  UoL Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise. This ensures appropriate deployment
  of financial, estate and human resource to support research and enterprise activity and has
  directly benefited our UoA. Most importantly, the NIHR Leicester BRC is hosted by UHL,
  with UoL the main academic partner. Facilitated by the NIHR Leicester BRC, we also
  routinely access other NHS hosted research infrastructure and support services (Figure 3).




                     Figure 3: NHS hosted resources accessed by our unit

  As previously described, our alignment to the NHS is strengthened by our unit collaborating
  with and being mentored by leading clinical academics including Davies [UoA1], Khunti
  [UoA2], Brightling [UoA1], Brunskill [UoA1] and Barrett [UoA1]. This wealth of clinical support
  enables our researchers to conduct exercise interventions within severe disease groups,
  including those with diabetic foot, hospital inpatients with COPD and end stage CKD patients
  undergoing dialysis.

  INTERFACE WITH INDUSTRY
  Our ability to address areas of clinical need through physical activity research has attracted
  industry engagement and research income (~£450k).

  Highlighted examples
      Respiratory: A phase 2b trial (n=238) of a novel monoclonal antibody in patients
         hospitalised with COPD, including impact on physical activity, function and
         sarcopenia (GlaxoSmithKline).
      Renal: The largest study conducted investigating combining iron supplementation
         and exercise therapy on muscle function and metabolism in CKD patients (Vifor
         Fresenius Medical Care).
      Diabetes: Investigating the interaction between exercise training and sodium-glucose
         co-transporter 2 therapy on physical function and fitness in those with type 2
         diabetes (Astra Zeneca).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  RESEARCH QUALITY AND INTEGRITY
  We work to ensure the highest level of research quality and integrity. UoL is a signatory of
  the Concordat for Research Integrity and set up a Research Integrity Working Group in 2014
  (IES 2.4). We have access to dedicated Research Support Officers and Research Quality
  Mangers assist with NHS research ethics applications. Compliance to GDPR is ensured
  through mandatory annual data protection training, with each study undergoing a data risk
  assessment. All staff and PGRs are required to complete Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
  training biannually. Our large trials are supported by registered Clinical Trials Units (CTU)
  (e.g., Leicester CTU situated on main campus). Our smaller studies are managed through
  the NIHR Leicester BRC and REDCap which includes a core dataset for physical activity
  research, with standard operating procedures shared and tracked through the online
  Q‑Pulse system. We host specific training for undertaking physical activity research in
  clinical populations, including treating hypoglycaemia and resuscitation training. During the
  REF period, 78 University and NHS staff supporting our physical activity research received
  such training. Training is underpinned by detailed standard operating procedures for
  exercise testing and training within clinical populations.

  COVID-19 PANDEMIC RESPONSE
  Our unit has contributed to the COVID-19 research response. Evans helped design and is
  the lead clinical co-investigator for the UoL led Post-HOSPitalisation COVID-19 (PHOSP-
  COVID) study (UKRI £8.4M awarded July 2020) investigating longer-term health outcomes
  in patients surviving COVID-19. Singh led the development and roll-out (July 2020) of Your
  COVID Recovery to 198 services nationally supported by funding from NHS England and
  industry partner GlaxoSmithKline (£80k). Singh has also made her existing online
  rehabilitation programmes free of charge to hospital trusts during the pandemic and is a co-
  investigator on the UKRI (£430k) COVID-NURSE project. Yates was awarded £127k (UKRI)
  to investigate the risk of COVID-19 in minority ethnic groups and associations with lifestyle
  factors, with his research cited in Public Health England’s document ‘Excess weight and
  COVID-19: insights from new evidence’ (July 2020). We also adapted ongoing studies to
  collect lifestyle behaviour data during the first national lockdown (Yates, Rowlands,
  Edwardson, Harrington).

  AIMS FOR NEXT 5 YEARS
  We will build on our strength and depth in translational physical activity research to further
  enhance and increase the range of evidence-based physical activity therapies and
  programmes available for disease prevention, management and rehabilitation.

  Research aims:
    Harness our translational research pathway (Figure 2) in addressing research gaps,
      including consideration of the 24-hour sleep/activity cycle along with identifying
      mediators/moderators of the effects of sedentary behaviour/physical activity on health
    Better inform real-world chronic disease pathways by investigating how physical
      activity and exercise therapies can be optimised for use with other concomitant
      interventions (e.g. pharmaceutical therapies).
    Evolve our research strategy to include areas of emerging public health and clinical
      need, such as continuing factors related to COVID-19, younger adults with chronic
      disease, multi-morbidity, in-patient populations, or symptom-based research.
    Continue developing novel approaches to the measurement of physical activity, frailty


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        and muscle function and embed objective measurement technologies across clinical
        programmes of research regionally and nationally.

 Our aims for supporting capacity and capability are:
     Continue to grow our team through developing early career researchers and attracting
       new appointments, whilst retaining our equitable ratio of men and women and
       advancing our equality, diversity and inclusion agenda.
     Maintain our excellent grant income of £1M for our staff.
     Contribute to national and international health and wealth by translating and
       commissioning our research findings into practice.


 2. People

  OUR TEAM AND STAFFING STRATEGY

  OUR TEAM
  Over the REF period we have built a team of physical activity experts from clinical and non-
  clinical backgrounds through identifying and mentoring our star postdocs into positions of
  leadership whilst working to build capacity and depth with strategic external appointments.

  Category A Staff
  The REF period has seen an increase in category A staff (from 3 to 9). Yates and
  Edwardson joined UoL as postdocs in 2008 and 2013, respectively, and have been
  mentored into positions of leadership with Yates promoted to Professor (2018) and
  Edwardson to Associate Professor (2016). Harrington was a newly appointed lecturer in
  2013. Smith was appointed as a Professor in 2017 following transfer from a full-time NHS
  appointment with an honorary contract with UoL. Evans transferred from an NHS clinical
  consultant post on success of a NIHR Clinician Scientist Award in 2016. Greening was
  appointed in 2017, on the success of a NIHR Post-Doctoral Fellowship, having been an
  Academic Clinical Lecturer previously. Singh, a research physiotherapist, was appointed to
  an academic position in 2019 to lead our rehabilitation research. Rowlands (2015) and
  Dempsey (2019) were new appointments to strengthen our translational research pathway.
  As our team has grown, we have continued to appoint (11 this REF period) and retain
  excellent postdocs that are being mentored into the Category A researchers of tomorrow.

  Wider team
  Figure 4 summarises the number and type of staff directly funded to support physical
  activity research, along with the wider network of staff contributing to our research, usually
  through costing their time into our research grants; these are accessed across all three of
  our clinical areas. Our effectiveness and implementation work particularly benefit from this
  large multidisciplinary team employed through the BRC, DRC, CTU or NHS. For example,
  the SMART Work & Life (Edwardson) and PROPELS (Yates) RCTs worked with the
  Intervention Development, Fidelity, Creative, Nursing, Research Administrator, Biochemistry
  and Statistical teams in developing and evaluating behavioural interventions.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                      Figure 4: Our immediate and wider supporting team

  Support and development opportunities through UoL and CLS
  In 2020, UoL retained its HR Excellence in Research Award in recognition of its success in
  implementing the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’ (IES, 3.2),
  A key element of this is the Leicester Academic Career Map (LACM) pathway (introduced in
  2016); recognising contributions to citizenship and leadership as well as to research and
  teaching. Appraisal is managed via annual personal development discussions (PDDs); these
  are guided by the LACM and support career progression. An extensive range of training and
  development is available for all staff through the Leicester Learning Institute, the Research
  and Enterprise Division, the Staff Development Team and IT Services. CLS specifically has
  an established mentoring scheme for all staff with dedicated training for mentors and
  mentees, with 95 trained mentors. The recently launched Mentor Connect ensures all new
  staff are offered a mentor at induction and 35% of College staff currently have a mentor.
  CLS offer a range of development opportunities (Figure 5).




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                        Figure 5: Summary of staff support within CLS

  Our staff have benefited from tailored professional development opportunities in leadership
  through the NIHR future leaders scheme (Evans), the 3-year Diabetes UK Innovators in
  Diabetes (Edwardson, Harrington, Dempsey), AURORA Women in Leadership
  (Harrington), and one-to-one coaching by Pod Ltd (Edwardson, Yates).

  Our Category A and postdoctoral staff have directly benefited from internal funding
  opportunities. (Edwardson (2014, 2018, 2020), Harrington (2018) and Greening (2020))
  and three postdocs have been awarded pump-priming funding totalling >£25k through the
  Doctoral College, Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Funding, Impact
  Development fund, Equipment and Infrastructure fund, MRC Proximity to Discovery funding
  and Leicester Drug Discovery and Diagnostics (LD3). Work enabled through these internal
  awards led to research impact (ICS1) and external awards through NIHR (Edwardson),
  Industry (Harrington) and Charity, totaling >£1M.

  Development opportunities through our research infrastructure and networks
  Category A and postdoctoral staff access training opportunities and events through the UHL
  NHS Trust, DRC, NIHR Leicester BRC, ARC-EM, the NIHR Academy and the NCSEM-EM.
  This includes our bi-monthly BRU/BRC ACES programme, run in collaboration with
  Loughborough University, which includes training in research and clinical techniques, and
  opportunities for developing skills related to presentation and protocol development. We also
  run topic focused seminars, journal clubs and writing groups that include developing
  analytical skills using our internal datasets. Our ethos of inclusion is evidenced by our
  postdocs co-authoring >80% of our publications. Our postdocs are mentored in grant writing,
  with 70% of current postdocs contributing as investigators to 20 awarded grants from
  external sources such as Kidney Care Appeal, Kidney Research UK, Diabetes UK, Novo
  Nordisk, AstraZeneca, MRC and NIHR (totaling £5M, range: £1.5k to £2.5M). We also use


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  BRC funds and dissemination costs within grants to encourage our staff (Category A and
  postdocs) to attend and present at national and international conferences, with all current
  postdocs having attended a local or national conference and 70% an international
  conference. We actively encourage and fund our postdocs to engage in local, national and
  international research networks and societies; including the American College of Sports
  Medicine, American Society of Nephrology, British Renal Society Rehabilitation Network and
  East Midlands Research into Ageing Network. This training and support platform has
  enabled our postdocs to establish esteem measures, including membership of the social
  media committee for the International Society for the Measurement of Physical Behaviour
  and the UK representative of the organising committee for the Global Renal Exercise Group.
  We have also used our networks to support international collaborative placements for staff
  members, e.g. Edwardson accompanied a postdoc on a two-month research placement in
  2014 to the University of Queensland.

  POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH STUDENTS (PGRs)
  We aim to develop world class researchers for academic and non-academic careers across
  the world. The number of PGR submissions 12 PGRs completed (100% completion rate)
  within our Unit reflects our relatively small size and recent inception, with all but one
  completing their studies from 2017/18 onwards. In addition to UoL PGRs, our staff have co-
  supervised 7 Loughborough University registered PGRs (Section 4). As our team continues
  to grow, we will increase our supervisory capacity and expand our PGRs numbers.

  PGR Support and Training through UoL and CLS
  Our PGRs are funded through the NIHR, CLS or by international organisations such as
  Nantong University. All studentships are advertised via open-access online forums including
  FindAPhD.com and jobs.ac.uk. Entry requirements require a BSc of 2:1 or higher or a
  Masters degree. Shortlisted applicants undergo an interview with panel members who have
  undergone EDI and unconscious bias training.

  The University’s Doctoral College (IES, 3.2, 3.3), in collaboration with each department,
  manages recruitment, admissions, induction, research and personal development training,
  probation reviews and examination. Formal supervision meetings take place at least monthly
  for full time students (every two months for part-time students). All training and monitoring of
  PGRs is managed online through MyPGR. Throughout their studies, PGRs have access to a
  Postgraduate Research Tutor and Postgraduate Research Administrator. The Doctoral
  College and Careers Development Office provide a diverse range of general and tailored
  training, as well as opportunities to showcase research, engage with the public, and network
  (IES, 3.3). The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey results from our Health Science
  and Respiratory Science departments demonstrate high levels of satisfaction with
  supervision (86%), the professional development opportunities (80%) and overall PGR
  experience (81%).

  In recognition of the disruption to PGRs by the COVID-19 pandemic, UoL provided financial
  support totaling £272k in the form of funded extensions, fee waivers and emergency
  hardship funds for current students. This was unique within the sector. This opportunity
  provided 3-month funded extensions to four of our PGRs.

  Support and training through our research infrastructure and networks
  PGRs are provided with specific skills and training for physical activity research through the
  NIHR Leicester BRC and NHS, including phlebotomy and cannulation, competence with

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  exercise supervision, blood assays, statistical training, accelerometer use and data
  processing, and basic life support. Our ACES programme also acts as a forum for PGRs to
  present their study protocols and results and gain experience of answering questions. Our
  portfolio of large trials means that our PGRs have the opportunity to experience intervention
  delivery, data collection and community outreach programmes that are different to their own.
  We host undergraduate placement studentships, usually full time for one year, from other
  Universities, hosting 15 such students since 2014. We embed these placement students
  within our PGR research programmes to give our PGRs experience of mentoring and
  supporting others. We also supervise intercalated MSc/BSc medical research students
  annually, one of whom won the Bert Thurston prize for their research project, along with four
  PhD students from other national and international institutions who have completed visiting
  projects within our laboratories.

  To develop presentational and networking skills and establish collaborations, PGRs are
  encouraged to submit abstracts and attend at least one major national or international
  conference: 100% of our PGRs have had abstracts accepted and attended conferences, of
  which 9 (75%) attended international conferences, and 3 (25%) awarded best poster or
  presentation. Through the support of the NIHR Leicester BRC, three of our students were
  awarded places on the prestigious NIHR Doctoral Research Training Camp. We also
  support and encourage our PGRs to publish their research; all have appeared as co-authors
  on published articles during their studies, with 11 students (92%) as first author.

  The value of our PGR training and development programme is evidenced by the success of
  our alumni: three retained at the UoL as postdoctoral researchers to support our PA
  research, four others moving to posts at national and international Universities
  (Loughborough University, University College London, Auckland University of Technology
  [New Zealand] and Nantong University [China]), one moving to the healthcare industry and
  one starting a nutritional consultancy business.


  EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION (EDI)
  EDI is embedded in UoL’s Strategic Plan and central to the working ethos (IES, 3.1),
  successes include gaining HeforShe status (the United Nation’s solidarity campaign for
  gender equality), Race Equality Charter signatory, Top 50 Stonewall employer and the
  University of Sanctuary award. Our commitment to gender equality is evidenced by CLS
  gaining Silver Athena SWAN award in 2020 (replacing previous departmental Silver
  awards), with UoL gaining an institutional Silver award in 2018. There are diversity
  champions in every department and annual mandatory EDI and Challenging Unconscious
  Bias training, recorded on our Blackboard system and checked during PDDs.

  Our unit has good gender representation, with 56% women. Of the current three professors,
  two are women. Our submitted staff are 100% white ethnicity; we recognise the need to
  achieve a better ethnic minority representation going forwards. Our wider team of staff are
  62% women and 27% Black and Asian minority ethnicity, with PGR completers being 58%
  women; 25% of ethnic minority. We will work to ensure that we continue to foster a research
  environment that allows our diverse group of postdocs to progress to research
  independence.

  This UoA benefits from a clear set of UoL employment practices, including: leave policies for
  maternity, adoption, paternity, special, compassionate, careers, study and annual leave

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  purchase; flexible working; dignity at work; zero tolerance for bullying and harassment; and
  return to work schemes. Staff health and wellbeing policies also exist on menopause, stress
  at work, smoke-free and domestic violence and coercion. Staff can also access Validium
  Employee Assistance and staff counselling provider, which provides counselling and
  manager support, along with legal, financial, debt and health and wellbeing guidance.



  Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  INCOME
  Our submission is underpinned by a strong track record of grant income (Figure 6) that has
  built our research profile, established a core expertise in physical activity research that
  supports our wider group of staff and PGRs.


                                  2
  Research Income (£, million)




                                 1.5



                                  1



                                 0.5



                                  0
                                        2013/14     2014/15     2015/16     2016/17      2017/18     2018/19      2019/20

                                       Other (incl NHS research support funding)

                                       Industry (incl Astra Zeneca, Novo Nordisk, Vifor Fresenius Medical Care,
                                       GlaxoSmithKline)
                                       MRC

                                       Charity (incl Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK, Kidney Research UK, Heart
                                       Research UK)
                                       NIHR


                                                       Figure 6: year-on-year research income

  During the REF period, our unit received £8.45M (Figure 6) in research income that directly
  funded physical activity and lifestyle research, equating to almost £1M per FTE. The upward
  trajectory in grant income since 2014 demonstrates we have optimised our research activity

                                                                                                                     Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  as our team has grown, in addition to generating a more diverse portfolio. Our research
  income was supported by 31 grant awards during the REF period (3.5 per FTE).

  INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
  DRC is situated in 4500m2 of refurbished research space funded by >£2M in internal and
  external capital, including a dedicated exercise testing and supervision laboratory, opened in
  2013 by Sir Steve Redgrave. Previously staff were housed in ad-hoc offices across the three
  Leicester hospitals. This investment enabled the growth of the DRC, enabling the multi-
  disciplinary team to be bought together, with dedicated research and office space. The DRC
  hosts the NIHR Leicester BRC Lifestyle theme, NIHR ARC-EM, the Centre for Black and
  Minority Ethnic Health and the Real World Evidence Unit (RWEU).

  Leicester Kidney Lifestyle Team are located within dedicated office and meeting space
  within the Leicester General Hospital, a short walk from the DRC where the exercise
  facilities and staff are jointly accessed, operated and funded.

  The rehabilitation group work within a state of-the-art £2M, 1,470 m2 respiratory research
  facility, funded by NIHR, UoL and UHL, that hosts infrastructure for conducting clinical
  research, including an exercise testing laboratory supported by the Leicester BRC.

  Within the DRC and respiratory research facility we operate the following which are
  accessed and shared across our teams:

  Exercise training and testing laboratories: Includes four automated breath-by-breath gas
  analysers, treadmills including specialist treadmills for bariatric surgery patients, cycle
  ergometers, resistance measurement (including Biodex Dynamometer) and exercise
  machines, function training equipment, a specialist room for conducting sedentary behaviour
  (i.e., sitting) research and adjacent clinical measurement rooms, all supported by medical
  safely equipment, including resuscitation trolleys.

  Physical activity measurement: We manage a large stock of 3000 wrist, waist and thigh
  worn accelerometers, with dedicated space and staff to manage their audit, storage,
  charging, initialisation, data download and data processing allowing us to embed objective
  measures of physical activity across our portfolio research studies.

  Biochemical laboratories and ‘omics’: DRC operate a specialist biochemical laboratory
  (with 2 dedicated staff) analysing traditional and novel biomarkers. We also work with the
  UoL Precision Medicine Institute Multiomics Facility, in collaboration with Ng and Suzuki
  [UoA1] and Jones [UoA5], assessing targeted and untargeted metabolomic and proteomic
  responses to physical activity, with targeted responses focused on trimethylamine N-oxide
  and zinc-alpha-2-glycoprotein.

  Lung function: At Glenfield Hospital we have specialist facilities for undertaking
  oscillometry testing and Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) analysis allowing gold standard
  measures of lung function within rehabilitation research.

  Imaging: We run two DEXA scanners for body composition and bone density quantification.
  We have developed ultrasound imaging protocols to access muscle area and quality, and
  we work closely with McCann [UoA 1] to include cardiac MRI outcomes within our research


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  investigating whether exercise training can reverse the functional and structural cardiac
  abnormities observed in chronic disease.

  Muscle function: We deploy a wide range of techniques and facilities for the in vivo and in
  vitro assessment of muscle function and underlying intramuscular metabolic and
  mechanistic pathways. In vivo assessments include the use of ultrasound for muscle size
  and quality with validation of this method against MRI; infrared spectroscopy for muscle
  oxygen saturation kinetics; muscle elasticity; and isokinetic dynamometry. Our close
  collaboration with molecular biology colleagues in CLS allows in vitro investigation of muscle
  dysfunction using muscle biopsies and a range of advanced cellular, molecular, biochemical,
  immunoassay and imaging techniques, and primary culture of biopsy-derived muscle cells,
  including bespoke cell stretch facilities to mimic exercise.

  Computing and statistics: Our work is supported by the RWEU with access to 7
  statisticians and data analysts. This has ensured our research is underpinned by statistical
  excellence. We also utilise ALICE, a £2M High Performance Computing (HPC) cluster that is
  one of UoL’s research strengths.


 National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine East Midlands (NCSEM-EM)
 NCSEM-EM is a partnership between the universities of Loughborough, Leicester and
 Nottingham and three NHS Trusts, hosted at Loughborough University (30 minutes from UoL). It
 manages a wide range of clinical research facilities including biopsy rooms, exercise physiology
 laboratories, whole body and wheelchair ergometry facilities, functional analysis rehabilitation
 laboratory, DEXA machines, 3T MR imaging and musculoskeletal and cardiac ultrasound
 equipment. Access for our staff is facilitated through the NIHR Leicester BRC (see section 4).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  COLLABORATIONS AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE
  We place a high value on collaboration which enables us to both learn from and provide value
  to the research community. We are an emerging team, but our diverse range of collaborations
  reflects our position and reputation.

  International collaborations
  During the REF period we were awarded 7 major grants and published 45% of our articles
  with international collaborators. Yates is the UK Principal Investigator on an MRC UK-Canada
  Diabetes grant (UK funding £339k), a collaboration with Imperial College London, McGill
  University and University of Alberta working to translate exercise and dietary protocols
  developed by our group into an international context. Singh is the Principal Investigator for a
  NIHR Global Health Group grant (£1.9M), with partners in India, Kirgizstan, Sri Lanka and
  Uganda, where work conducted in Leicester is used to develop rehabilitation pathways in low
  and middle income countries. Smith was the UK chief investigator for the international
  (Australia, USA, Canada, Mexico, Italy and the UK) SONG study which validated a new
  outcome measure for fatigue in haemodialysis patients, recruiting 60% of the total study cohort
  globally (Feb-July 2019). Harrington worked within the MRC funded (£230k) EXTEND
  collaboration (2017-2018) providing a sustainable pathway for diabetes self-management
  within Malawi and Mozambique. Edwardson and Harrington were investigators on the UoL


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  led PRE-STARt project, funded by the European Commission (€1M) with partners in Portugal,
  Germany, Spain and Greece developing a family-based lifestyle programme for adolescents
  at risk of diabetes. Greening is a founding member of the European Respiratory Society
  Clinical Research Collaboration, a pan-European multi-centre network dedicated to improving
  the management of COPD exacerbations (€1.5M). Edwardson is the principal investigator
  (£0.9M NIHR Public Health Research) for a collaboration with Australian-based researchers
  developing and evaluating a sedentary behavior reduction intervention in the workplace which
  has resulted in impact through the freely available online programme SMART Work and Life
  (ICS1).

  National collaborations
  We collaborate with >20 Higher Educations Institutions. During the REF period, 11 of our
  major external grants over £100k and 93% of our publications have involved collaborators
  from other UK institutions. Our national leadership and collaborative networks are exemplified
  by the national PHOSP-COVID study (£8.4M https://www.phosp.org/) examining the longer-
  term sequela of COVID-19 across 40 NHS hospital Trusts involving 22 academic institutions
  where Evans plays a leading role, Edwardson as physical activity measurement lead and
  Singh as co-lead for the rehabilitation working group. Edwardson and Yates led the
  measurement and analysis of objective physical activity within the PROPELS trial (n=1366)
  (£2M NIHR HTA grant between UoL, Universitys of Cambridge, East Anglia and Sheffield).
  Harrington and Edwardson led the Girls Active NIHR PHR funded study (£600k), a
  collaboration with Universities of Inverness, Bangor and Loughborough. Smith is a key
  investigator on the £1.4M Muscle and Iron study led by Kings College Hospital, London.

  Our closest collaborators (geographically and academically) are Loughborough University.
  This collaboration was formalised through the NCSEM-EM and the NIHR Leicester-
  Loughborough BRU and NIHR Leicester BRC, where Loughborough University are a sub-
  contracted partner. During the REF period our researchers have been co-investigators on the
  Loughborough led ‘Snacktivity’ project (NIHR programme grant £2.2M; Edwardson, Yates),
  SHIFT trial (NIHR Public Health Research grant £800k; Edwardson, Yates), Stand Out in
  Class trial (NIHR Public Health Research grant £400k; Edwardson), and a Heart Research
  UK Translational Research Project Grant (£150k; Smith). Conversely, Loughborough
  University researchers are co-investigators on UoL led projects such as SMART Work and
  Life (NIHR Public Health Research grant £0.9M; Edwardson lead), and the EMBER project
  (ESPRC/MRC molecular pathology node £2.5M) of which Greening is a deputy theme lead.
  Smith, Singh, Evans and Edwardson have co-supervised 7 Loughborough University PGRs
  facilitated through the NCSEM and Leicester BRC. Overall, during the REF period we have
  had 7 successful major grant awards and 88 coauthored publications with Loughborough
  University colleagues.

  Improving physical activity quality research through standardisation and
  harmonisation
  Yates and Smith are involved with the Diet, Activity and Obesity Research Translation
  (DART) partnership involving lifestyle researchers from the Universities of Leicester,
  Loughborough, Cambridge, Oxford, Southampton, Manchester, Newcastle, Imperial College,
  and University College London, aimed at driving a step change in the in nutrition and physical
  activity research capacity and capability. The Department of Health formally recognised this
  partnership through the creation of a new translational research partnership. Smith, Yates
  and Greening are also part of the Midlands Health Alliance working across the Universities of
  Loughborough, Warwick, Birmingham, Nottingham and Leicester which includes a focus on

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  sarcopenia. Edwardson and Yates are members of the newly formed International Workplace
  Intervention Network (IWIN) consortium (involving researchers from Australia, USA and UK)
  to foster international knowledge exchange for occupational interventions to reduce sitting
  time and support pooled data analysis. Edwardson and Rowlands collaborate with the
  international Prospective Physical Activity and Sleep Consortium (ProPASS) harmonising and
  pooling thigh-worn accelerometer data. Rowlands is a member of the expert group, led by
  the University of Granada, convened to generate a consensus statement of analytical
  approaches to physical activity measurement, along with collaborating with the National
  Norwegian Accelerometer database (University of Agder, Norway), the Childhood Overweight
  BioRepository of Australia (COBRA) cohort study and the Child Health CheckPoint,
  undertaking Longitudinal assessment of Australian Children (University of Melbourne).
  Harrington collaborates with researchers within Amsterdam University Medical Center
  developing a Core Outcome Set for school-based obesity trials.

  OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE AND MEASURES OF ESTEEM
  We actively participate in the peer-review process; on average we each peer-review around
  15 articles and 4 grant applications per annum. Category A staff in the unit have acted as
  Chief Editor for Chronic Respiratory Disease (Singh 2003 – 2019), Associate Editors for
  Physiotherapy (Singh 2009-2020; now international editor), Clinical Respiratory Journal
  (Singh 2017 -), BMC Public Health (Edwardson 2015-, Harrington 2017-), Frontiers in
  Sports and Active Living (Edwardson 2020 -), Journal for the Measurement of Physical
  Behaviour (Rowlands 2017-), Pediatric Exercise Science (Rowlands 2014-) Chronic
  Respiratory Disease (Evans & Greening 2019-) and Guest Editors (Edwardson 2015,
  Rowlands 2013, 2015) for the International Congress of Ambulatory Monitoring and Physical
  Activity Measurement: Focus Issue in Physiological Measurement.

  Our researchers give between 10-20 invited keynote and plenary lectures per annum.
  Rowlands and Edwardson sit on the Scientific Committee of International Society for the
  Measurement of Physical Behaviour which organises the International Conference on
  Ambulatory Monitoring of Physical Activity and Movement annual conference.

  Edwardson and Rowlands and several of our postdocs deliver the ‘MEASURE’ workshop
  which trains researchers from across the UK and Europe in accelerometer data processing
  (two delivered with ~50 attendees).

  Our researchers have had visiting positions at Loughborough University (Singh, Smith),
  University of Cambridge (Dempsey), Swinburne University of Technology, Australia
  (Dempsey), University of South Australia (Rowlands), Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute,
  Australia, (Dempsey), and Pennington Biomedical Research Centre, USA (Harrington).

  Evans received the 2020 American Thoracic Society Pulmonary Rehabilitation Early Career
  Achievement award. Yates and co-authors were awarded the most cited observational article
  in the International Journal of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity for 2016 and Greening
  and co-authors were voted to have conducted one of the top 20 most significant physiotherapy
  trials of all time by PEDro (Physiotherapy Evidence Database) for an article published in the
  British Medical Journal (2014). Singh was presented with the prestigious lifetime membership
  award by the European Respiratory Society (2020). Smith received the Honorable Mention
  Award (AAP Excellence in Research Writing Award) for best paper published in the American
  Journal of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (2018).


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  CONTRIBUTIONS TO SOCIETY

  Public Health Guidelines
  Our researchers ensure wide societal and clinical impact through translating our research into
  public health and clinical guidelines.

  Following work contributing to the American Diabetes Association Position Statement on
  Exercise/Physical Activity (2016), Dempsey went on, through membership of the Guideline
  Development Group (2019-2020), to help update World Health Organization physical activity
  guidelines (published 2020). Yates was part of an expert group who published the first expert
  consensus statement on sedentary behaviour levels in the workplace (2015) and a member
  of the sedentary behaviour expert working group to update the Chief Medical Offer (CMO)
  physical activity guidelines (2019). Harrington was an expert group member for translating
  the CMO physical activity guidelines for children and young people into infographics for
  healthcare professionals (2015). Harrington also led the development of Ireland’s Physical
  Activity Report Card in 2014 (a global physical activity advocacy tool for raising awareness
  and influencing policies for childhood physical activity), launched alongside 14 other countries,
  and was Chair of the working group for the second version alongside 37 other counties through
  the Active Healthy Kids Global Alliance.

  Clinical Guidelines, Tools and Engagement
  Singh, Greening, and Evans were involved in developing new guidelines, quality standards
  and surveillance tools for the British Thoracic Society (BTS), American Thoracic Statement
  (ATS) on Skeletal Muscle Dysfunction in COPD, joint ATS/European Respiratory Society
  (ERS) Statement on pulmonary rehabilitation (Singh as Chair), the ERS/ATS technical
  standard for field walking tests in chronic respiratory disease, the ERS statement on nutritional
  assessment and therapy in COPD and the Pulmonary rehabilitation Quality Improvement
  Advisory Group, BTS (Singh as inaugural Chair). Singh is also a member of the WHO
  Rehabilitation in COPD working group and is the incoming chair for the ATS Pulmonary
  Rehabilitation Assembly. Smith is a member of the Global Renal Exercise group and the NHS
  England/UK Renal Registry and contributed to the UK Renal Association Guidelines for
  Exercise and Lifestyle in Chronic Kidney Disease. Smith is a member of the UK Renal
  Association Clinical Studies Group (Exercise and Lifestyle committee) and Yates of the
  Diabetes UK Research Steering Group (Treatments and Prevention) advising on national
  research priorities.

  Health Care Professional Training/Engagement
  Singh founded the BTS short course for pulmonary rehabilitation, with Evans and Greening
  also having leadership positions on pulmonary rehabilitation courses, including a BTS course
  on Fundamentals of Pulmonary Rehabilitation and online patient tools. Singh is the NIHR lead
  national advocate for physiotherapy and Evans was the ATS pulmonary rehabilitation web-
  director (2016-2020) leading international podcasts, journal clubs, quarterly bites and website
  content. Dempsey is a contributor on the #MovementForMovement undergraduate medical
  curriculum resources and guidance on physical activity for health practitioners. Yates and
  Edwardson deliver training on physical activity, including for the award winning Leicester
  developed ‘Effective Diabetes Education Now’ (EDEN) programme which has trained >5000
  health care professionals since 2014. We work with national charities and their regional groups
  such as Kidney Research UK, the National Kidney Federation and Kidney Care UK and
  Diabetes UK to provide seminars and talks to both health care professionals and patient
  groups (~10 per year).

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Public engagement and resources
  Our research is underpinned by an active public involvement and engagement (PPI/E)
  infrastructure to ensure our research is relevant to targeted populations. This is supported by
  a PPI/E officer funded through the NIHR Leicester BRC. Along with embedding PPI/E at the
  centre of our research, we work to disseminate our research findings to patients and public;
  over the REF period the NIHR Leicester BRC organised 50 physical activity and lifestyle
  themed public lectures and 88 wider public engagement events, including physical activity
  tasters and research fairs.

  More widely, our Leicester CCD initiative involved Faith Centres, Schools and the City Council
  with the first Global City Sporting Pledge signed by the City Mayor and all four of Leicester’s
  professional sports clubs. Yates joined BBC presenters at the Cheltenham Science Festival
  (2016) discussing the importance of physical activity for health. We regularly appear as
  experts on national and regional media outlets. Harrington is a monthly guest on BBC Radio
  Leicester ‘Table Talk’ to discuss research findings. Our research on walking pace was
  developed into the ‘Being a brisk walker could save your life’ BBC3 mini-feature. We worked
  with the BBC Radio 4 documentary ‘Are you Sitting Comfortably’, as well as working with the
  New Scientist on their feature ‘Workouts are no antidote to death by desk job’ and the Naked
  Scientist Podcast ‘The science of sitting down’.

  We also design and disseminate infographics and information resources for patients and the
  public, including the content of the freely available e-Learning module Get Moving, Get
  Healthy from the Virtual College promoting the importance of physical activity; the module has
  been completed by >5000 users.

  CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY
  We contribute to the health care economy through evaluating and implementing nationally
  commissioned lifestyle and rehabilitation programmes. Yates and Edwardson, through their
  work within the framework for Healthier You: the NHS Diabetes Prevention Programme (ICS)
  have helped generate significant health service income for the UHL NHS Trust totaling over
  £1.7M over the REF period. Overall Healthier You has also been estimated to provide an
  undiscounted economic net benefit of £1.2bn, driven by a reduced demand for future NHS
  resources over a 20-year horizon (NHS England), to which we directly contribute through
  commissioning our diabetes prevention programme. The commissioning of our rehabilitation
  programmes generates an additional >£60k per annum in health service income for UHL.

  SUMMARY STATEMENT
  We are committed to undertaking high quality research developing physical activity as an
  evidence-based therapy in the prevention and management of chronic disease. With strategic
  support from CLS, and our NHS partner Trust we have developed a thriving group of high-
  profile researchers and infrastructure that have successfully generated substantial grant
  income and outputs, informed physical activity guidelines and policy, and translated physical
  activity research into tools and interventions that are delivered globally.




                                                                                            Page 20
