Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     Institution: University of Plymouth
     Unit of Assessment: 1
     1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

     Context
     The UoA1 submission of the University of Plymouth comprises the clinical and
     translational research of our Faculty of Health (FoH) and includes research from our
     Schools of Medicine and Biomedicine. The unit seeks to develop solutions to pressing
     clinical needs with a focus on cancer, neurodegeneration and
     infection/immunity/inflammation (3Is). Since the last REF UoA1 has grown by 67%
     (FTE), increased PGR completions by 63%, launched 3 spin-out companies with
     a market value of £9M, and driven development of three NICE guidelines. UoA1’s
     integrated research laboratories in the Derriford Research Facility (DRF) are adjacent
     to University Hospitals Plymouth and the Plymouth Science Park (jointly owned by the
     University and Plymouth City Council). This co-localization of health delivery,
     health research and health enterprise facilitate a translation pipeline of health
     innovation. It brings our researchers into daily contact with care and enterprise
     professionals.

     The unit comprises 28 category A staff (24.2 FTE), 8 of whom are working clinicians.
     It sits within the new strategic Plymouth Institute of Health and Care Research
     (PIHR) which coordinates health research across the University; UoA1 is a significant
     component of the ‘PIHR: Frontiers in Discovery Science’ and ‘PIHR: Mind & Brain’
     themes. PIHR was launched in 2020 as a strategic investment to coordinate and
     integrate the universities’ health research with a mission to impact areas that are
     priorities for our local, relatively deprived, urban-rural and maritime populations and
     similar communities worldwide. PIHR supports our UoA1 research by maintaining a
     vibrant network of interconnected researchers. It adds value by enabling and
     accelerating research, supporting new and productive collaborations, and multiplying
     the quality and the impact of our work. It is a responsive and dynamic organization
     that avoids the limitations of siloed and divisive organisational structures, and
     generates an interlocking matrix where our clinical and translational UoA1
     research aligns seamlessly with our applied health research in UoA3 and our
     psychology research in UoA4.

     Since 2014 there has been an increase in UoA1 size (14.5 to 24.2 FTE), in part
     following a re-organization of the university structure which reflected the strategic aim
     to prioritise translational research. UoA1 has benefited from substantial University
     investment including construction of the 3,463m2 DRF opened in May 2018. The DRF
     was a £17.4M investment by the University and is 90% occupied by UoA1; it
     houses flexible wet-lab space and an array of fully-equipped specialist suites that
     are core funded and maintained by the university (see section 3). This investment
     has completed a strategy to bring all our translational research into one juxta-clinical
     setting.

     There has also been rapid growth and increased emphasis upon enterprise.
     Examples of this include our spin-out companies (see section 4). We continue to build
     strong clinical relationships, including in brain tumour research (now a Centre of
     Excellence of the charity Brain Tumour Research), key partnerships with the
     University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust (which changed to its new name in 2018 to
     reflect the growing relationship with the University) and with local stakeholders such
     as charities and patient advocacy groups (see section 4).




                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     Current Position and Developments Since 2014
     The UoA1 strategic aims outlined in 2014 followed a period of re-organization at the
     University, including separation of the Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry
     from a joint venture with Exeter University. The current submission follows a
     consolidation of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry and the Faculty of Health and
     Human Science to form a new Faculty of Health in September 2019, leading to a re-
     alignment of the UoA1 submission. As a result, our applied health and dental
     research has been moved into our UoA3 sister unit. This also aligns our submission
     with the new PIHR themes. Launched in 2020, PIHR incorporated the work of three
     smaller existing institutes, including the Institute of Translational and Stratified
     Medicine (ITSMed) which featured in 2014.

     The UoA1 key strategic aims described in 2014 were: 1) build research capacity
     through 2021 by increasing staff numbers, 2) extend the Derriford campus, and 3)
     invest in infrastructure/core equipment. We have delivered these aims. Although our
     applied health research has been moved into UoA3, we have increased the number
     of category A staff in UoA1 by 87% (from 15 to 28). We have completed construction
     and commissioning of the DRF, delivering a 110% increase in research space for
     UoA1, and we have equipped the new facility with an array of resources such as
     mass spectrometers, animal facility, imaging suite and a biosafety Cat III (BSL-3)
     laboratory (see section 3).

     In addition to these strategic aims, three specific areas were highlighted for
     development in 2014 all of which we have been delivered. The first was to support
     three research themes: 1) clinical neuroscience (current submission: Affourtit,
     Barros, Fern, Glebow, Hanemann, Kramer, Luo, Parkinson, Mullins); 2) cancer
     (Ammoun, Hanemann, Patra, Rule); and 3) a theme described in 2014 as
     genomics/diagnostics which has evolved into our infection, immunity and
     inflammation (3Is) theme (Carre, Cramp, Danda, Hoare, Fejer, Felmlee, Foey,
     Jarvis, Joshi, Madgett, Martin, Sharma, Sheridan, Upton, Warburton).

     The second area for development was to forge closer links with biomedicine. In 2014
     the School of Biomedical Sciences was moved from the Faculty of Science &
     Engineering into the FoH and the research active staff (Affourtit, Fejer, Foey,
     Jarvis, Joshi, Madgett, Sharma, Upton, Warburton) incorporated in UoA1 and
     housed in the DRF.

     Third was the promotion of cross-cutting interdisciplinary activity. This
     development area has benefited from the relocation of all laboratory research onto
     the one Derriford site to enable linkage between basic and clinical scientists based at
     the adjacent University Hospitals Plymouth, achieving a seamless, geographically
     focused research entity. Our success in this aim is evidenced by the interdisciplinary
     outputs presented here (which cover 10 main subject areas; SciVal) and in our close
     and productive links into industry (see section 4).

     Cancer - Research Highlights
     The population of the peninsula is elderly, with a high incidence of cancer/tumour -in
     particular of the brain -a priority both for UoA1 and the University Hospitals Plymouth.
     Our cancer theme laboratory heads are: Hanemann, a clinician-scientist who leads
     on brain tumour research who works closely with Ammoun; Rule, a clinician-scientist
     leading the translation of a new class of treatment for mantle cell lymphoma (see Rule
     impact case study); Ji-Liang Li (2016-2019) and Patra, basic scientists who
     specialize in immuno-therapeutic approaches to cancer treatment; Parkinson and
     Barros with interests in cell signalling in cancer and Xinzhong Li (2014-2019) who



                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     takes a bioinformatics approach including machine learning and next-generation
     sequencing in diagnostics.

     Hanemann conducted and published a first-in-man clinical trial, based on the group’s
     in vitro work, in patients with the tumour predisposition syndrome neurofibromatosis 2.
     Hanemann’s success is highlighted by continuous funding since 2014 from Brain
     Tumour Research for our internationally recognised centre, which brings together and
     supports basic and clinical UoA1 members. Examples of work by the centre include a
     collaboration with Vivace Therapeutics to test a first-in-class drug in two different
     brain tumour models, while one of our ECRs (Ammoun) was funded by the Great
     Ormond Street Hospital Children’s Charity and SPARKS to examine cellular prion
     protein PrPC in neurofibromatosis type II related tumours. Barros is focusing on brain
     tumour initiation and growth and identification of novel genes controlling glioblastoma
     initiation. This is one of many examples of staff in the group transferring expertise
     between areas of excellence, in Barros’s case between fly neurodevelopment and
     cancer.

     The Brain Tumour Research Centre of Excellence has built a large tumour collection,
     mostly of meningioma and schwannoma but also gliomas and ependymomas. Since
     2016 this collection has included blood samples and allows the stratification of
     meningiomas into genetically defined subtypes. The centre aims to discover
     biomarkers and new drug targets for meningioma of different defined make up
     (tumour grade and genetic subtype). They have finished a first unbiased screen for
     proteins, activated proteins and miRNAs and started collaborations within the
     International Meningioma Consortium (ICOM), Response Evaluation in
     Neurofibromatosis and Schwannomatosis (REiNS) and the Liquid Biopsy Consortium.
     This approach has already resulted in a number of biomarker candidates for tumour
     progression as well as drug target candidates.

     The clinical mantle cell programme is conducting two major trials within PenCTU.
     Rule is leading the ENRICH trial, the only study in the world randomising between
     chemotherapy and a non-chemotherapy approach as front line therapy. This trial is
     currently open across the majority of hospitals in the UK and also the Nordic
     countries. An interim analysis has now triggered the randomised phase III component
     of the trial. Samples from this study are being analysed centrally, looking at minimal
     residual disease using both molecular and flow-based techniques. Rules’ other major
     trial is a prospective patient registration/biobank study looking at newly diagnosed
     patients in the UK. At present the study is collecting over 30% of all newly diagnosed
     patients, making it the largest collection in the world. The first 220 patients are starting
     with a minimum of one year follow up and, using clinical parameters, have shown
     those features which predict a more indolent phenotype. A variety of correlative
     studies are at an advanced planning stage with teams in Kiel, New York and
     Vancouver.

     Clinical Neuroscience - Research Highlights
     The peninsular has a high prevalence and incidence of neurodegenerative disease,
     like many similar deprived and aged populations. Our clinical neuroscience theme has
     a particular focus on neurodegeneration. Luo’s work on the role of autophagy and cell
     death in Huntington’s disease has produced a number of strong findings, including a
     study on autophagosome synthesis and aggregation-prone protein toxicity in
     dementia. Glebov was appointed in 2019 to investigate insulin degrading enzyme in
     neurodegenerative disease with a focus on dementia and the role of microsomes.
     Kramer was appointed in 2016 and is leading investigating the role of cell surface
     protein signalling in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders with a particular
     focus on Parkinson’s disease, while Mullins is a clinical scientist with a focus on the


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     glucocerebrosidase pathway in this disease. Parkinson has developed models to
     investigate peripheral nerve injury and regeneration, in addition to his work on
     tumours. Fern studies the vulnerability of white matter to the induction of a human tau
     mutation associated with dementia. He has led an international collaboration with
     colleagues at the Universities of Bilboa and Malta to develop new combination
     treatments for diseases that involve damage to the white matter (MS, stroke,
     traumatic brain injury, cerebral palsy); work that has led to the filing of an international
     patent around selective block of novel glutamate receptors. Tieu (2013-10/2016)
     secured funding from the MRC and US NIH to investigate mitochondrial fusion
     pathways in models of Parkinson’s disease while Barros harnesses fly genetics to
     study pathways that regulate neural development and which are significant in
     disease.

     3Is - Research Highlights
     3Is is another priority health area for the South-West and similar populations world-
     wide. Joshi is an ECR interested in antimicrobial resistance and infection prevention
     and control. She has led collaborations with key leaders in the field, resulting in
     multidisciplinary studies with Chile (Universidad Andres Bello, Chile/ Texas A&M
     University), Sweden (University of Umea, Sweden) and USA (Texas A&M University).
     Jarvis and Upton have combined their expertise to develop new vaccines to combat
     antimicrobial resistance including proof-of-concept work in bovine mastitis and a
     recent venture that will combine strengths in the UK and China to develop and test
     new vaccines for use in pigs. Jarvis’ expertise in the development of novel vaccines
     is evidenced by his inclusion as a key partner in a £7M project sponsored by the US
     DARPA programme, aimed at helping to protect US troops from zoonotic infections in
     the field. His spinout company (The Vaccine Group: TVG) is developing vaccines for
     this project, which is led by the UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine; TVG’s work
     on Covid vaccines is rapidly developing (see COVID, section 4). Upton’s spinout
     company (Amprologix) was awarded £1.2M by the Department of Health and Social
     Care to progress the lead antimicrobial candidate through pre-clinical evaluation. The
     aim is to initiate a phase 1 human trial with the lead agent (see section 4). Upton also
     works to train international partners in natural product discovery approaches, with a
     focus on marine sponges. This is part of a University of Plymouth work-package in the
     £20M One Ocean Hub project, led by the University of Strathclyde and funded by the
     UK Research and Innovation Global Challenges Research Fund.

     Dhanda is part of a UK-wide consortium aiming to minimise death from alcoholic
     hepatitis as part of the MRC Stratified Medicine initiative and is now recruiting patients
     for clinical trials at 40 centres across the UK. Dhanda is also leading a project to
     investigate the circulating microbiome in patients with alcohol related liver disease in
     collaboration with other members of 3Is including Upton. Cramp is a member of the
     Lancet Standing Commission on Liver Disease in the UK and co-authored their
     5th report into alcohol-induced liver disease, examining the impact of escalating
     alcohol consumption on health in the UK. Their recommendations are likely to directly
     inform government policy relating to controlling alcohol-related disease. Cramp works
     collaboratively with Sheridan and Felmlee in a large clinical-basic research group
     that has done ground-breaking work on Hepatitis C therapies and recently to develop
     a serological approach to Covid testing.

     Excessive inflammation and aberrant immune responses are a feature of many
     diseases and understanding how the immune response is triggered and controlled is
     an important area of our research. Fejer is using novel non-transformed alveolar
     macrophage models to study respiratory viral and bacterial infections. In addition, he
     is researching in collaboration with partners in multi-disciplinary areas, the role of the
     environment on infectious challenges to human health. This includes how particulate


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     matter air pollution can induce or exacerbate lung infections and how microplastics
     might spread antimicrobial resistance in seawater and rivers.

     Research Strategy
     The areas of research focus for UoA1 will remain clinical neuroscience, cancer, and
     3Is; but we will be adaptable as opportunities arise. Greater research volume while
     retaining quality and impact is our priority and will be targeted by following 6
     strategic aims:

     1) Resourcing excellence. Our UoA1 strives for high levels of focused research
     excellence and this will be supported by continued resource allocation such as those
     provided by the DRF, through university PGR studentships, through faculty research
     funding, and through the support and training of our faculty.

     2) Focus and flexibility. We see ourselves as a focused centre of research
     excellence and will follow an appropriate hiring strategy with recruitment of clinical
     scientists on split hospital/university contracts and translational basic scientists largely
     within our established areas of expertise. We will however be ready to exploit new
     opportunities to expand from these areas as the science evolves and as opportunities
     present themselves.

     3) Increasing income. Building our research income will expand research volume
     and will be achieved through greater professionalisation of our research application
     process across the FoH, with an increased use of external reviews, more professional
     training, and a slower application cycle with greater levels of scrutiny to build quality.
     This process started in 2019 and has contributed to a doubling in annual award
     capture (~£10M in 2019-2020 compared to a prior 3-year average of £4.1 M) across
     the FoH.

     4) Exploiting synergies. The dissolution of barriers between our two health-related
     faculties and our three health-related institutes has enabled collaboration between
     areas of research strength. The opportunities afforded by seamless links with
     Nursing, Dental, Health professionals, Psychology and beyond are exciting and we
     will ensure that these broader relationships will enhance the research portfolio of
     UoA1.

     5) Securing intellectual property. UoA1 has a strong record of enterprise activity
     (see section 4) and we have developed a faculty KE-Enterprise Committee with
     budget authority tasked with commercializing our research.

     6) Developing our ECRs and junior faculty. We are serious about building our staff
     careers, widening participation in research, and developing our ECRs. We will build
     on our staff mentoring programs, developmental support mechanisms and training
     opportunities to expand the pipeline of junior faculty coming through into more senior
     roles and developing larger research programs.

     Impact Strategy:
     From licensing of patents to the co-development of novel technologies with industry,
     the launch of spin-out companies and the improvement of clinical delivery; innovation
     from UoA1 is realising economic, patient and public benefits outside of academia and
     across healthcare, business and society. This is facilitated by the co-localization of
     clinical, academic and enterprise on one geographical site, by the integration of
     translational and clinical faculty in the same research space and by an effective
     system for identifying and promoting impact and innovation. The Faculty KE-
     commercialization Committee runs regular open calls for development projects


                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     (£130K budget in 2019-20) such as proof of concept, pump-priming, project
     development or marketing surveys. In a process managed by the ADR, selected
     projects are then developed by a university Priority Bid Program offering enhanced
     support and project management. Since 2014 we have for example generated a
     pipeline of commercial activity, including several international patents and working
     relationships with industry and three successful spin-out companies with a
     current market valuation of £9M (see section 4). Impact through clinical practice is
     developed through the units’ joint clinical appointments and our translational
     researchers with links into the PenCTU, RDS, etc. A wide variety of public-
     engagement activity (see section 4) is important for delivery of societal and economic
     impact of our research; support for these activities has evolved from the structures of
     the Institute of Translational and Stratified Medicine into those of the newly launched
     PIHR.

     Further evidence of our success is illustrated by our three case studies which have
     heavily influenced NICE guidelines for the treatment of Hepatitis C (Cramp has
     shown that specific anti-virals cure Hepatitis C infection in over 95% of cases); Mantle
     cell lymphoma (Rule has shown that specific novel therapies double mean life
     expectancy, leading to international licensing in 90 countries and over 200,000
     patients treated); and development of Cardiac Computed Tomographic Angiography
     (Roobottom’s work has led to NICE recommending CTCA as the primary diagnostic
     tool for all chest-pain patients in the UK, 340,000 patients per annum).

     Future Research and Impact Plan:
     Future research expansion will be achieved following the Research Strategy (above).
     We will continue to support and grow our focused areas of research excellence in
     UoA1. Growth will be achieved through strategic recruitment into these established
     areas while remaining nimble and responsive as opportunities arise. We will continue
     to assist staff who have an emphasis on teaching to develop their research interests
     (see Section 2); a focus that aligns with the University’s 2030 aim to increase the
     proportion of research active staff. Our new research facility (DRF: see section 3)
     provides a permissive environment for increased collaboration between UoA1 faculty,
     and expansion of research volume as grant capture accelerates (see section 1:
     Research Strategy and section 2: Staff development and support). These changes
     will also promote impact growth which will be coordinated through the new PIHR.
     Clinical impact will be expanded through advanced plans for a funded Joint Clinical
     Research Office, jointly owned by University Hospitals Plymouth and the University of
     Plymouth.

     Interdisciplinary Working
     Our success in this area is evidenced by the interdisciplinary range of our UoA1
     outputs, which cover a wide research terrain (10 main subject areas; SciVal), the
     integration of translational and clinical research and in our close and productive links
     into industry (see section 4). The DRF is organized on the principle of barrier-free
     shared resource allocation, with flexible group sizes and open-frame space allocation,
     an arrangement that is conducive to collaborations (section 3). PIHR is a strategic
     investment with a specific remit to increase interdisciplinary and collaborative working
     across all three university faculties, and to forge links that cross school, faculty and
     university boundaries and with the NHS and social care.

     Research and Impact Strategy Delivery
     Research across the FoH is overseen by an Associate Dean-Research (ADR, Fern),
     and research in each school is managed by an Associate Head of School-Research.
     Representatives of all research stakeholders attend the faculty Research Committee
     which drives forward the research strategy and also receives reports from oversight


                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     structures (Research Governance Committee, Faculty Doctoral Committee, Ethics,
     Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board, KE-commercialisation, Integrated
     Academic Training). The ADR represents research at the monthly Faculty Executive
     Group and wider university bodies (Senior Leadership Forum, Senate, Doctoral
     College, R&I Committee). This arrangement has clear lines of responsibility to enable
     an open and collaborative culture. Our research strategy is integrated across the
     faculty and within the university and the new PIHR is central to this, bringing together
     groups with shared interests and skills to foster collaboration within the faculty and
     facilitating research links with regional and national partners. This coordinated
     delivery of strategy is underpinned through 5 key mechanisms:

     1) Organization of the research environment: UoA1 clinician-researchers and
     basic science-researchers cohabit an integrated laboratory space. Collaboration is
     encouraged by an underlying philosophy of shared resource, communal
     equipment and barrier-free space management. All staff are invited to a communal
     weekly research update seminar and cross-pollination between our research themes
     is common, for example on the interface between clinical neuroscience and cancer.
     Common compliance structures (Ethics, Health and Safety, Human Tissue Act,
     Animal welfare, Home office, Biosafety) are coordinated across the unit through a
     research governance committee which facilitates frictionless clinical-basic
     collaboration.

     2) Strong core of clinician scientists: UoA1 returns 8 working medics (29% of staff)
     and includes many examples of clinicians collaborating with basic scientists on
     outputs and grants. Clinicians running their own laboratory research have bench
     space alongside basic scientists who wish to translate their findings. A specific
     example of excellence arising from this arrangement includes the work of the Brain
     Tumour Research charities’ Centre of Excellence where basic scientists and clinicians
     utilize a variety of tumour tissues including from local patients at University Hospitals
     Plymouth to develop and test new biomarkers and clinical interventions. To assist with
     the integration of clinical and basic science research, the FoH and University
     Hospital’s Plymouth had joint research committees, a structure currently evolving into
     a jointly funded Joint Clinical Research Office (JCRO) to further enable research
     integration between the two institutions. In the current REF period 24 Academic
     Clinical Fellows (e.g., Bennet 2016-; Roy 2017-) and Clinical Lecturers (e.g., Dhanda
     2014-18; Edlmann 2019-; Offiah 2018-) have worked in UoA1.

     3) Cohort of basic scientists aligned to the clinical themes: UoA1 returns 20
     basic scientists with a focus on translational research and embedded in one of the
     three UoA1 themes. The work of the basic research faculty is funded almost
     exclusively from medical funding bodies such as the MRC and NIHR and medical
     charities such as BRACE and Huntingdon’s Research. For example, Luo runs an
     MRC-funded laboratory that investigates the cellular mechanisms underlying
     Huntingdon’s disease. Luo has forged close links with local stakeholders who
     regularly hold fund-raising events to provide equipment for his research. He holds
     Royal Society Newton funding for collaboration with groups in China which have
     proved fruitful, for example, the publication of a paper in Nature that was ranked as
     No.2 in the world for impact by that journal for 2019.

     4) Integration with impact levers to transform research excellence: A particular
     feature of UoA1 is its integration with enterprise, clinical trials and outreach. There
     has been significant growth of enterprise activities flowing from basic research
     conducted in UoA1 since 2014 leading to real-world impact, e.g. from spin-outs and
     patent licensing. Examples include spin-outs such as The Virus Group and
     Amphologics and patent protections for multiple sclerosis therapies and diagnostics.


                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



     5) A geographically focused, well-equipped, facility supported by the university:
     UoA1 has close proximity to a major teaching hospital, which is essential for effective
     clinical-basic collaboration. University Hospitals Plymouth has >1,000 beds and is the
     largest hospital in the South-West peninsular. We also directly adjoin Plymouth
     Science Park and the resources provided there for spin-out enterprise. The science
     park has a particular emphasis on health technology. The unit receives significant
     support from the University. For example, the group has had 20 PhD students
     supported from University-funded studentships and key pieces of equipment have
     been supplied by the University, including confocal microscopes, a deconvolution
     microscope and a suite of mass-spectrometers.

     Section 2.

     Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
     Our 28 category A staff have primary appointments in either the Peninsular Medical
     School or School of Biomedical Sciences, which hold Athena Swan Silver awards.
     There is a 79/21 male/female ratio and 26.4% identify as BME. Our staff strategy
     aims for a mix of clinical and basic scientists and provides for a flexible research
     allocation of between 20-80% dependent upon research success. In line with
     University strategy we develop teaching-only faculty into active research using
     mentoring, annual personal development review, a staff development fund (£1,000
     pa., each for training and development needs), access to a Faculty Research
     Development fund to assist award development (see under), our Faculty KE-
     commercialization Committee funding calls (see section 1), and permissive
     access to facilities. We operate an open, shared-resource research model, with no
     access charges for our facilities for faculty lacking external funding support. This
     covers all the facilities of the DRF including the animal facility (free rodent
     maintenance and support [within reason]), imaging, mass spectrometry, gas supply,
     nitrogen storage, etc. Access to the fully-supported main campus electron microscopy
     suite is also free of charge for unfunded work, and strong publications not covered by
     RCUK block grants are covered by the faculty. This approach is highly
     accommodating of both junior faculty development and of funding breaks for
     more senior researchers, and in combination with regular university PGR
     studentships (£2500 annual bench fee) and support for masters and undergraduate
     student research projects (£750 and £250), it allows our faculty to maintain active
     research programs independently of fluctuating grant success.

     We have implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
     Researchers and were among the first 35 European HEIs to receive the EU HR
     Excellence for Researchers kitemark. An example of good practice is the University of
     Plymouth Research Leadership Programme, delivered by the external providers
     Barefoot Training. This is a year-long programme consisting of an intensive three-day
     summer course, followed by four half-day workshops, and a series of one-to-one
     meetings with the instructors across the year to help set research objectives and find
     ways to plan and implement them. Two UoA1 staff have progressed successfully
     through the program in the last two years (Madgett and Glebov). We also run a
     faculty-wide research support program where staff can consult personally with
     external professionals (e.g., Parker- Derrington Ltd) to improve their grant writing
     and submission. This can involve several 1-2-1 sessions and reviews of grant drafts
     (e.g., Glebov). Regular group sessions are delivered by external consultants (e.g.,
     day workshops from Andrew Derrington) and through the university Funding Advisory
     Service who bring in research council staff to provide tailored advice.




                                                                                       Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     There is a clear pathway for the review of all grants. This includes mentorship
     throughout the grant writing process (arranged through schools), mandatory
     independent peer review and a standardised risk assessment of impact on staff
     workload, resources and finances. Applications are registered and tracked through
     the online Award Manager system, which alerts individual Associate Heads of School-
     Research as soon as an interest is logged, allowing them to mentor and support the
     development process. There is a FoH Research Development Fund (£55K in 2020)
     used to provide external paid reviews of pre-submitted applications, in addition to the
     internal expert review system.

     All new staff are enrolled in an induction process which plays an important part in
     settling staff into their roles and is supported by an overarching university Induction
     Policy & Procedure. As part of induction, staff are required to complete e-learning
     programmes including Unconscious Bias, Diversity in the Workplace, Health and
     Safety and GDPR and Information Security. The effectiveness of training is actively
     monitored through the staff survey feedback. The annual staff Performance
     Development Review (PDR; conducted by the line manager) provides for monitoring
     of performance and discussion and recording of staff development. PDR is used to
     look back over training and development, to plan and support the next steps forward
     and to identify appropriate needs and linked opportunities for the future. To support
     and train the people undertaking the PDR process workshops are offered including a
     workshop on “having difficult conversations”, in addition to PDR calibration meetings
     to ensure a uniform standard is applied. We have a monthly Faculty Newsletter that is
     circulated to all staff and further information disseminated by the Heads of School to
     ensure that everyone is aware of all potential training and development opportunities.
     The newsletter celebrates staff achievements at all levels.

     All UoA1 members develop a personal research plan and have regular discussions
     with their Associate Head of School-Research, facilitating planning of sabbaticals and
     analysis of workload. Progress in research is monitored by their Associate Head of
     School-Research as well as through PDR. Changes in research responsibilities are
     managed through the PDR process with a flexible approach to FTE allocations, and
     successful researchers can for example reduce teaching/admin loads and vice versa
     (within a 20-80% band). Career progression requirements and progress are also
     discussed in this forum. FTE-bearing research roles that become available are
     publicly advertised to allow all faculty the opportunity for leadership experience.
     Leadership opportunities are offered in major university committees such as the R&I
     Committee, where there are designated places for early- and mid-career researchers.

     Open Research Environment
     The FoH values open access to outputs and data and has mechanisms to provide
     these that dovetail with those at University level (Open Access policy and Research
     Data policy). The ADR manages a budget that supports open-access publishing
     costs, and the Faculty Research Support office helps monitor and assist with output
     and data management lodging on open-access platforms such as PEARL.

     Early Career Researchers
     ECRs are assigned a research mentor to guide the development of fundable ideas.
     The mentor also has an important role in pastoral support, helping integrate new staff
     into the culture and processes of the unit. The requirements of the Concordat to
     Support the Career Development of Researchers are embedded in University HR
     policies, under which our ECRs have representation at Faculty and School Research
     Committees. ECRs are supported for attendance at national and international
     meetings and conferences for presentations and networking through School staff
     development funds, this equates to approximately £1000 per member of staff. The


                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     University Doctoral College runs a range of developmental workshops for
     postdoctoral and ECR Researchers on all aspects of professional practice. There is
     an active Faculty ECR Forum that encourages peer support.

     Equality and Diversity
     The FoH Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team meet every two months, reports to the
     Faculty Executive Group, and monitors our equality staff survey. In 2020 93% of
     respondents were aware of our equality and diversity principles. This is consistent
     with the latest e-learning completion rates: Diversity in the Workplace – 97%;
     Unconscious Bias – 96%; Mental Health Awareness -78% (2020). 85% of respondents
     strongly agreed/agreed that the FoH is committed to supporting all staff and students
     with protected characteristics. These strong numbers underscore our firmly embedded
     equality ethos; as also evidenced by recent actions such as the ongoing
     decolonisation of our syllabus, and supportive messaging (e.g., Black Lives
     matter). To further widen reach, we extend our equality training to all Honorary
     Associate Lecturers and encourage all staff in the unit to undertake further equality and
     diversity training in Transgender Awareness, Mental Health Awareness, Prevent
     training, Intercultural Communication and Dementia Awareness. In 2019 we introduced
     a Faculty-wide equality pledge programme where all staff are expected to generate
     a pledge for action they will take to improve equality, diversity and inclusion. The FoH
     conducted an Equality Impact Assessment to identify patterns and areas for increased
     support to achieve equality and encourage diversity and have actively engaged with
     staff to create a programme of development and support including:
     • University Network of Dignity and Respect Advisors (trained, confidential volunteers
     who offer a listening ear and guidance).
     • Gender split on all recruitment panels; all panellists undergo appropriate inclusion
     training.
     • Academic Women for Women sessions to foster collaboration and provide a safe
     environment for exploring aspects of promotion.
     • Twenty people have received leadership training over the past three years with a
     gender split of 15F:5M. Training has ranged from the Aurora programme (for female
     Associate Professors) to our University Research Leadership Programme (run by the
     Barefoot Training Company Ltd).
     • Women’s Mentoring Scheme which aims to enable women to realise their potential
     at the University of Plymouth and beyond. We also support a Women in STEM
     Network which celebrates the work and achievements of women.
     • Springboard scheme for female ECR researchers which covers areas such as
     career development, building confidence, assertiveness, aspects of being a woman,
     identifying priorities.
     • LBGT+ Staff Forum which provides network opportunities internally and externally.

     Staff welfare promotes staff retention and reduces erosion in under-represented
     groups. We have developed a progressive program of welfare activities that includes
     providing administration support for working groups (lunchtime walking, 3 free Pilates
     session a week), as well as ‘pop-up’ mindfulness sessions and the provision of a
     permanent wellbeing room.

     Research Students
     We have successfully completed 62 PGRs this REF period, a 63% increase from
     the last REF (38). PGRs are funded through a mix of university studentship and
     charitable sources (e.g., the dementia charity BRACE funded 6 full PhD studentships
     in UoA1). University-funded studentships are a significant form of institution
     support to the unit; within the FoH there were an average of 10 awards annually,
     representing ~£800K pa., in direct (bench fee, stipend) and differed (fee) costs.



                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     Completion rates have remained high, achieved through a well-regulated safety net of
     support that includes a Director of Studies leading on supervision and by co-
     supervisors, who together act as a supervisory team. All teams strive for gender
     balance and have at least one senior academic with extensive supervisory experience
     including successful completions. Good supervisory practice training is mandated to
     all supervisors. Research proposals are subject to a pre-approval revision prior to the
     start of studies for quality assurance and new students benefit from an induction
     session run locally, in addition to the mandatory induction by the University Doctoral
     College. All UoA1 PGRs also receive dedicated laboratory induction and safety
     training.

     Study progress is monitored online, with recorded supervisory meetings every 3-6
     months at the minimum. Students complete a Project Approval stage 3-5 months after
     starting. 12-15 months into their studies students undergo a Confirmation of Route/
     project transfer to PhD, and submit a study report detailing progress and future work.
     At this stage, they also give an oral presentation to the Faculty and sit a ‘transfer viva’
     chaired by at least one independent expert commentator (internal). This structured
     process serves to ensure that the student is supported, makes good progress and is
     well prepared for the final write-up and viva voce. Student welfare is central and in
     addition to the supervisory team, students can consult a Postgraduate Research
     Coordinator based in their school as well as a range of well-being services offered by
     the University, including one-to-one counselling and mental health appointments,
     personal and group support and development sessions. In addition, Disability
     Assistance Services help any PGR student with a disability with their study support
     requirements.

     In addition to providing pastoral support to students, school PGR Coordinators
     monitor and overseeing admission and supervisory team nomination, quality
     assurance, annual monitoring, etc. The PGR program within the Faculty is overseen
     by a Faculty Doctoral Committee, which reports to the University Doctoral College
     Board, and is chaired by a faculty Deputy Director of the Doctoral College (UoA1
     Barros, 0.8 FTE total). PGR students are directly represented on the committee,
     which in addition to regulatory processes monitors student welfare, training and
     satisfaction. An Annual Monitoring exercise completed by PGR students as well as
     Directors of Studies (the principle supervisors) in all schools, covers student
     experience and progress. We are proud to be a diverse learning community and any
     student at the faculty can become a member of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
     Committee, which ensures the faculty remains an inclusive and welcoming place to
     work and study.

     The student experience is enhanced by a variety of research, personal and
     transferable skills training opportunities offered by the University’s Doctoral College
     Researcher Development Program, including Knowledge and intellectual abilities,
     Personal effectiveness, Research governance, and Engagement, influence and
     impact. A PGR Training and Career Development lead at the Faculty provides
     additional support. There is also a faculty PGR conference fund that helps students
     attend conferences, and the Faculty holds an annual Research Event where
     students submit posters and give oral presentations. In addition, UoA1 students
     benefit from a variety of seminar series, such as weekly unit research update
     presentations and monthly research talks by external speakers. These communal
     events foster a sense of community for our students who all have allocated office
     desk spaces and access to computers, in addition to unfettered access to our
     research services and facilities.




                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



     Section 3.

     Grant Income
     Award income for the unit during the REF period was £11.4M, a 25% increase
     compared to 2014, despite the transfer of several high-income capture Category A
     staff returned in UoA3 in this submission. Highlights of research income include:
     • Our Brain Tumour Research Centre of Excellence has been supported by awards
     to Hanemann that total ~£3M (Cancer Research UK, Brain Tumour Research) with
     additional support from commercial sources (Takeda UK Limited) of over £240K.
     Rules’ clinical studies on novel treatment approached to mantle cell lymphoma have
     also been funded through charitable (Cancer Research UK: 290K) and commercial
     (Janssen: 580K) routes. Ammoun, an ECR, was awarded >£220K from several
     charities including SPARKS and Action Medical Research. Xinzhong Li (2013-2019)
     led a €3.5 EU-funded European Training Network award (AiPBAND), Integrated
     Platform for Developing Brain Cancer Diagnostic Techniques.

     • Development of Upton’s spinout company, Amprologix, has been supported by a
     £1.2M award from the Department of Health and Social Care and was launched with
     a package of £562K from the BBSRC and Innovate UK. Innovate UK also funded
     Jarvis (£720K including funding form MRC) to commercialize his spin-out TVG and is
     a principal partner in an international team awarded $9.37M by the US government’s
     Defence Advanced Research Project Agency (DARPA).

     • Teiu’s (2014-10/2016) work on Parkinson’s disease and mitochondria was
     supported by US NIH programme funding ($730K -awarded to PU in 2014) and the
     MRC (£430K-2014). It is an example of our integrated working that Fern was a CI on
     both these awards, and on a £420K MRC award to Luo which formed part of the
     ~£600K captured by him in this REF period that includes a Royal Society-NSFC
     (China), Newton Advanced Fellowship in 2018.

     • Numerous smaller awards are typified by Barros who received £410K from the
     BBSRC for her work on neural stem cells, and Fejer captured £350K (NERC and
     NC3R) to explore the potential of novel macrophage cell lines in alternative testing.
     Also in the field of immunology, the clinical research conducted by Cramp in
     hepatology was supported by over £520K largely through commercial and charitable
     sources; and Dhanda has received £480K from the MRC and the JP Moulton
     Charitable Trust.

     Infrastructure and Facilities
     The Derriford Research Facility (DRF) is a 3,463m2, 4-storey BREEAM II Excellent
     research facility, an integral part of the University’s investment to accelerate the
     translation of medical research into patient care. In combination with the linked John
     Bull Building it provides space designed to facilitate collaboration and flexibly team
     working. Operational from October 2017 and 90% occupied by UoA1 staff, the DRF
     was a landmark investment by the University. Located at Plymouth Science Park and
     adjacent to the University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust, it places well-equipped
     research laboratories next to a 1000 beds specialist teaching hospital encouraging
     cross-organisation collaboration and enriching effective collaborations with the
     Hospital and enterprise; it is co-located with the PenCTU and the NIHR Peninsula
     Clinical Research Network on Plymouth Science Park. The building incorporates the
     Plymouth University Systems Biology Centre and Plymouth Light Microscopy Service
     (both 100% UoA1 facilities) and provides a rich, collaborative, interdisciplinary




                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     environment for UoA1 clinical and basic science researchers. Specific features
     include:
     • Open-plan, flexibly designed, 100% BSL-2 wet laboratory space
     • Fully equipped BSL-3 containment facility for working with high-level pathogens
     such as hepatitis C and SARS-2 COVID
     • 7 Cell / tissue culture rooms
     • Flow cytometry / FACS suite
     • HPLC / LCMS laboratory
     • Microarray platform technology
     • Extracellular Flux Analysis
     • HTA accredited tissue storage, biobanking facilities and sample collections
     • Systems biology suite with 4 mass spectrometers, including Maldi-tof used
     for biomarker work
     • Centrally-supported (2.5 FTE technical specialist) in vivo facility integrated
     into the design, including behavioural and surgical suites, 900 cages, quarantine
     area, and biohazard room (viral transfections)
     • Electrophysiological laboratory with intra-cellular, extra-cellular, ion-
     sensitive microelectrode and patch rigs
     • Centrally supported (0.8 FTE technical specialist) imaging suite housing
     three confocal microscopes (Zeiss 510/710, Leica SPE, Leica SP8) and 4
     specialist light microscopes (Nikon Eclipse with Arcturus, Nikon Eclipse with two
     cameras, Leica DM6b with Stereology, Leica DMi8 with Deconvolution), 2
     fluorescent live-imaging set-ups (spinning disk) and single-cell PCR.

     4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     UoA1 has a strong relationship with the Peninsular Medical Foundation (PMF), an
     independent charity fundraising through work with individuals, communities,
     businesses, trusts and foundations. PMF has raised almost £4 million since 2002.
     PMF is motivated by a belief in the high-quality basic research of Plymouth’s
     Peninsula Medical School and channels the majority of its funding into UoA1. The
     ADR (Fern) sits on the various boards of the charity which organizes regular donor
     visits to the DRF. The Huntingdon’s research group led by Lou has a strong
     relationship with local patient groups who hold sponsored events to support research
     and make regular visits to the DRF. Our dementia scientists have been central to the
     award and leadership of the Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK) South-West
     Dementia Network which provides pilot funds, support to attend meetings and
     organizes annual research days where local patient groups meet and interact with the
     researchers. An example was the inaugural meeting in 2015 with a Plenary lecture
     from Gail Johnson from Rochester University (USA) and attended by over 110
     researchers, patients and advocacy groups. UoA1 organizes annual research taster
     days for 120 5th year students from 12 local schools to experience a research
     laboratory environment, spending 4 hours rotating through a number of small
     research projects conducted by members of the groups (Parkinson).

     UoA1 held a symposium to mark the opening of the DRF which included
     presentations by Dame Pamela Shaw (Director, Sheffield Institute for Translational
     Neuroscience) and Mark Fidock, Vice President, Precision Medicine Laboratories,
     AstraZeneca. The units’ Brain Tumour Centre of Excellence has developed a close
     relationship with local patients and their families and runs 6 laboratory tours/year for
     them and other members of the public to engage with our research. Several UoA1
     members are particularly active in public engagement to increase awareness of our
     research, as for example shown in 2019 by shortlisting for the national Antibiotic
     Guardian Awards in Public Engagement. As part of these activities, Joshi has spoken


                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     at several national events and she appeared in the BBC documentary The Truth
     About: Antibiotics. Joshi was also recognised as the ‘Jewel of India’ by the Indian
     government for her international impact in the field of molecular microbiology; she has
     been particularly active in the media during the pandemic including BBC1, Channel 5,
     Fox News and NBC.

     Impact Indicators
     Amongst our translational scientists, Jarvis has made an important contribution to
     raising the awareness of zoonotic-infection in human health (Invited Speaker: British
     Society of Immunology, Cardiff; Emerging Zoonoses, Kansas, USA; Jenner Institute,
     University of Oxford; Pirbright Institute, UK; Chair, Vaccine Session, International
     Filovirus Symposium. Marburg). Fern has made important progress in the area of
     white matter injury recognized by speaker invitations (Plenary talks at Malta Medical
     Conference; 5th annual World Congress of Cell and Molecular Biology. Nanjing,
     China; Cerebral Palsy–NET, Toronto) and membership of the Science Advisory
     Council, Ontario Brain Institute and membership, Ontario Brain Institute and
     membership of the CP-NET Science Innovation Team. Parkinson’s eminence is
     indicated by numerous Invited speaker roles (Jack Griffin lecturer, Peripheral Nerve
     Society, Baltimore; Chair plenary speaker session European Glial Cell, Edinburgh).
     He is also on the board of the European Society of Peripheral Nerve Repair. Upton
     has continued his leading role in the commercialization of anti-microbial resistance
     approaches giving invited talks at the Gulf Congress on Clinical Microbiology and
     Infectious Diseases, Bahrain and the International Biodegradation and
     Biodeterioration Society triennial meeting, Manchester. He has also been an invited
     attendee at BBSCR/NERC workshops on AMR in the Environment in both Argentina
     and India.

     Amongst our clinicians, Roobottom has organised the UK Radiology Congress three
     times (2016-19) and advised DoH and NICE on CT. Playford (2014-18) has been
     President of the Association of Physicians (2016) and is a member HEFC Healthcare
     Education Advisory Committee. Hanemann gave The Sir Geoffrey Jefferson Lecture,
     Society of British Neurological Surgeons and invited talks at the 4th UK
     Pharmacogenetics & Stratified Medicine, London and the World Federation of Neuro-
     oncology Societies Conference, Zurich. He sits on the Board of Brain Research UK
     and on the scientific board of the European Association of Neuro-oncology. Cramp
     has been the President of British Association for the study of the Liver (BASL; 2017-
     19) and Rule the Chair of the National Cancer Research Network (NCRN) Low Grade
     NHL Committee from 2013, member of the Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials
     Advisory Committee (2012 -), and President of the British Society for Haematology
     (2019). Martin sits on the Board of the National Institute of Academic Anaesthesia, is
     Deputy Lead for the National Institute for Health Research Clinical Research Network
     Specialty Group for Anaesthesia, and sits on the Perioperative Medicine and Pain
     Management Council of the Intensive Care Society. He was awarded an OBE for his
     contribution to the countries’ Ebola response. UoA1 staff sit on numerous journal
     editorial boards including Cancer Letters (Hanemann), Frontiers in Cellular
     Neuroscience (Kramer), European Journal of Nutrition (Foey), Journal of Chemical
     Neuroanatomy (Fern) and Scientific Reports (Dhanda) -who also is Lead of the
     British Association for the Study of the Liver Alcohol-related liver disease Special
     Interest Group (elected position).

     Covid-19
     UoA1 moved quickly to respond to local and national needs as the pandemic evolved.
     Equipment was loaned from the DRF through the second logistic division to the
     Lighthouse testing centre in Northern Ireland, including a number of PCR
     machines, quantities of small lab equipment and large safety cabinets. UoA1 also


                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     loaned equipment, including large bench-top centrifuges, to the local testing
     laboratory at the University Hospitals Plymouth. At the first peak of the epidemic, the
     hospitals testing laboratory lacked sufficient trained staff and UoA1 established a live
     document of volunteers with PCR skill from our laboratories with 48 individuals
     on call. While complying fully with government measures, we put considerable
     support in place to maintain our UoA1 virus research programme. This included
     clinical serology research into the virus (Cramp) and our own vaccine development
     programme (Javis) spearheaded by our spin-out TVG. Support included keeping our
     research faculties open for vaccine development with special safety measures in
     place. Through contingency-planning, when lock-down first eased we were well
     prepared with risk-assessments and safety equipment to re-start our research which
     was fully operational since July 2020.

     Lighthouse Plymouth
     As of September 2020, UoA1 support of Covid-19 vaccine development, in
     combination with our unhesitating support for local and national testing, was a strong
     factor in the selection of Plymouth for a 40K sample/day Lighthouse testing centre
     in Estover, close to the DRF. The laboratory became operational from February 2021
     and will employ ~400 biomedical staff. UoA1’s Fern sits on the Lighthouse
     steering committee and coordinates between the university, council and trust.
     In addition, by contact with other trusts (Truro and Exeter) with LAMP programmes,
     he is helping to manage a coordinated hiring and management strategy across the
     region.

     Two of our spin-out companies are particularly well-positions now to rapidly expand
     as they develop to meet the pandemic crisis (included in next section).

     UoA1 Spin-out Companies.
     Our 3 spin-out companies currently have a combined market value of £9M.

     The Vaccine Group (TVG), founded by Jarvis in 2017 developed a vaccine to
     prevent the spread of Streptococcus suis (S.suis). S.suis is currently treated with
     antibiotics, but there is growing evidence that it is becoming resistant and that
     effective vaccines remove the need for antibiotics in animals. TVG’s novel
     herpesvirus-based platform technology generated a single-use vaccine for use in
     pigs, with Upton’s research group is identifying targets for other new vaccines being
     developed by TVG. This work is progressing with Chinese partners, including the
     Shanghai Veterinary Research Institute at the Chinese Academy of Agricultural
     Sciences, and the Shanghai Jiao Tong University (Pulike Biological Engineering
     Company is the commercial partner). TVG is also playing a central role in a project to
     protect military forces from Ebola, Lassa fever and other deadly zoonotic viruses that
     jump from animals to humans. On the 23rd June 2020, TVG released a press
     announcement describing their rapid progress toward Covid-19 vaccine. In
     confidence and not included in that release, TVG have started three in animal trials
     (hamsters). If these preliminary trials are successful, TVG will quickly move into non-
     human primate trials (rhesus macaques). The company’s primary differentiator is
     the targeting of a strong T-cell response to address a ‘weak spot’ for the current
     vaccine candidates that have released data publicly, which appear to have low impact
     on viral shedding.

     Amprologix was founded in 2018 to commercialise the work of Upton on the
     development of a new class of antibiotics to help tackle drug resistant infections.
     Amprologix is working in partnership with world-leading biotechnology and synthetic
     biology company Ingenza Ltd, focused on developing their first lead compound,
     epidermicin, for commercial use; discovering additional sources for new classes of


                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     antibiotics; using AI to improve antibiotic properties, working with Ingenza, IBM and
     the National Physical Laboratory, and; developing efficient techniques to manufacture
     antibiotics at scale. In a relevant infection model, a single dose of epidermicin is as
     effective as six doses of the current standard of care in killing harmful bacteria,
     including MRSA. The antibiotic was initially recovered from a skin bacterium named
     Staphylococcus epidermidis, but can now be produced in a microbe suitable for
     industrial scale-up, using synthetic biology methods developed by Ingenza, which has
     a stake in the new business. Epidermicin N101 is currently undergoing final
     evaluation before a proposed Phase 1 clinical trial in 2021 and Amprologix is
     actively involved in broadening its portfolio of candidate antibiotics using a
     combination of rational drug design and traditional antibiotic discovery approaches.

     A rapid water testing kit developed MolEndoTech is being rolled out commercially in
     the UK and Ireland. The SirenBW system developed by MolEndoTech (established to
     commercialise the work of Jackson), can dramatically reduce the time required for
     authorities to assess the quality of recreational water from two days to 20 minutes.
     The commercial roll out is being carried out by Palintest, a subsidiary of FTSE 100
     group Halma plc, and will initially focus on the UK and Ireland and include the
     establishment of a number of demonstrator sites. It follows a successful technical
     evaluation and demonstration during the 2018 bathing water season. The technical
     demonstration programme has also begun at several iconic Australian locations to
     accelerate the global roll out of the SirenBW during the southern hemisphere
     summer. MolEndoTech is also working with other commercial partners in food and
     beverage production, developing methods for detecting pathogens on fresh produce
     and in the water used to irrigate it.




                                                                                      Page 16
