Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Middlesex University

 Unit of Assessment 20: Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and mission

 A singular and sustained commitment to research that promotes social justice, submits policy to
 critical scrutiny and promotes the design and delivery of effective and fair public services unites
 our researchers, bringing together perspectives from a range of disciplines. Since 2014,
 researchers from Social Policy, Social Work, Criminology, Sociology, Politics, Psychology and
 Health have built upon this strong, collaborative approach and developed more far-reaching,
 interdisciplinary research partnerships with policy, practice and service user communities in the
 UK and internationally. This ensures our research is applied and has policy and practice relevance
 and impact beyond the academy. We have expanded cross-national, comparative work through
 a wide range of global research collaborations. A focus on research with strong critical foundations
 that is contextualised within and contributes to theoretical development and is underpinned with
 robust and rigorous methodologies gives unity to our cross-disciplinary approach.

 We have a well-established, vibrant and inclusive research culture where we pride ourselves with
 the ways that we prioritise the support and nurturing of ECRs and doctoral students. Our research
 is funded by a growing range of international, national and local sources and disseminated in the
 most relevant formats designed for specific contexts and audiences – from large international
 conferences to the pop-up offices of local activists.

 Staff are drawn from two Faculties (Faculty of Professional and Social Sciences and Faculty of
 Science and Technology) and within them five departments (Department of Psychology within the
 School of Science and Technology; Departments of Criminology and Sociology and Law and
 Politics within the School of Law; and Departments of Mental Health and Social Work and Adult,
 Child (Nursing) and Midwifery within the School of Health and Education). This submission
 includes 45 Category A staff (41.7 FTE). We co-ordinate our activities through Research Centres
 and these cluster under three Research Groups which have been strengthened and benefitted
 from continuity since 2014:

 Group 1: Social Justice, Inequality and Migration

 Research under this theme includes 13 staff (12.0 FTE) and focuses on identity, inequality and
 social justice relating to topics of work, family, migration and discrimination with an emphasis on
 gender, race, and sexuality and migration, within states and globally. Research is conducted in
 the Social Policy Research Centre.

 Group 2: Crime, Conflict and Human Security

 This theme involves research by 20 staff (19.5 FTE) comprising criminologists, sociologists,
 forensic psychologists and international relations specialists on a range of topics including political
 and state violence, organised crime, terrorism, radicalisation, cybercrime, environmental crime,
 victimisation, criminal justice, youth justice and offender treatment. Research is conducted in the
 Centre for Social and Criminological Research and the Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies.

 Group 3: Informing Professional Interventions

 Within this theme, we critically examine the relations between research, policy and professional
 practice across health, justice and social work sectors. Twelve staff (10.2 FTE) are included here.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research is conducted in the Drug and Alcohol Research Centre, the Centre for Critical Research
 in Nursing and Midwifery, and the Centre for Transcultural Studies in Health.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 Social Policy research has been a long-standing key strength of Middlesex’s research profile. In
 2014, 58% of the outputs were judged to be 3* or 4*, an improvement on 50% for RAE 2008. Two
 thirds (67%) of the impact case studies were judged to be 3* or 4* and our Research Environment
 was given a 3* ranking. We achieved a sector-wide power ranking of 4 and ranked 2nd in the
 London power rankings and the top modern university.

 At the time of the last REF, we aimed to consolidate and build on the progress we had made by
 promoting a culture of research excellence in tandem with a strong commitment to knowledge
 exchange and impact. We outlined the following strategic priorities including: a focus on research
 leadership by promoting and appointing staff; increasing competitive research funding; building
 capacity and supporting ECRs; developing new emerging areas of research and addressing
 complex societal challenges; and maintaining doctoral student numbers and completion rates.
 These have been achieved through the work of our Research Centres.

 Building on a University-wide commitment to policy-focused, interdisciplinary research, we have
 continued to strengthen, consolidate and expand Research Centres and networks. Researchers
 (both staff and students) may belong to more than one Centre and each Centre extends its
 membership beyond its Faculty/Department, promoting the cross-fertilisation of ideas, expertise
 and knowledge and the development interdisciplinary approaches. These Centres support both
 internal and external collaboration for funding applications and knowledge exchange, provide
 forums for dissemination activities and offer support, guidance and opportunities to ECRs and
 doctoral students.

 Group 1: Social Justice, Inequality and Migration

 The Social Policy Research Centre (SPRC) (led by Kofman and Saini) was established in 1990
 and continues to develop prominent, policy relevant interdisciplinary research in the areas of
 migration, work equality, discrimination, and social justice. The Centre benefits from the
 contributions of staff from Criminology and Sociology, Law and Politics, Art and Design and
 Business Studies and collaborations with other UK partners such as the LSE and UCL, in Europe
 and the Global South.

 Since 2014, we have strengthened the Centre with new ECR appointments including Saini (race,
 class, gender), Kaur (disabilities), Gibbs (gender, vulnerability), Acik (gender, migration), and
 Overton (gender, sexuality, youth) and Senior Research Fellow, Keles (digital media, diaspora).
 We have continued to attract substantial funding from research councils, the EU, government
 departments and major charities and requests for consultancy services from local and international
 partners. The Centre’s significant research on gender and social justice has embraced a more
 global dimension leading to winning highly competitive major GCRF grants and contributing to the
 UN Sustainable Development Goals. These projects were set up specifically to enable ECRs to
 gain valuable experience in major collaborative projects.

 The Centre has a strong tradition of developing learning materials for a range of professionals
 which have direct impacts on international, national and community practice. It promotes
 partnership work, stakeholder engagement and knowledge exchange and runs high-impact
 events, including conferences, seminars and consultations. These prioritise the involvement of
 ECRs and doctoral students. In 2017, the Centre hosted the IMISCOE conference attended by
 scholars from across Europe. In 2020, it hosted the annual ATGENDER conference (European
 Association for Gender Research, Education and Documentation) which moved online due to the
 pandemic and was well attended by more than 300 participants.


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Group 2: Crime, Conflict and Human Security

 The Centre for Social and Criminological Research (CSCR) (led by Ruggiero) was established
 in 1986 as the Centre for Criminology and known globally for its critical criminological approach.
 Renamed in 2014 to reflect its increasing interdisciplinary focus with staff drawn from Criminology,
 Sociology, Politics, Law and Psychology, the Centre provides a hub for international and locally
 based research and continues to attract funding from charities, national and local government and
 the EU. Within CSCR, we explore a range of topics including organised crime, terrorism,
 radicalisation, wildlife and environmental crime, cybercrime, criminal justice, youth justice and
 offender treatment.

 Since 2014, ECRs have strengthened the Centre’s profile with new research areas: Clarke
 (policing and diversity), Munk (cybercrime), Papadouka (human trafficking), Lamsma (forensic
 psychiatry), Cracknell (probation/prisons), and Bleakley (historical criminology). The Prisons
 Research Group (PRG) was established in 2015 (led by Ward and Cracknell) as a sub-group of
 the CSCR to critically examine prison reform issues. It has run three high-profile roundtables with
 stakeholders from prison, probation and NGOs. Many of our part-time PhD students are
 practitioners working in the criminal justice system and their doctoral experiences enable them to
 critically reflect and impact upon policy and practice within their organisations.

 The Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies (CATS) is an interdisciplinary centre for research,
 practice and training which combines criminology and psychology expertise. CATS is a joint
 Centre with the Psychology UoA4, further cementing strong collaboration. Our staff form part of
 this Centre and lead projects located within it (e.g. Horvath, Martellozzo, DeMarco, Porteous,
 Bailey-Rodriguez). The Centre has captured substantial research funding from the ESRC, EU,
 police funds and charitable organisations. In addition, CATS has substantive knowledge exchange
 funding from charitable and social/health services for delivery of training and evaluation of the use
 of bespoke assessment tools derived from research.

 Research focuses on lifespan development, well-being, crime and victimisation and internet child
 abuse. Since 2014, a series of projects were undertaken on child sexual abuse and protecting
 young people online and led to significant impacts on policy and practice at national and
 international levels (see impact case study). CATS runs seminars and training events widely
 attended by practitioners, researchers and doctoral students. Linked to the Centre, Horvath
 convenes the Violence Against Women and Girls Research Network which runs a successful
 webinar series and prioritises supporting ECRs and PhD students through its mentoring
 programme, dedicated workshops and training.

 Group 3: Informing Professional Interventions

 The Drug and Alcohol Research Centre (DARC) (led by Thom, Duke and Herring) was
 established in 2010 to focus on research related to substance use issues, including treatment and
 service delivery, prevention, workforce development, interfaces with criminal justice, and
 substance use across the lifespan. We draw on the expertise of researchers from across the
 University in Criminology, Mental Health, Social Policy, Psychology, Nursing, Tourism and Social
 Work. Since 2014, Weaver joined as Associate Professor, Gleeson as Research Fellow, and 7
 researchers were appointed to work on funded projects. A programme of mental health research
 complements the work of DARC led by Weaver. The Centre attracts significant grant income for
 cross-national, comparative research from the EU and for national and local studies from NIHR,
 NHS England, and Alcohol Change UK.

 DARC has created an interdisciplinary network of affiliated staff and prioritised developing
 research relationships with practice organisations through linked Associate Members. This
 facilitates co-production approaches and the transfer of research into practice and vice versa.
 DARC hosts the UK chapter of the International Society of Substance Use Professionals which
 brings together a range of practitioners from the substance use fields to inform, connect and
 strengthen research, practice and policy-making. ECRs and doctoral students are given
                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 opportunities to work on collaborative research and publications and to present work in prominent
 public arenas. The Centre has supported placements from international doctoral students from
 Aarhus University, Denmark and University of Presov, Slovakia and hosted study visits with
 delegates from Chinese and Swedish treatment services. DARC runs a seminar series and holds
 an annual conference attended by researchers, practitioners and professionals. Since the
 pandemic, events moved online and include work-in-progress webinars and expert witness
 workshops.

 Further research within this group examines Social Work policy and practice. A key focus is on
 professional interventions with children and families which prioritise partnerships with
 practitioners. Research into Special Guardianship Orders was used to develop partnerships with
 local authorities and voluntary agencies, designed specifically to promote evidence-based
 professional practice where children have been removed from parents to live with relatives or
 friends. An evaluation of the Family Intervention Project resulted in recommendations about how
 to prevent children coming into the care system (Hingley-Jones, Gleeson).

 The Centre for Critical Research in Nursing and Midwifery (led by Traynor and Allan) was
 launched in 2015 to provide a theoretical and methodological focus for researchers working in this
 area of social policy and for research capacity building. Its establishment and the appointment of
 Allan was the result of specific investment by the University to develop research and leadership
 in this area. The work contributes critical policy research approaches, utilising critical ethnography
 and discourse analysis alongside other methodologies. Our research makes key contributions to
 national and international policy debates (e.g. NHS workforce, division of healthcare labour, the
 promotion of ‘resilience’ in healthcare, and IVF treatment experiences). Core members comprise
 one Research Fellow and one Research Assistant. All lecturing staff in nursing and midwifery who
 are undertaking research degrees (11) as well as all post-doctoral researchers (5) are Associate
 Members of the Centre and receive support, for example in participation in national conferences
 or awards.

 The Centre’s funded research applies its focus on critical policy analysis to our working partnership
 with the local health economy, often taking the form of critical evaluations of implementation of
 national policy across London. Several monographs have been published by the Centre’s leaders
 (e.g. two books on critical resilience that place it in the forefront of professional and policy
 debates). The Centre also runs a series of symposia, often in collaboration with international
 scholars.

 The Research Centre for Transcultural Studies in Health (led by Papadopoulos) is an
 interdisciplinary centre established in 1995, bringing together health and social care professionals
 whose research focuses on the study of ethnic and migrant health, health inequalities, the
 promotion of culturally competent and compassionate services, and the development of smart
 technologies. The Centre has collaborated with community groups, voluntary organisations and
 statutory health providers to conduct research on the health and social needs of migrant groups.

 The Centre has received funding from European, national and local sources. These include the
 EU Lifelong Learning Programme, EU Erasmus/Socrates programme, Department of Health,
 NIHR, National Lottery, Welsh Assembly Government, Macmillan Cancer Relief fund and various
 London Boroughs. ECRs and doctoral students are supported through the Centre’s formal
 induction programme and a strong emphasis on the development of a mutually supportive team.

 1.3 Impact

 We have sustained our strong emphasis on impact from 2014. Our approach to impact is integral
 to and embedded in our strategic priorities and informed by three objectives: 1) to conduct
 research relevant to practitioners, policy-makers and service users; 2) to define and respond to
 policy and practice issues, as well as theoretical concerns and debates and; 3) to involve relevant
 stakeholders and employ co-production approaches where appropriate. Achieving impact is
 supported in our staff development programme and infrastructure and integrated into our strategy
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 through the work of Departmental Research Leads and Directors of Research Centres who
 support staff to develop the impact of their research activity. Building relationships with key users
 internationally, nationally and locally is pursued through a number of mechanisms:

    •   Participating in and hosting user events (conferences, seminars, workshops) which are
        crucial to user engagement and dialogue;
    •   Participation in users’ steering groups/advisory panels and setting these up in our own
        research projects to facilitate co-production;
    •   Running specialist training/CPD events targeted at users and making research findings
        available in a user-friendly form;
    •   Active engagement in communities of practice networks;
    •   Developing our DProf /PhD programme through which students provide us with strong links
        to practice and policy networks.
 Our selected impact case studies (ICSs) are: 1) Animals and Society: Introducing Green
 Criminological Dimensions to Policy; 2) Cultural Competence and Client-centred Care; 3) Drug
 Interventions for Young People in Criminal Justice Systems; and 4) Improving Children’s Digital
 Experiences and Reducing Exploitation. They demonstrate our approach to impact, the emphasis
 on research that promotes social justice and improves policy and practice, and the different types
 of users and beneficiaries of our research. In all cases, the underpinning research has led to
 demonstrable impacts on the design and shaping of policies and practices.

 Impact will continue to be embedded in our research, knowledge exchange and teaching. To
 sustain impact, our strategy is to focus on established areas and develop new areas through
 interdisciplinary research clusters. The selected ICSs are all ongoing and provide a strong basis
 for future impact, but new topics, such as ongoing GCRF research on gender and social justice,
 UKRI research on migrant workers and COVID-19, and EU research on radicalisation, will
 generate new streams of impact on policy and practice and interest from a range of users and
 beneficiaries.

 1.4 Open Science

 Awareness of issues surrounding Open Research, including Open Access and research data
 management have increased significantly among our researchers due to workshops and
 explanatory resources. We have strongly supported initiatives related to Open Science, including
 ORCID registration and sharing data via the Middlesex University Figshare Repository. Staff are
 aware of the importance of making research openly available and publishing via Green Open
 Access routes is expected. Gold open access is encouraged where funds allow. The Middlesex
 Research Repository staff work closely with colleagues providing assistance with Open Access
 publishing and data sharing via the repositories.

 1.5 Research Integrity

 The University has a well-established and comprehensive Code of Practice which outlines high
 standards of conduct and integrity based on the principles and practices of the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity (2012) and the Research Councils’ Statement on Safeguarding Good
 Scientific Practice. It has a responsibility to ensure that research conducted by its staff and
 students is carried out in accordance with the appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks and adheres to the highest levels of integrity. This is particularly significant for this
 UoA, where much of our work involves vulnerable and disadvantaged groups.

 Research integrity is governed through departmental Research Ethics Committee (REC)
 structures. All staff and students are trained in ethical research practice and supported by the
 newly developed Research Ethics Review Framework and Middlesex Online Research Ethics
 (MORE) System, as well as a dedicated Ethics Leads in each Department. This system is
                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 constantly updated to reflect the changing ethical and legislative landscape (e.g. GDPR changes).
 During the pandemic, researchers were supported with clear University guidance on ethics and
 how to revise their research plans and conduct fieldwork to comply with national rules and
 regulations. All researchers must submit their proposals for formal approval prior to the
 commencement of their studies and to any application for external ethics approval. All applications
 are reviewed by at least one reviewer, and up to three for those deemed ‘high risk’. Applications
 requiring resubmission receive detailed comments on the required changes to support the re-
 application and develop applicants’ understanding of the requirements of ethical research practice.
 REC approvals are audited on an annual basis and Leads report to the central University REC
 which is chaired by a Deputy Dean.

 1.6 Future Strategy

 The appointment of our new Vice Chancellor provides an opportunity to rethink University strategic
 aims and to develop alignment between these and our future strategy. The key areas in which the
 University intends to become internationally recognised include Social Justice, Diversity and
 Inclusion, Health, Environment and Sustainability and Technological Innovation – these are all
 areas to which our staff can make vital contributions. Just as the University builds on its strengths
 and unique characteristics, our specific strategic intentions for research and impact centre on our
 well-established networks with partners. Our overarching aim is to build diverse and inclusive
 communities of practice involving researchers, students, professionals, practitioners, and service
 users at both international and local levels. This will help us in our ambition to co-create research
 that promotes social justice, submits policy to critical scrutiny and impacts upon the design and
 delivery of effective and fair public services. In line with UKRI strategies promoting interdisciplinary
 research, we aim to foster a culture of experimentation and risk-taking in further developing our
 work. Current issues, such as the long-term impact of COVID-19, are likely to lead to increased
 funding for research bringing together health, science and social science, for example around
 collaboration using large-scale data and qualitative research. Black Lives Matter also adds to the
 need to collaborate across disciplines in relation to research promoting social justice. Our strategic
 aims are to:

    •   Facilitate further interdisciplinary collaboration both within arts and social sciences as well
        with STEM subjects in which the University has world leading Centres such as the Flood
        Hazard Research Centre (people and the environment) and Interaction Design Centre
        (human-computer interfaces) and consolidate structures to facilitate dialogue and
        collaboration between our research in criminology, health, discrimination, and migration
        and other disciplines in the University.
    •   Increase and diversify research funding by building on our success regarding global
        research funding (e.g. GCRF) and bringing in those without experience of conducting
        research on their topics in the Global South (e.g. health, migration, crime).
    •   Develop research capacity across all staff and support of ECRs with a view to succession
        planning by mentoring from senior colleagues, maintaining funding for conference
        attendance and participation in bespoke training and development.
    •   Increase the number of doctoral students through ‘talent-spotting’ of high performing
        undergraduates and postgraduates and discussions with practitioners who are part of our
        research networks and build on existing expertise in professional doctorates, where we
        have an international reputation, to expand their number.
    •   Continue to expand opportunities for knowledge exchange and developing impact with
        external and international partners (practitioners, policy makers, and other stakeholders)
        through Research Centres.




                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The number of staff in this submission is 41.7 FTE. In 2014, we submitted 51.4 FTE. This change
 reflects the natural career progression of a number of staff and others contributing to new UoAs
 not previously entered (e.g. Education UoA23). The key aims of our staffing strategy are to: 1)
 improve the staff profile in relation to subject and methodological expertise; 2) to develop ECRs;
 and 3) reinforce our current research groups and lay the foundations for developing new areas.
 The strategy is informed by the Concordant to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 in particular the principles of promoting inclusive approaches to staff development which enhance
 individual and collective research capacities; attracting and retaining research leaders and junior
 staff with high potential; and promoting equality and diversity.

 We have invested in ECR appointments including Acik, Bailey-Rodriguez, Bleakley, Clarke,
 Cracknell, Gibbs, Gleeson, Hawthorne, Kaur, Lamsma, Munk, Overton, Papadouka, and
 Saini, as well as appointments at senior levels including Allan and Weaver. These appointments
 have enhanced our profile in terms of new areas of research (e.g. Munk specialises in cybercrime,
 Kaur researches disabilities) and methodological expertise (e.g. Saini and Papadouka are
 quantitative researchers, Weaver has expertise in large scale, mixed-methods research). Some
 of our former PhD students have been appointed to Lectureships (e.g. Cracknell, Overton). The
 University holds annual promotion rounds. Since 2014, Guest and Sothcott were promoted to
 Senior Lecturer, Ciclitira, Nurse and Martellozzo to Associate Professor, and Bradshaw and
 Duke to Professor. Along with the leaders of Research Centres, these promotions have enhanced
 research leadership.

 We have created an inclusive and collegiate culture in developing the research capacity of all
 colleagues and support, training and mentorship are provided via our Research Centres. The
 University has an established policy of staff development which encourages research leadership
 at all levels. Through the annual appraisal process, staff are allocated research time on their work
 programme and agree plans for research outputs, grant applications, impact and training needs.
 Senior staff have annually agreed targets for research and/or knowledge exchange income, often
 delivered in collaboration with ECRs (e.g. Kofman with Acik). All staff are assigned a senior
 research mentor to support their research, knowledge exchange and writing activities. Internal
 peer review of publications and grant applications has continued to improve success rates and
 build community. Senior staff co-write publications with ECRs to provide them with mentorship in
 working with journals (e.g. Bradshaw with Overton). ECRs act as members of PhD supervisory
 teams, led by more senior researchers. Individual supervisors are appointed on the basis of
 expertise, but teams are planned with a view to bringing in less experienced staff in order to ensure
 a sustainable supervision culture. All staff undertake formal supervisory and viva chair training
 and act as internal reviewers on registration and transfer panels. Involving ECRs brings recent
 doctoral experiences into teams and ensures that they gain experience of these processes.

 Our sabbatical policy allows staff to concentrate on enhancing their research portfolios. During the
 REF period, eighteen staff (40%) were awarded a period of sabbatical leave. This time enabled
 staff to complete major sole-authored texts and submit grant applications (e.g. McDonald, Nurse,
 Ward). Staff development funds are available to support specialist research training and
 attendance at international and national conferences. Staff who come from practice backgrounds
 are encouraged to register for PhDs (e.g. Cracknell from the probation service).

 We have established research-related training and support for staff and doctoral students through
 the University-wide Researcher Development Programme. We also offer more specific training
 and support through the Faculties and Schools. Within the School of Law (includes staff in Social
 Policy, Sociology, Criminology, Politics and Law), senior academics (Duke and Howard [Law])
 convene a series of Research and Publishing Support Workshops each term which have covered
 applying for research funding, writing for journals, developing book proposals, and conducting

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 reviews. These have been well attended with around 90% of ECRs in the School participating. A
 lunch-time, Work-in-Progress Seminar Series is organised by ECRs from this UoA (Papadouka,
 Kaur, Saini, Gibbs, Bleakley) for all staff and PhD students to present their work and obtain
 feedback. Staff with expertise in particular research methods (e.g. Papadouka on data mining)
 run training and refresher sessions for staff and students called the Research Methods Studio.
 Writing retreats (entitled ‘Shut Up and Write!’) are convened each term which provide staff with
 dedicated time, space and support for writing projects. During the pandemic, all seminars, training
 and retreats moved into the online space.

 The School of Health and Education runs annual symposia which draw together researchers and
 practitioners. Recent topics have included a critical look at the rise of ‘co-production’ within social
 work and mental health research and practice, and an examination of the forces shaping policy
 on social work, teaching and nursing since the 1980s. In the Department of Mental Health and
 Social Work, early evening seminars and an annual conference are run with contributions from
 staff, students and external practitioners working in the health and social work fields. The
 Department of Adult, Child Nursing and Midwifery runs monthly ‘Scholars at Work’ symposia which
 bring together staff and students on topics that straddle practice, education and research.

 Staff are supported in their development of research impact through mentorship and advice from
 the Research Centres, alongside specific training related to developing pathways to impact within
 their research. This support has enabled staff to extend the impact of their research and to
 develop the submitted ICSs.

 2.2 Research Students

 Research students are integral to the vitality and sustainability of our research culture and are
 embedded in our Research Centres and support structures. During this REF period, the gender
 balance of postgraduate students has remained relatively stable with a mean of 49% female new
 starts; 86% of new starts were aged 30 or over and 49% are from BAME/other background.
 Similarly, the proportion of part-time to full-time students has been relatively stable with a mean of
 73% of part-time enrolments. A dedicated Research Degrees Administration Team supports our
 students throughout their studies from enrolment to awarding their degrees. The Research
 Degrees Board oversees regulations, standards, support and training and formally monitors
 student progress. Each Department has a dedicated Research Degrees Coordinator (RDC) who
 oversees admissions, supervision and progression, ensures that University policy and procedure
 is implemented and acts as a crucial link between supervisory teams and Faculty-level initiatives.
 As part of the recruitment and selection process, students must complete a research proposal and
 are interviewed by the RDC and a potential Director of Studies. Students work with a Director of
 Studies and one or two supporting supervisors. Progression reports are completed twice per year.

 Our staff supervised 89 doctorates to completion with an average of 13 students completing each
 year (Table 2.1). This figure has remained stable since the last REF. Some students have been
 supported with University studentships, matched funded studentships (e.g. Alcohol Change UK
 and RESPOND) and studentships via EU Projects (e.g. RESL.eu), as well as opportunities to work
 as research assistants. Reflecting our strong links with professional services, five part-time PhD
 students were funded by the London Probationary Trust and we also act as academic advisors for
 senior professionals undertaking DProfs. To enable intellectual and professional development,
 staff receive a fee waiver when registering for a doctoral degree.

 Table 2.1: PhD/DProf completions during REF period

               2013/14     2014/15    2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20     Total
  PhD          4           5          7          8          12         7          12          55
  DProf        8           4          8          7          5          1          1           34
  TOTAL:       12          9          15         15         17         8          13          89


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Training for doctoral students and ECRs is provided at the University level through the Researcher
 Development Programme. We complement this with a series of training events convened by
 Faculties and Schools which provide inductions and discipline-specific research training. The
 programme consists of sessions focusing on specific skills/resources students will need during
 their research journeys and future careers and provides them with opportunities to meet other
 researchers, share ideas and network, particularly appreciated by our high proportion of part-time,
 working research students. They are delivered by subject specialists on campus as well as online,
 which in common with other virtual events, has facilitated the participation of our particular profile
 of student. At University level, students are also supported via research and writing retreats and
 well-being seminars and we have emphasised and increased the availability of the latter during
 the pandemic. An annual University-wide Research Student Summer Conference is held for
 students to present their work in oral or poster sessions.

 At School level, students are also supported through the provision of training and opportunities to
 present their work-in-progress. In the School of Law, the Bi-annual Doctoral Seminar runs for two
 days each term. Staff and students from law, politics, social policy, sociology and criminology
 present their work-in-progress in an inclusive environment. We also convene training sessions on
 writing, publishing and presenting. Social events, such as historic walks, theatre trips, book clubs
 and dinners, are also arranged for our students to get to know each other in more informal spaces.
 PhD students may apply for financial support for conference attendance where papers are
 accepted.

 During the pandemic, the delivery of seminars, workshops and retreats, as well as induction events
 have moved online, generally increasing participation. A virtual Research Coffee Club was
 established to allow supervisors and students to meet online regularly and share ideas and
 experiences. Research progression boards considered the impact of the pandemic on academic
 progress, along with other extenuating circumstances, and devised a form to record difficult
 circumstances on behalf of students. This allowed supervisors to request extensions for students
 and to highlight if students had been disadvantaged financially.

 We provide doctoral students with dedicated shared office spaces with access to networked
 computers, as well as laptop loans. The Middlesex University Library is open 24/7 and students
 have access to specialist librarians to assist with searches and to many other university and
 research institute libraries in London. During the pandemic, library services continue to be fully
 accessible online.

 The University is at the forefront of developments in Professional Doctorates. The Specialist
 Validated Pathways (SVP) M/DProf Framework comprises pathways relevant to our UoA
 including: Health, Environment, Risk, Social Care, and Psychology. Each year, there are 3 expert
 seminars for students led by industry professionals and academics on the core SVP themes:
 Leadership, Followership and Transformational Change. A central aim of the SVP DProf
 researcher is that of impacting sustainable change within organisations. Their training includes
 an induction programme, review of learning module and a practitioner research module, which
 runs for one academic year and culminates in a ‘transfer’ stage, leading to a programme plan
 approved for either MProf (equal to MPhil) or DProf (equal to PhD). The candidate has two
 Middlesex University academic advisors. The SVP M/DProf Framework is affiliated to the Work
 and Learning Research Centre and other Research Centres relevant to candidate pathways.
 Candidates are encouraged to write up their research impact in journals and present their work at
 the bi-annual International Conference on Professional and Practice Doctorates. Examples of
 impacting SVP M/DProf research projects include: service user involvement in mental health
 nursing; cultural competence in healthcare commissioning; and barriers and opportunities for
 black NHS nurses’ professional development.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 Equality, diversity and inclusion are core University values which shape our policies and practices
 across teaching, knowledge exchange and research, how we work with colleagues and how we
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 engage in wider society. Our submission includes 45 people, of whom 60% are female. In terms
 of age: 29% are between 31-40 years; 16% between 41-50 years; 31% between 51-60 years; and
 24% are 61 years or over. None have a disability. Our ethnic and national diversity is reflected in
 the fact that 58% of our staff are either from BAME (11%) or non-British backgrounds (47%). The
 international backgrounds of our staff have been important assets in developing our international
 research partnerships.

 Nine (20%) of our submitted staff are full Professors (6 female and 3 male), 10 (22%) are Associate
 Professors (5 female and 5 male), 11 (24%) are Senior Lecturers/Senior Research Fellows (6
 female and 5 male) and 15 (33%) are Lecturers/Research Fellows (10 female and 5 male). In
 terms of contract type, 71% are on Academic, 9% on Research and 20% on Senior Manager
 contracts. The majority have full-time appointments (87%), with the staff on part-time
 appointments having requested this arrangement. The majority have permanent contracts (96%)
 which offer security and career development for staff and sustainability to our UoA. Wherever
 possible, staff on fixed-term contracts are made permanent (eg. two researchers in the Centre for
 Critical Research in Nursing and Midwifery were made permanent in the last 3 years) or they are
 given extensions and support with further funding.

 We have made a point of developing an inclusive, collegiate and supportive culture where staff
 share their experiences and expertise and assist each other in their research development.
 Diversity is valued in all its forms as a resource to achieve an outstanding research environment.
 University Equality Networks (Race, Interfaith, LGBT+, Gender, Disability and Carers) provide
 supportive and safe spaces for all staff. Our researchers play leading roles in these forums,
 conducting research on equality and diversity issues and exchanging knowledge within the
 University (e.g. SPRC researchers ran a workshop on the findings of the EU DIVERCITY project
 for the LGBT+ Forum). A grassroots group, HAREDIN (Healthcare Academic Race Equality
 and Diversity Inclusivity Network), emerged within the School of Health and Education as a
 staff response to improve diversity within the University, along with a sister group developed by
 students, SHAREDIN. They have organised a series of seminars aimed at staff and students, 73%
 of whom within health are from BAME backgrounds (compared to just over half of the nursing
 workforce in London, for example).

 Clear arrangements exist for ensuring equality of opportunity within our UoA, including for parental
 leave, remote working, religious observance, flexible working to accommodate family, health or
 other circumstances and a commitment to reintegrate staff on their return to work from parental
 leave or from an absence due to illness or disability. These are supported by clear policies and
 well-entrenched in our culture. Family-friendly policies are reflected in our staff development and
 events programmes, where we always ensure that scheduling accommodates those with caring
 responsibilities. All support measures for research – study and sabbatical leave, training,
 conference participation, internal funding schemes and support with grant applications – are
 transparent and accessible to everyone through open calls. Previous allocations are also
 considered to ensure that an equitable distribution is maintained. We advertise and interview for
 all leadership roles to ensure equality of opportunity and key positions are allocated based on
 ability and motivation. All departments operate with standard workload models in which annual
 research allowances are allocated transparently, based on past performance and credible work
 plans.

 Our support and training for PhD students has been designed to create an inclusive community.
 Supervisors and Departmental PhD Co-ordinators provide mechanisms through which students
 can raise concerns about their studies as well as their general well-being. University procedures
 are in place to avoid students being disadvantaged as result of ill-health or other circumstances
 which may disrupt their studies. Students are able to apply for an extension to their studies of up
 to 12 months and for an interruption to their studies of up to 12 months.

 All staff and students are supported by an extensive range of well-being services and support
 including occupational health and counselling, as well as yoga, meditation, sports, and social
 activities. During the pandemic, staff and students in our UoA were well supported with equipment
                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 to work from home and flexible working approaches for colleagues with children and other caring
 responsibilities.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in our REF submission

 It was our priority that a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion would be reflected in all
 stages of the development of our REF submission. Drafts of this Environment Statement have
 been circulated to all UoA colleagues, the majority of whom have commented. The selection of
 outputs was conducted by a REF UoA Working Group composed of nine volunteer members (four
 female), three at professorial level (Traynor, Duke, Kofman), four mid-career researchers
 (Weaver, Hough, Keles, Martellozzo) and two ECRs (Bleakley, Bailey-Rodriguez). The
 selection process was fully transparent with staff nominating their top-5 publications based on REF
 quality criteria. These were each peer reviewed and rated by two members of the Working Group
 who agreed a rating. The selection process then followed: 1) inclusion of all staff’s first (best)
 nominated output; 2) inclusion of other highest ranking outputs (up to a maximum of 5 per staff
 member) based on the ratings. The selected outputs broadly reflect the demographic profile of our
 staff in the UoA discussed above with outputs by women at 58% and by BAME staff at 9%. The
 four impact case studies were chosen after consultation with internal and external assessors
 based on the strength of their documented impact and underlying research base. Each case study
 illustrates collaboration involving staff at different career levels (e.g. EPPIC involves Thom and
 Duke (Professors), Herring (Senior Research Fellow) and Gleeson (Research Fellow), three of
 the case studies are led by women and one by a BAME colleague. The conduct of our Working
 Group and its processes were overseen by the University REF Equality and Diversity Panel.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Our strategy is to attract income from a range of funders to cover our diverse range of interests
 from the more theoretical investigations through to applied research. During this REF period, we
 have increased our research funding from GBP4,969,269 (2008-2013) to GBP5,893,901 (2014-
 2020), an increase of nearly GBP925,000. Table 3.1 shows diversity in funding sources and
 reflects our growing international research collaborations and reach, especially through EU
 funding and the policy-oriented nature of our research through UK government bodies.

 Table 3.1: Research funding by source

  Source                          GBP
  EU Government bodies            2,773,316
  UK Government bodies            1,646,182
  UK based charities              742,440
  OST Research Councils           371,157
  EU Other                        198,975
  Other overseas                  145,795
  UK Industry                     24,377
  Other                           1,317
  Total funding:                  5,893,901


 Types and amounts of funding vary from substantial sums awarded to international team projects
 to smaller sums from a variety of sources. Some examples of funded activities include:



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Social Policy Research Centre

 The urgent policy themes of migration, equality, rights and employment have been examined in
 various funded projects including DIVERCITY (2015-2017, Kofman, Howard [Law], Harding,
 GBP37,787), an EU project mapping homophobia and transphobia and policy responses; and
 EVI-MED (2016-2017, Blitz, D’Angelo, Kofman, Montagna, GBP161,445), an ESRC-DFID
 funded project exploring migration reception processes. A focus on working conditions
 characterise the EU project, Job Quality and Industrial Relations in Personal and Household
 Sector (2018-2020, Kofman, Howard [Law], GBP27,169). A large, cross-national project
 examined school leaving among young people, RESL.eu – Reducing Early School Leaving in the
 EU, (2013-2018, D’Angelo, Ryan, GBP876,625).

 Research on families, children and the home have been explored through funded projects at local,
 national and international levels, including an examination of the family support needs of the
 Jewish population in Barnet (2017, Kofman, GBP48,666); The impact on children of the Family
 Migration Rules, Office of the Children’s Commissioner, with JCWI, (2015, Wray [Law] and
 Kofman), and Families on the Move, Progress of the World’s Women, UN Women (2019-2020,
 Kofman).

 Smaller projects on gender and social justice have led to winning highly competitive major GCRF
 grants. For example, Bradshaw’s British Academy small grant, Bridging the Humanitarian-
 Development Divide (2014–2015, GBP4616); Evidence Synthesis Award for the ESRC/DFID Joint
 Poverty Alleviation Fund (2014–2015, GBP29,102); and her work on the ADEPT project funded
 under RCUK-CONFAP Research Partnership scheme (2015-2016, GBP43,321), provided the
 foundation for her appointment as thematic lead on Gender and Intersectionality for the Gender
 Responsive Resilience and Intersectionality in Policy and Practice (GRRIPP) – UKRI-GCRF
 Collective Programme award (2019–2023, GBP68,250; GBP5,100,000 total grant).

 Similarly, Kofman’s earlier work on gender and migration, Investigating the Sustainable Livelihood
 Generation for Craftswomen in Azad Kashmir (Pakistan), (2016-2018, with Raina [Art and
 Design], GBP85,206) and The Responsible Deal: protection of Syrian refugees (funded by
 Wellcome Trust, Volkswagen Stiftung and Riksbankens Jubileumsfond through the Europe and
 Global Challenges Initiative and held by LSE), laid the foundations to Kofman being appointed as
 the Co-Director of the Migration and Displacement Stream and member of the Executive Group
 of the Gender, Justice and Security, UKRI GCRF Hub (2019-2024, GBP1,200,000, total grant
 GBP15, 200,000).

 Centre for Criminological and Social Research

 A number of large, cross-national projects have been undertaken. The EU TIE project focused on
 tackling illegal economies (2013-2015, Ruggiero, GBP12,887) and the EU Horizon 2020
 TAKEDOWN project focused on organised crime, terrorism and the development of security
 solutions for practitioners (2016-2019, Ruggiero, GBP219,313) with 18 EU partners, including the
 Middlesex team.

 Work on smaller grants has led to larger, more complex funded projects. For example, McDonald
 gained a British Academy small grant in 2018 to undertake explorations of radicalisation which led
 to his recent Horizon 2020 project on Analysing and Preventing Extremism (PARTICIPATION)
 (2020-2023, EUR244,000). Nurse gained funding from the League Against Cruel Sports (2015,
 GBP29,000) to explore violence and animals which led to a larger project funded by Defra (2018-
 2020, GBP71,621) to examine Dangerous Dogs and Dog Ownership (see impact case study).
 Trebilcock and Weaver were co-investigators on two linked evaluations of the National Offender
 Personality Disorder (OPD) Pathway Programmes (for males and females) led by Bristol
 University and funded by National Offender Management Service and NHS England (2014-16;
 2017-2019, GBP72,750).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies

 Since 2014, CATS researchers have been successful in obtaining funding from European and UK
 sources to examine children’s online safety and the prevention of child sexual abuse. A large EU
 project was conducted into online child safety (2014-2017 ISEC, GBP547,747). Horvath and
 Martellozzo conducted research on the effects of online pornography on young people for the
 Children’s Commissioner/NSPCC (2015, GBP74,934).                The Children’s Commissioner
 commissioned Horvath to undertake an evidence assessment of intrafamilial child sexual abuse
 and a review of the impact of pornography on young people (2014, GBP44,855). Martellozzo and
 DeMarco conducted research for the Internet Watch Foundation (2016, GBP50,000) on the
 removal of illegal content online relating to young people and the Centre for Expertise on Child
 Sexual Abuse commissioned them to develop a typology of child sexual abuse offending to
 address gaps in knowledge and inconsistent approaches (2018, GBP213,976).

 Drug and Alcohol Research Centre

 DARC was awarded 3 major EU grants for cross-national, comparative research on: stakeholders
 in addiction policy (ALICE-RAP – Addictions Lifestyles in Contemporary Europe) FP7, (2011-2016,
 Thom and Duke, GBP151,398); Standardising Measurement of Alcohol-related Troubles
 (RAHRA), EAHC, (2014-2016, Thom, GBP37,871); and co-ordinated Exchanging Prevention
 Practices on Polydrug Use among Youth in Criminal Justice Systems (EPPIC), 2017-2020, 3rd
 Health Programme (Chafea) (Duke and Thom, GBP511,852 total grant) (see impact case study).

 Several projects were funded by Alcohol Change UK: Identification and Brief Advice interventions
 in non-medical settings (2013-2015, Thom and Herring, GBP54,520); evidence review on
 interventions in BAME communities (2019, Gleeson and Thom, GBP19,677); and treatment
 pathways for Polish communities (2017-2019, Herring and Gleeson, GBP103,477).

 Weaver has been a co-investigator on large NIHR grants in partnership with King’s College, UCL,
 and Imperial College. This includes evaluations of contingency management (CM) in drug
 treatment settings (2009-2016, GBP2.5M total grant) and a number of mental health interventions:
 Evaluation of a Social Network Intervention for Severe Mental Illness (ODDESSI) (2017-2022,
 GBP257,320); Characteristics and needs of long-stay patients in high and medium secure
 forensic-psychiatric care (2013-2016, GBP83,398); and Evaluation of the Enablement Programme
 in Barnet, Enfield & Haringey Mental Health NHS Trust (2016-2018, GBP34,556).

 Centre for Critical Research in Nursing and Midwifery

 The Centre’s main funders are Health Education England (HEE) and CapitalNurse, an HEE
 funded initiative to promote recruitment and retention of nurses within the capital. The Centre was
 commissioned by London HEE to evaluate the pilot of a new nursing role (2016, Traynor,
 GBP67,360) and investigate education in clinical practice (GBP78,364). Between 2015 and 2017,
 in collaboration with the University of Surrey, a study was funded by the Burdett Trust for Nursing
 on the delegation of clinical work to support workers, evaluating a tool developed by Allan’s
 previous research (GBP8000). The Centre undertook a national evaluation of the Department of
 Health’s ‘Compassion in Practice Vision and Strategy’ (2018, Allan, GBP20,000). Other work
 included a mixed-methods study into the role of nurses in Clinical Commissioning Groups (2015,
 Allan, GBP8,000) and an evaluation of the CapitalNurse programme which addressed
 employment issues for the NHS in London (2019-20, Allan, GBP19,500).

 Research Centre for Transcultural Studies in Health

 The Centre has received European funding for various aspects of its IENE programme
 (Intercultural Education of Nurses in Europe), including GBP17,000 by EU LdV Partnerships
 (2013-15) to produce tools for Intercultural Education of Nurses in Europe (IENE3) and
 GBP222,214 for a project on strengthening health care professionals’ capacity to deliver culturally
 competent and compassionate care (IENE4). The Centre was also funded by EU ERASMUS+
                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (2015-2017) KA2 Strategic Partnership for a project on promotion of intercultural communication
 and patient safety (IENE5) within healthcare teams (GBP181,635). In 2017, the Centre became a
 collaborator in a large, joint European (Horizon 2020) and Japanese (Ministry of Internal Affairs
 and Communication) funded project into the development of ‘culturally competent’, artificially
 intelligent, socially-assistive humanoid robots (total grant GBP2,318,000; GBP225,092 to
 Middlesex), contributing theoretical underpinnings, definitions of cultural competence and relevant
 content that formed the basis for programming the robot (see impact case study).

 3.2 Infrastructure

 Our Research Centres are at the heart of our research infrastructure. They provide the framework
 and opportunities for team working and mentoring and mutual support of ECRs. They bring
 together a range of expertise around subjects and methodologies and create the space to develop
 interdisciplinary exchange and collaboration. They also provide vibrant arenas for dissemination,
 co-production and knowledge exchange activities with non-academic users of our research in
 policy and practice settings.

 Funded research is supported by the central Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO)
 through three main teams involved in assisting with grant development, knowledge exchange,
 collaborative research and impact achievement. Support with funding applications is also
 provided at School level by the Research, KT and Ethics Committees and through our Research
 Centres. All funding applications are internally reviewed and signed off by Heads of Schools. In
 some cases, preparatory work has been funded in advance, through internal grants to allow
 projects to be scaled up. With our increasing focus on collaboration and interdisciplinarity in
 research bids, the RKTO and the Research Centres assist in seeking partners beyond colleagues’
 personal networks. Collaborations between senior and junior researchers are developed to
 provide opportunities for ECRs to participate in funded research projects.

 Each Faculty has a Deputy Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange and each Department
 has a Research Lead who has responsibility for research activities and research processes in their
 area. There are also dedicated Faculty Events Coordinators for research activities and events.

 Alongside competitive external funding, our researchers benefit from the University’s policy of
 focused investment. The University invests approximately GBP500,000 per annum to support
 research and knowledge exchange in social policy, social work, health, criminology and sociology
 (contributions from REF, HEIF funds and overheads from research and knowledge transfer
 income). During this REF period, this enabled the appointment of 8 researchers on fixed-term
 contracts to assist with projects, publications and dissemination activities. It has also allowed for
 the development of an internal seedcorn funding scheme where all staff can apply for funding (up
 to GBP5000) for supporting research (e.g. exploratory or scoping studies), developing
 impact/knowledge exchange (e.g. workshops and training), and dissemination events (e.g.
 roundtables, seminars and conferences). In its four years of operation, it has funded 46 projects
 to support staff in this UoA.

 3.3 Facilities

 Since the mid-2000s, the University has invested over GBP250,000,000 in developing the Hendon
 campus where we are located, providing an environment highly conducive to research. This
 included a GBP2,100,000 refurbishment of the Williams Building where social policy, politics,
 criminology, sociology and nursing staff are located and a GBP680,000 renovation of a building
 to house the Centre for Abuse and Trauma Studies. Over the REF period, the University has
 invested GBP12,600,000 in facilities and equipment to support research. The campus provides
 state-of-the-art facilities for our growing programme of events and conferences including a video-
 conferencing suite, networked lecture theatres and dedicated meeting/event spaces.

 The state-of-the-art Sheppard Library provides access to over 150,000 serial titles via Library
 Search, in addition to over 350,000 print and electronic books. The Library also offers researchers
                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 a free service to source materials not held in the collection. Librarians provide expert subject
 support and termly training sessions on citation searching and RefWorks. The Library’s Research
 Support Services Team manages the Eprints Research Repository which supports discovery of
 research by Middlesex authors and holds well over 20,000 items.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Interdisciplinarity and cross-sector collaboration are at the core of our practice and strategy. At
 national and international levels, we continue to conduct joint research with many universities and
 with local and central government, charitable trusts, and third sector organisations. The following
 examples are a representative, but not comprehensive, snapshot of our contribution to the
 research base, economy and society during the REF period:

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 We have led or participated in 51 international and 42 national collaborations. Involvement varies
 depending on the project (e.g. leader, partner, expert advisor). Indicators of success include a
 range of successfully completed projects and dissemination in a variety of formats and impact.

 Global collaborative projects: Gender, Justice and Security, UKRI GCRF Hub; Gender Responsive
 Resilience and Intersectionality in Policy and Practice UKRI-GCRF Collective Programme.

 EC collaborative projects (selected): Addiction Lifestyles in Contemporary Europe (ALICE-RAP);
 Standardizing measurement of alcohol related troubles (RARHA); Exchanging Prevention
 Practices on Polydrug Use among Youth in CJS (EPPIC); Mapping LGBT-phobia (DIVERCITY);
 Reducing Early School Leaving (RESL.eu); EU online child safety; Involvement in Terrorist and
 Organised Crime Networks (TAKEDOWN); Preventing Extremism (PARTICIPATION); Culturally
 Competent and Compassionate Care (IENE4); Culturally Aware Robots (CARESSES).

 Collaborative funded research (selected): Bristol University (Ministry of Justice): National Offender
 Personality Disorder Pathway Programme (Trebilcock, Weaver); La Trobe University (Australian
 Research Council): youth drinking (Herring), Stirling University and Edinburgh University (Scottish
 Government): Prevention of Drug Deaths post-COVID-19 (Thom); University of Strathclyde
 (Mental Health Foundation): Older people, mental health, and suicide (Gleeson); Northumbria
 University: Violence to Animals (Nurse); KCL, Imperial College, UCL and Nottingham University:
 NIHR funded collaborations (Weaver); LSE: Integration of Syrian Refugees (Kofman).

 Collaborative unfunded research (selected): Vrije University, Young Adults Sentencing Reform
 (Ward); University of New South Wales, Drug policy ideologies in UK and Australia (Duke);
 University of New England: New paths for historical criminology (Bleakley); Urban Creativity
 Research Network (Hansen); University of Montreal: LGBTQI migration (Gleeson); City
 University: Democracy and Business (Hawthorne); Mashad University, Iran: Reproductive health
 (Allan).

 In recognition of the quality of the research undertaken by the SPRC, the Centre was invited by
 IMISCOE (International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion in Europe) in 2014 to become
 an institutional member. This is the largest network of institutions conducting migration research
 (55 universities across Europe, Australia and Canada) and offers opportunities to participate in its
 conferences and PhD workshops and provides funding for open access publications. Since 2017,
 a journal article, book chapter and book have been funded for SPRC staff.

 4.2 Engagement with key research users and diverse communities and publics

 Our researchers have developed strong, reciprocal relationships with various research users and
 audiences to co-create impact. These collaborations with practitioners, policy makers and other
                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 stakeholders have enriched our research culture by providing key insights into the implementation
 of evidence into policy and practice and in turn how policy and practice influence research
 questions and designs. Beyond the four ICSs submitted, staff provide advice, expertise and
 consultancy on the development of policy and practice at various levels, based on their research
 findings. This work will continue to be developed into the next REF assessment period. Key
 examples include:

    •   Bradshaw is a regular expert advisor to the UN on gender, inclusion and human rights
        (UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction,
        UN Research Institute for Social Development). This work will continue under her recent
        GCRF collaboration.
    •   McDonald leads workshops on radicalisation with Prevent and Counter-Terrorism Police
        and for schoolteachers involved in safeguarding. This work continues with the EU
        PARTICIPATION project.
    •   Kaur is an expert member of the Digital Skills and Inclusion Research Working Group for
        the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport and involved in developing a ‘Digital
        engagement – what works’ toolkit.
    •   Aybak contributes to the Genocide Awareness Programme organised by the German
        Federal Agency for Civic Education and trains Kurdish activists and politicians in public
        advocacy in the Houses of Commons and Lords.
    •   Hingley-Jones works with social workers, voluntary organisations and range of service
        users to improve professional practice around guardianship.
    •   Ward’s research on youth sentence reviews engages youth offending services and
        informed the development of youth court provision.
    •   Bleakley provides consultancy to the Institute for Criminal Justice Training Reform (USA)
        on global police training standards to improve police practice.
    •   Allan’s work with Fertility Network UK and HEE (Health Education England) includes
        service users and practitioners as collaborators and engages patients as co-authors.
    •   Hough’s research on ecocide and climate change is cited in high level publications by
        NATO, UK Parliament Defence Committee, and the International Law Commission. He has
        briefed diplomats of the Commonwealth Secretariat on climate change policy and the
        National Farmers Union on pesticide policy.
 Our researchers regularly provide expert oral and written advice and evidence to Parliamentary
 Committees and government commissions to inform the development of policy. Examples include:
 Education Select Committee (Horvath); Specialist Advisor to House of Lords Select Committee
 on Alcohol Strategy (Thom); Health and Social Care Committee (Duke); Public Accounts
 Committee on Improving the Prison Estate (Cracknell); Commission on Race and Ethnic
 Disparities (Saini).

 Our researchers also sit in official advisory capacities to numerous committees, groups and
 networks across a range of policy and practice areas in which they share their research skills,
 knowledge and expertise. Examples include:

  Ciclitira     British Psychoanalytic Council Task Force for LGBT+ issues
  Porteous      Youth Justice Board Victims Advisory Group
  Weaver        BEH Mental Health Trust Enablement Board
  Martellozzo   Police Foundation/ UK Council for Child Internet Safety (UKCCIS)
  Nurse         Wild Animal Welfare Committee
  Allan         UCH London Nurses Charity
  McDonald      EU Radicalisation Awareness Network & EU Expert Network on Terrorism
  DeMarco       National Volunteer Police Cadet Programme

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Horvath        Safe Choices Programme, Children’s Society
  Duke           Department of Health Advisory Group, drug recovery wings in prisons
  Thom           WHO Expert Group, Alcohol brief interventions for primary care

 Raising public awareness about our research findings and engaging wider publics in research
 debates are important elements of our strategy. We do this through strategic engagement with
 the media, creating podcasts and films, writing accessible blogs, social media activity and special
 events for the wider public.

 Our researchers made over 80 national and international television and radio appearances. We
 contributed over 100 commentaries to newspapers and magazines. We provided commentary on
 a diverse range of issues including terrorist attacks, racism, online exploitation, dangerous dogs,
 migration, state crisis in Turkey, climate change, pesticides, unpaid carers, cybercrime,
 pornography, substance use and young people, corporate fraud, and domestic tension during the
 COVID-19 lockdown.

 Our staff contributed to 45 blogs to online outlets with reach beyond the academy including The
 Conversation, LSE Impact Blog, Foundation of Nursing Studies, WHO Global Health Network, The
 Informer (RUSI), European Society for Prevention Research, and Discover Society. We have
 contributed 12 blogs to MDX Minds (the University’s blogsite). The majority (75%) of staff are
 active on twitter and other social media and use these platforms to engage diverse publics, debate
 topics and share research findings.

 Many of our researchers have developed innovative and creative ways to engage publics beyond
 the academy. Acik’s work, Conversations on Radicalisation, led to a gallery installation for the
 ESRC Festival of Science, a set of postcards and video for young people. Using photo essays,
 Hansen has developed showcases for the general public on ‘Against Racism’ and ‘Social Impacts
 of COVID-19'. Bleakley is working as an historical consultant with producers from Audible to
 create podcasts on victims of corruption related to his current book. Guest’s research influenced
 the development of the Echoes of Holloway Exhibition (Islington Museum) and workshops for the
 general public. The DARC regularly hosts a showing of the annual ‘Recovery Street Film Festival’
 which brings together academics, practitioners, service users, and the general public. Traynor
 and Allan organised the NHS 70th anniversary event, Nurses’ Tales: a day of reckoning,
 discussion and debate, which involved former NHS and trade union leaders, patient activists and
 resulted in a co-produced publication. Their Research Centre released a series of briefings on
 urgent policy topics for nursing and the NHS. These included critical analysis of the Nursing
 Associate role (2016), the impact of the junior doctors’ strike on nursing (2016) and the scrapping
 of bursaries for student nurses (2017).

 4.3 Journal editorship/editorial board membership

 Twelve colleagues are Editors-in Chief/Editors of journals or book series: Traynor: Health: an
 interdisciplinary journal for the social study of health, illness and medicine; Horvath: Journal of
 Sexual Aggression; Porteous: Safer Communities; Kofman and Keles: Work, Employment and
 Society; Duke and Herring: Drugs: education, prevention and policy; Hansen: Nuart Journal and
 Visual Studies; McDonald: Series Editor, Social Movements, Routledge; Nurse: Series editor for
 Palgrave Studies in Green Criminology; Thom: Series editor: Critical perspectives in the regulation
 of pleasure, Emerald; Bradshaw: Editor, Gender and Natural Hazards Encyclopedia, OUP.

 Eleven members serve on editorial/advisory boards of 16 journals/book series: British Journal of
 Criminology, Critical Criminology, Journal of White Collar and Corporate Crime, ‘Diritto e Giustizia
 Minorile’, Justice, Power and Resistance, International Journal of Law (Ruggiero); Safer
 Communities (Sothcott and Cracknell); Hypatia (Christou); Social Movement Studies (McDonald),
 Women’s Studies International Forum (Horvath); Psychology of Women and Equalities Review,
 Annual Review of Critical Psychology (Ciclitira); International Journal of Environmental Research
 and Public Health (Thom); Global Security: Health, Science, Policy (Hough); Diasporas and

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Transnationalism, Edinburgh University Press (Christou); Journal of International Wildlife Law
 and Policy (Nurse).

 Our members regularly review papers for over 88 different journals and book proposals for over
 20 publishers.

 4.4 Participation on grants committees/refereeing research proposals

 Our colleagues contribute to various national and international grants committees: ESRC Peer
 Review College (Bradshaw, Thom, Kofman); ESRC UK in a Changing Europe Senior
 Fellowships Panel; Norwegian Research Council (Kofman); Alcohol Research UK (Thom);
 European Union Research Executive Agency (McDonald); Belgian Science Policy Office (Duke).

 Our members regularly review grant applications from over 24 national and international funding
 bodies including ESRC, MRC, AHRC, NIHR, UKRI Fellowships, Leverhulme, British Academy,
 Nuffield Foundation, EU Horizon 2020, SSHRC (Canada), Australian Research Council, Home
 Office, Ministry of Justice, Department of Health, Public Health England, Royal Society of New
 Zealand, German Research Foundation, Austrian Science Fund, Centre for Expertise on Child
 Sexual Abuse, and NSPCC.

 4.5 Fellowships/Honorary and Visiting Professorships

 Kofman was made Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in 2020. McDonald held the
 Jacques Leclercq Professorship, Université Catholique de Louvain, Belgium (2015–2016).
 Traynor was awarded a Fellowship of the Royal College of Nursing for his research contribution
 in 2019.

 Our members held a number of visiting professorships/fellowships: Bielefeld University, Germany
 (Kofman); Institute of Global Affairs, LSE (Kofman, Keles); University of Loughborough
 (Christou); University of Bergamo (Montagna); Aix-Marseille University (Ruggiero); UCL, KCL
 and Imperial (Weaver); Aarhus University; LSHTM; and UWS (Thom); Savitribai Phule Pune
 University and Centre d’Analyse et d’Intervention Sociologiques (McDonald); University of New
 England (Nurse); Institut for Sundhedstjenesteforskning, University of Southern Denmark
 (Traynor).

 4.6 Awards/prizes

 Our staff have been given prestigious awards for their research: Ruggiero was honoured with a
 Lifetime Achievement Award by the American Society of Criminology (2016) and received the
 American Society of Criminology Outstanding Book Award (2019); Weaver won the European
 Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction Scientific Paper Award (2015). Chitongo (DProf
 student) won the Mary Seacole award for her research into maternal mortality of BAME women.

 4.7 Contributions to national and international committees/associations

 Contributions were made to various national and international committees and associations:
 Divisions of International Criminology and Critical Criminology of the American Society of
 Criminology (Ruggiero); Development Studies Association (Hawthorne); Chair of Scientific
 Committee, RCN Research Society (Traynor); Co-Convenor of BSA Race & Ethnicity Study
 Group (Saini); Psychology of Women and Equalities Section, British Psychological Society
 (Ciclitira); Council for At-Risk Academics (Martellozzo); International Visual Sociology
 Association (Hansen); Research Advisory Group, Howard League of Penal Reform (Trebilcock);
 Steering Group, British Society Green Criminology Network (Nurse); Steering Group, Australia
 and New Zealand Historical Criminology Network (Bleakley); Steering Committee, Centre for
 Peace and Human Security, American University of Kurdistan (Keles); International expert
 member of SSHRC (Canada) (Kofman).

                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.8 Invited keynotes/lectures and conference presentations

 During the REF period, our staff gave 322 presentations overseas, 414 in the UK and 183 invited
 keynote plenaries/lectures. These included the following:

  Bradshaw      Keynote, UN Economic Commission for Latin America, Santiago de Chile,
                2019
  DeMarco       Keynote, Slovenian National Police and Safeguarding Conference, Ljubljana,
                2019
  Duke          Expert Lecture, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Vienna, 2018
  Hansen        Keynote, Urban Creativity Conference, Lisbon, 2018
  Herring       Keynote, Drug and Alcohol Network Launch, Queens University, Belfast, 2015
  Horvath       Keynote, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm, 2019
  Hough         Keynote, Kobe University, Japan, 2018
  Keles         Keynote, University of Nawroz, Kurdistan-Iraq, 2019
  Kofman        Invited panellist, T20 Buenos Aires, 2018
  Martellozzo   Roundtable Debate, European Commission, Luxembourg, 2018
  McDonald      Keynote, East-Asia Sociology Association, Tokyo, 2019
  Porteous      Expert Lecture, DCAF, Geneva Centre on Security Sector Governance, Tunis,
                2018
  Ruggiero      Expert Lecture, Tackling Illegal Economies, European Commission, Brussels,
                2015
  Thom          Expert Lecture, Commission on Narcotic Drugs, UNICRI/UNODC, Vienna,
                2020
  Traynor       Keynote, University College Copenhagen Launch, Copenhagen, 2018



 4.9 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training/examination

 Through IMISCOE, the SPRC provides training for PhD students (e.g. summer schools in
 Barcelona (2018) and Lisbon (2019). One of our students obtained a bursary to attend the summer
 school at Princeton. Since 2014, our staff have acted as external examiners for 55 doctoral
 candidates at various universities in the UK and abroad.




                                                                                        Page 19
