Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 25

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and research areas
 Building on the University of Salford’s (UoS) previous strengths in Politics and Contemporary
 History (PCH), research in this census period in Area Studies has focused on politics, international
 relations, intelligence studies, contemporary history and societal challenges. Our Area Studies
 submission has evolved from previous submissions to European Studies (RAE2008) and Modern
 Languages and Linguistics (REF2014). In previous returns to European Studies, researchers from
 PCH were based in the European Studies Research Institute. In 2015 the Arts, Media and
 Communication Research Centre (AMCRC) was founded, based in the School of Arts, Media
 and Creative Technology (SoAMCT), to which PCH and SoAMCT researchers were relocated.

 As part of the AMCRC Strategy, a decision was made to pursue a more global outlook in Area
 Studies research and to include regions beyond Europe’s borders. Expertise in EU Studies,
 contemporary and military history, and intelligence studies has been strengthened, with
 diversification in the geographical reach of our research extending into Latin America, Eastern
 Europe, Africa and China. AMCRC’s vision for Area Studies also facilitated and supported
 investigation of wider societal issues around marginalised communities, poverty and the role of
 microfinance in Britain and Europe.

 In this submission, we return 12.6 FTE (13 staff): Bull (Professor), Searle (Professor), Newbery
 (Reader), Ward (Reader), Murphy (Senior Lecturer), Barnett (Lecturer), Chiva (Lecturer), Dron
 (Lecturer), Hall (Lecturer), Lomas (Lecturer), Maher (Lecturer), Vik (Senior Research Fellow),
 and Correia (Research Fellow). Reference to the important contributions of three leavers are
 included (Callaghan, Corum, Pieper); Pieper has contributed to REF2.

 Researchers within Area Studies are committed to engagement with the wider public, UK charities,
 security professionals, international organisations and HE institutions, to ensure positive impact
 on society. The work of the group encompasses three broad areas: politics and international
 relations; contemporary, military and intelligence history; and societal challenges. The division into
 three main areas of activity does not, however, communicate the diversity of work undertaken by
 the group. Area Studies research cuts across disciplinary boundaries, with several sub-disciplines
 represented, while interdisciplinary and collaborative research is strongly encouraged.

 i.) Politics and International Relations: Bull and Chiva have continued to research European
 politics, with Bull specialising in Italian and comparative European politics, Chiva focusing on
 issues of gender and the new democracies in Europe. Maher and Pieper have conducted research
 into civil wars, the Iranian nuclear deal, geopolitics and Russian foreign policy. Callaghan
 conducted research into ideologies of American foreign policy since 1945. Ward examined the
 use of social media in political discourse in Kenya.

 ii.) Contemporary History: Among the areas covered is intelligence history, with Lomas
 investigating British Intelligence from the 1930s to the 1960s, Newbery considering interrogation
 techniques and Murphy covert activity in India, as well as media dimensions to intelligence
 (REF3). The Cold War is a subject of investigation in work by Barnett, Callaghan and Lomas,
 including the role of Communist ideology. Corum, Hall and Searle are active in nineteenth and
 twentieth century military history, with work on technology in the era of the world wars, strategic
 culture, air power and comparative military history.

 iii.) Societal Challenges in Europe: Work by Vik examined microfinance and the role of banks
 in European societies (REF3), as well as related challenges around poverty. Correia’s work
 interrogated questions surrounding the experience of immigrant communities in Britain via the
 work of artists from BAME groups, thus resonant with current prominent social movements, such

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as Black Lives Matter. Dron and Ward examined disaffected and marginalised groups in British
 politics through analyses of social media.

 Research strategy and achievements 2014 – 2020
 Our research strategy was founded on the desire to expand our research orientation beyond
 Europe, while maintaining our previous core specialisms. This has been achieved through the
 appointments of Correia, Maher and Pieper, as well as through a new focus on China (seen in
 outputs by Murphy, Pieper and Searle). The range of outputs produced in politics/international
 relations, history and societal issues, both geographically and in terms of scholarly approach,
 provide evidence that a basis has been laid for a firm commitment to Area Studies.

 The linguistic abilities of staff, employed to good effect in the census period, provides evidence
 that a broad approach to Area Studies will be sustainable in the future. Researchers are fluent or
 native speakers in several languages: French (Pieper), German (Pieper/Searle), Italian
 (Bull/Chiva), Norwegian (Vik), Rumanian (Chiva), Russian (Pieper), Spanish
 (Maher/Newbery/Vik). In the next census period, Chinese will be part of research capability (Wu).

 The group has demonstrated a growing engagement with interdisciplinary research approaches.
 In political science, combining disaggregated/micro-level analysis with process tracing methods
 has enriched the work of Maher on civil war and development in Columbia. The work of
 behavioural psychologists has informed Searle’s research on rumour in the First Opium War
 (1839-42). Elite interview techniques have been employed in the research of Maher on Columbia,
 Pieper on contemporary issues in foreign policy and Vik on business history and microfinance.
 Lomas/Murphy have cooperated with computer specialists as part of the UoS’s contribution to
 the Greater Manchester Cyber Foundry, partly funded by the European Regional Development
 Fund.

 During his time in Salford, Pieper enriched the new emphasis on Area Studies with alternative
 approaches to understanding regions bordering on and outside Europe, exemplified by two
 accounts of his own overland travel experiences: Vom Gelben Meer bis zum Atlantik. Eine Reise
 mit der Transsibirischen Eisenbahnen, Manuela Kinsel Verlag, 2016, and Die Tür zum Balkan.
 Eine Reise von Serbien nach Griechenland, Reisebuch Verlag, 2018.

 In accordance with the recalibration of research towards Area Studies and the recruitment of
 talented early career researchers (ECRs), the major research objectives during this cycle have
 been:

 1. To create a sustainable research culture in terms of staffing levels and research funding.

 2. To facilitate the production of internationally excellent, innovative and high-quality research
 outputs, wherever possible in leading journals and/or university presses.

 3. To deliver on-time postgraduate research degree completions and promote a postgraduate
 research culture of high achievement.

 4. To work closely with practitioners and public bodies in fields relevant to our primary research
 concerns, undertaking research that leads to benefits for these organisations.

 5. To integrate new staff into the group, mentor them in their duties, encouraging them to develop
 ambitious career plans.

 6. To pursue research which is interdisciplinary and pushes methodological boundaries.

 The Unit has moved from 10.6 FTE in REF2014 to 12.6 FTE in REF2021 through recruitment of
 new staff and research income has risen substantially, from £238k (REF2014) to £808k
 (REF2021), demonstrating the achievement of objective 1. The group has authored 144 academic
 outputs (excluding blogs, shorter pieces, books other than monographs, etc.), with 54 peer-

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewed journal articles published. This return consists of seven monographs (as opposed to
 none in 2014), an edited documents collection and 21 articles. In this cycle there were 27 PhD
 completions, with students demonstrating high levels of achievement, for example, McLoughlin’s
 four articles published prior to completion of his doctorate. Researchers have worked closely with
 practitioners and many national and international organisations: Vik with the European Union
 (REF3), Corum with NATO, and Lomas/Murphy with the Greater Manchester Cyber Foundry.
 The achievements of researchers at lecturer level in publications, prizes and awards demonstrates
 a very positive outcome: six monographs have been produced by Lecturers; Barnett published by
 I.B. Tauris, Hall published by Cambridge UP, Lomas by Manchester UP, Chiva and Maher both
 published by Palgrave MacMillan and Piper by Routledge.

 The pursuit of different methodologies, the engagement with different types and forms of
 publication, demonstrate a sustained performance throughout the census period: the application
 of information management methodologies to the history of technology has taken Hall’s research
 beyond the traditional confines of military history (award-winning CUP monograph).

 Future research strategy and initiatives in development
 Our vision for the next five years is: To build on our strengths in politics, history and the addressing
 of societal challenges, encouraging research into the transnational and global aspects of interstate
 relations, technological development, war and conflict, and inform political solutions to regional,
 national and European problems.

 Aims:
    1. To broaden our research agenda to include international relations and comparative military
       history linked to China and the Pacific Rim. As part of the strategy to expand expertise in
       Chinese Studies a new appointment will be made in 2021 and two institutional partnerships
       with HEIs in China. This builds upon a guest lecture by Pieper at the Zhou Enlai School of
       Government, Nankai University (2018), arranged by Searle, resulting in an output on
       China’s Belt-and-Road Initiative (Rising Powers Quarterly, 2018).
    2. To strengthen the use of digital technologies both in our methodological approach
       (supporting the work of the Digital Humanities Lab based in MCUK) and collaboration with
       computer scientists and related academics as part of the Partnership for GM Security and
       Trust. A regional HEI partnership (University of Manchester, Lancaster University,
       Manchester Metropolitan University and University of Salford) with GCHQ.
    3. To institutionalise our commitment to interdisciplinary work through the creation of the
       Salford Centre for Interdisciplinary Historical Studies.
    4. To continue to produce internationally excellent, innovative and high-quality research
       outputs, and support colleagues to publish monographs in high-quality university presses
       and publishing houses.
    5. To increase of the level of research funding to underpin the production of high-quality work.
    6. To expand our numbers of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and promote a supportive
       and inclusive culture committed to both international quality work and timely completion.
    7. To develop the international impact of our work, including influencing public policy and
       supporting governmental organisations and stakeholders in the heritage industry.
    8. To support a culture of inclusivity and excellence with a commitment to enhancing the
       diversity of our workforce and building a vibrant research environment.

 Strategy to support current and future impact
 We return to REF3 our two strongest examples of impact during this period. The first relates to the
 European Code of Good Conduct for Microcredit Provision co-developed by Vik, a best practice
 framework for over a third of European signatories which has resulted in a more consistent and
 transparent provision of services to microfinance customers across Europe. In the second,
 Lomas, Murphy and Newbery challenged the widespread assumption that the world of
 intelligence is secret and unfathomable through public engagement activities to transform public
 and practitioner understanding of intelligence.



                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this cycle our aim has been to communicate research beyond traditional academic
 audiences as a means of influencing the perceptions and practices of wider society. This has been
 achieved through the following mechanisms:

    •   Social media (@SalfordUni_PCH – 5,600 followers) as a platform to disseminate new work
        since 2014 and engage the public in dialogue
    •   Active engagement in current affairs via Conversation articles (e.g. on Russian foreign
        policy, the Novichok poisoning of Sergei Skripal and popular intelligence-related subjects,
        such as the death of John le Carré)
    •   Contributions to print, radio and TV news reports, reaching an audience of 589 million
        (Lomas)
    •   Interviews on topical issues through the BBC News Channel, BBC2, BBC Breakfast and
        Sky News, e.g. security implications of the Manchester Arena bombing (May 2017) and
        the London Bridge and Borough Market attack (June 2017), reaching a combined audience
        of 22.5 million (Newbery)
    •   Contributions to wider public understanding of military history through regular interview
        appearances in two TV documentary series, ‘Nazi Megastructures’ and ‘Abandoned
        Engineering’ (National Geographic/PBS) (Corum)
    •   Delivery of lectures to coincide with First World War one-hundredth anniversaries (Hall,
        Searle).

 Further initiatives to facilitate broader impact in future include: establishment of the Freedom of
 Information Archive within the UoS Library (Lomas/Murphy), which is accessible to staff, students
 and the general public and seeks to improve and track public understanding of intelligence; the
 cross-university Post-Conflict, Resilience and Peace-Building Research Cluster, co-founded by
 Newbery and Magennis (UoA27), together with Lomas and Maher, in order to facilitate greater
 interdisciplinary work and public engagement; establishment of the Salford Centre for
 Interdisciplinary Historical Studies (in progress), whose membership will include all SoAMCT
 historians, as well as others drawn from the wider University community, including historians of
 architecture, technology and from the Industrial Archaeology Unit.

 Generation of research impact through these activities is being facilitated through the framework
 devised by Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE), which supports academics to develop
 annual impact action plans around their projects. The School has a dedicated Impact Coordinator
 (Vik), who meets regularly with action plan holders and leads the support and training for
 development of impact activity across the School.

 Research integrity and supporting an open research environment
 The University’s Research Code of Practice incorporates and develops the principles set out in
 the UK Research Integrity Office’s Code of Practice for Research and Universities UK’s Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity. At a local level, development of research strategy, implementation
 of associated processes and compliance with integrity and ethics policies set by the University is
 managed by the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC). Staff are required to
 undertake compulsory ethics training as part of their duties as PhD supervisors and all staff with
 a Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR) are required to serve as members of the research
 ethics panel. PGRs are strongly encouraged to participate in the Salford Postgraduate Research
 Training (SPoRT) programme (see REF5a), which provides training in research ethics. Academic
 activity cannot commence until an application for ethics approval has been submitted and approval
 received. The group has made its own contribution to School endorsement of ethics as Newbery
 chaired the School Research Ethics Panel (11/2015–05/2020) and was also a member of the
 University’s Academic Ethics Committee.

 All publications are deposited in the University of Salford Institutional Repository (USIR) and are
 accessible through the ‘Green’ or ‘Gold’ routes. All of our researchers have an ORCID identifier,
 which further increases the visibility and accessibility of their research outputs, and they are
 encouraged to hold profiles on external sites, such as ResearchGate. Some staff outputs have
 been published as Gold Open Access as the University offers funds to facilitate OA publishing.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Maher is Associate Editor of an OA journal, while Bull has consistently championed OA, including
 during his Directorship of the European Consortium for Political Research (sections 3, 4).

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development
 There are 13 research staff (12.6 FTE) across our three research areas, equally divided between
 ECRs/mid-career and more senior researchers: two Professors, two Readers, one Senior
 Lecturer, six Lecturers, one Senior Research Fellow and one Research Fellow. The core approach
 towards staff is based on mentoring (new members of staff are assigned a mentor), offering
 internal funding opportunities, encouragement of research in each member’s own specialism,
 while also strongly supporting collaborative work.

 This REF cycle has seen significant support for the move towards Area Studies via external
 recruitment, supporting the three broad areas of focus in politics, contemporary history and
 societal challenges. Recruitment has been based around reinforcing existing strengths,
 developing future expertise in regions outside Europe, whilst taking due account of teaching
 requirements. Five new full-time appointments were made (Barnett, Correia, Corum, Dron,
 Pieper), with an additional three staff moving to full-time contracts in 2015 (Hall, Lomas, Maher).
 The improved capacity of the group to research broader societal issues was a result of the
 involvement of three staff (two recruited during the census period): Correia, art historian (School
 Research Fellow); Dron (Lecturer in Digital Enterprise and Innovation, Salford Business School);
 and Vik, microfinance in Europe, history of banking (School Senior Research Fellow).
 Furthermore, to reinforce expertise in China, in late 2019, SoAMCT initiated the process of
 recruitment to the post of Lecturer in International Relations; Dr Fuzuo Wu, previously at Aalborg
 University, Denmark, was recruited in early 2020 (contract start date delayed until August 2020
 due to COVID-19). She will make a strong contribution to Politics and International Relations,
 expanding our expertise on Chinese and Indian foreign policy and climate diplomacy.

 Development of research staff
 Development is conceived as a career pathway which can begin at the level of Research Assistant
 or Research Fellow and end with a professorship or a senior role in sector-relevant organisations.
 We divide our support for moving along this pathway into three overlapping strands (development,
 training, opportunities) and it is organised at three levels: 1) PGRs; 2) ECRs, broadly defined to
 include Research Assistants, staff working towards a PhD and staff within five years of PhD
 completion; and 3) all research-active staff.

 Development and training:
 REF5a describes the institutional support for development, including the REF2021 Code of
 Practice, the annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) and the University-wide
 mentoring scheme, all of which are essential to this objective.

    •   The School has offered a sabbatical scheme since 2015, providing six sabbatical
        opportunities of 5 months duration per year. UoA25 researchers have enjoyed success in
        their applications: Hall, Lomas, Maher, Newbery and Searle have benefitted from
        sabbaticals (at the time of the decisions, four of the recipients of these sabbaticals were
        lecturers).
    •   VC Early Career Scholarships offer £1,000 research support, a reduced teaching load
        (20% additional research time) and mentoring support to assist junior researchers in the
        early stages of their career. Pieper’s field research in Russia, Kazakhstan and China,
        conducted through semi-structured elite interviews with foreign policy officials, was
        supported by a VC Early Career Scholarship, leading to a co-authored article with Maher
        on Russian intervention in Syria (Political Studies, 2020). Lomas used his VC Scholarship
        to undertake archival research in London and Maher was able to fund his attendance at
        the European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR) Winter School in Methods and
        Techniques, Bamberg, FRG, 03/2017.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Within the Unit, senior researchers team with Research Associates, ECRs or mid-career
        researchers to develop and submit bids for funding, supporting a process of learning by
        doing.
    •   Staff can seek advice about their career development by consulting the Research Group
        Lead (Searle) or the Associate Dean Research and Innovation (ADRI).

 Opportunities:
    • Vik was able to complete his PhD at UoS (2014) with a fee waiver from the School.
    • Career planning/promotion is structured around the University’s central approach of
       requiring researchers to produce a three-year personal research plan which assists them
       in taking a longer-term view of their research. Vik was promoted to Senior Research Fellow
       (2016). Murphy and Newbery were promoted to Senior Lecturer (2019); Newbery was
       subsequently promoted to Reader. Searle was promoted to Professor (2015). Callaghan
       was awarded the status of Emeritus Professor (2020).
    • Bull was seconded as Director of the European Consortium for Political Research for 6
       years (2013-19) (see section 3).
    • Searle was granted the opportunity to spend two months a year at Nankai University
       (NKU), Tianjin, 2016-19, as a Visiting Professor in the Faculty of History (regularly ranked
       in the top three history faculties in China). This has led to several positive outcomes in
       terms of research outputs and staff visits (sections 3, 4). Searle was also supported with
       a sabbatical to undertake a Visiting Fellowship to the Changing Character of War
       Programme, Pembroke College, Oxford (2016/17).

 Promoting a culture of achievement
 In order to achieve our objective (section 1) of publishing excellent research, researchers have
 sought to create an environment conducive to the creation of a strong body of academic work but
 extending well beyond journal articles and monographs. Staff have established national and
 international reputations across a range of fields through their publications, projects and other
 scholarly activities. Of the seven monographs returned, three were published by major university
 presses (1 X Cambridge UP, 2 X Manchester UP), the other four by respected academic
 publishers (1 X Routledge, 2 X Palgrave-MacMillan, 1 X I.B. Tauris).

 Three academic textbooks were published in the census period: Callaghan, et al., Ideologies of
 American Foreign Policy, Routledge Studies in US Foreign Policy 2019; Lomas/Murphy,
 Intelligence and Espionage: Secrets and Spies, Routledge Seminar Studies in History 2019;
 Searle, Armoured Warfare: A Military, Political and Global History, Bloomsbury Academic 2017.
 Newbery co-authored a book with former intelligence chief Brian Stewart on the utility of
 intelligence (Why Spy? 2015).

 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience
 The Unit has a healthy culture of PhD supervision, reflected in the number of PhD degree awards
 for this REF cycle which stands at 27. The ADRI via the School’s research committee plays a key
 role in directing the management of PGRs, recruitment and supervision, and is supported in this
 work by the School PGR Director.

 Development:
    • Students attend an intensive one-week School induction programme to complement a
       three-month general induction programme organised by the Doctoral School.
    • Students are assigned a Supervisor and Co-Supervisor with whom they must meet at least
       monthly. They jointly design an initial Learning Agreement, and each completes annual
       evaluations of progress, helping to identify any emerging difficulties. To encourage timely
       completion, students undergo a compulsory Interim Assessment at the end of their first
       year and an Internal Evaluation at the end of the second year.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Training:
     • PGRs are encouraged to attend external conferences. There is no set number of
        conferences per PGR as this is a decision made by each individual supervisory team.
        Funding is available on a case-by-case basis.
     • PGRs are informed about career options in consultation with their supervisory team, in
        addition to the opportunity of receiving extensive skills training and career advice offered
        as part of the SPoRT Programme. PhD students are also encouraged to conduct field
        research: Kibet (supervised by Ward) and Yalmi (supervised by Newbery) carried out
        research in Kenya and Nigeria respectively.

 Opportunities:
    • The Unit is represented in the AHRC Northwest Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership
       (NWCDTP) in the field of History, enabling students to apply for funding through this route.
    • The School sponsors PhD students when funds are available (including match-funding in
       conjunction with other funding bodies).
    • The UoS Pathways to Excellence (PTE) scheme and occasional sponsorship is available
       through outside bodies, e.g. the Lady Monica Cockfield Memorial Trust.
    • Adam Dighton (PhD, 2016) was funded by an AHRC capacity-building grant; Stephen
       Dipnall (PhD, 2016) funded by the AHRC; Amos Kibet Korir (PhD, 2020) funded by a
       Commonwealth Scholarship.
    • The PTE scheme, available since 2015, has utilised QR funding combined with School
       match-funding with William Carruthers (PhD, 2018) and Liam McLoughlin (PhD, 2020)
       funded via this route.

 Two students are currently funded by competitive grants offered by the UK Armed Forces:
 Newbery is supervising a student who is the first Non-Commissioned Officer to receive a Royal
 Air Force Portal PhD scholarship; Searle is supervising a PhD student in receipt of a British Army
 ‘External Placements (Academic)’ scholarship. These scholarships indicate the good relations and
 high reputation the group enjoys with the British armed services.

 In 2019/20, a successful application was made for an NWCDTP Collaborative Doctoral Award
 (CDA) for a project with the Lancashire Infantry Museum, Preston, entitled ‘Fulwood Barracks and
 the “Garrison Town” of Preston: Lancashire Regiments, Regional Identity and Social Change,
 1848-1948’, currently being carried out by Rose Beck under the supervision of Hall and Searle.
 This is an important development as it intersects with cooperation planned between the Salford
 Centre for Interdisciplinary Historical Studies and local stakeholders; this will open up further
 avenues for collaboration with museums. Collaborative work is planned between the museum and
 the UoS Digital Curation Lab (Director, Dr Toni Sant - UoA 33), based in SoAMCT, one of the
 School’s strategic priorities. This partnership with the Preston Museum presents exciting
 opportunities for digitisation projects. Preparatory planning is being assisted by the current joint
 supervision ongoing between Sant and Searle on Yanxi Wu’s doctoral project on digital curation
 and art collections in Salford and Manchester galleries.

 Examples of PhD student successes for bidding, employment and publication before and after
 graduation are:

 Bidding/Employment
    • Dighton secured a Scouloudi research grant (2017), Royal Historical Society research
        grant and travel grant (2016, 2014)
    • Kibet was among 20 applicants selected for the highly competitive two-week Oxford
        Internet Institute Summer Doctoral Programme 2018
    • McLoughlin secured a postdoctoral position at Birkbeck College, London (2020-21).

 Publications
    • Dighton, articles in War & Society (2016) and War in History (2020)
    • Kibet (with Ward), article in African Journalism Studies (2019)

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   McLoughlin, articles as co-author with Ward, et al., in Information Polity, Journal of
        Legislative Studies, Intelligence and National Security, with R. Southern in British Journal
        of Politics and International Relations (all 2020).

 Equality and diversity (E&D)
 E&D is integral to the recruitment, support and welfare culture in AMCRC and the wider School.
 E&D requirements are integrated into UoS’s policies and procedures; support for staff and
 students returning from sick leave is provided through Human Resources and in consultation with
 Line Managers. Members of staff have taken advantage of part-time and flexible working.

 In May 2019, Searle organised the annual ‘German History in the North’ Workshop: for the first
 time, there were only female speakers (six in total), with the keynote address given by Professor
 Susanne Kord (UCL). Supported by the UoS Women in Research Network and the German
 History Society, the event sought to promote the work of female university researchers and
 postgraduates by modelling the University’s action-based Inclusion and Diversity Strategy.

 The selection of staff for REF submission and outputs followed our Code of Practice closely.
 Newbery was a member of the six-person panel that reviewed the School’s three-year research
 plans, determining which staff were to be given SRR status. This panel was composed on the
 basis of a 50:50 gender division and included representation of staff from a BAME background.
 Newbery was also deputy lead for the UoA25 REF submission.

 Going forward we will be actively seeking researchers working within different geographical or
 cultural contexts, which will significantly increase the diversity of our PGR community and staff.
 Alongside this, our research already incorporates issues of discrimination and marginalisation, for
 example, research by Lomas on previous discrimination in security service recruitment policies
 (Lomas, 2019 article) and Correia’s work. The latter delivered a presentation at UoS entitled
 ‘Black Homes, Safe Houses’ as part of Black History Month in October 2015, as well as further
 talks on the legacies of Empire, and raising awareness of the lives of black artists in Britain through
 blog articles.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 Total research income of £813,355 has been secured in this REF cycle from a range of funders,
 including the EU, UK charities, academic and governmental sources. Two thirds of our income
 has been acquired from UK charities (£530k), enabling us to provide a focus in this period on
 investigating and addressing significant, contemporary societal and cultural challenges. Awards
 have supported three principal areas of activity: 1) research projects, 2) contributions to
 professional disciplinary development, and 3) event organisation and the development of new
 networks.

 1) Research projects
 Through the research unit Community Finance Solutions, Vik led on and contributed to projects
 attracting £400k in research and consultancy income to investigate the extent and nature of
 exclusion from banking services in the UK, and the development and nature of microfinance in
 Europe. The projects funded fall into three main categories:

    •   Evaluations and contract research for local government, charities and community
        organisations to inform policy and programme design to mitigate or reduce exclusion:
        Leeds City Council (2018, £47k) to undertake a survey of households regarding their
        access to banking services, enabling the Council to identify and target areas and
        household types unable to access such services; and Toynbee Hall (2015-19, £29k) for
        Vik to evaluate its financial education programme, informing improvements in programme
        delivery and monitoring.
    •   Research on self-regulation for microfinance institutions for the European Commission
        (2013-19) informed the development of the Commission’s code of practice for microfinance

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        providers. In 2013-14, Vik contributed to the development of the framework for assessing
        compliance with this code (£44k) (included in REF3). In 2016-18, he provided research
        support and advice to a group of practitioners and stakeholders to develop a social impact
        chapter to the code of practice (£20k).
    •   Applied research on viable models for scaling up microfinance institutions in the UK was
        conducted in 2017-18 through the Carnegie UK Trust (£69k) to compare the financial
        performance and growth strategies of seven leading microfinance institutions. As well as
        a paper presented at the 6th European Research Conference (Paris, 2019), the project
        resulted in a series of recommendations informing the Trust’s microfinance fund.

 External funding has enabled us to conduct archival research, engage in field work, or pursue
 extended periods of writing on scholarly outputs. Hall secured a Scouloudi Foundation research
 grant (2019), which funded research at the US National Archives in Washington, DC, for a new
 project on US Army communications in the First World War. His first article on the subject has
 been accepted for publication by the German journal Militärgeschichtliche Zeitschrift (MGZ) and
 will be published in 2021. Lomas secured two Scouloudi grants (2019, 2020) to work on
 intelligence history, contributing to an article in the Journal of Imperial and Commonwealth History
 (2019). Newbery was awarded a British Academy small grant to cover the costs of archival
 research conducted in 2014, contributing to her 2015 monograph.

 Correia was awarded a grant (£12k) from the Paul Mellon Centre for the Study of British Art in
 2017 for research into the art of Albert Adams (1929-2006), whose work is represented in the UoS
 Art Collection. Her Visiting Fellowship at the Paul Mellon Centre (2016/17) contributed to the
 completion of journal outputs 2017-20. Searle’s Visiting Fellowship to the Changing Character of
 War Programme, Pembroke College, Oxford (2016/17), provided access to research facilities,
 college libraries in Oxford and the Bodleian, thereby supporting long-term research projects and
 his comparative article on war elephants and early tanks (MGZ, 2018). Presentation of an earlier
 draft at the Military History Seminar, All Soul’s College (2016), contributed to the development of
 the ideas in the paper. His Visiting Professorship at Nankai University contributed to the
 completion of several outputs.

 2) Contributions to professional disciplinary development
 Bull generated over £300k through his tenure of the Directorship of the European Consortium for
 Political Research (2013-19). ECPR is the leading scholarly society for political science in Europe,
 with over 300 institutional members in almost 50 countries. It has played a leading role in scholarly
 debates on, among other central topics, gender equality, open data access and research
 transparency. The funding enabled Bull to be seconded for six years, thus enabling him to
 enhance our reputation, influence and strategic reach in the field of political science. Among the
 outcomes: he oversaw and championed the launch of the ECPR Gold OA journal, Political
 Research Exchange, published by ECPR, Routledge and Taylor & Francis, in 2018; and the
 political science blog-site The Loop (https://theloop.ecpr.eu/), which is aimed at disseminating
 political science research to the wider, non-academic community.

 3) Event organisation and development of new networks
 In 2015 Maher secured funding from the Universidad del Rosario to enable him to present
 research at the workshop, ‘Conflict dynamics and challenges to building a resilient peace in
 Columbia’, Bogotá, Columbia, which supported work for his 2018 monograph. In 2015 Searle
 received a Santander International Travel Bursary to visit the Europe-Asia Research Cluster, Karl
 Jaspers Centre, University of Heidelberg, to deliver a paper on ancient Chinese military theory,
 the feedback improving his understanding of Chinese history. In addition to funds from a VC Early
 Career Scholarship, Pieper received additional financial support from the Konrad-Adenauer-
 Foundation to attend the 7th EU-China Relations Conference, Astana, Kazakhstan, in 2018. In all
 three cases, a significant contribution was made to the expansion of the researchers’ international
 networks.

 International scholarly cooperation has been further supported through our institutional
 membership to ECPR which has supported staff in attending the prestigious ECPR Joint Sessions,

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 run annually over five days, involving 15-20 participants from institutions across Europe. Chiva
 delivered papers on gender and representation at the 2014-17 sessions, contributing to her 2017
 monograph, while Ward presented at the 2017 Joint Session which led to an article in the Journal
 of Legislative Studies (2020).

 A 2008 workshop funded by UoS led to an essay collection ‘Genesis, Employment, Aftermath’,
 Helion 2015, edited by Searle with contributions from Hall and other experts in European military
 history, including Ralf Raths (Director of the German Tank Museum, Munster), Markus Pöhlmann
 (German Armed Forces Centre for Military History and Social Sciences, Potsdam), Olivier Lahaie
 (French Ministry of Defence), and Bryn Hammond (Imperial War Museum, London). Participation
 in the workshop and volume assisted Hall in his development from ECR to mid-career scholar,
 encouraging an international approach to his research and contributing to a prize-winning article
 in the Journal of Military History in 2014.

 Research infrastructure
 The Library has invested in several electronic archive collections that support our research: a large
 newspaper database and collections such as 260 Gale Primary Source collections, British Online
 Archives (likewise containing further collections of documents) and ‘Secret Files from World Wars
 to Cold War’ (Taylor and Francis). The availability of the online archival material has supported
 our research on protest movements in Britain (Barnett), intelligence (Lomas, Murphy, Newbery),
 British and Chinese military history (Hall, Searle).

 All staff are located on the Peel Park Campus; to bring researchers together to encourage
 intellectual exchanges and provide support and community, SoAMCT staff can attend seminars
 organised by groups within AMCRC. Assisting our agenda of cross- and interdisciplinary work into
 the future, SoAMCT has invested £5k for refurbishment of space to support the launch of Salford
 Centre for Interdisciplinary Historical Research in 2021. This will provide a focus for cooperation
 with local history stakeholders, museums and archives, such as the Working-Class Movement
 Library, Salford Local History Library, the People’s History Museum, Manchester, Lancashire
 Infantry Museum, Preston and the Fusilier Museum, Bury. The Centre will be used for small
 conferences, providing additional space for research students and visiting scholars, and a place
 for meetings with local stakeholders so that we are able to strengthen existing relationships and
 build new partnerships.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Researchers have actively pursued productive collaborations and communicated their work to
 national, international and non-academic audiences, thereby contributing to the sustainability of
 their sub-disciplines and influencing public discourse.

 Collaboration and engagement
 Lomas and Murphy are part of the University’s contribution to the Greater Manchester Cyber
 Foundry. This is an ongoing £6m project part-funded by the European Regional Development
 Fund, involving the University of Manchester, Manchester Metropolitan University and Lancaster
 University to support Greater Manchester businesses strengthen their cyber defences. Lomas
 and Murphy work together with computer specialists to provide historical context to challenges of
 cyber security and other contemporary security issues faced by SMEs.

 Corum undertook contract work with NATO (2014-18), leading a team to produce a report
 sponsored by the Joint Air Power Competence Centre (JAPCC), entitled ‘Mitigating Disinformation
 Campaigns against Air Power’ (05/2017). He authored two chapters of the study, editing the final
 version which contained contributions by five other air power experts from Estonia, UK, US,
 Germany and Holland. In addition, he arranged three research placements for MA students at
 JAPCC, Kalkar, FRG. The NATO JAPCC 2017 report recommended a series of measures in order
 that NATO be better prepared to deal with strategic disinformation campaigns. It led to the
 introduction of a course on disinformation, contributing to the achievement of one of NATO’s Joint
 Air Power strategic goals, which, as of November 2017, was to ‘enhance effective and continuous

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 education and training… [which] should emphasise a multi-domain approach and the inclusion of
 traditional and non-traditional stakeholders into the planning and execution of joint air operations’
 (para.2.d, NATO Joint Air Power – Capability and Capacity Needs, policy paper, NATO
 UNCLASSIFIED, 09.11.2017).

 Correia held a Visiting Fellowship, Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art, in 2016-17. This
 led to two presentations at the Centre: ‘British Asian Art Histories’, 2017 and ‘Archiving Exhibitions
 of South Asian Women Artists in Britain’, 2018, as well as several publications. An Arts Council
 ‘Grants for Arts Events’ enabled her to stage ‘To Draw the Line: A Third Text Symposium’ at
 Bluecoat Centre for the Contemporary Arts, Liverpool, 2017, also delivering a paper, ‘Imagining
 India/Remembering Britain’. This contributed to promoting public awareness of Black and Asian
 artists. Conversations between Searle and the Tank Museum, Bovington, led to a jointly organised
 public conference in 2016 and a two-week student work placement in 2017. Searle’s Visiting
 Fellowship at Pembroke College, Oxford (2016-17), led to the co-organisation of a practitioner-
 oriented workshop on military doctrine, 2017, hosted by Pembroke, at which Corum, Hall and
 Searle delivered papers.

 Bull’s research on Open Access (OA) resulted in the convening of conference plenaries and
 panels on OA in Europe and North America which brought together academics, publishers,
 scholarly societies and Higher Education consultants; he was also Founding Editor-in-Chief of
 Social Sciences (Gold OA), 2011-17. Bull has served since 2013 as a consultant for Italy for the
 ‘Varieties of Democracy’ international project which provides annually the global community with
 the world’s most comprehensive democracy ratings (https://www.v-dem.net/en/).

 Visiting academics have been hosted by SoAMCT: Dr Wang Wei, Lecturer in International History,
 Nankai University, hosted for a month, 05/2017; Prof Marilena Macaluso, University of Palermo,
 visited 08-09/2019 as part of the EU Staff Mobility Scheme to conduct research and cooperate
 with staff in her field of political communication. Searle was appointed Visiting Professor, College
 of History, Nankai University, PRC, spending six months in total, 2016-19, to engage in teaching
 and research collaboration, resulting in the appointment of Prof Chengshuang Fu (Dean of
 Research, College of History, NKU), a leading Chinese environmental historian, as UoS Visiting
 Professor, 2019-20.

 Indicators of wider disciplinary influence and esteem
 Indications of wider influence, both nationally and internationally, can be seen in several awards.
 Hall was awarded the Whitfield Prize 2018 by the Royal Historical Society for the best first book
 on British or Irish History (Lomas was shortlisted for the same prize). According to the judges’
 citation: ‘Communications and British Operations on the Western Front, 1914-1918 is a landmark
 of First World War scholarship. Drawing on an impressive range of primary sources, the book is a
 compelling piece of historical exposition. It draws attention to an aspect of warfare that is vitally
 important and yet curiously neglected in the existing literature – the extent to which the participants
 know what is going on, and the methods they use to try to find out. A wide range of historians will
 be obliged to take note of this book's lessons.’

 Hall’s book was also shortlisted for the Templar Prize 2018, awarded annually by the Society for
 Army Historical Research. He was awarded the Moncado Prize 2015 by the US Society for Military
 History for the best article in the January 2014 issue of the Journal of Military History.

 Both Vik and Pieper have received recognition for their work. Vik received the Reg Matthews
 Award 2017 for his article ‘What’s So Social About Social Return on Investment?’, Journal Social
 and Environmental Accountability Journal, 37/1 (2017), pp. 6-17, for the most important
 contribution to social and environmental accounting literature in the journal in 2017. Pieper was
 the Winner of Best Paper Award for ‘The Belt and Road Initiative and Sino-Russian Order
 Conceptions in a Post-American World’, 7th EU-China Relations Conference, Astana,
 Kazakhstan, 04/2018, sponsored by the University Association for Contemporary European
 Studies/Konrad Adenauer Foundation.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Submitted staff have been elected to disciplinary societies due to their contributions to their
 respective fields. Bull was elected a Fellow of the Social Sciences Academy in 2016; he has also
 had a prize named after him for his contribution to the institutional development of European
 political science, as well as being awarded it as its first recipient: ‘The Martin Bull Prize for
 Exceptional Contribution to the ECPR’ (2019). All the historians in the group have been elected
 Fellows of the Royal Historical Society: Searle (2007), Newbery (2016), Murphy (2017), Barnett
 (2019), Hall (2020), Lomas (2020). Newbery is a registered expert with the Institute for Global
 Security and Defence Affairs, a think-tank in Abu Dhabi.

 Researchers have also been engaged in refereeing for publishers, research councils and
 government bodies. Reviews of book manuscripts for leading academic publishers were: Correia
 for I.B. Tauris; Lomas for Manchester UP and Routledge; Murphy for Oxford UP, Yale UP and
 Taylor & Francis; Newbery for Oxford UP, Palgrave and Edward Elgar Publishing; Searle for
 Ashgate, De Gruyter and Bloomsbury Academic; Vik for Routledge.

 Peer reviews of project proposals/research outputs include: Bull, reviewer, Killiam Research
 Fellowship, Canada Council of the Arts (2015), Italian REF, Italian Ministry of University and
 Research, Political Science Section (2016-17); Callaghan, project reviewer, Austrian Science
 Fund (2017); Newbery, project reviewer, AHRC (2016), ESRC (2016), Council for the Humanities
 of the Netherlands (2015); Searle, project reviewer, Centre for Research and Evidence on
 Security Threats, Lancaster University (2017), Austrian Science Fund (2016).

 Researchers are/have been actively involved on journal editorial/management boards: Bull,
 Editor-in-Chief, Italian Political Science Review (Cambridge University Press), Social Sciences
 (MDPI), and Journal of Contemporary European Studies (Taylor & Francis), Editorial Board,
 European Political Science (Palgrave MacMillan), Contemporary Italian Politics (Taylor & Francis),
 South European Society and Politics (Taylor & Francis), Modern Italy (Cambridge University
 Press); Callaghan, Editorial Advisory Board, Twentieth Century Communism (Lawrence &
 Wishart) and Socialist History (Lawrence & Wishart); Maher, Associate Editor, ECPR open-access
 journal, Political Research Exchange; Newbery, Reviews Editor, Journal of Intelligence History
 (Taylor & Francis), Editorial Board, Intelligence & National Security (Taylor & Francis) and Journal
 of Intelligence History (Taylor & Francis); Searle, Editorial Board, Nankai Journal (Philosophy,
 Literature and Social Science Edition) (Nankai UP), and Open Military Studies (De Gruyter).

 In addition, editorial roles for book series have included: Barnett as founder and editor for
 ‘Routledge Studies in Espionage and Culture’; Callaghan as General Editor, ‘Critical Labour
 Movements’ (Manchester University Press, 16 vols. published to date); and Searle, founder and
 co-editor, ‘Modern Military History’ (Helion Publishers, 6 vols. to date), International Advisory
 Board, ‘Krieg in der Geschichte’ (Schoeningh Verlag/Brill).

 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
 Members of the group are actively involved in contributing to the sustainability and advancement
 of their respective disciplines, evidenced by a range of activities. During the census period, 74
 peer reviews were undertaken for a range of journals in history, political science, art history,
 housing policy, social sciences and sustainability; 31 book reviews were published; and 91
 conference and invited papers were delivered. Two staff have served on prize juries: Bull for the
 Sartori Prize, Italian Political Science Review (2017 Award), ECPR Lifetime Achievement Award
 (2015 and 2017 Awards), and Christopher Seton-Watson Memorial Award, Modern Italy (2016
 Award); Searle for the Annual JCES Essay Prize, Journal of Contemporary European Studies
 (2019), and the Annual Wilhelm-Deist-Prize, Arbeitskreis Militärgeschichte (2014-17).

 Staff at all levels of research experience have contributed to the management and governance of
 scholarly societies. Bull was Programme Chair (2015-17), Vice-President (2017-19) and
 President (2019-22), for the Conference Group on Italian Politics, American Political Science
 Association. Alongside Bull’s formal involvement with ECPR, Maher has been a member of the
 Steering Committee for the ECPR Standing Group on Political Violence since 2019. Newbery has
 served on the Management Committee, Political Studies Association Irish Politics Specialist

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group, since 2018. Two historians have made contributions: Searle was a member of the
 Executive Committee, Arbeitskreis Militärgeschichte, 2007-19, while Hall was a Councillor for the
 Army Records Society, 2015-18. Correia has been an Advisory Board Member, Stephen
 Lawrence Gallery for Visual Culture, University of Greenwich, 2010-15, and on the Board of
 Trustees, Third Text Charity, overseeing the finances of the journal.

 Staff were involved in both national and international conference organisation during the census
 period. Newbery was co-organiser (with Dr Stephen Dorril) of ‘Symposium on the First Decade of
 “The Troubles”: What we now know, and what we don’t know about the role of security and
 intelligence’, UoS, 2019. Searle was the main organiser, ‘The Media, Museums and the First
 World War Anniversaries’, at MediaCityUK in 2014, and ‘German History in the North’, UoS, 2019.
 He was co-organiser of other events in the UK: Study Day on ‘Military Doctrine’, Pembroke
 College, University of Oxford, in 2017, and ‘The Tank in the First World War’ public event, The
 Tank Museum, Bovington, 2016. Supporting art history events, Correia was session convenor for
 two Association of Art Historians annual conferences: Diaspora Artists and British Art History at
 the University of Brighton in 2019; and Black British Art Histories, University of Edinburgh, 2016.
 Bull has contributed throughout the REF period (2014-2020) to the organisation of various panels
 for the American Political Science Association’s annual meetings.

 Contribution to public understanding of politics, history, intelligence and policy issues
 Submitted staff have disseminated research to non-academic audiences, with public talks on
 broad social questions (Black and Asian artists, alleviation of poverty), security policy (future
 NATO policy, counterterrorism) and military history (First World War anniversaries).

 Correia and Vik delivered a range of public lectures on contemporary societal issues. Correia
 presented talks on Henry Moore and photography, and his experience in the First World War, at
 the Hepworth Wakefield (03/2020), and Leeds Art Gallery (11/2014). At Asia House, London, she
 delivered a talk, ‘Looking for Home: Remembering and Imagining India in Contemporary Art’
 (01/2015), with further public talks on British Asian art histories at The Stuart Hall Library, London
 (11/2015), the Paul Mellon Centre, London (07/2017), and a talk on ‘Archiving Exhibitions of South
 Asian Women Artists in Britain’ at the Paul Mellon Centre (01/2018). Further lectures on Black
 British women artists were delivered at the Friends of Rochdale Art Gallery Lecture Series
 (11/2019) and the South Asian Women’s Creative Collective Symposium, Rich Mix, London
 (10/2017). Vik contributed to public debate through a talk on the role of affordable credit in
 alleviating poverty at the Manchester Mechanics Institute (04/2019), following an invitation by the
 Greater Manchester Poverty Action Group. A contribution to practitioners’ thinking was made
 through a presentation on the economic benefits of affordable credit at the Financial Inclusion
 Roundtable, Barclays Bank Head Office, London (06/2017). He offered input at European level
 through a lecture on public policy and commercial drivers of growth in microfinance at the National
 University of Public Service, Budapest (11/2018), and on the development of the European Code
 of Good Conduct for Microcredit Provision in Brussels (02/2016).

 In the field of security policy, Corum contributed to the JAPCC Conference 2015 on ‘Air Power
 and Strategic Communications: NATO Challenges for the Future’, held in Essen (11/2015), which
 saw him present to Panel 3 (Air Power and Disinformation) and Panel 4 (Preserving Credibility).
 Newbery acted as a consultant for the 2Magpies Theatre event ‘Last Resort’, a multi-sensory
 performance about Guantanamo Bay (03/2016). In addition, she delivered public lectures on
 countering terrorism in the UK at Wilmslow High School (12/2019) and the Churchill War Rooms,
 London (05/2018), and a talk on intelligence ethics and new technology at the Close Protection
 Technology Forum, London (01/2016).

 The interest generated by First World War anniversaries in the census period provided
 opportunities for Hall and Searle to offer their expertise to a wider public. Hall delivered two talks
 to the North Staffordshire and South Cheshire Branch of the Western Front Association, Stoke-
 on-Trent, on tank communications (05/2015) and the RE Signal Service (05/2016). Both Hall and
 Searle presented public lectures at the National Army Museum, London, Hall on the Battle of
 Cambrai, 1917 (12/2017), and Searle on the action at Villers-Bretonneux, 1918 (04/2018). Searle

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gave the Army Records Society Annual Lecture on Major-General J.F.C. Fuller at the National
 Army Museum (12/2017) and public talks on tanks in WWI at the Tank Museum, Bovington
 (09/2016), and the German Tank Museum (09/2016).

 Overall, we conclude the current assessment period with significant growth in the quantity and
 quality of our research and in its contributions to the research base and society. We have
 consolidated and developed our areas of expertise and corresponding networks. Clear planning
 and robust support for research activity provide the foundations for continued improvements and
 contributions in politics, contemporary history and societal challenges and support our increasingly
 global outlook and approaches.




                                                                                             Page 14
