Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Unit of Assessment: A4: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overall unit structure
 All UoA4 members are from the Department of Psychology. REF2014 was Winchester’s first
 UoA4 entry. Since then, UoA4 has expanded rapidly in size and research capacity, from nine
 ‘Category A’ submitted staff in REF2014 to 30 ‘Category A’ submitted staff in REF2021, and has
 developed a vibrant, inclusive, research environment organised around four research groups
 (RGs) and one research centre. Reflecting our commitment to inter-disciplinary working, the
 RGs also include members of the Department whose work during the current REF period
 contributes to other UoAs (UoA17 - Bradley-Cole; UoA19 – Pachi; UoA34 - Giles), research
 fellows, PGR students and UG students working as research assistants.

 Strategic leadership of research and impact is provided through two groups. The UoA Working
 Group (UoA WG) oversees recording, assessing and reporting of research for REF and
 manages the use of internal QR funds to support research and impact. The Research Liaison
 and Strategy Group (RLSG) reflects the full breadth of the Department’s research, providing an
 inclusive structure to engage all members of the Department regardless of their role or UoA, for
 instance, running regular Departmental Research Away Days. Membership of both groups
 includes: Head of Department; Research Lead; lead of each RG/Centre; ECR representative.

 1.2 Review of progress against priorities
 The strategic research priorities for the UoA during the 2015-21 period, summarised from the
 REF2014 submission and the UoA 2015 onwards research strategy, were:

    1. In the context of growth in staffing, forge new RGs that galvanise the expanding portfolio
       of staff research.
    2. Invest in infrastructure and equipment to improve accommodation, research and
       laboratory facilities.
    3. Support Early Career Researchers through mentoring and strategic support from QR
       funding.
    4. Build research excellence reflected in high quality outputs, external grant capture and
       research impact, supporting this through QR seed-corn funding.
    5. Build on the portfolio of consultancy and partnerships with businesses, local NHS trusts,
       police and community/local government organisations.
    6. Increase doctoral research, aided by recruiting students from planned taught
       postgraduate courses.

 The threefold increase in staffing (Section 1.1) has enabled the development of new research
 areas (priority 1). Since REF2014, the Department’s then two RGs have undergone significant
 transformations. The Human Perception and Performance RG evolved to become the Brain and
 Cognition RG, with seven new staff appointments and a focus on the role of cognitive processes
 in complex cognition and contexts including creative thinking, spatial cognition, mental health,
 head injury and social interaction. The Societies and Communications RG has divided into 1) the
 Social and Organisational RG, focussing on social identities, group processes, interpersonal
 interaction, citizenship, political and civic engagement, social movements, culture, and

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisational dynamics, and 2) the Childhood and Youth Psychology RG, focussing on
 children’s and adolescents’ social, emotional and cognitive development with the aim of
 improving psychological wellbeing, relationships at home and school, and academic
 achievement, facilitated by the appointment of seven and five new staff respectively. At the time
 of REF2014, some staff (Frowd (departed 2016), Kneller, Bayless) were researching
 eyewitness identification. The strategic development of the Centre for Forensic and Investigative
 Psychology (Section 3.2) built on this foundation, with nine new appointments and a focus on
 vulnerable witnesses (e.g. child, autism, intellectual disability), intoxicated witnesses,
 investigative interviewing, eye witness perception, and detecting deception. A final area of
 strategic growth, aligned with University developments (Sections 3.2, 4.5), established the
 Healthy Lives RG, supported by five new appointments, with a focus on 'behaviour', including
 typical health behaviours, such as physical activity, aspects such as patient decision-making and
 health organisations’ working practices. All RGs/Centres have also benefitted from significant
 investment in new research labs and facilities (priority 2; Section 3.3). RGs are essential fora for
 the planning and discussion of research including bids, outputs and impact, supporting our
 ambition to grow research excellence (priority 4).

 All staff, including ECRs, are offered a research mentor (priority 3; Section 2.2). Further, QR
 funds, allocated to the UoA, support ECRs (£52,063 awarded to support 38 small grants in this
 cycle). For example, Satchell was funded to host a meeting in the Netherlands to set up an
 international ‘psychology of psychology’ study to assess participant experience effects on
 psychological research. The study has attracted 42 projects from over 40 universities of which
 28 have been completed to date and is documented on the Open Science Foundation (OSF)
 website. Waterhouse was funded to attend a National Child Advocacy Centre meeting in the US
 to learn about their witness interviewing processes and meet with practitioners and academics.
 This supported her subsequent development and leadership of the Criminal Justice Research
 Network (Section 3.2). ECRs have also benefited from Knowledge Exchange Grants and Staff
 Development funds.

 Over the REF period, UoA members have published at least 223 peer-reviewed articles, 23 book
 chapters, 14 full conference proceedings papers and 2 books, and given 166 conference
 presentations, with an increase in quality evident in our REF submitted outputs. There has also
 been an increase in the portfolio of external research funding compared to REF2014 (Section
 3.1). This increasing research excellence (priority 4) has been facilitated by >130 internal QR
 funding awards, totalling £265,448, for small projects, external bid pump-priming work and
 impact activity.

 Priority (5) has been achieved through (1) the establishment of the Criminal Justice Research
 Network (Section 3.2) engaging members from a range of public and third sector criminal justice
 organisations; (2) use of the University Knowledge Exchange Fellow scheme to establish a
 Visiting Fellow position from a commercial insight agency to increase engagement with research
 in commercial environments (Section 4.2); (3) through running stakeholder events (Section 4.2),
 supported by QR funds.

 The University was awarded Research Degree Awarding Powers in 2008 and there was one
 UoA4 PhD completion in REF2014. During REF2021 there has been progress (priority 6)
 including 3.5 successful UoA4 completions, two additional students awaiting viva and ten further
 students currently undertaking a PhD (six in Psychology, four with the lead supervisor in another

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA). Staff have also been part of supervision teams for completing students in other UoAs
 (Gamble – Sport & Exercise; Randell - Sport & Exercise; Warhurst – Education) and some staff
 supervise students based at other institutions (Sowden - Surrey; Richardson - UCLAN;
 Gibbons - Royal Holloway). The Department has increased staff able to lead doctoral
 supervision from three to eight during the REF cycle, by appointing staff with successful PhD
 supervision experience (e.g. during the cycle). Sowden supervised six students to completion at
 Surrey and Wilcock two at London South Bank) and pairing experienced supervisors with staff
 new to supervision, ensuring new supervisors are appropriately mentored. The establishment of
 the Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology, and development of a MSc in Forensic
 Psychology, have created a new pipeline for PhD students from UG to PGT to PhD and three
 students have completed PhDs in this area during REF2021. Recruitment has been further
 supported by competitive, internally funded, studentships (e.g. 2019-22 inter-disciplinary
 studentship with Computer Science to Sowden & Gill; two 2016-2019 studentships to Wilcock;
 2017-2020 studentship to Husted and Gray), external advertising for self-funded students, and
 through external funding (e.g. 2020-23 NIHR ARC studentship to Husted and Faculty of Health
 and Wellbeing colleagues).

 1.3 Support for interdisciplinary research
 Staff have been actively supported to engage with inter-disciplinary research through strategies
 including appointment of staff with interdisciplinary expertise (Section 4.4), support to attend and
 organise interdisciplinary meetings (Sections 4.3-4.4), inviting colleagues in other disciplines to
 engage with Psychology RGs (e.g. Sports Science, Animal Welfare, Theology, Education,
 Computer Science), formation of the interdisciplinary Criminal Justice Research Network
 (Section 3.2) and interdisciplinary studentships (Section 1.2). Indicators of success include
 interdisciplinary co-authors on 24% of UoA4 papers published during REF2021 (see Section 4.4
 for examples), inclusion of psychology staff in other REF2021 UoAs (Section 1.1), and staff
 engagement with inter-disciplinary research initiatives such as the University Health and
 Wellbeing RG, which includes academics in Sport and Exercise Science, Medical and Health
 Education, Social Work, Physiotherapy and Nursing and healthcare practitioners from the
 Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (HHFT) and beyond (Section 4.5).

 1.4 Facilitating research impact
 The UoA has facilitated impact by: (1) investment in infrastructure (Sections 3.2-3.3); (2) staff
 training on Research Away Days for impact case study (ICS) authors, and workshops from
 external specialists (e.g. respectively given by Bulletin Communications Consultants; Dr Stephen
 Kemp, Research and Impact Consultant; Dr Sarah Foxen, Knowledge Exchange Manager for
 UK Parliament's Knowledge Exchange Unit); (3) Department-wide exercises to identify, plan and
 record impact, supported by software (e.g. Altmetric Explorer; Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker);
 (4) QR funding for Impact Assistants during 2018-2020 to help run impact activities, such as
 stakeholder workshops, and track impact arising. These strategies have resulted in a growing
 portfolio of research impact (Sections 4.2, 4.4-4.5; submitted impact case studies) and will be
 sustained through our research strategy (Section 1.5).

 1.5 Research and impact strategy going forwards
 Over the next REF cycle, we will build on our successful post-REF2014 research strategy and
 subsequent new opportunities and priorities, to focus on six key areas:




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Developing the research careers of our staff. We are committed to managing ECRs’
       workload to allow, wherever possible, more time for career development. To support all
       staff, but especially mid-career, a new mini-sabbatical programme of breaks from
       teaching will be available. During these, staff will be mentored (Section 2.2) to achieve
       goals focused on research career development objectives (e.g., gaining research
       leadership experience; research skill development; inter-disciplinary research), with
       strategic support from internal funds. We will also continue to prioritise EDI (Sections 2.2,
       2.5, 3.3) in relation to the research career progression of all staff, with particular attention
       to the progression of women to senior levels (Section 2.5).
    2. Increasing our PGR population by building on our investment in ECRs to support staff to
       gain supervision completions, broadening our PGR recruitment strategy, and engaging
       with external funder initiatives on PhD training. We will continue to ensure that PGR
       students receive high quality supervision, mentoring and training (Section 2.4) to enable
       them to progress their careers successfully.
    3. Growing our external funding portfolio, drawing on the increase in staff with external
       funding experience (Section 3.1) and our investment in ECRs, to mentor staff to win bids
       supported by a Faculty-wide peer review college, bid development workshops and bid-
       writing support. Further, working with the University’s Research Funding Team, we will
       enhance our horizon scanning and strategic identification of funding opportunities to
       carefully target bids that align with staff output track records and funder priorities,
       brokering conversations with funders about these wherever possible. We will continue to
       support staff to build competitive research track records and pilot data sets, using internal
       pump-priming funds.
    4. Complementing growth in our research portfolio, in line with University Strategy, we will
       ensure that our research is recognised and impactful. We will promote external
       recognition of our research by supporting staff with funding, infrastructure and allocated
       time in order to travel, network and speak externally, undertake professional service,
       engage with the media and host events and conferences (e.g., International Investigative
       Interviewing Research Group Conference, 2022; British Society for Individual
       Differences, 2021). We will facilitate impact through training for all ECRs, the formation of
       further stakeholder networks and community panels, the co-design of research with
       research users and the establishment of project advisory/steering boards, and through
       stakeholder engagement and public information events, supported by internal funding.
    5. The strategic development of research areas aligned to Departmental and University
       strengths and future directions. In particular:
           a. Following the formation of the Hampshire Collaboration for Health Research and
              Education (Section 3.2), partnership with the NIHR Wessex ARC, formation of a
              new faculty of Health and Wellbeing and the development of the Healthy Lives
              RG in Psychology, we will continue to invest in and develop this area in
              collaboration with our partners.
           b. Building on the establishment of the Centre for Forensic and Investigative
              Psychology, the Criminal Justice Research Network and the recruitment of many
              staff in this research area, we will continue to develop and invest in our
              associated research portfolio.
           c. With the University’s strength as a provider of Teacher Education, the formation
              of the University of Winchester Academy Trust and the development of the Child
              and Youth Psychology RG, the portfolio of research in areas such as creative



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                cognition, the psychology of education and mental health during education will be
                a third area for strategic development.
            d. Capitalizing on the University’s Strategic Vision 2030 to enable people and
               communities to flourish, the Social and Organisational RG will continue to
               develop social psychological theory and research, and build strategic links with
               local charities, communities, and organizations in the area of citizenship, social
               identity, and support for people across their life span. This group will also broaden
               internal interdisciplinary collaboration (e.g. with the Centre for Animal Welfare,
               Business School).
            e. Responding to an increasingly complex, inter-dependent world, and the University
               strategy to support achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, we
               will explore how brain and cognition underpin our approaches to these challenges
               and our ways of interacting with the world, including through the novel use of
               technologies, in a range of settings including health, education and the criminal
               justice system.
    6. A final key priority will be to further develop engagement with Open Science (Section 1.6)
       through continued staff training and support in areas such as pre-registration of research
       and preparation of high-quality datasets for open access deposit. We will also continue to
       encourage engagement with multi-lab research replications.

 In addition to the key priorities, work with other disciplines and with international partners will
 continue to be a characteristic feature of our research (Sections 1.3, 4.1).

 1.6 Supporting an open research environment
 The UoA has engaged with open science and reproducibility of psychological science initiatives.
 For instance, Wood and Thomae (departing 2018, 2019 respectively) were funded to
 collaborate in the Open Science initiative that, up to December 2014, replicated 100 top
 psychology studies resulting in publication of a 2015 seminal article in Science. Wood and
 Thomae subsequently shared their acquired expertise with the UoA supporting further staff to
 participate in research replication. For instance, in conjunction with Psychological Science,
 Randell and Gamble are conducting a pre-registered multi-lab replication of Gamble’s work,
 published in the same journal, showing that wearing a bicycle helmet can increase risk taking
 and sensation seeking (Gamble & Walker, 2016), and Jones is participating in the international
 EEGManyLabs project to investigate the replicability of influential EEG experiments
 (https://psyarxiv.com/528nr/).

 Open Science has been further supported by strategic recruitment of staff active in this area. For
 instance, Satchell (recruited 2019) has collaborated in multi-lab replication work published in
 Perspectives on Psychological Science (2014), conducted pre-registered research (e.g. paper in
 Behavior Research Methods), and contributed Open Data and Code (OSF member since 2013,
 e.g. papers in Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, 2019, Evolutionary Psychological
 Science, 2020, Applied Cognitive Psychology, 2020, International Journal of Mental Health and
 Addiction, 2020). Satchell was supported by UoA funds to participate in the Society for
 Improving Psychological Science meeting in 2019 (Kontogianni also participated in 2019 and
 2020) and has provided expert training and advice for colleagues, giving presentations on Open
 Science at Departmental Research Away Days and at the University’s Open Access week.




                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other recently recruited staff with a track record of open science include Sowden, Kontogianni
 and Leunissen. The latter’s 2017 paper in European Journal of Personality received Open
 Science badges for open data and open materials.

 1.7 Supporting a culture of research integrity
 The UoA places importance on ethical research, conducted in accordance with appropriate
 regulatory frameworks, and is committed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
 Research ethics training is provided to all staff and research is subject to institutional ethical
 review policies and practices (see REF 5a, 2.4). The UoA benefits from the expertise of Gray
 who, as Faculty Head of Research and Knowledge Exchange (2014-17), was involved in
 designing new ethical review policies and training for the University, and of Lancaster, who was
 recruited from the Defence, Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL) where he developed
 specialist expertise in research ethics, serving as part of the DSTL Scientific Advisory
 Committee. Lancaster has brought his expertise to the Department as Chair of Psychology
 Ethics advising staff, implementing ethical reasoning workshops for students, giving ethics input
 to the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee and to the revised University
 Research Ethics Policy (August 2019).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy
 The more than threefold growth in staffing has been facilitated by strategic growth in student
 numbers. Research track record of applicants is a key criterion for appointment, resulting in the
 recruitment of many staff with robust research profiles aligned to the Department’s RGs/Centre.
 To achieve scale at an affordable cost, whilst bringing fresh ideas and dynamism to the
 Department, much recruitment has been at earlier career stages (reflected in the UoA output
 reduction approved by Research England; Section 2.5, Table 2). However, this was
 complemented by promotion of staff to more senior roles (Section 2.5, Table 2; Uther (departed
 2018) to Professor, Wilcock, Gray and Frowd (departed 2016) to Reader) and by recruitment at
 senior levels. For instance, as HoD, Wilcock developed the business case for a Professorial
 Research Lead, resulting in the recruitment in 2018 of Sowden from Surrey, where he was
 Head of the School of Psychology. In combination, the retention and recruitment of senior staff
 and the development and promotion of existing staff has provided the capacity for greater
 research mentoring in the growing Department and for further strategic development and
 management of research.

 2.2 Integration and support of ECRs and Staff Development Strategy
 The Department is committed to the Concordat for the Career Development of Researchers.
 ECRs and new staff, including fixed term, are allocated a research mentor and the Department
 offers research mentoring to all staff; all but two have opted in. The University supports
 mentoring by allocating Readers and Professors work-loaded time for this (50 and 75 hours p.a.
 respectively). Mentors and mentees meet regularly for the purposes of research support,
 guidance, development, feedback and reflection. Faculty research mentoring schemes,
 developed by Gray during her tenure as Faculty Head of Research and Knowledge Exchange,
 have also been available during the REF cycle.

 Staff are further supported through membership of RGs/Centre and represented by their RG
 leads at the Research Liaison and Strategy, and UoA WG (Section 1.1). An ECR representative

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensures that ECRs have a voice at these groups. Using a two-pronged approach, the
 Department has adopted an inclusive understanding of ECR: 1) Aligned with many funders,
 colleagues who have not been principal investigators on externally funded research are
 automatically regarded as ECRs; 2) Staff are invited to self-identify as an ECR if they feel they
 would benefit from being included amongst this group. This broad conception of ECR adopted
 by the Department and the UoA ‘captures’ staff who have had career breaks e.g., due to child
 rearing or sickness absence before they fully established their research career or whose
 research career has been setback.

 All staff participate in an institutional-level annual Individual Review and Development Scheme
 (IRDS) process, with either the HoD, Dean or other line manager, to review and agree research
 and career development objectives (REF 5a, 3.4). The process identifies training and support
 needed to facilitate successful achievement of objectives. Alternatively, staff in their first
 academic appointment participate in the probation process. They agree research and other
 objectives with the HoD, along with development. Progress is reviewed every three months
 during probation and additional support needs identified as required. After the first year, staff
 normally move to the IRDS process.

 Additionally, staff complete annual Research Planning Forms. These are reviewed by the
 Department’s Research Lead who provides developmental feedback and flags anything
 requiring further discussion to the IRDS reviewer to ensure that agreed research objectives are
 supported and achievable. In addition to research support through training and internal funding,
 staff can apply for teaching buyout for a semester as Bonnardel & Uther did this cycle) and for
 research leave (Uther). Our planned UoA mini-sabbatical programme will expand research
 leave opportunities (Section 1.5). The Research Planning Form cycle provides space for
 feedback and reflection on what was achieved during these periods.

 Examples of external training and development activities supported include: ESRC Media
 training to support Wilcock’s ESRC-funded research and ICS on Supporting Vulnerable
 Witnesses; completion of the Certificate of Competence in Educational Testing enabling Ross to
 use educational tests in her research; training in Mind-Mindedness Coding and digital behaviour
 change interventions for Husted’s research; training for Randell in PsychoPy programming,
 completed at the University of Nottingham; training for Jones on transcranial electrical
 stimulation, at UCL, and on transcranial magnetic stimulation at BrainBox Workshop, Wellcome
 Collection; training to use Mixed Linear Models for Davies and a subsequent course delivered
 by ‘Figure it out statistical consultancy and training’ attended by 15 UoA staff and PGR students.
 The University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre also provides development
 opportunities, such as grant-writing workshops from external consultants, and Open Access
 days on topics such as open data, pre-registration of research and registered reports, and pre-
 print archiving systems. Further, provision of ad hoc research development is embedded in the
 Department’s culture. Examples include training on subjective coding (provided by Satchell with
 colleagues from Portsmouth, Southampton and Leicester DMU), Signal Detection Theory
 analyses (Sowden) and ‘R’ (Leunissen).

 To further embed research culture, staff are also encouraged to participate in the Student Fellow
 and Winchester Research Apprentice (WRAP) Scheme (REF 5a, 3.5). These recruit UG
 students to work on research projects, with £220 student bursary support per week, providing
 the students with opportunities to gain research experience and staff the opportunity to develop

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their skills in mentoring and managing research. During this REF cycle, UoA4 staff worked with 2
 WRAP students, receiving £9,900 in bursary support from the KE Centre.

 2.3 Reward and recognition for research and impact
 Research and impact success are rewarded and recognised by the University through the
 allocation of additional time for research and impact in the workload model, and through
 progression and promotion procedures. At unit level, hardcopies of research outputs are
 displayed in the Department’s ‘Social Learning Space’, which is shared by staff and students.
 Funding and impact success are shared through department-wide email announcements and
 meetings. A regular research newsletter is sent to all students and they are encouraged to follow
 us on Twitter (@UOWPsychology) for regular research updates.

 2.4 Research students
 Expansion of PGR students was a REF2021 UoA priority (details and commentary on
 completion data in Section 1.2). Funded and unfunded PGR opportunities are advertised
 externally (e.g. FindaPhD), on University and individual staff webpages. All applications are
 made centrally and candidates undergo rigorous scrutiny by a panel of staff including the
 supervisory team and Faculty PGR lead. All panel members are required to have completed
 training on interviewing PGR students, including EDI during the selection process.

 New supervisors are required to complete a University programme of core training and work with
 an experienced supervisor who mentors them and logs their supervision experience on an
 Annual Supervisor Return form. Experienced supervisors are also required to maintain their
 knowledge and skills through attending staff development sessions for PhD supervisors
 (REF5a).

 PGR students join one or more of the RGs/Centre and participate in meetings. Students are
 represented on committees by their RG lead. They participate in Departmental Research Away
 Days, which have included discussion of Departmental research strategy, further ensuring that
 they have input into the research environment. Away Days have also included PGR poster
 sessions. In addition, students complete the University Postgraduate Certificate in Research
 Skills and can access other development opportunities (REF 5a, 3.3). Bespoke training needs
 are identified in conjunction with the supervisory team and provided in house or externally, as
 needed, supported by a £500 p.a. research training grant.

 Student progress is monitored through annual review and upgrade procedures affording further
 opportunity to reflect on training needs and ensure students graduate effectively equipped for
 their future roles. Details of meetings with the supervisory team are recorded and frequency of
 meeting is monitored through the annual review process by the Director of PGR Research.
 Students experiencing difficulty are supported by their supervisor, Faculty and University PGR
 services and/or student services as appropriate.

 To improve the physical integration of psychology PGR students, a new PGR office was created
 during refurbishment of the Department in 2018/19 (Section 3.6).

 2.5 Equality, diversity and inclusivity
 In line with the University’s values of Compassion, Individuals Matter and Spirituality and
 commitment to Social Justice (University Strategic Vision 2030) we place considerable emphasis

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on EDI. We are guided by the Staff EDI Strategy, underpinned by the University’s: Equality and
 Diversity; Flexible Working; Gender Identity & Reassignment; Maternity, Parents and Carers;
 Data Protection; Dignity at Work, and Disciplinary Procedure Policies. As a relatively small UoA,
 data that potentially identify colleagues with Protected Characteristics cannot be included in this
 statement, but we support EDI using multiple approaches: (1) All applicants meeting essential
 criteria for a vacancy, who disclose a disability to HR (blind to the shortlisting panel), are invited
 to interview and considered on their abilities. (2) Flexible working, for instance to meet parental
 or caring needs, is actively supported. Current adaptations, within the UoA, include condensed
 working hours, reduced working hours and/or restricted availability for teaching. (3) Staff
 returning from maternity/parental leave meet with the HoD to discuss workload. Where possible,
 teaching hours are initially reduced and the staff member is encouraged to meet with their
 research mentor. (4) Staff returning from long term sickness meet with the HoD and Human
 Resources to discuss reduced workload and teaching duties and a phased return, as
 appropriate. (5) Part-time members are allocated pro-rata research hours in the University
 workload-allocation model, but they can apply for non-pro-rated QR funding. (6) All staff
 complete mandatory online EDI training and UoA WG members, who selected submitted REF
 outputs, complete additional, bespoke, conscious and unconscious bias training.

 Staffing by gender and level, and promotion and appointment data are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
 The UoA has 73% female staff. This is higher than the 67% in REF2014 and the 62% typical for
 UK Psychology (AdvanceHE, 2020) and close to the 80% female UG psychology population
 (Johnson et al., 2020), suggesting that the UoA is successfully addressing the ‘leaky pipeline’ by
 retaining women in academic psychology careers. There are more women at all career levels in
 the UoA except Professor (one male). However, during this cycle, there was also one female
 Professor (departed 2018), proportionally more promotions for women at all levels, and two
 female HoDs (out of three). Furthermore, over 2014-2021 we have had eight female RG/Centre
 leads compared to three male. The continued progression of women’s careers is an ongoing
 focus of UoA strategy (Section 1.5(1)).

 Table 1. Staff grade by gender REF2014-REF 2021
                                        REF 2014                                  REF2021
                                   Male        Female                      Male          Female
  Lecturer                           1           0                          5               6
  Senior Lecturer                    1           5                          2              13
  Reader                             1           1                          0               3
  Professor                          0           0                          1               0
  TOTAL                              3           6                          8              22

 Table 2. Promotion and appointments by gender REF2014-REF2021
                                      Promotions                Appointments
                                  Male         Female       Male         Female
  Lecturer                          -             -           7             17
  Senior Lecturer                  1             12           7              5
  Reader                           1              2           0              0
  Professor                        0              1           1              0
  TOTAL                            2             15          10             22



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.6 Other staffing
 We discuss visiting staff in Sections 4.1-4.2 and clinical researchers in Section 4.5 (category C
 staff).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 Income generation was supported by: (1) the University Research Funding Managers who liaise
 with colleagues to keep abreast of staff expertise, participate in Department Research Away
 Days, and disseminate funding opportunities; (2) ‘Horizon scanning’ by staff and RGs for funding
 directions and opportunities to help target bids; (3) Staff engagement with organisations and
 stakeholders (Section 4.2); (4) The use of QR funds to help staff through training, and support
 for pilot research to try out ideas, include data in bids, and build publication track record. For
 example, Bayless was funded for work on alcohol intoxication, attention and eye-witness
 performance, published in Perception (2017) and Psychopharmacology (2017, 2018), and to
 attend a grant writing workshop, which resulted in a successful application, as PI, to
 BA/Leverhulme; (5) At times during this REF cycle, staff were also provided with additional seed-
 corn funds of £350 following submission of an external bid.

 Consequently, during this cycle, the UoA secured £187,193 from sources including UKRI
 (ESRC), charities (Action for Blindness; British Academy x 3), businesses (Boston Scientific;
 Nokia Foundation), and other funders (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of
 Cancer; UK Government). This is a 135% increase in funding, compared to REF2014, significant
 especially given the high proportion of ECRs.

 In addition, we have recruited staff with experience of funding at their previous HEIs. Between
 them they had collectively secured PI (n=7; £486,500) and CI or named post-doc (n=5;
 £111,500) funding (Gray, Husted, Kontogianni, McKeague, Richardson, Ross, Sowden,
 Whyte, Wilcock). (Funders: ERC, ESRC, Waterloo Foundation, The Royal Society, British
 Psychological Society, Metropolitan Police, Norwegian National Security Authority, GRIT, Bayer,
 Cherry Marketing Institute, California Walnut Commission, Wild Blueberry Association of North
 America). The experience accrued from these projects prior to employment at Winchester
 supported the aforementioned increase in research income generated by the UoA during the
 REF cycle. E.g. two colleagues review and help develop all bids before submission.

 3.2 Organisation infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Since REF2014, the Department has built on its eyewitness identification and the effects of
 alcohol on attention research (a REF2014 ICS) to develop distinctive expertise in Forensic and
 Investigative Psychology and for research in the Criminal Justice System. The establishment of
 a University Research Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology, led within the UoA, has
 increased capacity for, and recognition of, our research in this area. Linked to the centre we
 have established a Criminal Justice Research Network that comprises academics from 10
 universities working in the areas of Psychology, Policing and Criminology, and practitioners
 working in the criminal justice system including magistrates, five police forces, the Prison and
 Probation Service, Victim Support, the Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner, the
 Ministry of Defence, Citizen’s Advice Witness Service, the National Crime Agency, the National
 Video Identification Parade Electronic Recording (VIPER) Bureau, the College of Policing,


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Intermediaries for Justice, Broadmoor prison, and the Crown Prosecution Service. Underlining
 the importance of these developments, two of the UoA’s three REF2021 impact case studies
 arise from work conducted by the Research Centre.

 A further infrastructure development has been the formation of the Hampshire Collaboration for
 Health Research and Education, a formal collaboration agreement between the University and
 Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (HHFT), and of a new Faculty of Health and
 Wellbeing. These developments work synergistically with the UoA’s new Healthy Lives Research
 Group. A joint research steering group includes representation from HHFT (Research Director
 (Ramage - Section 4.5, Head of Research and Development, Lead Research Nurse, Research
 Portfolio Manager, Programme Manager Digital Care), the new faculty (Dean, Research
 Director, Research Advisor), and the Department of Psychology (Healthy Lives RG (Husted,
 Gray), Research Lead (Sowden)). During this cycle, collaboration between these groups has
 facilitated a range of funded research projects and publications (Section 4.5), and studentships
 (Section 1.2).

 3.3 Nature, quality, provision and operation of specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 The Department underwent a two-phase refurbishment and investment in facilities and
 laboratories during 2016 and 2018-2019, as part of a wider campus development, comprising an
 investment of £1,036,138. These have benefitted teaching and research. New research facilities
 include EEG and Neurostimulation Laboratory; Virtual Reality Laboratory; Social Interaction
 Suite with a multi-camera recording system and adjoining control room; Infant and Child
 Observation Suite with a multi-camera recording system and remote camera observation room;
 upgraded Eye-tracking Laboratory; suite of eight Project Laboratories; Alcohol Research (‘bar’)
 Lab. The new facilities have expanded research opportunities. E.g. the Bar Lab facilitated the
 work reported in our REF2021 ICS on “Changing Perceptions of Intoxicated Eyewitness
 Performance” and the EEG Lab our participation in EEGManyLabs (Section 1.6). Other facilities
 include a new PGR office; new ‘social learning’ space; expanded accommodation and facilities
 for the Department’s technicians.

 In addition, the Department has expanded physiological testing equipment (e.g. BioPAC
 systems, GENEActiv actigraphy), and maintained existing specialised labs for psychophysical
 and colour perception research along with licences for a wide range of software used for
 research. Research facilities are supported by three dedicated psychology technicians and are
 available to all staff in the Department via an online booking system, ensuring equal access. The
 technicians each have their own specialist areas of expertise thereby providing support for staff
 who may have less experience with specialist facilities such as EEG or neuro-stimulation
 equipment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaboration
 Staff have been active at research collaboration, with 56% of papers published by UoA members
 having a co-author(s) at another institution, and 30% having an international co-author(s).
 Research collaboration is fostered through multiple strategies including appointment of visiting
 staff, support to visit other institutions, and internal funds to attend conferences, research
 meetings and conduct collaborative pilot research.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this REF period, Visiting Fellows/Professors included Dr Alastair Harvey (2014-16,
 University of Portsmouth), Professor Charlie Frowd (2016-21, UCLAN), Dr Megan Topping
 (Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (HHFT), 2016-21), Dr Sebastian Kaupp-Roberts
 (HHFT, 2015-2018) and Professor John Ramage (HHFT, 2013-2016, Section 4.5, category C
 staff). These fellowships facilitated collaboration on a range of funded projects (Sections 3.1,
 4.5) and publications (Section 4.5).

 Staff bring their collaboration experience and outcomes to bear on current research in the UoA
 and to support other staff to develop collaborative work. Examples of collaboration across
 institutions during the REF period (see also Sections 4.2-4.5) with synergy across Winchester
 staff include:

    1. Bonnardel’s work, published in Journal of Optical Society of America A (2016) and Color
       Research and Application (2017), with colleagues at the National Institute of Design
       (NID) India, which has tested approaches to modelling colour dissimilarity and elaborated
       work on gender and colour preference to cross–cultural contexts and Sowden’s ERC
       funded work on colour associations with colleagues in China published in Journal of
       Experimental Psychology: General (2020).

    2. Gibbons’ work, published in Transplant International, in collaboration with transplant and
       renal units and research centres across the UK (e.g. Addenbrooke’s Hospital Cambridge,
       the Edinburgh Transplant Centre, and Guys and St Thomas’ Hospital, London), looking
       at psychological outcomes in relation to organ transplantation and Husted’s work on
       breast cancer (Section 4.5). Gibbons is also part of the Psycho-Oncology RG, National
       University of Ireland, Galway, working on the psychological, social, and behavioural
       aspects of cancer.

    3. Sowden’s influential work with colleagues in the US and Canada, published in Thinking
       and Reasoning (2015 - field weighted citation ratio of 19.91 (SciVal)) and the APA journal
       Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity & the Arts (2020), and with multiple collaborators
       around the UK, which connected dual-process theory with creative cognition and tested
       effects of arts-based improvisation in education on creative thinking, Warren’s work on
       the link between gender, implicit theories of creativity and creative outcomes in children
       (Thinking Skills & Creativity, 2018) and Warhurst’s work, with Edinburgh, on how gender
       identity shapes subject preferences published in Educational Psychology (2019) and
       British Journal of Educational Psychology (2016).

    4. Richardson’s ongoing work with colleagues at UCLAN and Salford on executive-
       function monitoring following concussion in professional rugby (Royal Society funded,
       £5,500 to UCLAN; PI-Richardson), with colleagues at Edge Hill and UEA on a novel
       analytic approach to understand the influence of sleep, sedentary time, and physical
       activity on children’s and adolescents’ behavioural, psychological, and cognitive health
       (Waterloo Foundation funded, £60,000 to Edge Hill; CI-Richardson) and with colleagues
       at UCLAN on a randomized-controlled-trial of the efficacy of a tart cherry drink for
       treatment of patellofemoral pain in recreational athletes (Cherry Marketing Institute
       funded, $37,000 to UCLAN; CI-Richardson) and Whyte’s work (funded by California
       Walnut Commission, $200,000 to Reading; Wild Blueberry Association of North America,
       £58,000 to Reading) with colleagues (Reading; Tufts; Illinois; Cincinnati), which has

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        established relationships between consumption of flavonoids in foods, plasma levels of
        inflammation, BDNF, glucose, insulin and triglycerides and effects on memory, executive-
        function and neurological EEG/ERP outcomes, published in European Journal of
        Nutrition (2019) and Food and Function (2019).

 4.2 Relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences, including diverse
 communities and publics, and contributions to the economy and society
 Relationships with research users and beneficiaries were facilitated through the Department’s
 RGs/Centre, funding for stakeholder engagement, staff recruitment, working with the media and
 user participation in research.

 The Centre for Forensic and Investigative Psychology (Section 3.2) ran a series of talks each
 year to develop research opportunities and disseminate work internally and externally. To further
 engage with key research users, Wilcock and Kneller presented their work to the Office for the
 Police and Crime Commissioner (OPCC) for Hampshire, and Wilcock was an Academic
 Member of the College of Policing Guideline Committee (2017-2018) and a contributor to the
 National Autistic Society Guide for Police (2017). The Centre held events such as a workshop on
 vulnerable witnesses attended by Criminal Justice System stakeholders (see membership of our
 CJRN, Section 3.2). Wilcock also co-hosted seminars at City University on autism and policing
 and the role of Registered Intermediaries, attended by over 400 police delegates, across 2015,
 2016 and 2019. The CJRN, led by Waterhouse, held network events, supported by QR funding,
 to build research collaboration with research users. For instance, Lancaster is developing work
 with Gloucestershire Police to examine critical time-points in young offenders’ lives for
 intervention to prevent them from committing crime. Satchell hosted a visit (07/2019) from the
 Japanese Embassy’s First Secretary of Legal Affairs and seven visiting prosecutors to facilitate
 knowledge exchange with a subsequent visit to the prosecutors in Japan and input to an event
 on police interviewing at the Japanese Psychological Society.

 The Childhood and Youth Psychology RG were supported by UoA funds to disseminate their
 research to users and build collaboration. For instance, Ross, Aznar and Warhurst held a joint
 conference with Hampshire and London schools. Resultant collaborative work on maths anxiety,
 seeded by further UoA funding, is underway. In addition, Warhurst worked with the Ministry of
 Defence to help assess the impact of military deployment on service children’s education.
 Warren has recently started working with the charity GRIT (funded £20,500 November 2020, PI
 – Warren) on personal development and coaching sessions for young people, building on her
 previous experience with over 500 schools, working on interventions to build growth mindsets in
 learners.

 In the Social and Organisational Psychology RG, Gray and Cleveland have built connections
 with charities to develop impact for their work on volunteering, published in European Journal of
 Social Psychology (2020) and Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology (2019),
 funded by the Action for Blind Network, British Psychological Society and Open University. Gray
 has developed a strongly interdisciplinary and multi-stakeholder network, bringing together
 academics (Winchester, Nottingham Trent, Buckinghamshire, Open Universities), voluntary and
 community organisations (Community First), NHS and other health professional stakeholders,
 and local government (Hampshire County Council), to research the mechanisms of voluntary
 and civic action, how social connectedness impacts on health and wellbeing, and what ‘active
 ingredients’ are needed to ensure the development of effective interventions (e.g. for social


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prescribing) in this space. Gray and Cleveland have formed the Volunteer Research Hub
 (www.volunteeringresearchhub.co.uk), supported by QR funds, to disseminate resources and
 findings to volunteer organisations complemented by regular keynotes at volunteering events
 (e.g. Community First Wessex Annual Impact Events “All Together in One Place” (2018); “A
 Connected Society and Community” (2019); Wessex Community Action AGM, 2020)).

 In the Healthy Lives RG, Husted worked with patient groups and the Hampshire Hospitals NHS
 Foundation Trust on physical activity interventions during breast cancer. She has represented
 psychology at public participation events run by Hampshire Collaboration for Health Research
 and Education (Section 3.2). She also organised and facilitated an open public engagement
 event, at the Division of Health Psychology conference (Manchester) – “Health Psychology
 ‘beeing’ Socially Responsible”. The event connected health psychologists with patient and public
 involvement groups, general public contributors, NHS trust and charity employees. Furthermore,
 Gray’s research on sexual health and patient voice in health services, published in Sexual
 Health (2016), involved her as the patient and public involvement lead to the Bristol Health
 Integration Team for Sexual Health Improvement and advisor to the National Institute for Health
 Research, Health Protection Research Unit on Blood Borne and Sexually Transmitted Infections.

 In the Brain and Cognition RG, Davies, who was previously a Visiting Research Fellow from the
 Ordnance Survey, was appointed to a permanent lecturer post in 2014, transferring her industry
 expertise and contacts into the UoA. Her extensive portfolio of industry and public sector
 experience and expertise on spatial cognition and maps (e.g. paper in Acta Psychologica, 2020)
 has enabled ongoing interaction with stakeholders such as Ordnance Survey and the Defence
 Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL). To further support commercial impact Sowden has
 engaged a Director at Walnut Unlimited, an international insight agency, as a Visiting Knowledge
 Exchange Fellow to work with colleagues on shaping research for commercial environments.
 Myers’ organisation has provided workshops in the Department and reciprocal visits between
 organisations have taken place to help staff understand the demands of commercial research.

 The UoA has regularly worked with the media to build awareness of, and audiences for, our
 work. Our research has featured in the national and international press (e.g. The Guardian –
 Gamble’s Psychological Science work on the use of cycling helmets; The Daily Mail – Gill’s
 work on facial features and attractiveness; The New York Times – Sowden’s work on
 improvisation, creativity and arts education; Time, and Deseret News – Aznar’s work on mothers’
 use of emotional words and content when speaking with daughters), charitable membership
 organisation publications (e.g. Cycling UK, – Gamble; National Trust – Sowden’s work on
 natural environments, walking and creativity), online news (e.g. The Conversation - Aznar’s
 work on emotional development and parenting, Jones’ work on neural correlates of thought-action
 fusion) and national radio (e.g. Radio 4 ‘The Digital Human’ – Gill’s Psychological Science work
 on facial expression and social camouflage; Radio 4 ‘Technicolour’ – Sowden’s work on colour
 perception; Radio 5 – Thomae’s (departed 2018) work on gender-neutral parenting).

 4.3 Indicators of recognition by the research base
 UoA members are active in research/learned societies. Waterhouse is co-director of the
 International Investigative Interviewing Research Group (iIIRG). Sowden served as International
 Representative and member of Executive and Awards Committees for the American
 Psychological Association Division 10 (Society for the Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity and
 the Arts). Satchell is a contributor to the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences’ Forensic Gait

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Analysis (FGA) Working Group, building FGA protocols for the Forensic Science Regulator, and
 a ‘member at large’ for the British Society for the Psychology of Individual Differences
 committee. Husted was Communications Lead for the British Psychological Society’s Division of
 Health Psychology. Parsons is an Executive Committee member of the iIIRG. Bonnardel
 served as Director, Vice Chair, Treasurer, Awards Officer and Executive Committee Member of
 the Colour Group (Great Britain), and as Treasurer and Committee member for Centre Français
 de la Couleur. Reflecting her inter-disciplinarity, Davies is a Fellow of the Royal Geographical
 Society.

 In terms of editorial work and reviewing, Gray is an Associate Editor for the Journal of Social and
 Political Psychology, Cheung is an Associate Editor for Social Psychology, Davies serves on the
 editorial board of Spatial Cognition and Computation, Sowden edited a Special Issue of the
 Journal of Creative Behavior, Leunissen served as an editor for Sage Open. UoA members
 were reviewers for approximately 100 different journals during the REF period including many
 highly regarded journals such as Cortex, Child Development, Journal of Experimental
 Psychology: General, Psychological Medicine, Nature Energy and Psychological Science. UoA
 members were also active at grant review: e.g. ESRC peer review college (Sowden and
 Wilcock); Canadian Social Science and Humanities Research Council (Davies); National
 Institute for Health Research, the Joint Research Executive Scientific Committee; Newcastle-
 upon-Tyne Hospitals NHS Charity, Kidney Research UK (Gibbons); High-Value Detainee
 Interrogation Group, US (Kontogianni); European Research Council, National Science
 Foundation, US (Sowden).

 Members of the UoA were active in conference organisation. Following an invitation from the
 Head of Science, French Government, Bonnardel was main organiser of New Perspectives on
 Colour and Light: Science, Arts and Humanities (Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India, supported
 by the Indo-French Centre for the Promotion of Advanced Research), co-organiser of Light and
 Colour (Musée de Minéralogie, Ecole des Mines, Paris, 2015) and on the International Scientific
 Committee for the International Colour Association Conference, 2018. Parsons and Waterhouse
 were on the conference organising committee for the iIIRG conference for four years. Husted
 served on the British Psychological Society Division of Health Psychology Standing Conference
 Scientific Committee for four years. Satchell is hosting the British Society for the Psychology of
 Individual Differences conference (planned for April 2020 at Winchester, but postponed to April
 2021, online) and hosted Talking About Research in Memory and Cognition (TARMAC) 2020, at
 Winchester. Davies was on organising and programme committees of the International
 Conference on Spatial Information Theory and has been on the conference steering committee
 since 2015. Sowden co-organised the UK Creativity Researchers Conference 2018 and 2019.
 Gray served on the organising committee for the International Society of Political Psychology
 Meeting 2015, San Diego, California and co-organised a series of BPS funded research
 seminars on the Social Psychology of Social Prescribing at Nottingham Trent, London South
 Bank and Winchester University (2018-19).

 The excellence of research presented by members of the UoA has been recognised through six
 conference and journal awards (e.g. Davies, best paper presentation, Conference on Spatial
 Information Theory 2017) and members of the UoA regularly contribute keynotes and invited
 talks. For example, Davies gave keynotes at GeoVIS 2015 [Montpellier, France, September
 2015], Making Salience Personal (AGILE 2018) [Lund, Sweden, June 2018], PLATIAL’18
 [Heidelberg, Germany, September 2018], Speaking of Location 2019 [Regensburg, Germany,

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 September 2019]. Bonnardel gave numerous invited talks, including the Retiring Chairman
 Valedictory Lecture at the Colour Group of Great Britain and seven invited international
 presentations in France (Université Pierre Mendes, Grenoble; Musée de l’Homme, Paris; École
 de Printemps, Roussillon; Centre de la Vision, Hôpital des XV-XX, Paris), Spain
 (Consciousness, Mindfulness and Compassion International Association, Malaga). China
 (Huaweii R & D Department), and India (Javadpur University, Kolkata). Gibbons spoke on
 quality of life following transplantation to the Pancreas Forum, Madingley Hall, Cambridge and
 the Renal Transplant Services Meeting, Royal Marsden Hospital, London. Sowden gave
 numerous invited keynotes, plenaries and presentations including a keynote at the Comino
 Foundation consultation on “Teaching for Creativity” held at Windsor Castle (2020), a
 presentation at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development meeting on
 “Creativity and Critical Thinking in Higher Education”, NESTA HQ, London (2019), plenary
 lectures at Cognitive Futures in the Arts and Humanities (University of Kent, 2018) and
 Psychology of Creativity Conference (Edinburgh, 2017), and was invited to convene a four-day
 long discussion group as part of the 2015 Salzburg Global Seminar Session 547 on Art and
 Neuroscience, Schloss Leopoldskron, Austria.

 4.4 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline including engagement with national and
 international priorities and initiatives and inter-disciplinary research
 Sections 1.5-1.7 and 4.3 detail the UoA’s commitment to the key sustainability pillars of Open
 Science, reproducibility and research integrity, and to the research base. Experienced UoA
 members also contribute to sustainability of the discipline through education and training of the
 next generation of researchers, for instance, as external examiners for PhD candidates (e.g.
 UCL, Zurich, Cape Town, Griffith, QMUL, Goldsmiths, Plymouth, Canterbury Christchurch,
 Leeds Beckett, OU, Lausanne). Experienced and ECR staff members contribute through
 external examining of UG and PGT programmes (e.g. Husted – MSc Health Psychology,
 University of Bath; Sowden - MSc Functional Neuroimaging, Brunel; MSc Research Methods in
 Psychology, Herts; programme approval – MSc Neuroaesthetics and Creativity, Goldsmith’s).
 Davies has also been active at extending the inter-disciplinary reach of the discipline. For
 instance, spending a week at the University of Zurich, Geography Department providing a
 seminar and advice to researchers and PhD students applying psychological methods to
 research in cartography and geography, speaking on language and spatial cognition to the
 Linguistics Department at Bangor and giving annual spatial cognition research lectures to MSc
 Geographical Information Systems students at UCL (2014-16), where she remains affiliated to
 UCL’s ExCiteS citizen science RG as a psychological research methods advisor.

 Responding to national and international economic, policy and funder priorities to increase
 capacity for creativity, and complex problem solving (e.g. Arts Council England Strategy 2020-
 2030, Let’s Create; UK Industrial Strategy 2017-2027: Building a Britain Fit for the Future; World
 Economic Forum, Future of Jobs Report, 2018) Sowden is lead for the University on a 2018-
 2022 research project on Creative and Critical Thinking in Higher and Teacher Education,
 working in collaboration with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
 (OECD) and a network of 26 universities from 14 OECD countries. The University-level
 commitment to this project, including professional service and research support, reflects the
 University’s Strategic Vision (2020-2030) and focus on sustainability and social justice. The
 project is strongly inter-disciplinary, bringing together 10 disciplines at Winchester (and many
 more across institutions) to research the mechanisms of creative and critical thinking and



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interventions to develop these capabilities. Davies and Cheung are also contributing to the
 research.

 Gray’s work on volunteering (Section 4.2), also responds directly to national and international
 policy and funder priorities aimed at building thriving and connected communities and places,
 and tackling the root causes of social isolation and loneliness and their impact on our health and
 wellbeing (e.g. Civil Society Strategy 2018: Building a future that works for everyone; A
 Connected Society 2018: A strategy for tackling loneliness; NHS Long Term Plan, 2020; UK
 Industrial Strategy 2017-2027: Building a Britain Fit for the Future; Civil Society at the World
 Economic Forum Annual Meeting, 2020). This work also addresses current strategic priorities
 relevant for COVID-19 (e.g. UKRI Covid-19 Funding), especially the need for research on civil
 society and the voluntary sector, and their influence on community resilience. Also responding to
 COVID-19, Satchell’s work, published in Early Human Development, emphasised the
 requirement to maintain quality of research evidence during the pandemic and his work
 published in International Journal of Mental Health and Addiction contributed to understanding
 the relationship between fear and public health compliance during COVID-19.

 Other examples of inter-disciplinary work include Satchell’s work, with forensic science, law and
 podiatry, on forensic analysis in the criminal justice system investigating bias in gait analysis,
 blood pattern analysis and vulnerable witness interviewing (e.g. work published in Forensic Gait
 Analysis Principles and Practice) and his work with sports scientists at Western Norway
 University of Applied Sciences on the use of apps in sports training (forthcoming in JMIR
 mHealth and uHealth) and at the University of Portsmouth on ecological approaches to expertise
 in tennis/badminton. Leunissen’s pioneering work on the psychological functions of nostalgia in
 organizations, is an international inter-disciplinary collaboration with the School of Management,
 Rotterdam (Prof. Marius van Dijke) and social psychologists at Southampton (Prof. Constantine
 Sedikides and Prof. Tim Wildschut) and has been published in the top-tier organizational
 behaviour journal, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes (2015, 2019).
 Finally, Bonnardel has drawn on her colour perception expertise to work with colleagues in
 marketing and business on visual branding, colour and marketing resulting in a range of work
 published in journals such as Journal of Destination Marketing Management (2020) and Journal
 of Business Research (2016).

 4.5 Contribution of category C staff and collaboration/integration with external organisations
 The unit had one category C staff member, Professor John Ramage (Consultant Physician and
 Research Director for Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (HHFT)), who is a Visiting
 Professor (Psychology: 2013-2016; University: ongoing as part of the Hampshire Collaboration
 for Health Research and Education (Section 3.2)). Ramage’s research has been primarily
 located in UoA4 during this REF cycle. Joint projects between Ramage and UoA4 staff (Gray)
 included work, funded by the European Organisation for the Treatment of Cancer, on quality-of-
 life issues in pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour patients, published in Endocrine-Related Cancer
 (2020) and Neuroendocrinology (2017), and on neuroendocrine cancer, funded by Cancer UK
 (research in progress). Additional HHFT-UoA4 projects, included work to evaluate recovery
 coaching in acute elderly care (£10,000 consultancy funding from HHFT to Gray and Ross),
 published in Qualitative Health Research (2015) and BMJ Quality Improvement Reports (2014),
 ongoing work on treatment experience with haemophilia, funded by Bayer, and Husted’s work
 on physical activity interventions during breast cancer treatment conducted with nursing,
 medicine, surgery and sports & exercise physiology, published in Psycho-Oncology (2019a,b).


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Husted’s current collaboration with HHFT Urology on decision-making by men selecting therapy
 for non-neurogenic lower urinary tract symptoms, funded by Boston Scientific, will inform
 changes in practice and patient experience that will support research impact going forwards.




                                                                                      Page 18
