Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia (UEA)

 Unit of Assessment: 22 (Anthropology and Development Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of International Development (DEV) was established by the UEA in 1967 to influence
 policy and practice for combatting global problems of underdevelopment and poverty, especially
 those caused by land degradation and environmental change. Our journey since then saw us
 being awarded, in 2009, the Queen’s Anniversary Prize, the most prestigious university award in
 the UK, for decades of ground-breaking research and profound impact on those problems.
 REF2014 deemed our research environment to be 75% world-leading and 25% internationally
 excellent. During the current REF assessment period, we have carefully maintained and
 strengthened our research and impact culture through sympathetic management and investment
 in groups and individuals. This has paid off in the following ways.
     I.     We maintained and took advantage of our distinct research identity
 DEV’s academics work in interdisciplinary research clusters, of which gender, water security,
 global environmental justice, climate change and behavioural development economics are the
 biggest. Our distinctive research identity follows from balanced strengths in a range of disciplines:
 natural, environmental, social, political and economics sciences. Today’s global development
 challenges require understanding how environmental, social, political and economic factors work
 together to affect people’s livelihoods, which is why our balanced strengths across the
 corresponding disciplines is so important for fully grasping these issues.
 For example, a project led by Schroeder (ESRC, £791k, 2018-2021) studies indigenous-
 international interactions for sustainable development, using political science, geography and
 anthropology. Another example is the fruitful collaboration between social and environmental
 sciences in the qualitative comparative analysis, directed by Rao, of women’s agency in 25 climate
 change hotspots across Asia and Africa (see Rao’s paper in Nature Climate Change in this
 submission). 56% of our peer-reviewed publications involve interdisciplinary collaborations
 (Section 4), and our recruitment strategy (Section 2) ensures that within-DEV partnerships
 continue to span across a large range of disciplines.
     II.    We increased concentration in clusters of research excellence
 Staff on an ATR (academic teaching and research) contract typically belong to 1-3 thematic
 clusters. Solitary research is not discouraged – see in this submission the prestigious and well-
 received monographs by Jenkins, Hoechner, Martin, Pattenden and Pickles – but in practice most
 work is collaborative. Our strategic objectives articulated for REF2014 included that we would
 increase concentration in the following four clusters of research excellence, in response to the
 demands of an increasingly competitive funding environment.
 The Global Environmental Justice research group now consists of 15 academics, 17 PhD
 students from DEV, and six affiliate members from other institutions, and is conducting 30 live
 externally-funded research projects. Its engagement with communities, activists, researchers and
 policy makers is extensive. In the last five years, this team has secured over £5 million in research
 funding, hosted numerous workshops and a major international conference, produced an
 Environmental Justice MOOC attended by more than 10,000 learners to date, published more
 than a 100 journal articles and books and contributed two impact case studies for REF2021 (one
 for UoA22 and one for UoA25). From a fledgling group in REF2014, it is now responsible for about
 40% of our external income.
 The UEA Water Security Research Centre consists of some 30 water scientists at UEA (10 from
 DEV), and has key expertise in water resources management, transboundary basins, irrigation,
 and water politics and governance. It draws upon expertise from across UEA: DEV, the School of

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environmental Sciences, the Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, the Climatic Research
 Unit, and the Schools of Medicine and Health Sciences. It was founded in 2011 and has firmly
 established itself as a leader in its field during the assessment period, as demonstrated by editorial
 (five water journals), steering and board (e.g. WHO) positions.
 DEV’s Behavioural Development Economics research group has increased its membership
 from six ATR members of staff to 10, which to the best of our knowledge constitutes the largest
 concentration of behavioural development economists in Europe. This resulted from three
 development economists from the School of Economics joining it (submitted to UoA16), and from
 DEV’s recruitment of an early-career researcher (Santana). Whereas in the past we struggled to
 attract PhD students to this area of study, at the time of writing six PhD students are members of
 the group. The group continues to be housed in DEV and has invested in its collective identity
 through organising an annual PhD training workshop, a major conference (the 2017 Symposium
 for Economic Experiments in Developing Countries) and establishing a permanent field lab in
 eastern Uganda.
 DEV’s Gender and Development research group has stayed the same in size (nine ATR
 members of staff) but has substantially increased its external funding, from an already high base.
 This was an indirect result of the Gender Equality Act, passed by parliament on March 13, 2014,
 which made it a requirement for DFID to ‘promote gender equality in the provision by the
 Government of development assistance and humanitarian assistance to countries outside the
 United Kingdom’. The resulting strong demand for research evidence and policy guidance in the
 field of gender and development has stood the group in good stead, which focused on training
 programmes and webinars, while maintaining its track record in terms of research council funding
 and research publications.
 While we increased concentration in these four clusters of research excellence, some 30% of ATR
 staff work outside them. Their research is on leading issues in development studies related to
 impact evaluation, education, health, youth, ageing, migration, aid, trade, poverty, inequality and
 relative deprivation. We value this diversity, both for its own sake and for the flexibility it entails to
 alter our research foci in future.
     III.   We substantially increased our already high levels of external income
 The UEA value of DEV awards active during the REF period rose from £7.2M for REF2014 to
 £23.2M for REF2021. We outline below and show in detail in Section 3 how this tripling of external
 research income was achieved. This income is important for the fieldwork, engagement, and
 analysis and writing it allows faculty to do (Section 2). For example, because of how we allocate
 workload, the time it buys out (after fieldwork and other expenditures have been deducted) is on
 top of university-funded time: on average per 1.0 FTE, 1.6 months added to 4.8 months, so 6.4
 months per year available for the activities mentioned.
 We achieved this in spite of the increased competition for research funding, and in spite of a
 historically high number of early career researchers among our ATR staff, following a deliberate
 strategy. First, through workshops, peer review of grant applications, seed funding and relief from
 teaching (Section 2), staff were empowered and encouraged to take the risks involved in applying
 for grants. This was particularly important for early career researchers, who achieved a number of
 notable successes, such as Macdonald’s £104k ESRC grant. Second, our investment in
 interdisciplinary clusters of research excellence paid off. The range of disciplines found within DEV
 meant we were able to secure funding from six different research councils. They also enabled
 partnerships between junior and senior members of staff: about half of our externally funded
 projects are of this kind. For junior staff members this creates an important track record that
 facilitates being successful in future applications. Third, we took advantage of the availability of
 GCRF money, which plays to our strengths.




                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     IV.     We developed impact from research adopting a systematic approach
 Academics in DEV engage through their research with communities, policy makers, civil society,
 practitioners and activists (Section 4). For REF2014 we used an ad hoc approach for letting this
 engagement result in impact from research, but since 2014 we have become much more
 systematic. One of our professors, Lloyd-Sherlock, adopted the role of impact champion
 throughout the assessment period, and was given 1.5 months per year for this, so about a full year
 FTE over the entire period. He conducted a baseline survey for impact at the start of the
 assessment period in individual meetings with all members of staff, and staff were encouraged to
 lead on impact projects if their research was deemed to be likely to give rise to important impact.
 We supported the development of 13 impact projects during the period, which benefited from
 internal funding (on average £54k per impact project), teaching remission (91 months in total),
 intensive mentoring by the impact champion, and plentiful advice and practical support from
 colleagues in DEV. Our impact case studies and Section 4 summarise the resulting impact.
 Strategy for 2021-2026 and new developments
 In the following years, we intend to maximise the impact from our research through inducting
 new staff into our impact culture; close mentoring, advice and support from a senior member of
 staff; generous financial support and time remission for impact and engagement activities; and
 encouraging junior-senior partnerships in impact case studies – a more deliberate version of our
 strategy followed in recent years. A new element is that we intend to incorporate high-quality
 impact evaluation in the development of impact projects. DEV has key expertise in this area
 (Camfield, Duvendack, D’Exelle) which we intend to use to improve our knowledge and
 understanding of the impact our research has.

 For promoting research excellence while Covid-19 and its ramifications are still with us, we will
 continue to equitably support our researchers using the approach described in the following
 sections, making full allowance for the extra home and university demands that many of our staff
 currently face.

 We will continue to build up clusters of research excellence, making the most of complementary
 strengths in UEA and the rest of the Norwich Research Park (NRP):
     • We intend to establish the Sikor Centre for Global Environmental Justice Research.
         The GEJ group, as described above, has seen remarkable growth during the REF period,
         so far without core funding. The time has now come to establish the group as an externally
         funded research centre. The ambition is to build a global science-society network of
         excellence to produce robust new evidence, theory and tools that will enable policymakers
         and practitioners to integrate environmental justice frameworks into environmental
         decision making, inspired by the work of DEV Emeritus Professor of Environment and
         Development, Thomas Sikor. At the time of writing, our ESRC centre application has been
         shortlisted.
     • We intend to establish the Norwich Institute for Sustainable Development (NISD), with
         the John Innes Centre (JIC), a world-class plant sciences research institute located on the
         NRP, just a stone’s throw away from DEV. NISD work will be on the development and
         adoption of new crop varieties in the Global South that are nutritious, high-yielding,
         resistant against plant pests and diseases and resilient in the face of climate change. This
         is a new avenue for DEV, with huge growth potential, which combines the development
         studies and plant sciences research that the NRP excels in. The NISD will be launched in
         early 2021.
     • We intend to forge new links with the UEA’s School of Economics (ECO). The
         Behavioural Development Economics research group will further strengthen its
         connections with the behavioural economists in ECO and the UEA’s Centre for Behavioural
         and Experimental Social Science (CBESS) through the secondment of one of its DEV


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        professors (D’Exelle) to ECO, at first for one day per week. Research themes we intend to
        explore together are gender and identity, intra-household bargaining and plant-based
        dietary choices.
    •   We intend to maintain and develop gender as a strong cross-cutting theme. Gender
        has always been an important research theme for DEV, uniting its anthropologists,
        economists, and political and environmental scientists. As we develop in the areas
        indicated above, we will simultaneously strengthen our gender research. For example, the
        DEV director of the NISD, Rao, is a specialist in gender, agriculture and rural livelihoods;
        she will ensure that the DEV-JIC joint projects fully integrate a concern for gender equality
        in the adoption of new crop varieties. The continued development of gender as a strong
        cross-cutting theme means we will prioritise gender expertise in new recruitments the
        coming five years.

 These new alliances will bring new funding opportunities: a larger range of funders (public, private,
 charitable) and funding calls to engage with. It will also require us to be more strategic and directive
 in how we engage with funding opportunities. For this purpose, we will institute a funding
 executive committee consisting of the Head of School, the Research Directors and senior
 academics in key areas, to identify and encourage themes and teams for funding applications.

 Research openness and integrity

 DEV rigorously implements UEA’s policies and guidelines that ensure that all research and impact
 activities undertaken by staff and students adhere to the highest professional standards of
 research integrity (REF5a): on good practice, ethics, allegations of misconduct, open access, and
 data management, among others. Overall responsibility for maintaining these standards rests with
 the Head of School, while the two Research Directors and the International UEA Centre Manager
 oversee their implementation. All research and consultancy projects that involve primary data
 collection or engagement with stakeholders require a prior application for ethical approval.
 Applications comprehensively cover aspects of respecting participants’ autonomy, maximising
 benefit from the proposed activities, minimising harm, being fair and behaving with integrity. The
 DEV Ethics Committee scrutinises all applications and routinely asks for often substantial revisions
 before they are approved. During the return period, it approved 112 applications per year.

 The Research Directors encourage making anonymised datasets publicly available, including
 where appropriate the sharing of files to facilitate replication of quantitative findings. However,
 important work in the School during the return period highlights that a wider definition of replication
 than a simple rerunning of computer code for a given data set is called for: issues such as p-
 hacking, publication bias, data quality, to name but a few affect the reliability of key findings in
 development studies. Section 4 summarises our work on understanding these issues and why
 replication meets with such resistance.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The School has continued to grow since the start of the REF period, from 36 research staff (32.2
 FTE) to 39 (36.7 FTE). Its first recruitment objective over the REF period (and beyond) has been
 to attract world class researchers to the selected groups in which the School aims to build or
 sustain critical mass as a world leader, supported by strengths in the wider UEA and Norwich
 Research Park (NRP) environment. New appointments here are:
     - Global Environmental Justice (Armijos Burneo, Carmenta, Edwards, Forster, Rodriguez
         Fernandez, Tebboth), with the School cluster linking to the UEA’s School of Environmental
         Sciences (ENV) and Tyndall Climate Change centre staff groupings.




                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -    Behavioural and Experimental Development Economics (Santana), which is part of a wider
         UEA network of behavioural social scientists (the Centre for Behavioural and Experimental
         Social Science).
 The School’s second recruitment objective is through a balanced recruitment of outstanding
 individual researchers to enhance the strengths of each of its main disciplinary strands, since it is
 the combination of natural, social, political and economics sciences that defines its distinct
 research identity. The combined expertise from a range of sciences provides outstanding
 opportunities for inter and transdisciplinary research, which we boost through our recruitment
 strategy. The new appointments along disciplinary lines are two geographers (Edwards,
 Ramakrishnan), four natural and environmental scientists (Armijos Burneo, Forster, Rodriguez
 Fernandez, Tebboth), three anthropologists (Abranches, Hoechner, Pickles), three political
 scientists (Jenkins, Macdonald, Theuerkauf), two sociologists (Muttarak, Stavinoha) and one
 development economist (Santana).

 Commitment to equality, inclusion and diversity
 DEV’s workforce is diverse, as is evident from the 38 research staff whose outputs are submitted
 to UoA22. These 38 are born in 15 different countries, eight of which (so more than half) are low
 and middle income countries. 21 are born outside the UK, on each of the world’s continents apart
 from Antarctica: continental Europe (10), Africa (2), East (2) and South (3) Asia, Latin America (1),
 North America (1), and Oceania (2). Exactly half (19) are female. Gender parity resulted from
 recent recruitment: the majority of our early career researchers are female (9f/2m).

 Our diversity agenda includes all protected characteristics and forms of intersectionality. The DEV
 Diversity Committee (DDC)’s two co-chairs and 15 members represent diversity in the School,
 notably in terms of gender, race (ethnicity, nationality, colour), sexuality, disability and age. A
 diversity of grades/career stages are included in the DDC, as are support staff.
 The DDC is an influential body in the School. It occupies a central position on the promotions and
 executive committees to ensure that the School remains a welcoming, supportive and fulfilling
 place to work. It meets on a six-weekly basis to steer and review progress with enhancing
 inclusion, and monitoring and addressing inequalities among both staff and students across
 gender and other identity groups. DDC members:

     •   Review workload model patterns and propose adjustments to progress equality, including
         strongly pushing a pro-active promotions process through the annual comprehensive
         review of CVs and additional support measures for maternity and paternity care leave (e.g.
         establish mentors who have taken such leave available for support and advice to all staff
         taking leave);
     •   Collect and monitor data on patterns of staff recruitment, induction and appraisal,
         probation and promotion in terms of all protected characteristics;
     •   Consult staff every 18 months via a survey and organise group discussions about their
         views on fairness and inclusion around recruitment, probation, promotion, mentoring,
         appraisal, and support with research and impact;
     •   Enhance equality in staff recruitment, e.g. through ensuring that essential criteria within
         the Further Particulars are kept to a minimum, requiring that all shortlisting and interview
         panels are gender-balanced, implementing a mandatory unconscious bias training and
         bias interrupters for recruitment chairs and panels.

 Beyond our formal processes several DEV staff are leading ‘Decolonising the Curriculum’
 initiatives in UEA, and have been active in our University of Sanctuary activities. DEV also hosts
 the University’s Sanctuary Officer.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equitable and inclusive staff development
 DEV’s research and impact culture supports scholars to do world-class research on leading issues
 in development studies that can help, take to task, or inspire policy makers, practitioners and
 activists. A dense internal network across the whole of DEV of strong, reciprocal bonds between
 staff facilitates the reading of each other’s papers and grant applications, advice, collaboration
 and access to external networks of research users and partners. The School has continued to
 prioritise the fostering of such a collegial environment which enables staff to communicate across
 disciplines and stimulates innovative research and impact. A policy of comprehensive research
 and impact support, together with the guidance and advice that is generously shared in DEV,
 enables all staff and especially early career researchers to forge a research and impact career
 trajectory with the help of a range of academic and other colleagues.
 The School takes pride in its commitment and measures to promote equality of opportunity and
 adopts a pro-rata basis for research performance criteria and entitlement to study leave for part-
 time staff. It recognises that an academic career is highly demanding and fully supports staff
 moving from full-time to part-time contracts to facilitate effective work and family life balances
 related to child care, child ill-health, or a partner’s move abroad. It has robust frameworks and
 procedures to support staff research and impact plans, activities, outputs and dissemination, and
 so support career development. Whereas the pandemic has been challenging, these have helped
 in recent times to protect core research and impact activities not just of some but of all DEV faculty.
    -   There are two research directors, who are approachable, encouraging and provide
        tailored support: one for impact and funding and one for research outputs.
    -   School staff access dedicated research support from International Development UEA
        (see Section 3), for research proposal writing and review, budgeting and research project
        logistics and administration. Senior staff include early-career colleagues in grant
        applications, share examples of successful applications and review draft proposals.
        Positively, Co-Is have been approximately 50% female, and women PIs are more likely to
        experience grant success overall (44%f/40%m) during the assessment period. Women’s
        awards’ mean values overtook men’s in recent years.
    -   The School’s workload model automatically allocates 40% of staff’s university-funded
        time to research and impact. External funding is then entered into this workload model to
        ‘buy out’ additional time, which ensures that success with funding bids translates in its
        entirety into extra time for research and impact activity.
    -   Many staff are able to pursue all or most of their teaching in one semester, freeing up
        time for research, engagement and impact activities in the other semester and the summer
        period.
    -   Entitlement to a Study Leave for all staff for a six month period every seventh semester,
        so six months per 3.5 years. After identifying a small deficit in uptake by women staff early
        in the return period, we now flag entitlement on the Teaching Allocation tables, and use
        appraisal to encourage women to take their entitlement. The research directors help staff
        to devise clear and achievable study leave plans for impact, research or grant applications.
        Study leave is often taken up for the sake of generating or evaluating impact from research,
        which the School fully supports and encourages. For example, Verschoor used his study
        leave to establish connections with insurance companies and farmers’ organisations in
        Uganda. This ensured that UEA research findings on smallholders’ investment decisions
        were used for developing new insurance products.
    -   Support for research through maternity and paternity leave is discussed prior to uptake
        with the Head of School and supported during leave by ‘return to work days’, and after
        leave by phased re-entry, and timetable adjustment to allow for nursery hours. We have a
        100% return rate during the assessment period for staff following maternity leave, and a
        high uptake of paternity leave. Flexible working supports women researcher’s careers: e.g.
        reduced FTE to allow a period of annual absence, or temporary reduction in FTE to allow
        for childcare and phased return to work.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   Individuals receive annual review, feedback and encouragement on their research and
        impact achievements and plans through the personal research plan that they submit
        once a year and the annual appraisal with a senior member of staff.
    -   Transparent promotions procedures and criteria have been developed for research and
        impact activity attainment, helping guide staff in their plans for career development. The
        promotion thresholds relate to a variety of criteria such as quality of publications, quantity
        of publications, research funding, research impact, engagement, enterprise, PhD students;
        and evidence of research leadership, management and administration.
    -   The School provides financial resources for research and impact activity: an Academic
        Allowance (£1000 per year) for each individual; and a Research Leave Reserve, which
        is an entitlement that accumulates in proportion to the external funding staff bring in. We
        also provide financial support to research groups, which in practice varies from £1000 -
        £5000 per group per year, depending on group plans.
    -   The School encourages staff to apply for various UEA-allocated pots of money for
        engagement and impact activities, especially the HEFCE Impact Fund, the SSF
        Innovation Fund, the PVC Impact Fund, and UEA GCRF Rapid Response funds. This
        helped to ensure that 13 DEV staff who led on impact projects on average benefited from
        £54k internal financial support during the REF period, or £0.7M between them.
    -   The School strongly supports and offers flexibility for staff to take up secondment
        opportunities with high profile international development agencies, e.g. Muttarak as
        senior research scholar and deputy director of the World Population Program, International
        Institute for Applied Systems Analysis based in Austria (full year, 2020), McGuire as a seed
        system analyst at FAO in Rome (2015-2017), and Serneels working one day per week as
        adviser on economic development strategy for DFID (now the FCDO) in London (since
        2017). These secondments help build the School’s profile and influence beyond academia,
        and inform its staff’s research and impact agenda. For example, Lloyd-Sherlock’s
        secondment to the World Health Organisation during the previous REF period (2010-11)
        gave rise to one of our current impact case studies.
 Early career researchers (ECRs) benefit equitably from the measures of support listed above, as
 well as from the following additional ones:
     - The workload model gives new lecturers a 40% remission from teaching loads in their
         first year, 30% in year two, 20% in year three and 10% in year four to provide space to
         forge a research and impact trajectory at an early stage.
    -   The School has a mentoring system, whereby new staff are linked with a more
        experienced and trusted colleague as a mentor to whom they can go for advice, guidance
        and feedback, on research plans, impact and engagement plans, draft proposals and
        papers. Mentors ensure that early career staff are introduced to research groups to foster
        belonging and intellectual support. Gender-aware mentoring during confirmation periods,
        and beyond, supports women researchers.
    -   Clear confirmation of post criteria relating to research attainment have been developed
        by the School for early career staff on probation, to ensure transparency and confidence
        in career development procedures.
    -   We organise regular grant bidding workshops for ECRs. These are either generic or
        focus on a particular funder (British Academy, ESRC, etc.).
    -   In addition to the Academic Allowance and Research Leave Reserve, the School has
        provided small grants to early career researchers on a competitive basis to seed fund
        pieces of research and fieldwork.
 Evidence of the School’s success in mentoring and developing the careers of early career
 researchers is a retention rate among them during the assessment period of 100%.
 At any point in time, about eight research associates are employed by DEV, on grants held by
 DEV PIs. We apply UEA’s Code of Practice (REF5a) to ensure that our research associates

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefit from the same high-quality support and career progression opportunities as our permanent
 staff and fully share in our research and impact culture. Their PI acts as their line manager, sets
 objectives, performs appraisals and provides ongoing supervision and support. Women RAs
 frequently work flexibly, agreed with their PI (the same opportunity is open to men RAs but less
 frequently taken up). A dedicated research staff coordinator promotes access to networks (e.g.
 DEV’s research groups) and awareness of support. A mentor different to the PI provides advice
 and guidance on career development. The School Manager and School coordinators liaise with
 HR on behalf of research associates, and ensure that they receive the training, mentoring,
 appraisals, access to facilities and annual leave they are entitled to. International Development
 UEA provides support to research associates with submitting funding applications and helps with
 finance and international travel needs. DEV aims to provide better continuity for women RAs
 through extended contracts and opportunities for career progression and recently committed to
 ‘bridging’ funding gaps between contracts where possible.

 Research students
 Our PhD students are firmly embedded in our research environment, enriching it as much as being
 enriched by it. The current cohort of 52 originate from 18 countries, 58% outside Europe. The
 strong diversity of DEV’s PhD student body has long been a point of pride for the School. Currently,
 48% of our students are from BAME backgrounds and 43% from White backgrounds (9% have
 not recorded their ethnicity); and 7% declared a disability. We currently have 69% female and 31%
 male students. Over the return period, a PhD student’s median age was 32.5, with ages ranging
 from 23 to 70. Many of our students are parents, and the School fully supports those with childcare
 commitments, e.g. in providing advance notice of compulsory training, and having flexibility in
 teaching and supervisory sessions. During the pandemic, we have lobbied for them to maintain
 access to their workspaces and receive continuation grants, and we have used the International
 Development UEA reserve to establish a fund for research adaptation.


                         2013-     2014-      2015-     2016-     2017-     2018-      2019-     Total
                         14        15         16        17        18        19         20
  Degrees awarded
  Professional           -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -
  doctorates
  PhDs awarded           14        8          11        9         15        7          8         72


 Each research student has two designated supervisors. Much of our PhD students’ research is
 interdisciplinary, with over two thirds being jointly supervised by faculty from different disciplinary
 backgrounds. The School provides high-quality doctoral training and has a strict formal process
 for progression and confirmation. The training programme speedily identifies individual students’
 needs, and helps them to fulfil them. Our Research Skills Workshops form a two-semester long
 research training module that is intensive, flexible and advanced. Convenors coordinate their
 efforts with individual students’ supervisors to offer focused and bespoke training. The Social
 Science Faculty runs approximately 80 advanced training workshops per year. These are
 designed to satisfy the ESRC’s RDTS learning outcomes. The ‘UEA/SeNSS Online Training
 Series for PGRs’ offers a further 20 training sessions per year, in a live-taught online format. As a
 function of UEA’s membership of the South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) DTP
 consortium, students can also access training at Essex, Kent, Surrey, Sussex, Reading,
 Goldsmiths, Royal Holloway, Roehampton, and City University. Students have a dedicated budget
 to attend outhouse external specialised training and conferences.
 We also run four specialist annual training workshops for PhD students: full-day events held at
 UEA and open to PhD students from other universities: Impact Evaluation, Development Studies
 Epistemologies, Research Ethics in Development Research, and Lab-in-the-Field Experiments.
 These are widely praised by participants for training that cannot be readily found elsewhere, and
 have become a reference point in their respective fields. The workshop on Lab-in-the-Field


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Experiments, offered since 2013, is widely considered to be the training event for this research
 method, and brings together PhD students and experts from across Europe and beyond.
 We organise an annual International PhD students’ conference, together with two continental
 European universities. We hosted the SeNSS conference in 2019 on Social Science, Social Value
 and Social Justice, with 100 students presenting from 10 institutions. Both the training workshops
 and the conferences attract excellent students from across Europe’s universities and are hugely
 over-subscribed.
 Students are integrated into externally funded work when appropriate, actively participate in DEV-
 organised conferences, and frequently publish with Faculty. Three members of Faculty are ex-
 DEV PhD students. There is a tradition of continued engagement between faculty and their
 graduated PhD students, which at the time of writing include collaborations with DEV graduates
 at the International Potato Centre (CIP), UN Women and the Stockholm Environment Institute.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over the REF period, the School has been engaged in research, consultancy, policy advice and
 capacity building in 46 countries, working with an estimated 191 user organisations and
 partnership institutions. There were 264 “live” projects, about two-thirds of which classified as
 research and the remainder were impactful consultancies.
 We organise all of that activity through International Development UEA. Presented to outsiders as
 DEV, so by the same name as the School, this university division is presided over by a Centre
 Manager and employs a further six support staff organised into project development, finance and
 training teams. These manage the development and running of short courses, oversee our work
 with research associates and external consultants, support grant application and management,
 handle travel arrangements, and contribute to project development work (source opportunities,
 bring teams together, and so on).
 The School is well placed to attract research funding due to newly emerging trends in the funding
 landscape that prioritise multidisciplinary research often in conflict-affected areas with the aim to
 address global challenges enshrined in the Sustainable Development Goals. However, an
 increasing number of players have entered the research funding arena, e.g. private sector
 consultancy and accounting firms alongside research think-tanks, NGOs and universities across
 the globe. At the same time, pressure on funding sources and volumes has intensified, which
 required the School to position itself more carefully in this increasingly competitive environment,
 e.g. through strategic funding alliances with other Schools within UEA and external organisations.
 Furthermore, the School has hired a large number of early career researchers over the last few
 years who require additional support and mentoring from senior faculty members before being
 able to register large-scale funding successes.
 Despite these challenges, we managed to substantially increase during the REF period our
 already high levels of funding. Measured as the UEA value of DEV awards active during the period,
 external research income (£21.1M) plus income from consultancy and training (£2.0M) for the
 School totalled £23.2M, or £3.3M per annum. This is more than three times the external income
 for REF2014, which on the same measure equalled £7.2M. The figure remains high if we exclude
 DEV members of staff submitted to other REF units of assessment; in that case it becomes
 £19.9M.
 New awards for the School during the REF period are worth £18.9M to UEA, with the bulk of them
 recent: this explains why the income figures reported in the previous paragraph are higher than
 the annual spending recorded in REF4b. In other words, the School is on an upwards trajectory in
 terms of its success in securing external funding. How have we achieved this?
 The first thing to note is that most of our external income derives from large and medium-sized
 grants. Two of the 264 grants during the REF period are for over £1M (all figures in Section 3 are
 UEA value only) and represent 11% of our external income. 19.3% of grants were for over £100K,
 which add up to more than three quarters of total external income. The 213 smaller grants are still
 very much worth having for the work they enable us to do, and the way they act as a springboard
 for early career researchers, but they cannot be relied on for sustaining financial viability. For

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic purposes it is also necessary to consider that all of our large and medium-sized grants
 involved collaborations with other institutions. In a fairly typical example, DEV’s 2019-21 £284K
 ESRC grant (Rao PI) to study coastal transformations and fisher wellbeing in India and Europe
 involves 16 Co-Is from three research institutes in India (Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay;
 French Institute of Pondicherry; Madras Institute of Development Studies), one in Norway
 (University of Tromsø) and one in Slovenia (Research Centre SAZU). Strategic alliances have
 been the lifeblood of DEV in the current REF period, and are at the heart of our research funding
 strategy (below).
 Through this REF period, 70% of funding originated in the UK, of which 64% came from Research
 Councils, with the remainder being more or less equally split between (a) UK government (mainly
 DFID), (b) grant-making organisations such as British Academy and Leverhulme, and (c)
 charitable foundations and charities such as Save the Children UK and HelpAge International. The
 characteristics of these awards demonstrate the claims made above about the nature of our
 research environment:
    - Breadth of interdisciplinarity. Awards were made by six different councils (AHRC, BBSRC,
        EPSRC, ESRC, MRC, and NERC), in 58 separate awards.
    -   Depth of interdisciplinarity. In 63% of the awards, teams are interdisciplinary, such as social
        anthropologists Rao and Abranches working with marine biologist White to study physical,
        ecological and social transformations of coasts in the ESRC project just mentioned.
    -   Ample space for individuals specialising in a well-defined theme. During this period 31
        grants awarded were for solitary research, such as the £114K British Academy mid-career
        fellowship held by Jones for studying the influence of educated young women and men on
        local politics in Uganda.
 In the return period, 30% of funding originated outside the UK, of which about 40% is EU and 60%
 non-EU funding. Non-EU funders include a wide range of organisations such as the African
 Development Bank, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the International
 Committee for the Red Cross, several UN organisations, the Save the Children Fund and the
 Indian Institute of Technology. EU funders included the European Association of Development
 Research, the Swedish Research Council, the Danish Institute for International Studies and the
 German Agency for International Cooperation.
 Some EU funding will continue into the next REF period. For example, DEV’s Martin was
 successful in his bid under the JPI Climate 2019 transnational Call entitled 'Enabling Societal
 Transformation in the Face of Climate Change'. The Call was part of the SOLSTICE project, a
 joint transnational collaboration between ten EU countries, which invited researchers and other
 experts within the Social Sciences and Humanities to submit proposals that address the societal
 impact of climate change. Only seven projects were selected under this Call, and only five UK
 organisations were part of them, UEA being one. Martin’s ‘Just-Scapes’ proposal was entitled
 ’Environmental justice analysis to advance rural landscape transformations in the face of climate
 change’ and has secured €794,000 in funding over three years (c€375,000 to UEA). While the UK
 government has agreed access to some EU funding in the post-Brexit era, we anticipate that our
 reliance on EU funding will reduce during the next REF period, which we will seek to make up with
 funding from other sources – see below for our funding strategy.
 Externally funded research is very important for us. Of the 81 outputs selected for REF submission,
 62 originate in funded research of which 23 were funded by user organisations. An analysis based
 on internal reviews revealed no significant difference between the average quality of the latter and
 that of those originating in blue-chip (mainly research council) funding. To take some examples
 from this submission, D’Exelle and Verschoor’s paper in the Economic Journal, Lloyd-Sherlock’s
 paper in the International Journal of Epidemiology, and Guan’s paper in Nature originate in ESRC-
 funded research, whereas Anderson’s paper in World Development, Duvendack’s paper in Journal
 of Economic Surveys, and Rao’s paper in Nature Climate Change are based on research funded
 by DFID. Funded research, including that by user organisations, is important for us, but user
 funding does not preclude an independent academic stance that our peers recognise yields top
 notch research.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Most of our engagement, impact and research relies on externally funded research. For DEV to
 continue to thrive in an increasingly competitive funding environment, we have devised the
 following strategy for 2021-26.
    •   Incorporate ECRs into funding bids as our default position. In the current REF period 48%
        of our externally funded projects involved partnerships between at least one ECR and at
        least one more senior researcher. We aim to increase this proportion to 60-70% by
        promoting a standard model of within-DEV partnerships that include ECRs whenever that
        can reasonably be achieved. This will help ECRs to build up a track record of funding that
        increases their chances of funding success in future, and so is good for the long-term
        financial viability of DEV.
    •   Maintain our norm of applying for funding frequently. We will continue to instil this norm
        through mentoring, appraisals, promotions criteria, formal and informal peer review of
        applications, workshops, poster presentations of ideas for grant applications, sharing of
        examples of failed and successful applications, and so forth. All these things are already
        very noticeable elements of our research culture, and it is vital that they are sustained.
    •   Diversify our funding portfolio. Stronger and/or new alliances across UEA and the Norwich
        Research Park (NRP) (Section 1), with the John Innes Centre (JIC), the Sainsbury
        Laboratory (TSL) and the Schools of Economics, Environmental Sciences, and Business,
        through the Centre for Behavioural and Experimental Social Sciences, the Water Security
        Research Centre, the Tyndall Centre, and the Norwich Institute for Sustainable
        Development, and through joint appointments, will enable us to target new funders as well
        as existing funders more frequently. Examples are joint proposals with JIC/TSL to the
        BBSRC on the breeding and adoption of nutritious and resilient crops in developing
        countries (the first ones have gone out at the time of writing), and proposals on a
        comprehensive range of aspects of water and food security to large charitable foundations
        and to GCRF or its successor.
    •   Be more directive in encouraging grant applications. As shown above, for DEV’s financial
        sustainability it is vital that we think big. We judged that imposing more direction on funding
        applications in future will be beneficial for the School and will therefore institute the funding
        exec outlined in Section 1 for collating ideas, building teams, and selecting ideas for
        support in the form of seed money and freeing up time for developing grant applications.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Interdisciplinary and collaborative research

 Each of the thematic research clusters introduced in Section 1 brings together members of several
 disciplines, which is the primary way in which we encourage interdisciplinary research. Economists
 and anthropologists work together on issues of intra-household allocation, literacy and gender and
 economic growth; natural and political scientists on issues of climate change and development,
 and global environmental justice; among many other examples. Staff returned to UoA22 published
 398 peer-reviewed journal articles during the return period; of these 222 (56%) were co-authored
 by members of multiple disciplines.
 Faculty use the flexibility of the buy-out system and the generous study leave allowance (see
 Section 2) to develop strong international collaborations, with opportunities to undertake extended
 periods of research abroad. For example, for his BA fellowship Jones spent eight months in
 Uganda during 2018. In some instances, the School cross-subsidises these buy-outs by allowing
 lower overheads in recognition of their importance for effective research collaboration and impact.
 78% of all peer-reviewed publications by staff returned to UoA22 were produced with academics
 at partnership institutions outside the UEA, 81% of which were outside the UK. This amounts to
 350 peer-reviewed publications involving international collaboration during the return period, of
 which 151 were co-authored with academics from low and middle-income countries.
 Such joint authorship is a manifestation of the elaborate network of external relationships of DEV,
 which comprise many longstanding links with universities, researchers, practitioners and alumni

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 worldwide, supported through funding partnerships and other academic collaborations. In the
 review period, we have worked with an estimated 191 organisations in 46 countries. 21 of the 36
 staff returned to UoA22 held fellowships or visiting academic positions during this period at other
 universities or research organisations: examples are Gilberthorpe at the Sustainable Minerals
 Institute’s Centre for Social Responsibility in Mining, Brisbane, Australia, Kebede at the Stanford
 Center for International Development, Stanford University, Lloyd-Sherlock at the Bronfenbrenner
 Center for Translational Research, Cornell University, Muttarak at the World Population Program,
 International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Austria, Schroeder at the Institute for
 Advanced Sustainability Studies in Potsdam, Germany, and Serneels at The World Bank,
 Development Economics Research Group.
 We counted 47 roles of being long-term advisers or trustees among the staff returned to UoA22.
 Examples include Rao’s membership of the High Level Panel of Experts to the Global Commission
 on Food Security, Muttarak’s role of scientific advisor to the World Health Organization, Women
 on the Move Expert group meeting, Macdonald being advisor to the OECD reference group on
 ‘States of Fragility’, and Lloyd-Sherlock’s serving on the Lancet Commission on COVID-19 as
 member of the Task Force on Humanitarian Relief, Social Protection and Vulnerable Groups.
 These partnerships inform and shape the research we do: always rooted in development practice.
 An example of their importance for our research is the Water Security Research Centre being
 invited to join the Universities Partnership for Water Cooperation and Diplomacy, which unites 10
 research institutions with world-leading expertise in water resources conflict prevention and
 resolution, and Zeitoun being invited to join the Council for British Research in the Levant. These
 partnerships were key to multi-year research projects on the river Yarmuk, an important
 transboundary river of the Jordan system over which multilateral cooperation has faltered over the
 years because of tensions between Israel and its Arab neighbours (funder Swiss Agency for
 Development & Cooperation, £139K, 2016-2017; £676K, 2019-2021, Zeitoun PI). Zeitoun’s Oxford
 University Press book in this submission is a key output.
 A second example of the importance of partnerships is the network of leading centres in
 behavioural development economics that our Behavioural and Experimental Development
 Economics Research Group (BEDERG) forms part of. Because we belong to this network of
 centres, in 2017 we organised the main annual conference in this field, the Symposium on
 Economic Experiments in Developing Countries (SEEDEC). The network has also facilitated the
 annual PhD lab-in-the-field training workshop that we have offered since 2013. It is co-organised
 with FAIR, at the University of Bergen, like BEDERG a centre of excellence with expertise in this
 specialised field. Each year we attract between 50 and 100 applications to attend a themed one
 day event that contains two lectures and one closing talk by leading experts, with eight selected
 PhD presentations sandwiched in between.
 A third example of the importance of partnerships for our research is the UNESCO Chair
 Programme in Adult Literacy and Learning for Social Transformation, which is a partnership
 between DEV, the UEA’s School of Education and university departments specialising in adult
 literacy and community learning at the Bahir Dar University, Ethiopia, the University of Malawi, the
 Kathmandu University School of Education, Nepal, the University of Santo Tomas, the Philippines,
 and the Ain Shams University, Egypt. The programme was established in May 2016 and aims to
 develop understanding about how adult learning – particularly for women and young adults – can
 help address inequalities in the poorest communities of the world.

 Partnerships crucial for research impact
 As well as for enriching the research environment, our partnerships are crucial for facilitating
 impact from research. Examples abound during the assessment period.
 Our partnership with DFID (now FCDO) through the secondment of a member of staff for one day
 per week (Serneels) and several commissioned pieces of research influenced this government
 department’s actions profoundly. Duvendack’s DFID-commissioned systematic review of micro-
 finance impact led to a major shift in its funding priorities, since the review cast doubt on micro-
 finance effectiveness in terms of poverty reduction and female empowerment. Clist was asked by


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DFID to study payment-by-results in overseas aid, which led to a substantial revision of the
 principles on which DFID bases its aid allocation.
 Lloyd-Sherlock’s secondment to the WHO inspired them to recognise the long-term care (LTC) for
 older people as a major challenge in low and middle-income countries, and develop a global
 strategy for tackling it. This in turn inspired several national governments (including Vietnam and
 Argentina) to revise their LTC policies and provisions accordingly. For the impact on care homes
 in Argentina, Lloyd-Sherlock won the 2020 Healthy Longevity Global Competition
 Martin’s partnership with the International Institute for Environment and Development was crucial
 both for translating DEV research findings into technical policy advice for meeting the equitable
 governance targets for protected areas under the UN Convention on Biological Diversity, and for
 ensuring the advice was implemented at national and site levels.
 Zeitoun is a long-term research collaborator and advisor of the International Red Cross. His advice
 on the impact of armed conflict on urban services has increased their resilience, notably in Gaza
 and Iraq.
 Verschoor has worked in the agriculture sector in Uganda since 2001 and built up close
 partnerships with its stakeholders. He worked with the policy advocacy network PASIC for
 ensuring that officials in the Ministry of Agriculture took notice of DEV research findings on
 agricultural investment in the country, which inspired the government to launch an insurance
 scheme that 10 insurance companies joined and through which hundreds of thousands of
 Ugandan farmers are now protected against droughts and other calamities. For this work, D’Exelle
 (DEV economist, submitted to UoA16) and Verschoor won the 2020 ESRC Celebrating Impact
 Prize for Outstanding Business and Enterprise Impact.
 McGuire was seconded to the FAO during the assessment period for his expertise on seed
 systems. He now works full time for them on emergency seed relief in countries such as Syria and
 South Sudan. His close ties with DEV after leaving has secured the FAO as a key partner in the
 NISD, the institute that DEV and the John Innes Centre will launch in early 2021 (see Section 1).
 This is an example of how our partnerships both lead to impact (here, emergency seed relief in
 conflict-affected countries) and enrich our research environment (here, the NISD).
 Some of our impact results from user funding. For DEV academics, user-funded work does not
 preclude a critical, independent stance. For example, Zeitoun’s ICRC funded research, and the
 studies led by Duvendack and Clist funded by DFID did not hold DEV researchers back in being
 critical of the commissioner. It inspired DFID to rethink its use of payment by results in aid (Clist)
 and enthusiasm for micro-finance (Duvendack), both previously massive components of UK aid.
 ICRC meanwhile was stung by Zeitoun’s research to greatly increase its focus on the resilience
 of urban services during protracted armed conflict, and promote the same across the entire
 humanitarian sector. Such a “critical friend” approach to impact is also neatly illustrated by Lloyd-
 Sherlock’s secondment to WHO, which gave him an opportunity to demonstrate through his
 research findings that their long-term care policy needed an overhaul, on which they acted
 decisively: see his impact case study.
 Having written in Section 1 that we have adopted a systematic approach to impact, much of it is
 still serendipitous. A good example is an unanticipated impact of Rao’s work as PI of the
 Sustainable Food Systems project on a UEA’s £1.4M UKRI funded Global Research Translation
 Award. Rao’s project focuses on addressing food and nutrition insecurity in India. It sought to set
 up an Interactive Voice Response Service, a mobile phone based system for knowledge sharing,
 to assist communities with food and nutrition-related consumption and production choices. Rao’s
 team was unable to make much progress, as the IVRS platform had just been launched in the
 Indian state of Bihar when a Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. Fortuitously however, the IVRS
 platform then became a tool that was widely used by local communities, especially migrant
 workers stranded in other parts of the country, to seek help and support. In most instances, the
 local partner teams were able to resolve the problems by making connections with NGOs or state
 agencies, helping the workers to return home.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School’s engagement leads to much wider ranges of impact than can be done justice to in
 the three submitted impact case studies. Duvendack’s work on micro-finance, Clist’s on payment
 by results, McGuire’s on seed systems, Zeitoun’s on urban services, Guan’s on China’s CO2
 emissions would each have made for an impact case study that we would have gladly submitted.
 Training and short courses for development professionals
 During the REF period we hosted and trained 512 Visiting Professionals from 49 countries. DEV
 runs short courses on a range of subjects for professionals working in the development sector.
 These take the form of one or two week UEA based courses, or tailored bespoke courses as
 requested. Since 2014 the School has run over 25 such courses. The courses are designed to
 deliver insights from research to decision-makers and practitioners. Topics include Impact
 Evaluation, Climate Change, Forest Governance, Water Security, Beyond Surveys, and
 Evaluation Methodology Training. Organisations for whom bespoke courses have been developed
 include HMRC, BIS (UK Department of Business, Innovation and Skills), International Institute for
 Environment and Development (IIED), UK China Training Ltd, and UNDP. All short courses are
 run by academic staff with strong research and applied expertise, drawing on expertise within DEV
 and UEA and also externally. DEV trainers have trained UK Government staff on Evaluation
 Methodology Training, and Supporting Evaluation Capacity in Government and Civil Society staff
 in Uganda. Recent bespoke training includes training female early career researchers from the
 global South in Supporting Academic Writing to enable submission of papers to high impact factor
 journals (2018) and training BRAC University staff in Bangladesh, on Applied Research in
 Behavioural Development Economics and Social Sciences (2019).
 Services to academia and indicators of wider academic influence
 Our non-academic impact and contributions to the economy and society ultimately derive from
 excellent publications. Many of the articles published during the return period appeared in top
 interdisciplinary journals such as Nature, The Lancet and Science Advances, top disciplinary
 journals such as Nature Geoscience, The Economic Journal, European Economic Review, Global
 Change Biology, Journal of Development Economics and Journal of Population Economics, and
 top development studies journals such as World Development and Journal of Development
 Studies. Rhys Jenkins’ 2019 Oxford University Press book (this submission) won the 2021 award
 for best academic work on Asia & the Americas from the Latin America Studies Association. As
 well as prestigious, our research output is prolific. During the return period, the 36 members of
 staff submitted to UoA22 (32.2 FTE) published 398 peer-reviewed journal articles, 15 edited
 books, four multi-authored books, five sole-authored books, 93 chapters in edited volumes, 37
 other peer-reviewed outputs, and 122 policy briefs, blogs and reports, or a total of 674 research
 outputs. Per full-time equivalent member of staff, this equates to 21 research outputs during the
 period, 12 peer-reviewed journal articles, three book chapters and three quarters of a book.
 During the assessment period, DEV members of staff submitted to UoA22 fulfilled 28 editorial
 roles for academic journals, seven as editors or co-editors in chief. They also edited 16 special
 issues. These editorial roles often reflect our keen interest in research integrity and openness (on
 which more below). For instance, Gilberthorpe was the founding editor of Development Studies
 Research in 2012, a journal dedicated to peer-reviewed open access publications. She remained
 editor in chief until 2020, after which DEV’s Esposito took over the role. Duvendack is an editor of
 the new journal International Review of Re-views in Empirical Economics, which is dedicated to
 replication and critical analysis of influential research findings, as well as of Campbell Systematic
 Reviews. Camfield edited a special section of the Journal of Development Studies called the
 “Three ‘Rs’ of Econometrics: Repetition, Reproduction and Replication”. Her co-editor was Richard
 Palmer-Jones, Emeritus Reader at DEV and one of its current research associates. He recently
 retired from DEV’s faculty but is as research active as ever, focusing on critically examining high-
 profile, policy-relevant research findings in development economics, at the time of writing those
 reported in the 2007 Quarterly Journal of Economics paper “Dams” by Esther Duflo and Rohini
 Pande, which has influenced global policy on hydroelectric dams. Richard is also one of the six
 managing editors of the Journal of Development Studies.
 A number of DEV faculty actively promote integrity, rigour and openness in research on
 international development, through their research and dissemination activities. Examples include

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the use of meta-regression analysis to explore publication bias (e.g. the paper by Anderson,
 Duvendack and Esposito in World Development in this submission on the relationship between
 government spending and income poverty). Duvendack and Camfield published eight papers
 between them on improving the quality of development research during the assessment period
 and an edited book. Duvendack presented her work on replications in economics at six
 conferences during the assessment period, including at the 2017 Annual American Economic
 Association Meeting in Chicago, reporting on a study of why replication encounters such
 resistance. That presentation resulted in a paper in the American Economic Review and a video
 in Latest Thinking, a series that highlights important publications.

 During the assessment period, 15 international conferences, 29 conference panels, eight major
 international workshops and nine seminar series were organised by staff returned to UoA22, which
 amounts to 1.9 such a convening role per full-time equivalent staff member. The international
 conferences included five held at UEA, i.e. the 2014 Norwich Conference on Earth System
 Governance (chaired by Schroeder), the 2015 International Conference on Gender Relations and
 Increasing Inequality at UEA (organised by DEV’s Gender Research Group), the 2017 Symposium
 on Economic Experiments in Developing Countries (as mentioned, organised by DEV’s
 Behavioural and Experimental Development Economics Research Group), the 2019
 Transformative Connections Conference (organised by DEV’s Global Environmental Justice
 Research Group), and the 2019 Annual Conference of the Association of Social Anthropologists
 (organised by Gilberthorpe and Jackson). In 2021, UEA hosts the Development Studies
 Association’s annual conference.

 We counted 29 (about one per full-time equivalent member of staff) distinct contributions to the
 development of Development Studies through council or executive committee membership of a
 professional association, learned society or research council or similar. Examples include
 Camfield being the Vice President with a focus on Young Researchers of the European
 Association of Development Research and Training Institutes, and Rao being member of the
 Strategic Advisory Group of GCRF.

 Finally, we share the School’s distinct research expertise more widely in numerous ways. Annual
 training workshops for PhD students are a good example: full-day events held at UEA and open
 to PhD students from all over Europe. One of these yearly workshops is on Development Studies
 epistemologies, the other on field experiments in developing countries, a third on ethics in
 development research, and a fourth on global environmental justice. These are widely praised by
 participants for training that cannot be readily found elsewhere. We also organise an annual PhD
 students’ conference on international development, together with IDS and two universities in
 Germany and the Netherlands. Both the training workshops and the conference attract excellent
 students from across Europe’s universities and are hugely over-subscribed. Another good
 example of wider sharing of our expertise is through the Environmental Justice bi-annual MOOC
 (Massive Open Online Course). We first launched this course in 2015. The MOOC is a five week
 course for learners everywhere to access for free, and is available every March and October. Over
 10,000 people have joined the course from 150 countries. This course is accessed by students,
 researchers, government officials, lawyers and professionals and is highly valued, particularly by
 learners from low and middle income countries. The course has proved effective in recruiting PhD
 students, with at least three joining DEV after participating.




                                                                                           Page 15
