Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bournemouth University

 Unit of Assessment: 20 – Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and structure

Social work and social policy research at Bournemouth University focuses on marginalised or
seldom heard voices; people who are silenced, excluded and marginalised from and within society.
The key purpose of our research in the unit is to grow sustainable and interdisciplinary
collaborations that demonstrate the application of social science in contemporary society, both
nationally and internationally, by challenging discrimination, oppression, inequalities and abuse
whilst championing safeguarding and social justice.

At Bournemouth University, UOA20 comprises social work, social policy, sociology, sports
sociology, criminology and anthropology. Staff collaborate across the university with health
researchers, colleagues from law, media, psychology, medicine and bio-anthropology and
externally with local, national and international bodies and universities (see section 4). The unit is
known for its focus on applied research concerning policy, practice and interdisciplinarity, which is
highlighted through our impact case studies in safeguarding and giving voice to older people from
financial scams, sex workers at mega-sports events, and lesbian and gay older people.

The strength, vitality and sustainability of our research environment is clearly demonstrated in the
continued maintenance of the high volume of quality publications (see figure 1) and our upward
trend in grant capture (see section 3.). This is driven and enabled by our research strategy.

1.2 Research strategy

Six social work and social policy academics were submitted to UOA3 in REF2014, four of whom
formed the ‘marginalised and disadvantaged people’ research group. In REF2021 we are
submitting 34 staff and 3 former staff members to UOA20 all of whom are part of the marginalised
and seldom heard voices research priority area (see below).

After a university restructure from 2014-2016, the Department of Social Sciences and Social Work
(SSSW) was formed. The new department built on the strengths emerging during REF2014, in
social work and social science research, and recognised its growing vitality throughout the
university and its strategic research themes. The period from 2016-2018 was characterised by
consolidation, integration with sports sociologists, appointment of key posts (see section 2) and the
wider identification of and support for the unit’s priority research areas, which concerned silenced
and marginalised people.

A refreshed university vision and strategy was developed for 2018-2025 (BU2025). This vision
was informed by and detailed the principles underpinning our research within the unit. Principle 6
states:

      ‘In recognition of the importance of Social Science and Humanities (SSH) research,
      funding mechanisms and opportunities within the university will support excellent
      monodisciplinary research and target high impact activity that combines SSH with
      other areas of research. Project applications will be monitored against potential
      contribution to disciplines, Strategic Investment Areas (SIAs), UN Sustainable
      Development Goals, and Social Science and Humanities.’

Including this principle has led to university-wide interdisciplinary collaborations for the department,
which increased during the pandemic, raising our profile and creating opportunities for NIHR
related research (Fenge) and COVID-related research and publications (Read, Parry, Parker,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ashencaen Crabtree). It has led to developments in cross-faculty humanities and social science
research seminars.

There are four core elements to the unit’s strategic aims:

Growth of research income – a focus on working collaboratively with other universities and
research teams underpins our aim to increase research council funded grants. BU2025 sets
ambitious targets for academics to meet in respect of research income. Achieving increased grant
capture is aided by bid writing workshops and dedicated writing weeks, mentors and support from
the university’s central Research Development & Support team (RDS). Evidence for progress
towards this aim is provided in section 3 below, but it is worth emphasising that annual income has
increased from £46,476 at the start of the REF2021 period to £266,966 at the end – an increase of
474%, demonstrating both the vibrancy and longer-term sustainability of the unit. Furthermore,
almost half of the funding (42%) came from the research councils and allied prestigious funders.

Growth of high-quality publications – writing workshops and dedicated writing weeks,
mentorship and pairing people by research interest helps to ensure the quality of our publications.
Progress towards this aim is evidenced by the following figure, which shows the number of
published outputs produced by the unit in the census period.




Figure 1. Publications by type (BU CRIS)

International collaboration and research – the unit encourages the development of its robust
international research collaboration, such as that concerning conflict transformation in Prishtina in
Kosovo (Schwandner-Sievers, Healy, Levell), collaborative practices between criminal justice
and health services in Norway (Hean, Heslop, Ashencaen Crabtree and Parker), the inclusion
and exclusion of temporary migrant workers in Singapore through informal sport (Parry), and
social work education and the social and political marginalisation of Indigenous peoples in
Malaysia (Ashencaen Crabtree and Parker). There is recognition that research collaboration
grows from established relationships and we foster those through research, publication, network
development, teaching and student placement relations with the support of our central and faculty
global hub. (Evidence for progress towards achieving this aim is seen in section 4 below.)

Growth of PGRs and completions – the unit recognises PGRs as a central part of its future,
ensuring there is robust supervisory support, academic experience and the fostering of
relationships with non-academic environments to develop meaningful, impact-based research. The
faculty postgraduate committee monitors PGR progress and completion. We are increasing our
numbers of PGRs by developing ‘real world’ initiatives and ‘match-funded’ studentships and have


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supervised 24 doctoral students to completion since 2014. (Evidence is provided in section 2
below.)

UOA20’s research strategy aligns directly with the university vision set out in BU2025 where
interdisciplinarity is encouraged and the centrality of applied social science research is recognised.
Operationalisation of the unit’s strategy focuses on the research priority area ‘marginalised
voices’, one of the three core priorities adopted within the Faculty of Health and Social Sciences.
Marginalised voices builds on key strengths in social science research developed since
REF2014. This area comprises the overarching research centre Seldom Heard Voices:
Marginalisation and Societal Integration. To achieve our strategic vision and overarching
research aim we have organised our activity into three research groups (see figure 2 below):

    •   MaViS (Marginalised Voices in Sport): – Adams; Caudwell; Jones; de Martini Ugolotti;
        Mayoh; Silk; Stewart.
    •   SHV (Seldom Heard Voices, Social Work and Marginalised Peoples): – Ashencaen
        Crabtree; Baxter; Brown; Crossen-White; Devis-Rozental; Fenge; Hughes; Hutchings; Lee;
        Lim; Lyne; Oliver; Parker; Phippen; Pritchard; Read; Rutter.
    •   CaTCH (Crime, Trafficking, Conflict and Hate): – Cullis; Dhakal Adhikari; Healy; Hean;
        Heslop; Levell; Schwandner-Sievers; van Calster.


                                        SHV (Seldom
                                        Heard Voices,
                                       Social Work and
                                        Marginalised
                                           Peoples)
                                                                     CaTCH (Crime,
                MaViS
                                                                      Trafficking,
             (Marginalised
                                                                      Conflict and
            Voices in Sport)
                                                                         Hate)


                                         Marginalised
                                         and Seldom
                                         Heard Voices


Figure 2. Research groups

Our research focus, groups and priority areas reflect the commitment to research integrity and
embedding this into our research culture. Not only is this shown through our research and
professional foci but also through staff being key members of both university research ethics
panels – Parker chairs the Social Sciences and Humanities research ethics panel, of which Lee is
a new panel member, Jones, Parrish, Read and Schwandner-Sievers are former members of
the panel, and Caudwell is deputy chair of the Science, Technology and Health research ethics
panel.

Seldom Heard Voices: Marginalisation and Social Integration
The research centre, professorially led by Fenge, and assisted by Hughes and Schwandner-
Sievers forms the core of the unit. It has developed from a coalescence of existing researchers
building on research strengths that have developed around three research themes: conflict and
transformation, marginalised people and social integration, and social work and includes the

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research group CaTCH. The work of SHV has illuminated the challenges faced by older gay and
lesbian people, which contributes to our impact strategy and case studies for the unit (Fenge;
Jones). The centre hosts six professors: Brown, Fenge, Ashencaen Crabtree, Hean, Parker and
Pritchard and associate professors Caudwell and Hutchings.

SHV aims to build upon and enhance national and international partnerships, including partners in
Kosovo, Korea, Malaysia, Nepal and Norway and capacity building among ECR centre members
(Dhakal Adhikari, Healy, Levell, Oliver). We have been successful in obtaining Erasmus funding
for student/staff mobility with the University of Prishtina (UP), which has supported members from
the Centre to meet and collaborate with colleagues in Kosovo, on-going since September 2018,
developing joint research and funding bids in the field of young people, conflict transformation and
social justice (Schwandner-Sievers, Dhakal Adhikari, Read, Fenge, Levell). Building on Newton
Mobility research with the Universiti Sains Malaysia, we aim to continue our research in Southeast
Asia (Parker, Ashencaen Crabtree). Ashencaen Crabtree and Parker have undertaken GCRF-
funded research concerning social work education and human rights in Myanmar, and facilitating
communication between Indigenous groups in Malaysia and Costa Rica. Lim has been
successfully supported by seed-corn funding to develop a network for research amongst North
Korean defectors in the UK. She is working on taking this study further to amplify their voice and
concerns through a contracted research monograph with Bristol University Press (see section 4).


Fenge and Brown led important national research concerning financial scamming and developed
clear guidance and protocols for major businesses in dealing with financial scamming of older
people. The research has resulted in Parliamentary questions and calls for policy change and
feeds into one of our impact case studies. The Centre remains the foremost provider of continuing
professional development for England’s social workers and social care workers, demonstrating our
commitment to knowledge exchange.

Marginalised Voices in Sport is central to developing our strategy to strengthen research relating
to marginalised people. Professor Silk was recruited from the University of Bath and has an
international reputation, with interdisciplinary research focusing on the relationships between sport
and physical activity (physical culture), the governance of bodies, mediated (sporting) spectacles,
identities and urban spaces.

Since arriving at Bournemouth, Silk has generated external grant income from the ESRC, AHRC,
and the British Council. Silk’s work fosters an interdisciplinary approach to advancing knowledge
about wider social issues and challenges (e.g., poverty, gender relations, inequalities, disability,
migration, sexuality) and aims to overcome the limitations of viewing sport and leisure practices,
experiences and events (e.g., sport mega events) from singular disciplines, and open the research
field to new understandings. The work contributes to our impact case studies through amplifying
the voices of sex workers at mega-sport events.

Sports sociology colleagues have a number of established national and international partners with
whom they engage in collaborative research (e.g. Loughborough, Exeter, Bath, Winchester,
Sheffield, Western (Canada), Toronto (Canada), UFRDJ (Brazil), Griffith Western Sydney
University, South Australia, UTS and Macquarie University (Australia), Rutgers (NY) and
established industry and policy partners with whom we are producing collaborative work (e.g.
APPG Disability; APPG Fit & Healthy Childhood; DCMS; C4; Amnesty International; Paralympics
GB; UK Sport). In the current REF cycle, sports sociology colleagues have been funded by the
British Academy (Caudwell; Stewart), the AHRC (AH/P003842/1, £557,004, Silk, PI &
AH/P0009808/1, £381,856, Silk, Co-I; AH/T006684/1, £199,403, Silk, Co-I), the ESRC
(ES/N018565/1, £286,486, Silk, PI;), and projects have been secured for completion in the next
cycle, e.g., Interreg (Stewart, https://www.speed-you-up.org/). Outcomes from these major
projects have formed the basis of published reports that have delivered multiple impacts for those
in marginalised communities and with seldom heard voices, including: citation in a UN report on
sex worker rights in Brazil leading to legislative change in Brazil; public perceptions of disability
and impact on the practices of stakeholders (e.g. Channel 4, Paralympics GB) in producing

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Paralympic coverage and messaging; influencing Visit Scotland’s marketing to Chinese consumers
and other stakeholders in the visitor economy in Scotland; publication of an APPG report on mental
health and physical activity amongst primary aged children; and developing swimming groups with
trans young people and arts installations reflecting this research.

As noted earlier, the unit’s research is explicitly designed to have a positive impact on society;
notably by making hidden and marginalised people, their experiences and the processes by which
they became hidden or marginalised; more visible, giving people ‘voice’. This directly informs our
approach to impact.

1.3 Impact strategy

Our approach to impact begins at the point of developing a project. From then and throughout the
research process, engagement is sought from a wide range of research users and stakeholders.
Building on BU’s institutional strategy and our ground-breaking work in our service user and carer
group, BU Public Involvement in Education and Research (PIER) (academically led by
Hughes), we involve excluded and included people who receive services early on in developing
and steering research impact to the forefront of our thinking and practice (see below).
Engagement has been built around specific key societal themes of well-being. The unit engages in
and develops collaborative arts-led projects and public engagement events including the Body
Parts Exhibition in London in 2019 (http://pasccal.com/bodyparts-art-exhibition/) and the AHRC-
commissioned Parallel Lines film (nominated for an award in the Royal Television Awards 2020).
Engagement at leadership levels is embedded within multiple organisations including: local
authorities, NHS agencies, and other types of organisation such as Armed Forces charity SSAFA,
the Royal Navy, and Children’s Centres. Members of the public are engaged through a range of
initiatives including free to attend events including our ESRC Festival of Social Science activities.

We have a member of staff (Cullis) dedicated to helping other academics through the process of
conceptualising potential impacts, considering the pathways by which impact may be created and
signposting staff to sources of help and support. We have appointed a member of support staff in
the faculty to support impact through arranging one-to-one sessions with external experts, to
advise on thinking around impact, and to assist in gaining financial and other material support to
help develop and/or demonstrate impact. Our approach follows a process of complex problem
definition, theorising through understandings of intersecting differences and super-diversity, action
and evaluation. It promotes small acts of kindness and wider social and epistemic justice in a
dehumanised, target driven world.

Sustained relationships are also built through collaborative projects, which embed impact. For
example, through Legal and General’s Corporate Social Responsibility arm funding impactful PhD
research making older people’s choices of accommodation more robust (Hean, Parker).

As a unit, we seek to follow through the impact cycle by continuous evaluation, to understand the
difference our research is making to society. The appointment of a faculty impact officer and post-
doctoral researchers has enabled this tracking and evidence collecting throughout the period.
Fenge and Jones’ impact case study concerning the inclusion of LGBT older people in society
provides an illustration, as does Fenge and Brown’s impact case study concerning financial
scamming. Others include Healy’s work on hate crime, respect and critical awareness, and
Schwandner-Sievers’ and Healy’s work with academia and civil society organisations on
participatory forms of civic education in Kosovo. Caudwell’s work with Sport England developed
enhanced workforce and LGBT+ initiatives, whilst the British Academy project led to community
arts initiatives; https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/blog/the-impact-of-safe-swimming-sessions-
on-wellbeing-among-transgender-people/, and was further disseminated through a grant from the
Leisure Studies Association Research Support Fund and Research Dissemination Fund. Likewise,
Silk’s work on sex workers in the shadow of the Olympic Games has informed policy in the
Brazilian legislature and offered sex workers the space to curate their own exhibition as a lens into
their everyday lives and has led to the development of one of our impact case studies. Silk’s work



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
on the Paralympics provided space for artists with disabilities to speak to stakeholders via a public
exhibition hosted in London.

Our strategy aligns with the BU2025 Vision in ‘fusing’ our research with education and professional
practice to address societally important issues through applied research. The unit engaged with the
faculty’s ‘Raising awareness in FHSS about REF Impact’ seminar series. Sports sociologist
colleagues have supported a seminar series focusing on alignment of social sciences research in
sport with UN SDGs and social justice, with presenters including: international colleagues from the
US (University of Maryland), Canada (Western University), Australia (Charles Sturt University and
Swinbourne University), Brazil (University of Campinas), South Africa (Cape Peninsula University
of Technology) and the UK (including Kings College London, Loughborough, Brighton). Our
impact’s international vitality and reach is shown through enhancements in the quality of life of sex
workers in mega-sports events, through voice being given to those who have experienced conflict,
and in contributing to the SDGs (see section 4).

From 2014, case study writers and faculty support staff have systematically collected impact data
for our developing case studies and continue to develop appropriate ways of harvesting impact
metrics and qualitative data such as: the number of BU blogs and our web-based research themes
blogs, references to our work in the professional press, alongside revisiting research beneficiaries
to gain qualitative feedback on impact. BU support services help ensure impact metrics are
aligned to our fusion strategy and aligned with other units' impact strategies through the sharing of
good practice. Qualitative reports concerning research impact have been requested from
researchers for consideration at our research impact meetings.

We support staff to develop impact through our appraisal process, where pay progression is
linked to the university’s Fusion strategy, which emphasises the central importance of knowledge
exchange. We support academics through seminars, mentorship and targets to embed impact
across and throughout all funded research projects. We encourage staff in developing impact
through links with our communications team, our public engagement personnel, and through
bespoke training to develop ‘impact-mindedness’. We encourage academics to place their
research findings in Open Access journals to ensure wide reach, drawing on central university
funds to support this where research grants do not. Also, we expect 100% adherence to staff
placing all published outputs in the university repository, thereby making research immediately
accessible to beneficiaries and users (when publishing embargo periods allow).

We draw on the support of institutional resources to support impact development. Our Research
Development and Support service has dedicated managers for public engagement, research
communications and knowledge exchange. This has led to our annual participation in the ESRC
Festival of Social Science and BU’s Festival of Learning, regular media coverage (such as
leadership and management initiatives) and a series of training initiatives including the Research &
Knowledge Exchange Development Framework (RKEDF), which offers bespoke impact training.

BU’s Charity Impact Fund provided opportunities for developing impact and highlighting research
for one project in 2016-17, three in 2018-19 and one in 2019-20, at a total of £13,094 as the
following table shows:

 Academic           Project                                                       Funding
                                             2016-2017
 Fenge              Seldom Heard Voices – performance poetry events               £7,500
                                             2018-2019
 Crossen-White      Youth and community centre impact                             £1,500
 Caudwell           LGBT+ swimming and physical participation                     £2,400
 Jones              Story boarding with young people                              £1,500
 Kleipoedszus       County lines in rural areas                                   £1,500
                                             2019-2020
 Lee                Sexual wellbeing and disability                               £1,094


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This is further enhanced by support gained from BU’s research impact fund which has supported
three projects – developing new research partnerships (Lee) £795; enhancing a developing
seldom heard voices impact case study (Fenge) £1,600; and travel costs (Fenge) £75.

In our on-going strategy for impact, we will continue to explore existing impact systems, case
studies and open seminars, and work closely with our key beneficiaries in industry, local authorities
and third sector agencies, as well as end users to ensure impact is maximised at all levels. We
include a public engagement and impact capture role into research assistants’ job descriptions
(from 2015/16), expect our full-time PhD students to undertake public engagement events during
their studies, and share our successes and failures across other UOAs to share insights and learn
from their experiences.

We continue to support our successful service user and carer group (BU PIER) in contributing to
the development of impact, its evaluation and measurement, and its dissemination, by including
members in research development and funding proposals. We will continue to fund support posts
guiding this initiative. Our unit’s dedicated service-user support academic, Hughes, continues to
refine the involvement strategy alongside members of the group and support input into research
and use of the results of that research in society. Having successfully built support and
engagement within our unit, this has now been widened across health programmes within the
university. From early beginnings of inclusion in education, our service users and carers now
contribute to the development of proposals and advise and assist in the development of research
throughout the university.

In order to achieve our impact strategy, we will be encouraging all researchers to include research
users and the public in the design, development, execution and dissemination of projects wherever
possible and appropriate. We support the early development of communication strategies to
maximise impact by identifying and commissioning training in communication and public
engagement for research active staff.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

The vitality of the unit is shown in its recruitment of staff in areas of research strength facilitating
the development of research with:
    • marginalised groups – socially, politically and economically,
    • post-conflict societies,
    • indigenous communities,
    • sport and leisure practices, spectacle and experience, (mega-) events,
    • international urban and rural communities and throughout ‘hidden’ Britain.

The unit’s most important resources are the intellectual skills of our academic staff and capitalising
on these will enable us to achieve our strategic aims. Our staffing strategy therefore aims to:
• increase the number of research-active staff;
• recruit and develop senior members of staff to provide research leadership;
• increase opportunities and participation in staff development and research activity with a view to
    increasing the quality and quantity of research output and grant applications and awards;
• recognize the contribution of staff undertaking applied research and developing impact.

Achieving the strategic aims is underpinned by:
• Increasing opportunities and participation in staff development and research activity. Since 2014
   BU has introduced a number of central initiatives to support the development of research staff,
   such as the cohort-based research development schemes targeted to career levels, seed corn
   funding for pilot projects, and the Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Framework,
   based on Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework.


                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Increasing the availability of internal peer review. A BU-wide internal peer review scheme has
    been in operation since 2011 supporting the improvement of bid quality and developing staff
    expertise in bid writing.
•   Internal dissemination. The BU Research Blog has been excellent in providing a conduit by which
    information can be transferred and research outcomes disseminated, and a platform for internal
    and external networking.
•   Workload planning. BU’s Workload Planning Model provides a framework to allocate time for
    individual staff members’ research, teaching and professional practice. It assesses individual
    staff aspirations alongside the Department’s overall priorities and KPIs and supports staff
    development and requests for research study leave. The model ensures that all staff have an
    allocation of time for research.
•   Fusion. BU recognises that teaching and research are inextricably linked and that the vitality of
    both undergraduate and postgraduate curricula requires a teaching contribution from active
    researchers. To achieve this, active researchers teach at all levels and teaching activities are
    directly linked to areas of research expertise.
•   Leadership planning. Citizenship duties are reviewed regularly, and a process has been
    implemented to cycle inexperienced staff into programme management roles, relieving more
    experienced staff for other senior roles or to refresh their research activity.

The unit has benefited from significant investment from the university since 2014, including the
promotion of three female staff to professorships, one to associate professor, three to principal
academic level and a male member of staff to senior lecturer. There have also been the following
new appointments:
   • four criminologists;
   • three social work academics;
   • a sociology/social policy academic;
   • a professor of nursing sociology;
   • an associate professor of sports sociology;
   • two post-doctoral researchers;
   • a research intern from Turkey;
   • a professor of sports sociology;
   • four sports sociology academics.

Further growth is planned as student numbers and research reputation and grant capture increase.
The university strategy BU2025 emphasises the centrality of applied social sciences and
internationalisation as core to the vision demonstrating a commitment to sustainability over time; it
is in this context that our strategy for the unit is formed.

The unit has a complex structure and comprises members from different departments across the
university. However, each academic is supported by a similar departmental infrastructure including:
a head of department, a deputy, and separate centre heads to facilitate and sustain the
development of research. Succession planning is written into these structures so that incoming
leaders can shadow and benefit from the knowledge of previous role holders. This has been seen
in the inclusion of new researchers in projects with experienced academics, such as Heslop
working with Hean; Parker and Ashencen Crabtree in Norway; Healy, Dhakal Adhikari and
Levell working with Schwandner-Severs in Kosovo. The appraisal system recognises the
contribution that staff make to a particular UOA and ensures that our staffing strategy is aligned to
meeting the key performance indicators of the BU2025 vision, which emphasises our integrated
vision for research, education and professional practice known as ‘fusion’. The replacement
staffing strategy for our unit is underpinned by a focus on staff whose research interests concern
marginalised or seldom heard voices.

Departments, faculties and the university offer significant staff development opportunities through
the Organisational Development team, the Research Development and Support office and the
Doctoral Colleges, which the unit utilises in developing its support for its academics. These include,
in each department, a mentoring system, appraisal system and supportive encouragement by

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
senior staff for those who are less experienced in research. In the faculties, seminar series and
embedded writing weeks (in which no teaching or meetings are scheduled) are held across the
year to mentor and encourage interdisciplinary writing and publication (unit staff help to facilitate
these opportunities). These are supplemented by centralised support for writing and bidding and
hosting writing academies drawing in external facilitators. The Doctoral College provides
supervisor support and mandatory updating training.

Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are given development opportunities through the Vitae
Researcher Development scheme, writing workshops, academies and mentoring. The department
and centre work closely with the RDS and Doctoral College to facilitate these. The Research &
Knowledge Exchange Development Framework (RKEDF), which started in 2016, offers training
and development opportunities to academics at all stages of their career, supporting staff to
increase their skills, knowledge and capabilities. These opportunities have helped to support and
encourage Hean’s successful Marie Skodlowska-Curie fellowship in Stavanger, Norway; Healy’s
work on hate crime with the university equality office and funded by the Office for
Students/HEFCE; Schwandner-Sievers development of AHRC work in Kosovo; Levell’s
successful collaboration on European projects, and Dhakal Adhikari’s submission of bids. We
have instituted across the university a scheme, ACORN, to fund small research projects that will
lead to further bidding for external funding and published outputs, specially focused on ECRs. Two
potential UOA20 studies were funded during the period at a total of £8,276.

The staffing strategy is underpinned by our approach to research, which seeks to develop research
concerning unheard and marginalised voices. We seek to appoint the best candidates to posts who
will contribute to BU’s model of academic fusion, expressed within the BU2025 vision, by
appointing academic staff who are active researchers as well as educators and engaged in
knowledge exchange and applied research. In bringing people into the unit, this research focus
assumes paramountcy and drives our approach.

2.2 Research students

Existing numbers and completions: Currently, members are supervising 37 doctoral students.
There have been 24 students completing doctorates in the census period. The following table
shows how this works out proportionately (where shared supervision with other UOAs gives part
completions:

             2013/14       2014/15    2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19     2019/20    Total
 PGR
 Completions 1.50          3.67       3.33       1.50       3.50       3.00        3.50       20.00

Plans for support: The unit is committed to supporting PGRs in the completion of their studies
and most members of the unit are active in providing supervision – 21 of the 34 members
submitted. Our postgraduate research student committee monitors progress, which is recorded on
an integrated digital system. This helps ensure PGRs remain on track and are offered support
where needed. There is a monthly seminar series where PGRs are encouraged to present their
work and to learn, in a supportive environment, to work with constructive comment and criticism.
The Doctoral College produces, annually, a Code of Practice, explicating details of support; a
monthly newsletter, and offers expert research and knowledge exchange talks, lectures and
workshops to enhance the process. Many Doctoral College sessions are facilitated by UOA20
staff, which demonstrates our commitment to the Researcher Development Programme. We have
supported PGRs in developing their own conference on key issues in publication and developing
as an academic; and supervisors work closely with students to ensure publication of their research
adheres closely to ethical guidelines on authorship. We encourage PGRs to undertake training in
learning and teaching thereby contributing to education within our various disciplines and thus gain
skills as an academic whilst contributing to the development of the unit and its disciplines.

As part of our faculty and unit initiatives, PGRs are encouraged to meet with members of the wider
academic team at regular coffee mornings in which aspects of academic life and endeavour can be

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
explored that are wider than the PhD project. These informal, social meetings are designed to
integrate the PGR body with the established academic team.

Scholarships: We plan to increase the numbers of externally funded scholarship and match-
funded studentships. To date we have had the following externally funded studentships – HEA
Mike Baker scholarship, £54K (2012-2015 Parker, Ashencaen Crabtree); Legal and General/
Elderly Accommodation Counsel match-funded scholarship, £24K (2013-2017 Hean, Parker);

EU Horizon2020, £42K (2017-2020 Hean, Ashencaen Crabtree, Heslop); Dorset Healthcare
University Trust, Dorset Police & Crime Commissioner, £24K (2019 ongoing Hean, Healy, Parker);
Stormbreak mental health charity (2018-2021 Stewart). The department secured the only Vice-
Chancellor scholarship (full fees and stipend) in the faculty in 2017-18, (Schwandner-Sievers,
Parker) and another in 2018-19, (Parker, Schwander-Sievers, Fenge, Hughes).

Plans for increasing numbers of research students: A key element of our research strategy is
to increase the numbers of PGRs. We seek to achieve this by utilising our strong links with
community, health, police and local government organisations to develop match-funded
studentships. We also encourage the inclusion of PGRs in research grants submitted by the unit.

2.3 Equality and Diversity

These issues are of paramount importance in the unit. We take an inclusive approach to research
building, supporting careers and playing to people’s strengths. Ashencaen Crabtree and
Caudwell are involved as co-convenors and creators of the innovative support group for
supporting and developing women academics, the Women’s Academic Network, working to
enhance gender equality across the university and in the department through hosting workshops,
external speakers, mentorship and coaching activities and the provision of seed-corn research
funding. This is further evidenced through Healy’s work on the Office for Students/HEFCE funded
project ‘Responding to Hate Crime’. The work provided students with knowledge of what a hate
crime is, how to respond to hate crime and from where they might seek support.

We aim for flexibility in working practices to ensure caregiver needs are accounted for and the
wellbeing of staff is maintained – this is especially important in a unit comprising a majority of
female members, and many academics with dependent children and the exigencies of space and
time on the working day. This is aided by workload planning, which is undertaken in a
democratically discursive way in which individual needs are considered, something that has come
to the fore in the recent COVID-19 pandemic. The use of eTechnologies, supported by a team of
accessible advisors, assists in communication and ensuring all active researchers can contribute.

In REF2014, equal numbers of male and female (social work and social policy) staff were
submitted (to UOA3) despite the higher proportions of female academic staff across the
department. There was also a disproportionate number of higher-grade male staff as shown in the
chart below:

                             REF2014 - Gender Breakdown
 3.5
   3
 2.5
   2                                                                             senior lecturer
 1.5                                                                             principal academic
   1                                                                             professor
 0.5
   0
                      male                              female


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In the submission for 2021, there is, positively, a greater proportion of women being submitted than
men. However, the chart below shows more male staff in senior academic positions but a positive
trajectory in female staff in associate professor posts moving towards professorial positions:


                           REF2021 - Gender Breakdown
 7

 6

 5                                                                               post doc
                                                                                 lecturer
 4
                                                                                 senior lecturer
 3                                                                               principal academic

 2                                                                               associate professor
                                                                                 professor
 1

 0
                    male                               female


55% of all job offers were made to female staff between 2016-18. However, by 2020, the
proportion of men working in the department had increased from 30% to 38% during the census
period. The largest proportion of female staff remain at senior lecturer level (65% between 2016-
19). The proportion of female and male staff working in a Professorial role was at 50% by 2019.
2015-2018 promotion data identifies increasing success amongst female academics. Gender
benchmarking data shows the department is 6% above the sector norms (67%) in the proportion of
female staff (73%).

Our unit actively contributes to the development of our Athena Swan bronze application at
departmental level through encouraging gender equality in research, in teams and foci. We are
using these data to inform our Athena Swan submission in April 2021, and to develop an action
plan to increase further the numbers of women and academics from BAME backgrounds in senior
research positions and with high quality publications within the unit.

By 2020, the proportion of BAME staff within the department was 8% against a sector norm of
9.9%. However, we have a diverse staff group in terms of nationalities, including: Belgian, German,
Irish, Italian, Nepali, and South Korean.

The proportion of staff disclosing a disability is 11% as against the sector norm of 7.1%.
The age profile of the department has shown an increase in the proportion of staff who are aged
between 56-60 increasing from 22% to 31%, between 2016-19 but which returned to 22% in 2020.
This indicates a young team comparable to sector norms of 45.1% of staff aged 51 and older.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

Income from research brought in by UOA20 staff totalled £1,405,533. Income came from a variety
of sources including: local authority and NGO; large public and private companies, charities and
research bodies including the AHRC (Levell; Schwandner-Sievers, Silk); ESRC (Silk);
Newton/British Academy RD1: NG170115 (Parker and Ashencaen Crabtree); British Academy
(Caudwell); Sport England (Caudwell); EU Horizon 2020 (Hean, Ashencaen Crabtree, Heslop,
Parker); and (Levell). We are seeking an increase in larger and research council funded research

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
over the period. However, we have seen an upward trajectory in prestigious grant funding and a
growing confidence in writing and securing research grants that meet the overarching focus of
‘marginalised voices’. The growth in UOA20 research income from the first years of the census
period to the last one is shown in the following pie charts:


                   Research income by source - 2013-2014
                                                  UK-based charities
              UK industry,                             (other)
           commerce and public                           4%
              corporations                                                     BEIS Research
                   9%                                                       Councils, The Royal
                                                                              Society, British
                                                                             Academy and the
                                                                              Royal Society of
                                                                                Edinburgh
                                                                                    0%

                                                                                EU government
                                                                                    bodies
      UK central government                                                          0%
      bodies/local authorities,
        health and hospital
            authorities
                87%




                        Research income source - 2019-2020
                           UK-based charities
                                (other)
                                 18%
                                                                            BEIS Research
                                                                         Councils, The Royal
                                                                           Society, British
                                                                          Academy and the
            UK industry,
                                                                           Royal Society of
         commerce and public
                                                                              Edinburgh
            corporations
                                                                                 32%
                 7%

                 UK central
                government
                bodies/local
             authorities, health
                and hospital
                 authorities
                    16%

                                                                EU government
                                                                    bodies
                                                                     27%


This demonstrates the growing maturity and capacity to capture research council funding and
shows, also, the potential for future sustainability of the unit. The trajectory over the period


                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
represents one of upward growth and significant income generation as the following charts
indicate:

                  Research income over the REF2021 period
 450000

 400000

 350000

 300000

 250000

 200000

 150000

 100000

  50000

      0
              13/14             14/15   15/16        16/17      17/18    18/19         19/20




                       Overall distibution of research income
                            during the REF2021 period


                                         UK-based
                                                                            BEIS Research
                                         charities
               UK industry,                                              Councils, The Royal
                                          (other)
            commerce and public                                            Society, British
                                           17%
               corporations                                               Academy and the
                    7%                                                     Royal Society of
                                                                              Edinburgh
                                                                                 42%
              UK central
             government
             bodies/local
          authorities, health
             and hospital
              authorities
                 28%
                                                        EU government
                                                            bodies
                                                             6%

3.2 Strategies for generating income

Strategies for increasing research funding are discussed and determined at our Faculty Research
and Knowledge Exchange Committees where figures and trends are noted and at which the
performance of our priority areas and centres is monitored. Whilst this is not UOA specific, the
structures encourage discussion and consideration in terms of UOAs and in respect of

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interdisciplinarity. Specific UOA matters and leadership are written into the management of
research committee business.

We engage in a range of activities designed to increase research grant capture:
  • Bid writing workshops are held and successful researchers are asked to share knowledge
      with other researchers;
  • Departmental targets are set and discussed within the appraisal process;
  • Internal reviewers are drawn from the professoriate and senior researchers to advise and
      enhance the quality of proposals;
  • The RDS encourage cross university and interdisciplinary bidding through facilitating
      workshops with external agencies;
  • RDS advertise funding streams and encourage use of Research Professional to identify
      appropriate sources of funding.

In order to increase the success of larger, prestigious and research council bids the department
encourages the fostering of links with successful peers external to the university – both nationally
and internationally. These have already assisted in securing AHRC, Newton/British Academy and
ESRC seminar series funding. Our strategy is to develop our area of marginalised voices and to
add this expertise to the development of wider, often external bids.

As we have noted above, the RKEDF is supported across the university and the Research
Development and Support team offer pre- and post- grant support in administration of research
monies.

3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

The unit benefits from a range of support structures derived from its complex and diverse make-up.
The Centres provide a meeting space for the support and sharing of research studies and the
development of future research. The departmental structure facilitates a supportive environment in
which staff enjoy knowing where to go for advice and support and to whom they should go. This is
ably supported by our pre- and post-award teams in the Research Development and Support team.
We also have excellent support from our faculty librarians who assist in the planning and
development of literature searches and strategies. These supports are offered to experienced
researchers through to ECRs and PGRs who are beginning their research careers.

We have a central Open Access fund which helps support our drive towards open access for our
publications. The university database BRIAN and repositories BURO and BORDaR are used to
ensure we comply with moves towards open access in all our publishing and in sharing our
research data.

The unit avails itself of a range of supports to enhance its strength as befitting a diverse and
complex group. Use of our allocated QR funding, which stems from a UOA3 submission of social
scientists in REF2014, has supported seed-corn grants and the development of research networks
to develop further bids and to stay abreast of REF matters nationally, such as attendance at the
SWEC research committee. Departmental and faculty allocations support travel, network
development and conference attendance of unit members to disseminate research.

The research enhancement scheme, the Fusion Investment Fund (FiF), ran from 2013-2014 to
2016-2017. At an overall investment of £46,165, it funded five researchers to:
   a. facilitate doctoral completion (Davey), completed (£2,900);
   b. develop research in abuse (Fenge), which has resulted in significant work on abuse
       including financial scamming, further grants and publications (£14,495);
   c. health and service improvement (Keen), which led to curricular enhancements (£9,420);
   d. conflict transformation through gamification (Schwandner-Sievers), which led to AHRC
       funding and publications on creative approaches to conflict transformation in Kosovo
       (£15,850), and
   e. a series of distinguished research seminars (Brooks) (£3,500).

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Parker and Ashencaen Crabtree were awarded study leave, under FiF, in 2014 to undertake a
critical ethnography with indigenous people in Malaysia, resulting in a research monograph, 4
peer-reviewed papers, and research network development that led to two QR GCRF grants
(£26,340 and £9,760) resulting in an expanded network including Costa Rica, two further papers to
date, and a short book containing indigenous stories.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaboration

The unit’s contribution to research has been strengthened by our international, national and local
collaborations in respect of research projects, publication and doctoral support, and through
membership of professional and disciplinary networks, a range of external positions and
responsibilities.

International collaborations contribute to the development of active international research
networks at professional and disciplinary levels, to our reach, and to the potential for supporting
junior staff to join existing networks and developing their own. Collaborations and activities include:

a) Conducting research projects in: Australia (Western Sydney University, University of South
Australia and UTS); Canada (University of Toronto, Western University); Costa Rica (University of
Peace, University of Costa Rica); Germany (Universität Vechta); Italy (Catholic University Milan);
Japan (Kawasaki University of Medical Welfare); Kosovo (University of Prishtina); Malaysia
(University Sains Malaysia, Universiti Malaysia Sarawak, Universiti Kebangsaan Malasyia;
Myanmar (University of Yangon); Norway (University of Stavanger); Brazil (UFRDJ); the USA
(Rutgers & The University of Maryland).

Our research partnerships have developed strong networks and widened involvement across the
unit. Collaborations support ECRs; for instance, Levell, Dhakal Adhikari and Healy’s involvement
in research in Kosovo, developed initially by Schwandner-Sievers, has extended academic
networks and methodological developments using performative and creative approaches in
research (AHRC and Erasmus + funded). Likewise, Silk’s partnerships with UFRDJ (Brazil)
provided space for a post-doctoral researcher to collaborate with sex workers in the curation of an
exhibition focused on their marginalisation and everyday lives (exhibited in the UK, Brazil and at
the Museum of Modern Art in New York) (ESRC funded). We have produced academic work
dedicated to challenging the ontological, epistemological and methodological boundaries of our
disciplines: Silk collaborated with Thorpe (Waikato, New Zealand) and Andrews (University of
Maryland, USA) editing the Routledge Handbook of Physical Cultural Studies.

Our BU fusion approach to research includes the enhancement of education and professional
practice and, thereby, the enhancement of society. This is shown in our collaboration with
Universiti Sains Malaysia which began in 2009 with a British Council grant for student exchange
and resulted in wide ranging publications (Ashencaen Crabtree, Parker), visiting professorships
in 2014, and in a British Academy/Newton Mobility Grant (RD1: NG170115) exploring the
assessment of competences in social work students in Malaysia. The work has also led to further
collaborative networks with Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and University of Peace, Costa Rica,
exploring the ways in which indigenous groups gain voice in contemporary political landscapes,
which has, again, been supported by internally allocated Global Challenges Research Fund
(GCRF) monies. Heslop has begun to develop this integrated approach to research and education
with the Norwegian Criminal justice education organisation in Lillestrøm and the Univerisitetet i
Stavanger. These collaborations are enhanced through Hean’s appointments at Stavanger and
BU and the COLAB project concerning mental health and criminal justice (Hean, Parker,
Ashencaen Crabtree, Heslop) (EU MCA RISE £734,536 funded). Parker is part of the doctoral
programme team at Università Cattolica, Milano. Stewart is part of the Socio-Cultural research
group on Women’s Artistic Gymnastics with Örebro University, Sweden. Schwandner-Sievers
supported curriculum developments at University of Prishtina, and mentored several young

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scholars from the Western Balkans for the Kosovo Foundation for Open Society (2016-2020).
Collaborations are being developed by Pritchard with Nicolaus Copernicus University, Poland.

b) Professional and disciplinary/scientific body membership - members of the unit contribute
to the Serbian Social Sciences Foundation; the Polish Social Science Department; NIHR; the UKRI
Industrial Strategy; the Royal Society for Public Health; the Social Sciences and Humanities
Research Council of Canada; and, the European Commission, alongside the ESRC peer review
college, by reviewing research proposals. The unit supports active professional membership of the
European Association of Schools of Social Work (EASSW), and the International Association of
Schools of Social Work (IASSW) by contributing to scientific committees for conferences which
helps to illuminate the presence of our research from the unit in these fora.

c) NGOs and charities such as VietChin Development Institute in Myanmar, the House of Hope
and the Aids Action Research Group (AARG) in Malaysia, the Association of Regional
Development in Kosovo and NGO-Aktiv in Mitrovica, Northern Kosovo. These networks again
promote our driving vision to highlight the voices of people who are often unheard.

d) Staff hold several visiting and honorary positions including: Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia,
Universiti Sains Malaysia (Ashencaen Crabtree; Parker); Social care lead for Wessex Clinical
Research Network (NIHR) (Fenge); John Jay College for Policing, New York (Heslop); Centre for
East Asian Studies, Heidelberg University (Lim); Universtià Cattolica Milano, Italy (Parker);
University of Southampton (Pritchard); University of Bath, University of Southern Florida, USA
(Silk); Western Sydney University, Australia (Parry).

Support for developing our international collaborations further is assisted by having unit academics
in dedicated international support roles in the department, the faculty and centrally in the university.
Collaborative links are monitored, and a database of links and personnel is available for
consultation through our Global Engagement Officer (Ashencaen Crabtree) and Erasmus+
(Schwandner-Sievers).

We have worked closely with the Research Development and Support office to make funding
bureaucracy easier and smoother, and to facilitate collaborative bidding led by external partners.

National and local collaborations
Through our ‘fusion’ approach we have enhanced our national collaborations. The unit has worked
with over one third of all local authority social services in England and this has resulted in research
and evaluation conducted for those authorities alongside the educational and reputational
elements. To ensure the research, evaluation and knowledge exchange benefits are sustained,
Fenge offers research leadership to develop this arm as a major strand within our work. This work
has enhanced both economy and society through a workforce prepared for working with
marginalisation and diversity.

National collaborations within the unit include membership and contributions to local and regional
government, charity organisations, JUCSWEC and professional body organisations. These
collaborations enhance our presence at local, regional and national levels and to contribute to the
direction in which research moves in the discipline, for instance, involvement in the research
committee of JUCSWEC, and the regional Teaching Partnership, or being part of national
organisation steering groups. Stewart is a convenor for the British Sociological Association
Auto/Biography study group.

We also collaborate with other universities in our research such as: Keele, Bedfordshire, Chester,
Leeds, Manchester, Southampton, Kings College London, Loughborough, and the UEA. This is
assisted by encouraging and supporting writing projects from staff at other universities through
popular and significant series editorships (Brown; Parker) and through large, edited collections in
key disciplinary areas (Hean, Parker, Ashencaen Crabtree); the links created represent BU’s
fusion concept in action whereby published interest leads to research possibility.


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Collaborations have developed with a range of non-academic groups helping to ensure the
research remains ‘real world’ based, e.g., North Korean Defectors group (Lim), Dorset Race
Equality Council (DREC), food banks (Read), performance poetry groups (Fenge), which have led
to collaborative and co-created research that promotes the voices of marginalised people; Fenge
and Schwandner-Sievers Opera Circus, Dorset; and The Complete Freedom of Truth (TCFT),
an international creative network with the ambition to develop global youth citizenship through
culture and the arts. Caudwell contributed to a major resource on non-binary sport promoted by
LEAP Sport Scotland (registered charity) and has an on-going collaboration with the group.
(https://leapsports.org/files/4225-Non-Binary%20Inclusion%20in%20sport%20Booklet.pdf).
Pritchard has received an independent grant of £15,000 each year since 2015 from the Silk Trust
to fund independent research. Hughes’ work with the BU PIER has developed a network of local
and regional contacts of public citizens engaged with the research process. The development of a
pan-Dorset Teaching Partnership has enhanced local links for social work research that is
collaborative and applied. Working with local partners on PhD supervision and development has
made doctoral work pertinent and relevant to local services, e.g., Healy and Parker’s PhD
supervision with collaborative liaison and diversion services across criminal justice and health.

In order to facilitate greater local and regional collaboration we actively promote public
engagement activities through our Festival of Learning, through the ESRC Festival of Social
Sciences, and through public events such as an evening with human rights lawyer Professor
Philippe Sands, and working with the Westbourne Book Festival alongside working with local and
national news media on the promotion and dissemination of our research.

4.2 Contributions to the discipline

The contributions that we make to the disciplines of social work, criminology, social policy, and
cognate areas in the unit, are wide ranging. These cover contributions to publication and output
development through peer reviewing and editorial work, dissemination throughout the sector,
including invitations to give conference keynotes nationally and internationally as the following list
outlines:

A. Peer reviewing
Academic staff within the department contribute to the disciplines of the unit by peer reviewing in
diverse journals including: Social Work Education; British Journal of Social Work; British Journal of
Psychiatry; Child Abuse Review; Child and Family Social Work; American Journal of
Orthopsychiatry; Archives: Diseases of Childhood; International Journal of Qualitative Methods;
Innovations in Education and Teaching International; Journal of Interprofessional Care; Disability &
Society; Studies in Higher Education; Families, Relationships and Society; British Medical Journal;
Journal of the American Medical Association; Journal of Medical Internet Research, Psychology of
Sport & Exercise; Journal of Mixed Methods Research; BMC Pregnancy and Birth; Journal of
Homosexuality; International Journal of Police Science and Management; Policing; International
Journal of Bahamian Studies; Journal of Work and Learning; Studies in Continuing Education;
Journal of Social Work; International Social Work; Social Science and Medicine; Journal of Social
Policy; European Journal of Social Work; Ethics and Welfare; Journal of Ethnic and Migration
Studies; Journal of Women’s Studies; National and Nationalism; Sociological Research Online;
Indigenous and Minority Education; Irish Journal of Sociology; Current Sociology; International
Review for the Sociology of Sport; Sport in Society; Relational Social Work; European Journal of
Social Work; Journal of Social Policy; New Perspectives on Turkey; Journal of Human Rights and
Social Work; Journal of Adult Protection; Journal of Applied Social Sciences; Health and Social
Care in the Community, and building up Publons records.

B. Editorial work
Our academic staff contribute to 22 editorial boards of the following journals: Asia Pacific Journal
of Social Work & Development; British Journal of Social Work; Practice; Social Work Education;
Journal of Aging and Physical Activity; Journal of Human Rights & Social Work; Sociological
Research Online (SRO); Journal of Adult Protection; Reflective Social Work Practice; Comparative
Southeast European Studies; Journal of Criminal Law, Criminology & Forensic Science; Journal of

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Police Studies; European Journal of Intelligence Studies; Police, Practice & Research; Relational
Social Work; Sociology; Leisure Studies; Journal of Sport and Social Issues; Qualitative Research
in Sport, Exercise and Health; Safer Communities; Managing Sport and Leisure.

       Editor
       International Journal of Leisure Studies (Jones) (Caudwell previous managing editor).
       Auto/Biography Review (Stewart).
       Police Practice and Research (Heslop - practitioner liaison editor).
       Sport Management (Guest editor, special issue on abuse in sport) (Stewart).
       Leisure Studies (Guest editor, with McGee) (Caudwell).

       Book series editorships
       Whiting & Birch Critical Studies in Socio-Cultural Diversity (Ashencaen Crabtree);
       Learning Matters/Sage Post Qualifying Social Work Series (Brown);
       Routledge Advances in Leisure Studies (Caudwell with Gilchirst);
       Routledge/CAIPE Collaborative Practice Series (Hutchings);
       Learning Matters/Sage Transforming Social Work Practice Series (Parker).

C. Markers of esteem, fellowships, prizes

   •    Hughes won an NHS Shine award in 2015; the Daily Echo Proud to Care Award 2017
        ‘special recognition award to the male carers’ research group’; and as part of BU PIER, was
        shortlisted for the Professor David Watson Award for Community University Partnerships.
   •    Parker and Pritchard are fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.
   •    Parker is a fellow of the Joint University Council.
   •    Parker and Silk were part of the ESRC peer review college during the census period.
   •    Parallel Lines, a film which formed one of the outcomes for Silk’s AHRC project on the
        hypo-/hyper-visibility of Paralympic athletes was shortlisted for the 2020 Royal Television
        Society Awards: Specialist Audience Award.
   •    Parker reviews research proposals for the Polish Social Science Foundation and the
        Serbian Science Foundation.
   •    Pritchard is Emeritus Professor in the School of Medicine, University of Southampton.
   •    Pritchard is an invited member of the Advisory Board of the Department of Social Work,
        Amity University, Gurugram, Haryana, India.
   •    Schwandner-Sievers was appointed International Scholar (HESP Academic Fellowship
        programme, Open Society Europe Foundation in 2014).

D. Invited keynotes
Members of the unit have contributed 11 international keynote and plenary sessions over the
census period. Including these contributions, staff have given 71 invited presentations, and
numerous other conference presentations indicating a vibrant and sustainable approach to
research and active involvement in communicating and engaging with the research community. A
selection of key conference presentations is given here:

2020
Caudwell, J. 23rd September, British Sociological Association Sport Study Group, Solent
University, Southampton, Sociology of Sport and Social Justice.
Healy, J. & Fitch-Bartlett, H. 2nd December, Evaluating Third Party Report: perspectives from
voluntary advisers. International Network for Hate Studies Biennial Conference: Hate, Democracy
and Human Rights. Available online: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9I-
uvZW0SlI&feature=youtu.be.
Jones, I. 31st October, Zhejiang Leisure Association conference, China, Zhejiang, China.
Schwandner-Sievers, S. 14th February, Providing cultural expertise regarding homicide cases
involving Albanian migrants in the UK, Police Translations: the Construction of Cultural Differences
in European Police Work, international conference, University of Mainz, Germany.



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2019
Ashencaen Crabtree, S. 11th September, Islamic social work – a potential response to
marginalisation. Islamic Social Work? From Community Services to Commitment to the Common
Good. Fribourg, Switzerland.
Brown, K. 6th March, 6th Annual Social Work and Social Care Research in Practice Conference,
Belfast Castle.
Parker, J. 17th June, By dint of history: Ways in which social work is (re)defined by historical and
social events. In International Week. Vechta, Lower Saxony, Germany, keynote.
Parker, J. 13th June, The convergence of the isomorphs: Poetry as resistance and heterodoxy. In
Keynote 1st Symposium on Higher Education Learning through Performance Practices. EPFL,
Lausanne, Switzerland.
Stewart, C. (2019) 7th December, European Seminar Against Violence in Gymnastics. Portuguese
Gymnastics Federation. Caiscais, Portugal. (invited talk).
Stewart, C. (2019) 9th December, National Seminar Against Violence in Gymnastics. Portuguese
Gymnastics Federation. Porto, Portugal. (invited talk).
Schwandner-Sievers, S. 16th March, Changing the Story: Lessons from (post?)-Kosovo ACT’s
civic educational project, Learning from the Past with, and for, young People: Intergenerational
Dialogue, Education and Memory after Genocide, AHRC- Changing the Story project. Phnom
Penh, Cambodia.

2018
Ashencaen Crabtree, S. 13th to 14th December, Women in the academy: Ambiguities, uncertainty
and precarity: International Interdisciplinary Conference on Gender and Women’s Studies.
Istanbul, Turkey, Keynote.
Ashencaen Crabtree, S. 23rd April, Stripping the Layers: Women's construction of faith in
Malaysia and the UK. Emergent Religious Pluralisms. Woolf Institute, Cambridge, (invited paper).
Brown, K. 25th October, Safeguarding those at risk of financial abuse, Queen’s Nursing Institute
Scotland, Edinburgh.
Caudwell, J. 11th April, Communi-T Swim: Transgender and non-binary peoples’ moving bodies.
Invited paper in Culture, Media, Sport and Food Stream at British Sociological Association (BSA),
Northumbria University, UK (invited talk).
Devis-Rozental, C. and Linker, A. and Nani, S. 26th to 30th June, Relationships as professional
skills workshop. European Conference in Positive Psychology, Budapest.
Healy, J. & Palfreman-Kay, J. 7th September, Hate Crime on campus: introducing a forum theatre
approach to enhance student engagement. North South Irish Criminology Conference, University
College Dublin, Ireland.
Parker, J. 18th July, The establishment (and disestablishment) of social work in Britain: The
ambivalence of public recognition. Japanese Association of Social Workers. Okinawa, Japan.
Keynote.
Silk, M. 30th July, Olympic Regeneration & Securitization / Regeneração e Securitização Olímpica.
Invited Keynote at the Seminario Internacional Sobre O Impacto Dos Mega Eventos Esportivos
Nas Paisagens Do Sexo No Brazil. Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro.

2017
Ashencaen Crabtree, S. 1st Sept, Welcoming and reflecting on the universal vulva. Introduction to
Project Vagina by the RedLuna Collective. Firstsite Gallery, Colchester,
Essex, http://www.firstsite.uk/whats-on/project-vagina/.
Brown, K. 7th November, NHS England Named GP Safeguarding conference, “What are we
missing?”, aimed at Named GPs and Named Nurses Primary Care working in the north
region, Leeds.
Devis-Rozental, C. 13th to 16th July, Developing Socio-emotional Intelligence in Higher Education
Academics. 5th World Congress on Positive Psychology, Montreal.
Parker, J. 9th June, Social Work, Precarity and the Need for Radical Action: A European
perspective, Gemeinsame Werte in Europa? 60 Jahre Römische Verträge – 30 Jahre Europaische
ERASMUS-Programme, Vechta, Germany, October, keynote.



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Silk, M. 25th April, (Digital) City Branding, the Sensual & Overseas Visitor Perceptions. Invited
Presentation (expenses) given at International Workshop on Heritage Protection and Inbound
Tourism, Master of Nets World Heritage Garden, Suzhou, PRC.
Schwandner-Sievers, S. and Klinkner, M., 25th October, Grieving lost normalcy: a Kosovo case
study of social memory, incomplete transitional justice and political agency’, Sixth International
Expert Seminar on Transitional Justice, KU Leuven, Belgium.

2016
Brown, K. 11th October, Society of Later Life Advisers (SOLLA), Conference 2016, Financial
Scamming – How can L.P.A’s help and the role of the Mental Capacity Act, Westminster, London.
Caudwell, J. 1st to 4th November, 14th International Sport Sciences Congress, Antalya, Turkey A
tale of two football cultures: HWFC v FA Women’s Cup.
Jones, K. 25th to 26th November, How to reach an audience with film. Screening of the research-
based film, RUFUS STONE, and a conversation with its author. “Encountering Otherness” - Social
Psychology Conference, Tampere University, Finland (Keynote).
Parker J. 16th October, Wisdom and skills: Innovation in relational social work education,
Universita Cattolica Milano, Social Work Education Conference, Sept, keynote.
Parry, K. 18-19 April, 4th Annual No 2 Bullying Conference 2016, Bullying or banter? abuse in
sport. Gold Coast, Australia. (Keynote).
Stewart, C. 10th June, Making sense of gymnastics experience: A storied approach. International
Women's Artistic Gymnastics Conference: The Future of WAG. University of Gothenburg, Sweden.
(invited talk).
Schwandner-Sievers, S. 10th May, New Approaches to Post-War Memory and Conflict
Transformation in Kosovo: anthropological reflections on BU’s co-creative game design project,
Faculty of Political Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy, invited public lecture.

2015
Ashencaen Crabtree, S. 10th March, Chaos and coalescence in the narratives of hardship: a new
pedagogy for social work. Building Peace Through Knowledge, Jerusalem, Palestine, keynote.
Brown, K. 28th October, Safeguarding Adults at Risk from Scams: A collaborative research
approach, London.
Caudwell, J. 1st May, Sport and Discrimination Conference, University of Sunderland. Everyday
sexism: Exploring the scales of misogyny in sport.
Parker, J. 15th December, Diversities, Capabilities & the Fluidity of Evidence: Towards global
understandings of social work assessments - a new problematic, The 2nd International Social Work
Conference 2015: Celebrating Diversity in One World, Penang, Malaysia, (invited plenary session).
Parker, J. 5th May, Smart housing and the question of care/risk management versus respect:
towards information and advice and acts of kindness, SHUR (Smart Homes & Urban Renewal)
special interest conference, June Universidad de Malaga, Spain. (invited paper).
Stewart, C. 12th July, “The female body in gymnastics practice: a biographical perspective”. IX
International Congress of Physical Education and Human Movement, UNESP, Rio Claro, Brazil.
(invited talk and round table discussion).

2014
Caudwell, J. 1st to 3rd Sept, 4th International Conference on Qualitative Research in Sport &
Exercise: “Turning point moments in the field”, Loughborough University, “The personal is political”:
Turning to feminist, and feminist-queer methodologies to inform qualitative inquiry.
Jones, K. 13th March, Screening of RUFUS STONE with Q&A (by Skype). Arts-based Research
Studio at the University of Alberta, Canada, (Keynote).
Schwandner-Sievers, S. 5th May, L’Ilegalja et les manifestations estudiantines au Kosovo,
Printemps ’81. Révoltes etudiantines à Prishtina, Université de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.




                                                                                            Page 20
