Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: 23 (Education)
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure
 Education research at the Manchester Institute of Education (MIE), University of Manchester
 (UoM), innovatively addresses significant educational challenges facing society. Working with
 local councils, the DfE, charities, schools, and educational psychology services, MIE research
 has global reach and directly influences educational policy and professional practice.

 Key research achievements since REF2014 include the following:

       High-quality publications: 187 in Social Sciences Citation Indexed journals, averaging
        >5.7 per FTE staff member.
       Recognition through ranking metrics: In the 2019 and 2020 QS World University
        Rankings, MIE ranked 34th globally, advancing from 51-100 in 2017; we are 6th
        nationally.
       Vibrant doctoral programme, which includes professional doctorates in Counselling
        Psychology and Educational Psychology, with 305 PhD and professional-doctorate
        completions since 2014.
       Prestigious accolades and prizes e.g. Gunter and Evans made Fellows of the
        Academy of Social Sciences; Lybeck won the University of Cambridge Bennett Public
        Policy Prize.
       Large-scale external grant funding: new awards since 2014 total over £5 million
        (£5,573,084 in grant income reported).
       Flourishing community of Post-Doctoral Research Fellows, including Marie-Curie
        and Leverhulme-funded

 Through its position in the School of Environment, Education, and Development (SEED), MIE
 is linked to geography, architecture, planning, and international development within the Faculty
 of Humanities, which links MIE to cognate humanities and social-science disciplines. MIE
 researchers lead within the Faculty and SEED; for example, Evans is Associate Dean for Staff
 Development, and Black is SEED Director of Postgraduate Research.

 The School and Faculty benefit educational research in three important ways. First, MIE’s
 organisational position facilitates interdisciplinary research, particularly on poverty and urban
 education, e.g., through the ‘GM Inclusive Growth Analysis Unit’ (IGAU), a specialist policy-
 oriented research collaboration within the Manchester Urban Institute (MUI). Funded by the
 Joseph Rowntree Foundation, IGAU has enabled intellectual integration, for instance, through
 eminent visiting professors of education contributing to MUI International Summer Schools.

 Second, our position enhances provision for postgraduate and early-career researchers (PGRs
 and ECRs). Interdisciplinary links enable access to distinctive methodologies (e.g., place-based
 approaches, which help understand localised poverty; mapping as an analytical tool to explore
 inequalities in mental-health-service access for pupils). PGRs also enjoy access to school-wide
 and faculty-wide research training (Methods@Manchester; Arts@Manchester), facilitating
 dialogues with students and staff from diverse disciplinary research units; such encounters

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 enable our PGRs to make novel contributions to education. ECRs also access interdisciplinary
 training, and the SEED-wide Presidential Research Fellowship Scheme (Choudry, Lybeck)
 provides additional University networking, resources, and training support.

 Third, MIE’s position enables additional research support from School-wide and Faculty-wide
 professional-services staff; for example, budget-management assistance, internal and external
 communications and marketing, and grant-application and research-impact assistance.

 We have built on our research strengths identified in REF2014 through our four continuing
 Research Groups (RGs), creating research-activity hubs that foster collaboration, focus our
 leading research, and ensure good communication and the cross-fertilisation of ideas. Each
 RG has sought international excellence in this REF census period by making strategic
 appointments, targeting dedicated impact funding (e.g., by making successful applications to
 the University’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA)), and engaging more deeply with
 current and future education professionals and policymakers. RGs are supported by grants
 from UKRI research councils, charities, and government sources. RGs run seminars, reading
 groups, and writing retreats, providing a forum for peer review of ideas, outputs, and research
 proposals. The RGs present strong external profiles, promoting engagement with (non-)
 academic partners, and staff/PGR recruitment. Senior researchers lead the RGs; members
 comprise senior staff, ECRs, and PGRs (PGRs not listed in numbers below).

 The Four MIE Research Groups

 Critical Education Policy (CEP, n=8) researches government and organisational policy
 actors, processes, and structures regarding the location and exercise of power. CEP explores
 three key themes in education policy globally through critical methodologies and social-science
 theories and theorising: Organisation and Leadership, Higher Education Research
 (HERE@Manchester), and Internationalisation. CEP was established as CEPaLs (Critical
 Education Policy and Leadership) in 2005: the name change since REF2014 reflects CEP’s
 strategy to diversify into post-compulsory and international education, with considerable
 investment in promotions and appointments.

 Critical Pedagogies (CP, n=11) explores pedagogy across the life span in informal and
 institutionalized contexts, drawing on diverse theoretical and methodological perspectives to
 (1) better understand how programmes and pedagogy affect student outcomes, including
 attitudes, and the relationship between achievement and alienation/failure, (2) advance thinking
 about learner and teacher identity, class, gender, and ethnicity, and (3) critique traditional
 educational praxis. The group has built significantly on its work reported in REF2014, but also
 developed new lines of inquiry, investigating STEM (specifically engineering) education and the
 HE context.

 Disadvantage and Poverty (D&P, n=4) addresses relationships between poverty, place,
 socio-economic inequalities, and education. It has applied its globally relevant insights to
 develop a city-region equity-oriented approach to education. Distinctively, D&P’s research
 demonstrates relationships between the socio-economic inequalities and poverty outside
 educational institutions and what happens within them. D&P’s work includes IGAU-led research
 to understand and promote shared prosperity in Greater Manchester. D&P works across
 disciplines (e.g., geography, and public health) with multiple stakeholders (e.g. housing
 associations and employers).

 Education and Psychology (E&P, n=11) advances psychological aspects of learning,

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 including social and emotional competence, young people’s health and well-being, and social
 systems of learners. E&P developed from the Special Education and Additional Needs RG from
 REF2014 to encompass a broader focus on educational inequality, and particularly on mental
 health. Using randomised control trials, E&P members have evaluated the impact of social and
 emotional learning (SEL) and other interventions on educational outcomes. E&P synthesises
 evidence across many areas, influencing policy and practice in schools, educational services,
 and cognate professional bodies (e.g., The British Psychological Society and Ofqual).

 1.2.   Research and Impact Strategy

 Our mission is to use our education expertise to explain and reduce social inequalities, which
 aligns with (1) UoM’s Global Inequalities Research Beacon and the Faculty of Humanities’
 research priority of advancing understanding of and seeking to eradicate global inequalities,
 and (2) The UoM’s social-responsibility agenda to enhance research quality and impact. To
 achieve our mission, we set four objectives in REF2014 (see 1.2.1 below). The RGs have made
 substantial progress, strengthening our position as excellent leaders in the fields of mental
 health in school, educational leadership, education policy, mathematics and science education,
 the critical sociology of education, social and emotional learning, and education in high-poverty
 contexts.

 1.2.1 Achievement of 2014 Research and Impact Objectives

 (1) To further establish RGs as national and international centres of research excellence

 Within each RG, new ideas are fostered through diverse methodologies, strategic
 appointments, and working with external organisations and internal/external research networks.

 Critical Education Policy (CEP) has increased its global reputation for excellence, illustrated
 by its participation in and leadership of new international research networks, and by the number
 and quality of its projects, awards, and outputs. For example, CEPs work since REF2014 has
 extended knowledge of private education in Chile (ESRC-funded: Gunter, Lupton), improved
 understanding about how admission to Higher Education can be made more equitable (Sutton
 Trust: Jones) and facilitated a new network of international ECR researchers (British Academy:
 Courtney).

 Nationally, Courtney and Gunter co-convene a research network, CEPaLS, as a Research
 Interest Group within the British Educational Leadership Management and Administration
 Society (BELMAS). Lomer founded and leads, with Lim, the HE Research Group,
 HERE@Manchester, with members from four different universities. Through that group,
 Lybeck has significantly advanced the field of Critical University Studies, becoming the
 founding editor of Civic Sociology.

 Internationally, Gunter founded the Leading Democratic Schools (LE@DS) eight-country
 network, with high-quality outputs including the edited collection, “New Public Management and
 the Reform of Education: European lessons for policy and practice”. Courtney co-leads the
 international research network, Processes of Privatisation in Education (PoPE), with members
 in 12 countries and outcomes including Courtney’s British Academy Rising Star Engagement
 award. Courtney helped establish a chapter of CEP in Monash University, facilitated through
 Faculty funding for his Visiting-Scholar appointment.



                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEP’s excellence has been recognised in awards and appointments: the BELMAS
 Distinguished Service Award (Gunter), best-thesis awards from AERA Division A, BERA, and
 BELMAS (Courtney), and BELMAS Council (Courtney).

 Critical Pedagogies (CP) leads international research on the teaching and learning of
 mathematics, with 17 new funded projects. A significant contribution includes modelling the
 effects of programmes and pedagogy on attitudes and their relationship with achievement and
 alienation/failure (Pampaka). CP has produced highly cited studies on mathematical identity
 and anxiety (Pampaka et al.) and gender (Williams), extending that work into the primary
 sector (Black) and also into F&HE beyond mathematics (Williams, Pampaka). Research in
 CP draws on innovations in quantitative and qualitative methods, including the use of Social
 Network Analyses to understand access to Mathematics in the classroom (Choudry), and
 photo-elicitation activities (Black, Miles, Howes). CP’s research is re-envisioning HE (Evans,
 Lybeck, Whitworth).

 Disadvantage & Poverty (D&P) has influenced research agendas through 20 externally
 funded projects. Since 2014, D&P members have addressed the entrenched link between
 socio-economic disadvantage and educational outcomes with funding from Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation (Lupton), ESRC (Lupton, Gunter), and Nuffield Foundation (Lupton). Key
 innovations include ‘Local Matters’: a school/university poverty research network with impacts
 on school policy and classroom practice.

 D&P has also led internationally in Extended Education and preventing early school leaving.
 ESRC IAA project funding produced accelerated impact through the Manchester Education
 Debates; research-based resources for teachers in high-poverty neighbourhoods, the Ardwick
 Anchor project, and the “Who Do You Think You Are?" curriculum-intervention project for a
 targeted group of Year-9 'at-risk' students and their families at Manchester Communication
 Academy. The significance of D&P’s research agenda has been recognised through the award
 of a prestigious Leverhulme Early-Career Fellowship to Ralls, for her international comparative
 research on urban education and social economies.

 Education & Psychology (E&P) has spearheaded research on the impact of mental health
 and well-being among children and young people on academic achievement and engagement.
 The group’s work has advanced global understandings by producing: (i) a portfolio of large-
 scale randomised trials concerning the effectiveness of school-based interventions in improving
 behaviour, mental-health, and well-being (Squires, Humphrey, Wigelsworth); (ii) the largest-
 ever longitudinal study of adolescent mental health and resilience in schools (Humphrey)
 documenting how schools and other services might improve learners’ well-being and
 engagement with school; (iii) critical analysis of the concept of ‘emotion understanding’ among
 children (Wigelsworth, Qualter), with Qualter illustrating how, using observational methods,
 emotion understanding impacts playground behaviour; and (iv) new understanding of the
 significance of social relationships in school for well-being (Qualter).

 Within E&P, the Special Interest Group, Knowledge, Power and Identity, brings a critical lens
 to bear on forms of knowledge and the normalisation and marginalisation they produce.
 Important conceptual and methodological contributions have been made to critical educational
 and childhood studies (Burman, Miles), in relation to disability and deafness (Miles, Burman),
 and postcolonial debates and queer/trans issues in education (Burman).

 E&P also innovates methodologically, for example through the first prospective economic
 evaluation of a universal social-and-emotional-learning intervention in the PATHS project

                                                                                         Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (Humphrey) and the first meta-analysis of loneliness interventions for youth (Qualter). E&P
 researchers are active in international networks (for example, the 36-country European
 Network for Social and Emotional Competence in Children). Those networks localise global
 debates, e.g., Burman’s project on education and the training implications of traditional healing
 practices in Muslim communities. High-quality outputs include the edited collection “Autism and
 education” (Bond, Humphrey) and Humphrey and Wigelsworth’s guest-edited special issue
 of the Cambridge Journal of Education (2016). Humphrey, Hanley, and Wigelsworth were
 lead organisers of a landmark conference on mental health and education research, supported
 by the University’s competitive Hallsworth Conference Fund (2018).

 (2) To continue to build local and regional research partnerships
 The four RGs have achieved this objective by collaborating on the overarching theme of
 “Greater Manchester, Devolution, Education, and MIE”, described in detail in section 4. RGs’
 approach has been to develop globally significant work that may be applied locally. For
 instance, in CEP, Jones has made major contributions to debates about university admissions,
 sharing findings with all local HEIs to promote more equitable replacements to student
 statements. Through E&P, Humphrey established the Northern Hub of the Anna Freud
 National Centre for Children and Families (AFNCCF) in 2016, enabling MIE to grow its
 programme of research undertaken with AFNCCF as key partners (>£1,600,000 of MIE
 research funding in this period is through projects involving AFNCCF); that work has expanded
 to inter-institutional PGR supervision, internal research seminars at both institutions, and public
 events (e.g. Schools in Mind seminar in 2017, attended by c.100 school staff and allied
 professionals). In D&P, Lupton contributed to an N8 Research Partnership study funded by
 ESRC to explore new models of research co-production. Lupton also coordinated a response
 across Northern universities to the government’s Northern Schools Review (Weller Review)
 and has a research student funded by the Northern Powerhouse Partnership.

 (3) To secure research funding and diversify our range of funders
 The RGs have deepened their relationship with existing funding partners by increasing the
 number and value of awards. For instance, we have strengthened our relationship with the
 Education Endowment Foundation (EEF) since REF2014, developing a portfolio of nine
 projects, including the Good Behaviour Game (E&P: Humphrey), Achievement for All (E&P:
 Humphrey, Squires), FRIENDS (E&P: Wigelsworth) and ReflectEd (CP: Choudry). The
 combined value of those awards exceeds £600,000. In addition, the British Academy has
 funded five projects (CP: Pampaka; Woods; Williams; CEP: Courtney; Lomer, Mittelmeier
 & Courtney) at a combined total of £445,000, and Joseph Rowntree Foundation has partly
 funded the IGAU, through a £400,000 award to D&P group member Lupton.

 We have also successfully targeted new funders. For example, Pampaka (CP) secured funding
 from Fintech Sand Pit, Squires (E&P) was part of a team that won over £240,000 from the
 National Deaf Society to conduct a post-16 longitudinal study, Burman (E&P) is (i) a
 collaborator on a funded project from KONE Foundation in Finland, and (ii) a Newton
 Foundation Partner with Brazilian psychologists on testimonies of state violence, and
 Humphrey (E&P) won over £500,000 from the National Institute for Health Research to
 evaluate the impact of the Good Behaviour Game. Humphrey was also awarded over £127,000
 across two projects from the Mercer’s Company to evaluate its work supporting students’
 mental health and well-being. The Wellcome Trust funded The BBC Loneliness Experiment
 (Qualter); the Nuffield Foundation funded a project on post-16 transitions (Lupton).



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (4) To devise new pathways to impact for our research
 First, the E&P RG established a relationship with the EEF to inform policy shifts that move
 beyond ‘what works’ to explore why, how, and for whom interventions work (e.g. Humphrey et
 al., 2016; Wigelsworth, Humphrey, Qualter, 2018). The EEF has consequently shifted their
 thinking about 'what matters', using our research on measuring non-academic outcomes (e.g.
 SPECTRUM review and database: Wigelsworth, Humphrey, 2017; Qualter’s experimental
 and observation work on emotion understanding) to broaden instrumentation in EEF trials.

 Second, we have worked directly with teachers to improve professional practice and promote
 teaching that is more effective with hard-to-reach learners. Through co-constructed research,
 partnership working, and relationship building, we have made a positive difference to vulnerable
 learners’ lives in the Greater Manchester area (Lupton, Raffo, Kerr (D&P); Williams (CP);
 Armstrong (CEP)).

 Third, we have ensured our research and teaching align more closely than in REF2014. Our
 research, therefore, has immediate impact by being informed by, and disseminated to,
 teachers, allied professionals (e.g., counselling psychologists), and students. Our RGs now
 map well onto our taught provision. Our professional doctorate in Educational Psychology
 achieves enhanced impact: relevant services, national/international organisations, and
 professionals co-produce the development, coordination, dissemination and transfer of
 research undertaken by full-time doctoral students and their specialist supervisors (Woods).
 MIE researchers also utilise ESRC CASE PhD studentships in studies co-designed with
 schools and their partners to meet their research needs, enabling impact (Burman, Kerr,
 Gunter, Raffo, Woods).

 We developed the AFNCCF with Squires and Humphrey (E&P) involved as senior trainers in
 the national Mental Health Services and Schools Link Pilot programme. The AFNCCF united
 educators from over 250 schools with health and allied professionals in 22 areas, facilitating
 joint working to improve practice concerning mental health in schools. Our Impact Fellows in
 E&P (Mason) and D&P (Emery) and MIE Impact Lead (Lim) develop extensive programmes of
 knowledge exchange with various networks of schools (e.g. ‘Local Matters’), to ensure that we
 create and measure impact.

 Fourth, we took on new advisory roles with local and national government, charities, parastatal,
 and other bodies (see section four for more details). Now, MIE researchers from all RGs directly
 influence policy and direction of funds.

 We have also provided academic expertise in radio, TV, and newspaper discussions (Barrata,
 Hanley). Qualter’s research was the impetus for Radio 4’s series Anatomy of Loneliness. Our
 media work is enabled structurally through UoM’s Division of Communications, with specific
 officers in our Faculty and School. Staff contribute to MIE blogs on policy@manchester, BERA
 blogs, and Ofqual blogs, increasing public awareness of our research. We also contribute
 articles to The Conversation (Ainscow, Jones, Lim, Lomer, Lupton, Mittelmeier, Qualter,
 Woods).

 1.2.2   Future Research and Impact Strategy

 Our strategy will build on our current strengths, extending those to new opportunities and
 challenges. We have identified two main foci for the future: (F1) enhancing our leadership of

                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 education knowledge production according to RG focus, and (F2) promoting equitable forms of
 education globally. Those foci will be driven by two cross-cutting priorities: (P1)
 interdisciplinary and partnership activity, and (P2) improving our outward-facing profiles and
 activities to enhance impact.

 F1. Further enhance MIE’s leadership of education knowledge production, through our
 RGs, particularly in mental health, urban education, educational leadership, higher
 education, and internationalisation.

 Our RGs’ research achievements will be sustained through investment in their core research
 areas, and encouragement of inter-RG research projects that combine our expertise to identify
 new research agendas, conceptualisations, and knowledge contributions that enhance MIE’s
 reputation. MIE researchers are already developing new projects that speak to this objective.
 In E&P, for example, Humphrey et al., will use longitudinal data from their current projects to
 explore the relationships between mental-health trajectories, school and classroom
 connectedness, and academic engagement.

 F2. Build on our successes in creating and promoting more equitable and democratic
 forms of education, locally, nationally, and globally.

 We will build on MIE’s international reputation for focusing on power in education by translating
 our world-leading gains in knowledge production into outcomes that positively influence the
 conceptualisation, theorisation, and practice of education internationally. These outcomes will
 include setting or influencing policy agendas, as well as achieving changes in professional
 practices and behaviour; each of these initiatives will be supported by RG and School-level
 research infrastructure. Translating findings into policy and practice requires collaboration
 between researchers and educational practitioners, and we are well-placed to meet those
 challenges through our links with DfE, education charities, and educational psychology
 services.

 P1. Develop further our use of interdisciplinary and/or partnership approaches to
 enhance our research outcomes and impact.

 We will extend our successful engagement with diverse research partners to even greater
 effect, attracting new partners and finding new strategies for working with our existing ones to
 enhance the sustainability and vitality of our research. An important future cross-RG agenda
 will focus on Greater Manchester city-region devolution, where we will continue to lead and
 contribute actively to research partnerships. Colleagues in D&P intend, using multi-disciplinary
 approaches, to map young people’s education, skills, training, and employment trajectories in
 Oldham (Raffo), and to continue investigating Family Zones (Kerr). In CP, Williams and others
 are directly involved in a UoM/MMU/GM initiative (Enjoyment and Engagement in Mathematics
 Education) that includes research and development opportunities with the regional Maths hubs.

 P2. Enhance how we lead the field's response to education reform and emergent issues
 facing education.

 We will extend MIE’s influence concerning education reforms by increasing the areas in which
 MIE’s response to reforms is seen as crucial. We will achieve this goal by enhancing our
 outward-facing profiles and activities, and by innovating projects that address the most
 important educational challenges. For example, a new project from CEP is mapping and


                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 conceptualising the relationship between genomics and education policy, working with experts
 from the field of genetics (Courtney, Jones, Gunter).

 Section 2: People
 2.1.    Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The continued vitality of our RGs is crucial to expanding MIE’s critical mass of motivated, well-
 resourced, and leading researchers. We are committed, with School and Faculty support, to
 recruiting the best researchers, whilst retaining and developing our own talent in a supportive
 environment, so that they reach their full potential. Success in staff retention and promotion is
 evidenced through internal promotions in the census period: eight senior lectureships
 (Atkinson, Courtney, Fay, Firth, Lendrum, MacQuarrie, Pampaka, Wigelsworth) and four
 personal research Chairs (Hall, Bond, Jones, Squires). Two new full-time professorial
 appointments were also made: Evans to CP and Qualter to E&P. Succession planning has
 enabled turnover to be managed effectively; for example, Hall’s (2017) departure for a Chair at
 Exeter was addressed through the strategic appointment of Evans.

 2.1.1   Recruitment Strategy

 Our strategy has been to strengthen the four RGs through career development and capacity
 building, entailing external recruitment (Evans, Lim, Lomer, Lybeck, Mittelmeier, Qualter)
 and nurturing in-house talent (Courtney, Choudry, Pampaka, Ralls). Qualter’s arrival, for
 example, brought experimental and observational work on emotion understanding to
 complement Humphrey and Wigelsworth’s intervention work in the E&P RG; appointing Lim,
 Lomer, Lybeck, and Mittelmeier has enabled CEP to broaden its expertise to address issues
 in Higher Education; Choudry’s appointment to C&P bridges that RG and E&P, linking social
 processes and Maths learning. MIE has also recruited 16 Research Assistants and Associates
 in the current REF period (Kalambouka, Emery, Hughes, Swanson, Harris, Petersen, Burrell,
 Wo, Black, Panayiotou, Santos, Mason, Troncoso, Amarali, Martin). We have hosted two
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Hebron [2013-2016), Ralls [2018-2021]) and one Marie
 Curie postdoc (Cascella [2019-]). Investment by UoM in the best ECRs is achieved through the
 Presidential Research Fellowship Scheme (Choudry, Lybeck).

 2.1.2   Staff-Development Strategy

 In accordance with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (Section
 3.3.2 REF5a), MIE employs processes which have supported researchers:

 (1) annual research-focused review meetings (Personal Research Expectations Plan (PREP),
 where senior researchers meet staff to co-produce their research trajectory and advise on
 outputs, grant capture, and impact pathways;

 (2) the Research Review Exercise (RRE), which involves rigorous peer review of published
 research outputs, with feedback and targeted support;

 (3) one-to-one mentoring, provided by senior MIE staff, and also from senior staff in other
 departments via Manchester Gold Staff Mentoring Scheme;

 (4) new staff members (up to the Senior Lecturer grade) attend the Humanities New Academics
 Programme (HNAP) – a Faculty-wide programme led by Evans, Associate Dean for Staff


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Development – with 19 MIE completions since 2014). HNAP comprises rigorous training for
 ECRs aligned with the UK Professional Standards Framework, which includes five units on
 research development, addressing research strategy, applying for research funding,
 postgraduate supervision training, integrating research and teaching, and knowledge transfer
 and impact activities. Completion leads to Fellowship of the HEA;

 5) sabbaticals are available to staff after six semesters’ service; SEED and the Faculty have
 provided two additional research-leave schemes - the Supplementary Research Leave Scheme
 (SRLS), intended to enable the completion of specific high-quality research outputs, and the
 Professorial Enhanced Research Leave scheme (PERL), available to the most senior
 professorial staff to facilitate the production of ground-breaking research (e.g. Gunter 2016–
 17, output “The Politics of Public Education”, 2018, Policy Press).

 MIE provides formal support mechanisms for research-active staff that supplement informal
 research mentoring: (a) intra-research-group mentoring, including for Research Assistants and
 Associates, (b) systematic senior-researcher formative review of grant applications, (c)
 professional development review (PDR) – annual meetings with a senior colleague to review
 teaching, research, and administration, (d) career planning for Research Assistants and ECRs
 via MIE’s mentoring provision, (e) annual developmental and strategic away days, and (f)
 generous funding for conference attendance.

 2.2.   Postgraduate Researchers

 2.2.1 Recruitment and Completion
 Within an increasingly competitive postgraduate research environment, MIE has a thriving
 community of 112 registered UK, EU, and overseas PG researchers and Professional
 Doctorate-degree students (30 PhD/ 82 Prof Docs). There have been 315 doctoral completions
 (121 PhD; 194 Prof Docs). Completion in five years is 83% for Professional Doctorates and
 79.6% for PhDs.

 MIE leads the Educational Research Pathway within the ESRC-funded North West Social
 Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP), the UK’s largest ESRC DTP. Eighteen
 PhD studentships have been awarded through research councils, including through the
 NWSSDTP partnership, collaborative ESRC CASE studentship awards, and UKRI grant
 awards. Our PGR recruitment is supported by postgraduate studentships from SEED and MIE
 (12 further studentships in the census period). Moreover, since 2014, MIE has been awarded
 more than £37,200,000 in government contracts to lead an eight-university consortium in
 delivering over half the doctoral training in educational psychology for England (Bond, Woods),
 with 101 funded PGRs awarded directly to MIE. MIE’s Counselling Psychology Doctorate is the
 only such programme in the UK that offers candidates the opportunity to secure dedicated
 funded studentships, underwritten by University resources.

 2.2.2. Progression Monitoring and Support Mechanisms

 PGR recruitment, progression, and completion monitoring, and equality and diversity
 monitoring and strategy are overseen by the Faculty of Humanities PGR Strategy Group and
 School Postgraduate Research Committee. Doctoral students have at least two supervisors,
 and access to PGR staff advisers. MIE’s PGR coordinator (Mittelmeier) oversees pastoral
 support and progression monitoring. Additionally, professional-doctorate students receive
 regular, quality-assured, clinical-skills supervision in their practice placements. MIE
 researchers associated with the educational psychology and counselling psychology

                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 professional-doctorate programmes (Atkinson, Bond, Burman, Hanley, Woods) provide
 research-based training in supervision for all clinical supervisors of MIE professional-doctorate
 students; our advanced training course, accredited by The British Psychological Society (BPS),
 is very popular with clinical supervisors. MIE researchers regularly audit all practice-placement
 settings to BPS and Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC) standards and undertake
 impactful research in professional-practice learning (Atkinson, Bond, Woods).

 Support at the Faculty and University levels includes a dedicated library hub for Humanities
 PGRs (ProGRess@humanities), PGR support in the Careers Services department, PGR
 counselling support services (including the HEFCE-funded PGR Well-Being Project), and PGR
 writing support at the University Language Centre. A student representative champions mental-
 health for MIE through the University’s Counselling Services, working with the Director for
 Academic Advising and Student Wellbeing to support PhD students. MIE also benefits from the
 Faculty of Humanities’ PGR Placements Officer, who supports professional networking outside
 academia.

 Collaborative, interdisciplinary supervision happens across the Faculty. An electronic
 progression and monitoring system (eProg) tracks research students through their degree
 milestones. Doctoral research progress is evaluated through both a Mid-Year and Annual
 Review. PGR students are allocated their own permanent desk in a dedicated room.

 PGR research is disseminated internally through our Research Matters seminar series, and
 externally through conference attendance supported by dedicated funding. Students also
 access the SEED Mobility fund for research visits, and further SEED funding enables PGR
 fieldwork and specialist training requirements. Employability has been enhanced by offering
 PGRs teaching and research opportunities, managed through the School’s Teaching Assistant
 Scheme, and by providing University Careers Service specialist support for postgraduates.
 Since 2014, approximately 30% of PGRs have moved into MIE academic positions (e.g., Buck,
 Choudry, Courtney, Demokowicz, McCaldin, Rayner, Hughes) and over 60% into professional
 employment (e.g. as registered educational psychologists). MIE designed a Senior Tutor role
 in 2018 to facilitate PhD-graduate entry into academia, since assumed by six alumni.

 2.2.3   Skills Development and Career Training

 MIE provides a wide-ranging and flexible research-methods training programme; professional
 doctorate students benefit from within-programme training. In MIE, first-year PGRs undertake
 an intensive, year-long research-training programme. Monthly training sessions for MIE PGR
 research students cover advanced research methods and academic skills such as publishing
 and conference presentation. SEED offers cross-disciplinary, social-science research seminars
 weekly. Additionally, MIE PGRs access the research training offered by the ESRC-funded
 NWSSDTP, which includes collaborative training opportunities with Lancaster and Liverpool
 universities. PGRs also access leading national research-methods training through
 Arts@Manchester and the Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research. Through SEED
 bursaries, all Manchester-based provision offers scholarships or discounts for MIE PGRs to
 attend courses. We use the Researcher Development Framework to audit PGRs’ skills
 development, with additional training needs met from Faculty provision. PGRs have
 personalised budgets for both Research Fieldwork Support and Research Training. Training
 about research impact is included in those courses and supported through supervision. In 2018,
 we developed an MSc in Research Methods which has produced 10 PGR admissions.



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3     Equality and Diversity

 The University of Manchester is strongly committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for all
 staff and students.

 For staff, SEED produces a biannual report on progress against equality and diversity
 objectives, monitoring workloads by gender and seniority. There is a long-established system
 of mentoring for probationary appointments, helping to promote equality as new appointees
 establish and plan their future career development. In 2019, mentoring was extended to mid-
 career researchers, for whom a priority is to promote equality in relation to promotions and
 academic leadership roles. Complementing this formative support, summative review via PDR
 and PREP helps to ensure that academic research managers are aware of such challenges.

 Equality of Opportunity monitoring shows significant improvements to equality and diversity in
 the MIE staff profile, with more women in senior roles than in REF2014 (increasing from 3 to 8
 women in Lectureship positions, 6 to 8 in Senior Lectureships, and 4 to 5 Professors); 52% of
 staff in MIE are female. The number of MIE staff from BAME backgrounds has risen from zero
 to two since the last census period; both occupy leadership roles.

 SEED holds an Athena SWAN bronze award, (submission led by Miles), evidencing the
 University’s commitment to gender equality. In line with the University’s REF2021 Code of
 Practice, the School has used internal funds and coaching mechanisms to help colleagues (e.g.
 with caring responsibilities or disabilities) to improve the quality of their published outputs, linked
 to the wider development of their research careers. UoM also employs strategies for managing
 periods of leave because of ill-health, caring responsibilities, and career breaks. This provision
 includes targeted support for researchers returning to work, involving, where appropriate,
 Occupational Health and/or the Disability Advisory and Support Service. Staff who are part-
 time or returning after a career interruption may also apply for sabbatical leave and internal
 funding for pilot projects to boost their research profile. UoM offers flexible working and all key
 meetings happen within core office hours; the same applies to classes, ensuring flexibility for
 students. Colleagues returning from maternity/paternity leave, who had been employed on a
 full-time basis, are able, on returning to work, to switch to part-time hours. All members of staff
 on appointment committees complete training on equality and diversity and unconscious bias.

 Faculty policies specify PGRs’ entitlements to leave related to ill-health, parenthood, or to
 pursue internship opportunities; PGR maternity/paternity leave is equivalent to the staff
 provision. MIE also monitors supervisory-team constitution to ensure a mix of gender and
 ethnicity where possible.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1.    Research Funding
 Over the present REF period, MIE was awarded 90 new research grants worth £5,028,199 to
 UoM, from diverse funders. Most of our research funding (88%) was awarded following highly
 selective, peer-reviewed competitions.
 Since REF2014, we have strengthened our relationships with bodies that already funded our
 research (e.g., British Academy, Education Endowment Fund, ESRC, Leverhulme, Manchester
 City Council, NIHR), and identified new funding sources (e.g., Wellcome Trust, Big Lottery,
 Joseph Rowntree Foundation). We have retained our strategic focus on funding explicitly for
 impact, emphasising close relationships with (1) education practitioners and leaders (e.g.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Mercers Company, National Lotteries Charity Board [Community Fund], Manchester
 Communications Academy) and (2) end-users, to co-design research (e.g., Lupton’s grants
 from ESRC and Stockport Metropolitan Borough Council, Kerr’s ‘I Can’ award, Qualter’s
 Erasmus+ grant). Additionally, we successfully targeted interdisciplinary-focused funding (e.g.,
 ESRC Newton International Scheme, NIHR, Health Education England, ESRC What Works
 Wellbeing Scheme). MIE has also won significant follow-on funding for projects; for example,
 Humphrey’s EEF-funded research on the educational impacts of Good Behaviour Game led
 directly to a major NIHR award to examine the programme’s health outcomes, effect-
 maintenance and cost-effectiveness. Further, MIE staff have adopted mentorship roles on
 grants to support ECRs at UoM and elsewhere, contributing significantly as the senior academic
 to writing and developing the grant, but handing leadership to an ECR with significant
 mentorship in place. For example, in Qualter’s recent ESRC grant with colleagues at University
 of Glasgow, income to UoM is small (£11,000), but the overall grant capture is significant
 (£245,000) and supports ECR development, contributing significantly to the discipline.

 In sum, our strategic approach has ensured consistent funding in a challenging environment,
 and aligns with our staff-development focus.


 Significant awards during this REF period (funds in brackets are amounts to UoM):
     Research Councils: The British Academy funded projects on maths anxiety (Pampaka,
      Williams, Woods - £140,000) and pan-European education privatisation (Courtney -
      £15,000). The ESRC funded projects on maths (Pampaka, Raffo, Williams - £19,000),
      and education privatisation in Chile (Gunter, Lupton - £159,000). Funding for projects on
      disadvantage and poverty came from Nuffield (Lupton - £163,000) and the Joseph
      Rowntree Foundation (Lupton - £420,000).

     Collaborative research: Humphrey and Wigelsworth are co-investigators on a large
      National Lottery Community Fund project on schoolchildren’s mental health; with Glasgow
      University and What Works Wellbeing (£880,000), Qualter received ESRC funding to
      explore youth loneliness, social isolation, classroom cohesiveness, and mental health
      (£11,085). Lupton is funded by the MRC PRP SIPHER consortium (£75,000).

     Charities: The Wellcome Trust funded research on loneliness (Qualter - £16,000).
      Squires received competitive funding (£181,000) from The National Deaf Society to
      explore opportunities for youth with hearing impairments post-16 years.

      Local government: Stockport MBC funded Lupton and Black (£24,500) to work with
      schools in areas of high deprivation to co-produce research-based teaching resources.
      Oldham MBC funded Raffo (£49,500) to evaluate the ‘Essential Life Skills’ programme for
      the Oldham Opportunity Area. The Greater Manchester Combined Authority funded
      Humphrey to evaluate the iThrive (£66,800) and REACH-IN (£66,800) programmes. Local
      authorities from the North-West and elsewhere have committed over £2,600,000 for
      Educational Psychology PGR student stipends, supporting a range of research projects to
      support evidence-based professional practice through the Manchester Research
      Commissioning Strategy (Woods, Bond, Atkinson).

     National government: Department for Education (Armstrong, Jones - £8,075;
      Humphrey - £277,429; Wigelsworth, Humphrey, - £24,183); Department of Health
      (Humphrey - £792,826 and £13,894).

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Parastatal bodies: The Education Endowment Fund funded projects on social and
        emotional learning (Humphrey, Qualter, Pampaka, Wigelsworth - £416,500), increasing
        confidence in algebra and multiplicative structures (Pampaka, Squires - £180,000), and
        evaluation of ‘Achievement for All (Humphrey, Squires - £57,000). Humphrey and
        Wigelsworth received funding from National Institute for Health Research for an RCT of
        a school-based social and emotional learning intervention (£518,000).

       European Commission: EU Marie Curie grant exploring gender differences in
        mathematics (Williams - £143,000); Erasmus+ grant for co-designing teaching materials
        for loneliness and social isolation (Qualter - €68,430.00); Spencer Foundation (Williams,
        Choudry - £5,000).

       Since REF2014, there have been 124 new PhD studentships funded externally from UK
        sources (research councils, NWDTP, ESRC CASE, DfE, local-authority services, etc.), and
        17 new institutionally funded ones. The total number of new PhD and professional
        doctorate registrations averaged 39/year (64% with grant funding), despite an increasingly
        challenging fees regime. Since 2014, over 5 years, the DfE has awarded UoM’s ITEP
        professional-doctorate project over £37,200,000.

 3.2.     Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 MIE has a multidisciplinary environment enriched by psychological, sociological, philosophical,
 and historical research perspectives, and our RGs reflect this diversity. Whilst the four RGs
 enjoy considerable autonomy, the MIE Research Forum, which reports to the School’s
 Research Committee, provides strategic and operational oversight across the Institute. MIE
 research benefits from wider School, Faculty, and University facilities, as detailed below.

 SEED Infrastructure and Facilities.
 The SEED Research Support Service (RSS) comprises six staff working with researchers at
 different career stages to sustain and grow research activities by identifying funding
 opportunities, coordinating large collaborative bids, and improving research impact and
 commercialisation. RSS supports in preparing funding applications and arranges peer support
 from previously successful applicants to specific schemes. SEED also provides strategic funds
 to develop new research opportunities: since REF2014, SEED has awarded MIE £53,480 to
 support the hosting of three conferences and six visiting research fellowships. The three
 Hallsworth Conference Grants (Humphrey, Lupton, Lim) funded conference hosting, and the
 Institute-led events on mental health and well-being in schools, higher education and Chinese
 international relations, and global lessons in social action. Each RG also competitively won
 funding for at least one visiting research fellow.

 SEED’s research environment is enriched by its multi-disciplinarity, and MIE contributes to and
 benefits from activities in cross-disciplinary SEED research units. For example, several MIE
 staff (Raffo, Lupton, Ralls) contribute to the MUI, participating in key projects with other SEED
 academics, providing opportunities for engagement and impact with non-academic
 stakeholders, and developing the next generation of urban activists, decision-makers,
 researchers and scholars.

 A culture of impact as ‘core business’ is evident across the entire School. A dedicated Associate
 Director of Research (ADRI), who works closely with RSS colleagues, provides academic


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 leadership, supported by a Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer (KEIO). The team
 supports and advises on impact throughout the research process – from Pathways to Impact
 at the grant-writing stage, to evidencing research outcomes and impacts. The School also
 benefits from Policy@Manchester—an initiative that connects researchers with policymakers
 and influencers. Training and networking events are organised at School level, encouraging
 colleagues to embed impact activity into their research plans, share best practice, and to build
 relationships with research users and potential beneficiaries. SEED resources impact activities
 through open-call funds. Calls are announced annually and target established and early-career
 academics. MIE colleagues have won fourteen awards, worth £20,543 in total. The University
 has an ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), which supports knowledge exchange and
 impact activities with multiple external, non-academic partners. Nine impact-enabling awards
 have been made to MIE staff, worth in total £193,093.


 Faculty of Humanities Infrastructure and Facilities.
 Since REF2014, the Faculty of Humanities Strategic Investment Fund has awarded MIE
 £93,467 to fund seedcorn research, particularly in connection with interdisciplinary projects.
 MIE research often involves inter-School collaboration within the Faculty. For example,
 Pampaka belongs to the Cathie Marsh Institute (CMI) for Social Sciences, a University-of-
 Manchester hub for applied quantitative methods in interdisciplinary social-science research
 based in the School of Social Sciences; Qualter supervises two doctoral students based in the
 CMI, who are pursuing their doctoral training under the jointly funded ESRC-BBSRC Biosocial
 Research DTS (Soc-B).

 UoM Infrastructure and Facilities.
 Research Governance, Policy, and Practice. UoM has a comprehensive policy regarding
 research governance, ethics and integrity (RGEI), supported by an Academic Director, a
 University Research Ethics committee, and a dedicated RGEI office. Our Code of Good
 Research Conduct includes a robust and independent process for investigating alleged
 misconduct and aligns with the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Researchers
 are required to be aware of research-related regulations and policies (e.g. GDPR, data-
 archiving policy, health & safety), keep clear and accurate records, employ appropriate
 research methods, take responsibility for the trustworthiness of their research, and be aware of
 the ethical obligation to weigh societal benefits against any risks inherent in their research. To
 maintain integrity standards, there is clear and accessible guidance and training for staff and
 students in MIE. University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) members provide different
 routes to ethical approval; an on-line ethics-decision toolkit helps staff and students select the
 appropriate ethical approval process. Applicants submit their application to an on-line system,
 Ethical Review Manager, which manages the review process, notifying ethics-committee
 members and the UoM Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity Team, which oversees the
 whole process. MIE staff (Bond, Qualter) sit on UREC, and Bond, Lomer, and Qualter are
 SEED pre-check signatories for ethics submissions across the entire School.

 UoM provides guidance criteria on authorship, evaluating others’ work fairly, respecting
 confidentiality, and disclosing conflicts of interest. UoM procedures for investigating and
 resolving allegations of research misconduct, and the policy on information disclosure
 (whistleblowing) are the overall responsibility of the Head of Administration and College
 Secretary and are openly publicised. A Research Governance, Ethics, and Integrity
 eNewsletter is published quarterly which updates staff on relevant changes in legislation or
 policy. The Research Governance, Ethics, and Integrity team provides tutorials on research

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ethics and governance to staff and PGRs, and, with the ethics committees, provides guidance
 on best research practice, helps researchers navigate the requirements and ensures that MIE
 researchers adhere to high ethical standards. The Clinical Trials Unit provides additional
 support for the RCTs run by MIE, ensuring rigour and funder confidence.

 Exemplary University facilities support research through, inter alia, the largest academic digital
 collection in the UK, including access to 777,273 e-books and 38,096 serial titles including
 journals and conference proceedings, exhaustive research databases, and state-of-the-art
 data-archiving services (Section 4.2 REF5a) Additionally, UoM has an open-access
 arrangement with publishers including Springer and SAGE Publishing, evidencing our
 commitment to an Open Research environment. Manchester ‘Pure’ offers researchers a
 premium resource to both deposit and disseminate their research outputs (Section 2.5 REF5a).
 Public-realm facilities include the innovative Alan Gilbert Learning Commons as a meeting and
 multi-media work-space for PGRs and research groups. UoM has a Data Safe Haven, a secure
 research-data storage system for access exclusively by approved colleagues, providing secure
 file transfer compliant with NHS Information Governance Toolkit.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the discipline or research base
 MIE staff make major contributions to supporting our discipline through editorial activities,
 conference organisation, service on national and international bodies, and extensive
 involvement in peer review and external examinations.

 4.1.   Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 Our strategic objective to continue to build local and regional research partnerships arose
 from English devolution and the development of a new city-regional scale of government
 pioneered in Greater Manchester (GM). Supported by extra-departmental structures such as
 Policy@Manchester and a new ESRC IAA-funded DevoManc Hub, MIE has played a central
 role in leading GM/University partnerships.

 For example, with the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, we established the IGAU, a research and
 policy team led by Lupton focusing on the reduction of poverty and inequality in GM under
 devolution (www.manchester.ac.uk/inclusivegrowth). IGAU has had a major role in policy
 development in GM, including commissioned work (Lupton; Unwin) on education and skills for
 the GM Independent Prosperity Review and Industrial Strategy, and independent research
 reports and policy briefings. Operating through a multi-stakeholder board, and convening major
 conferences and other events, it has created a powerful city-regional policy network, co-
 producing research with organisations such as GM Poverty Action, GM BME Network, and the
 Centre for Local Economic Strategies.

 Ainscow and Lupton chair the GM Education and Employability Board to strategically cohere
 work on education across the ten GM local authorities, including colleges, NHS, Local
 Enterprise and universities. Key board initiatives include a school-to-school collaborative
 research project “Reaching Out to All Learners” (Armstrong; and Kerr’s ESRC CASE
 studentship), and an initiative with Manchester Metropolitan University on “Enjoyment and
 Engagement in Mathematics Education” (Williams) which is developing new R&D initiatives
 with the Maths Hubs in GM and working with the University’s Widening Participation and
 Mathematics department to strengthen school-university links where they are most needed.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Additionally, two PhD studentships are funded by the Greater Manchester Health and Social
 Care Partnership (Humphrey, Qualter). To further extend MIE’s involvement in devolved
 governance in GM, in 2019 we established the role of GM Research and Engagement
 Champion (Forbes), who coordinates a working group with representatives from each RG to
 unite our expertise through cross-MIE strategic responses.

 Beyond the Greater-Manchester initiative, this submission shows a strategic commitment to,
 and evidence of, national and international collaborations. Contributions to the field with local,
 national, and international collaborations include the following:

    a) Collaborative Networks
        i. autism@manchester (Bond, Humphrey) network unites academics, clinicians, and
        other practitioners with members of the autistic community to share knowledge and
        understanding about autism research and to collaborate on the selection, design, and
        conduct of research. The network enables high-quality research with real significance
        for autistic people. Co-produced network outputs include newsletters, an 'expert-by-
        experience' advisory group, workshops, invited-speaker presentations, and educational
        resources.
        ii. WERA Extended-Education International Research Network (IRN). Kerr is a founding
        member, is on the editorial board of the IRN’s journal, keynoted at the 2019 WERA IRN
        conference, and edits and contributes to the network’s edited collections.
        iii. REGEN is a project for which Williams and other editors-in-chief of the journal Mind,
        Culture and Activity won Spencer funding. It is re-generating cultural-historical activity
        theory (following, inter alia, Vygotsky and Leontiev) to build (a) capacity and networks
        in ECR scholars, and (b) theory fit to meet the global challenges facing humanity,
        including (racial) inequality, and extinction. The funding has enabled two international
        conferences (Berkeley; UCSD), producing working groups engaging over 30
        international senior and ECR academics in online networking, producing special issues
        of papers and conference submissions (www.re-generatingchat.com).


    b) The creation of large-scale and internationally significant data sets
        Humphrey and colleagues’ work on the HeadStart project (2016-2023) is producing an
        unprecedented longitudinal dataset documenting the mental health, risk, and resilience
        factors experienced by 15,000 young people from their first year of secondary school
        until they are young adults. The dataset will allow analyses that can generate significant
        insights to epidemiology, prevention science, and a range of related fields/disciplines,
        with wide benefits to society and the economy. Qualter produced the BBC Loneliness
        Experiment dataset, which enables exploration of important questions about the
        associations between loneliness and age, gender, and ethnicity. Lupton is a member
        of the Data for Children Partnership coordinated by the Children’s Commissioner to
        develop better administrative data on children and better use of it in academic and policy
        communities.
    c) Research commissioning
        MIE hosts the largest doctoral training project for professional educational psychology
        (ITEP) in England, directing a consortium project (‘NOREMIDSW’) across the
        universities of Manchester, Birmingham, Bristol, East Anglia, Exeter, Newcastle,

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Nottingham, and Sheffield (led by Woods). Since 2014, the professional doctorate ITEP
        project at Manchester has been awarded over £37,200,000 of funding from the DfE and
        has brought 107 funded PGRs into MIE.

        The ITEP studentships are linked to an innovative Manchester Research
        Commissioning Strategy established by Woods, which has engaged commissions from
        organisations including local schools, special schools, and psychological services, the
        DfE, the International Play Association (IPA), the UK Intersex Association (UKIA), the
        Association of Educational Psychologists (AEP) and NAPEP. Through this research co-
        production strategy and its generated partnerships, the commissioned ITEP research
        projects are carried out by the ITEP PGR cohort, supervised by Atkinson, Bond and
        Woods, to strategically encourage inter-university collaborations, international
        collaboration, and joint working of PGR researchers across projects where scale and
        feasibility allow, e.g. assessment and intervention for autism (Bond); promotion of
        children’s right to play in England and Wales (Atkinson/ Bond); and multi-agency
        trauma-informed intervention across a local authority (Woods).

        Effective dissemination of commissioned projects has been facilitated since 2016
        through adopting journal format doctoral theses, enabling an average publication rate
        of 1.5 outputs per ITEP PGR graduate and promoted co-publication with university
        supervisors and research commissioners. Students undertake associated
        dissemination activities with relevant local commissioners (EP teams, schools)
        community stakeholders (autism@manchester), national (BPS, DfE) and international
        organisations (ISPA, IPA), which has informed professional practice at all levels. The
        Manchester Research Commissioning Strategy is now a focus of consultation across
        the ITEP sector, in conjunction with the DfE and the AEP.


 4.2.   Development of Research Impact and Wider Contributions to Society

 MIE has a clear vision for impact, which is supported by the University’s Strategic Vision,
 prioritising social responsibility and impact beyond academia. We have long-established
 professional links, such that knowledge exchange and impact are central to our research. Our
 impact is supported by SEED’s ADRI and KEIO, who advise on planning for impact from the
 grant-writing stage. Further, at annual PREP review, we each identify the potential impact of
 our research and then work actively towards achieving it.

 Since REF2014, we have focused on devising new pathways to impact for our research:

 Engagement with practitioners. Engagement occurs through diverse MIE-advertised events,
 which include the Mental Health Services and Schools Link Pilot (Humphrey, Squires), Social
 and Emotional Learning workshops for teachers (Wigelsworth), a free Schools in Mind event
 (Summer 2017) that was attended by c.100 educators and allied professionals, an annual
 Inclusion conference for teachers that incorporates sessions from researchers in MIE, the
 Hallsworth conference, and HeadStart Evidence Briefings (c.6 to date). Staff also regularly
 deliver keynote lectures at teacher events nationally (e.g., Baratta, Bond, Burman,
 Humphrey, Lupton, Kerr, Squires) and internationally (e.g., Kerr in South Korea; Squires in
 Malta), and to educational psychologists (Qualter, Woods). MIE researchers also engage with
 education-research practitioners through contributions to blogs, e.g. BERA (Armstrong,
 Courtney, Gunter). Practitioner engagement also happens through MIE’s ‘Building Evidence
 into Education’ (BEE) blog.

                                                                                       Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Engagement with schools, local authorities, and other local stakeholder organisations.
 In REF 2014, we established the role of Research Impact Fellow (RIF) (Emery) to engage local
 schools in the work of our D&P RG. In this role, Emery has developed three local networks of
 schools who are working with MIE’s researchers to develop their practice in supporting children
 in poverty, and co-producing research with MIE. This work has influenced national
 organisations including the National Education Union, reshaping their guidance to schools on
 poverty and leading to changes in teaching practices. We have contributed significantly to
 developing the Oldham Opportunity Area through, for example, a Simon Industrial Fellowship
 (Skevington), an Insight School secondment (Raffo, Forbes); Gunter’s membership of the
 Oldham Education Commission (2014–15, chaired by Baroness Estelle Morris) and Woods’
 role as external consultant to regional local authority research ethics committees (Manchester/
 Trafford). Kerr convenes the UK Communities network, a UK-wide network of zone-like
 initiatives intended to develop complex area-based responses to educational disadvantage.
 There have been ESRC Festival of Social Science Seminars on tackling educational
 disadvantage (Kerr, 2017), hidden youth homelessness (Kerr, 2019), social and emotional
 learning (Wigelsworth, Humphrey, Qualter, 2018, 2019), and using research to improve the
 achievement of students from disadvantaged backgrounds (Armstrong, 2019).

 Engagement with (inter)national charities and other bodies. Miles is non-executive director
 of the international Enabling Education Network; Kerr is one of five advisory board members
 and a founding developer of the European Toolkit for Schools, which promotes inclusive
 education; Armstrong is a Board Member of the Institute of School Business Professionals;
 Lupton has been advisor to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation Housing and Poverty
 Programme; Jones is an Advisory Board member of Causeway Education; Bond was elected
 to the Expert Reference Group for the Autism Education Trust; Qualter is a Co-op Foundation
 Advisory Board Member; Courtney has been a member of Ambition School Leadership’s
 Knowledge and Impact working group.

 Engagement with the public. This is exemplified through articles in national newspapers (e.g.,
 Jones, Lybeck), blogs hosted by policy@manchester (e.g., Atkinson, Courtney, Hanley,
 Humphrey, Jones, Lupton, Qualter), presentations at MQ's Mental Health Science Meetings,
 one of the largest international scientific meetings dedicated solely to mental health (Qualter,
 Humphrey). MIE hosts the prestigious Sarah Fielden series of public lectures. TV and Radio
 presentations by staff include Gunter on BBC Breakfast discussing academisation, and
 Qualter on BBC Radio 4 and The BBC World Service discussing loneliness.

 Engagement with governments and their agencies. Regionally, this includes Lupton’s
 chairing of the Greater Manchester Education and Employability Board, with recommendations
 taken up directly in 2019 Greater Manchester Independent Prosperity Review (GMIPR),
 contributing to the GM Industrial strategy and an initiative with DfE to develop a stronger system
 for post-16 co-ordination; and Jones through his research on social mobility in the Northern
 Powerhouse. Nationally, this includes Humphrey’s contributions to the UK Department of
 Health’s mental health strategy; Jones’ 2018 written evidence to the House of Lords Economic
 Affairs Committee on Treating Students Fairly, and to the Select Committee on the Economics
 of Higher, Further and Technical Education; Qualter’s membership of the UK Government’s
 Technical Working Group, working for the Cross-Party Government Loneliness Team, which
 included the development of ONS’ recommendations for using national indicators of loneliness
 across ages; Lupton’s membership of the DfE Pupil-Premium Expert Sounding Board;
 Wigelsworth and Humphrey’s contributions to the Education Endowment Foundation, where
 they have helped refocus attention on to the ‘how’ of behaviour rather than the ‘why’ or the

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ‘what’; Wigelsworth’s contributions to NICE; and Courtney’s written evidence to Scottish
 Government concerning teacher/leader career pathways, which fostered a national discussion
 about recruiting and retaining high-quality teachers. Internationally, Squires has supported the
 Cypriot government to develop its special-needs regulation and provision (through the
 European Commission’s Structural Support Service), which is leading to legal changes; and
 Humphrey’s expert-advisor role to the New South Wales Department for Education concerning
 social and emotional learning, and bullying.

 Impact through our teaching. We exemplify the impact of our critical research-informed
 teaching through our PGDE/MA Teach First (TF) programme. Assignments, student feedback,
 and dissertation topic selections demonstrate how we have successfully shifted Teach First’s
 school-improvement narrative, which is the starting point for many TF students. Using this
 pathway of impact, TF students, following teaching by D&P, E&P, and CEP colleagues, learn
 to recognise the complex interplay of place, policy, and disadvantage (Lupton), that claimed
 scientific approaches to pedagogy are often based on neuromyths (MacQuarrie), and that
 leaders/leadership cannot be assumed to be an educational/societal panacea (Armstrong).
 Praise in the latest (2018) Ofsted report upon our ITE provision highlighted that sessions were
 grounded in relevant research, with research-based school projects, significantly enhancing the
 quality of the programme.


 4.3.   Contribution to Sustainability of Discipline, its Priorities, and Initiatives

 MIE colleagues’ contribute to the education discipline in a number of ways. Expertise is
 recognised through roles pertaining to internationally acclaimed academic journals. In this REF
 period Gunter, Lybeck, and Williams have served respectively as editors-in-chief of the
 Journal of Educational Administration and History, Civic Sociology, and Mind, Culture and
 Activity. Staff held editor or associate/regional editor roles: for example, International Journal
 of School and Educational Psychology (Squires), Research in Mathematics Education (Black),
 British Journal of Educational Psychology (Qualter), Critical Studies in Education (Courtney),
 Educational Management, Administration & Leadership (Evans).

 Over 20 staff have been members of the editorial boards of prestigious academic journals in
 this period, including Mental Health and Prevention (Wigelsworth), Educational Studies in
 Mathematics and Research in Mathematics Education (Williams), International Journal of
 Research Methods in Education (Pampaka), Journal of Education Policy, Educational
 Assessment, Evaluation and Accountability (Courtney), Frontiers in Education: Special
 Educational Needs (Bond), Educational Management, Administration and Leadership
 (Gunter), Frontiers in Leadership in Education (Gunter), Learning and Individual Differences
 (Qualter). Several staff have guest edited Journal issues (Humphrey, Lendrum, Pampaka,
 Williams, Wigelsworth).

 Staff have examined over 140 doctoral theses, including from South Africa, Australia, and
 Pakistan. 25 are/have been external examiners for Masters’ or doctoral programmes in 20
 universities.

 MIE researchers contribute to methodology and theory by drawing on multiple disciplines, and
 we have internationally recognised experts who sustain significantly the vitality of, for example,
 psychology (Burman, Bond, Humphrey, Qualter, Woods), sociology (Gunter, Lupton,
 Raffo, Courtney), and political science (Gunter). Recognition of particular expertise and
 standing has enabled contributions to significant international issues, including mental health

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (cf. Impact Case Study – Humphrey et al.), equity in education (cf. Impact Case Studies –
 Jones, Kerr et al.), autism, and education policy. Using a focused thematic approach has
 enabled educational researchers at UoM to bring diverse perspectives and methodologies
 regarding the relationship between socio-economic, political, cultural, physical and mental-
 health conditions for learners and learning opportunities. Critical contributions variously deploy
 feminist, antiracist, decolonising (Burman) and social-class (Jones) analyses.

 4.4.   Wider Influence on, Contributions to, and Recognition by Research Base

 Since REF2014, we have helped to shape research and practice in our fields of expertise as
 defined by the RGs, partly through our editorial work, but also by developing new pathways to
 impact, through which we have, for example, influenced the EEF to expand its assessment of
 efficacy (Humphrey et al., 2016; Wigelsworth, Humphrey, Qualter, 2018). Furthermore, our
 research on measuring non-academic outcomes (Wigelsworth, Humphrey, 2017) has
 broadened instrumentation in EEF trials. Further, our work with GM has produced new ways of
 thinking and practising across the city region, drawing on our research base, exemplified by
 Lupton’s inclusive growth work.

 Recognition of national and international contribution and collaboration is illustrated by over 45
 keynote lectures given at research conferences, including 15 internationally. Two MIE
 researchers (Evans, Gunter) are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences, and in 2016,
 Burman was awarded Honorary Lifetime Fellowship of the British Psychological Society. Our
 reach is international, with membership of active networks of scholars drawn from many parts
 of the world. Our connection to international projects has led to regular invitations to staff to
 lead and contribute to research seminars in the UK and abroad; six international visiting
 professorships have been held since REF2014. World-leading visiting professors in this REF
 period have included Mark Greenberg, Penn State University, and Michael Apple, University of
 Wisconsin.

 During this submission period, MIE staff have held key roles in field societies, organisations,
 networks, and institutions, which enable significant contributions and connote recognition of our
 expertise. These roles include advisory-board member of the UKRI Emerging Minds network
 (Qualter), Vice-Chair of SRHE (Evans), ESRC mental-health expert group member
 (Humphrey), Evaluation Advisory Group member of EEF (Humphrey), convenorship of the
 Higher Education Policy Network (Lybeck), and advisor to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation
 Housing and Poverty Programme (Lupton).

 Staff have served as members of grant awarding panels, including for the British Academy
 (Courtney; Whitworth), the Norwegian Research Council (Gunter), the Wellcome Trust
 (Wigelsworth), the ESRC (Courtney, Woods) and on the ESRC Peer Review College
 (Pampaka, Qualter, Raffo, Williams). Woods acted as an expert reviewer for the Canadian
 Social Science and Humanities Research Council. Evans was an invited member of the first
 international panel to review research funding applications for the Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research (2018).

 In summary, MIE has developed a vibrant, equitable, and sustainable research environment
 that enables research of the highest quality, provides future scholars with excellent doctoral
 training, and supports a wide-ranging portfolio of activities and advisory roles that generate
 positive societal impacts.



                                                                                           Page 20
