Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: D33 CCMPS, CIM, FTV, TPS.

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our Unit of Assessment (UoA) is united by a common purpose: the production of cutting edge,
 excellent research that engages with a broad range of social and cultural issues and is
 characterised by a strong commitment to interdisciplinarity. It comprises: Theatre and
 Performance Studies (TPS) and Cultural and Media Policy Studies (CMPS) from the School of
 Creative Arts, Performance and Visual Cultures (SCAPVC), the Department of Film and
 Television Studies (FTS) and three members of staff from the Centre for Interdisciplinary
 Methodologies (CIM). Our UoA crosses the Faculties of Arts and Social Sciences, the latter
 represented by staff from CIM whose research focuses on methodological innovation and new
 forms of participation in digital media, performance and music studies. SCAPVC and FTS are
 located together in a building with dedicated spaces for performance and projection.

 The standard of the UoA’s research across our disciplines is evident from our plethora of high-
 quality outputs. During the census period, we have published 32 monographs, 156 articles in
 peer-reviewed journals, 22 edited collections, 150 chapters in edited collections, 21 special
 journal issues and completed 18 Practice as Research (PaR) projects. We have also produced
 numerous publications aimed at non-academic, non-specialist audiences including: policy
 documents, educational resources, exhibition and museum guides/catalogues, film festival
 guides, performances, DVD notes/essays, audiovisual essays, vinyl and digital albums,
 installations and exhibitions.

 Our commitment to the vital importance of socially engaged research is evident from our
 development of 9 Impact Case Studies (ICS) across the REF period, from which we have
 selected four that showcase our sustained engagement with a diverse range of regional, national
 and international stakeholders. The linking of the regional to the national is a feature of
 Moseley’s and Wheatley’s ICS ‘The City and the Archive: Television History, Heritage and
 Memory Research in Action’, which examines the value of the television archive to the city of
 Coventry and the wider UK. Holdsworth’s ‘Exposing Amateur Theatricals and Maritime
 Creativity’ investigates the role and function of amateur creativity and engages with the national
 institutions of the Royal Navy and Royal Museums Greenwich. The international dimensions of
 our research impact are evident in both Calvillo’s ‘Yellow Dust: Engaging Citizens with
 Environmental Issues/ Making Environmental Issues Visible’ and Hutchison’s ‘Making Space:
 Connecting African creative practitioners through the African Women Playwright Network
 (AWPN)’. Beyond our featured ICS, our investment in socially-engaged research with national
 and international dimensions is demonstrated by numerous projects including Garde-Hansen’s
 media history work with communities susceptible to flooding in the UK and Aaron’s work on the
 role of filmmaking in end of life care in the UK and the African subcontinent.

 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 Our overarching research aim, delineated in REF 2014, was the fostering and development of
 our four key research themes: ‘Cities, Spaces and National Identities’, ‘Memory, History and
 Historiography’, ‘Cultural Policy and the Value of Culture’ and ‘Interrogating the Popular’. This
 was underpinned by the following guiding principles: the fostering of research excellence, the
 facilitation of interdisciplinary research and a strong commitment to impact. These principles

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been realised through careful research planning, strategic investment and recruitment, and
 a vibrant research culture that values and nurtures scholarly activity at the cutting edge of our
 respective disciplines, which sustains collaboration and innovative outcomes. We are striving to
 create a diverse and inclusive research culture and have expanded expertise and routes to
 impact through new appointments in our priority areas. This, coupled with our commitment to
 facing contemporary challenges, has led to their further refinement and the addition of a new
 theme ‘Ethics, Politics, Praxis’ to create five major themes, which will be discussed in detail
 below.

 Our research strategy in the period following REF 2021 will be to continue to pursue research
 innovation and excellence, in which impact is embedded as integral and vital; to sustain our
 strong commitment to interdisciplinarity; to nurture and expand our research collaborations with
 non-academic partners, to offer a supportive environment for all stages of research careers and
 to further develop our five major research themes. These themes provide a shared sense of
 purpose, a catalyst for innovation, and a sustainable structure for promoting cross-departmental
 collaboration, while also being sufficiently flexible to permit responsiveness to a changing
 research landscape. They reflect our prioritisation of cutting edge, Humanities-led,
 interdisciplinary research, currently championed by AHRC and BA-sponsored initiatives, such as
 the SHAPE agenda. Inevitably, the extraordinary events caused by the Covid-19 pandemic
 affected aspects of our research infrastructure, including the cancellation of research leave in
 2020-2021 and the reduction of budgets for research activity. However, this UoA has maintained
 its research culture, working with partners in new ways and disseminating research via online
 platforms. This determination led to 8 members of the UoA contributing films to the Faculty of
 Arts at Home series. The university remains committed to the Arts and Humanities, investing in a
 new, single Arts Faculty Building, due for completion in 2021, which will include FTS and
 SCAPVC. This move is designed to expand traditional Humanities’ expertise, foregrounding the
 creative arts and industries, and to augment interdisciplinary research and routes to research
 impact, thereby reflecting key features of this UoA’s research strategy.

 Interdisciplinarity: During this REF period, interdisciplinary research has been fostered through
 academic appointments (Aaron, Ashton, Bandinelli, Barrett, de Luca, Dieter, Harpin, Kääpä,
 Moffat, Rex, Roy and Waltham-Smith), support for ECRs (Drofiak, Peetz, Petrovic), and internal
 funding awards from the University’s Global Research Priorities (GRPs), Humanities Research
 Fund (HRF), Warwick Impact Fund (WIF), Research Development Fund (RDF) and the Institute
 for Advanced Study (IAS). We have played a central part in University initiatives designed to
 promote interdisciplinary research detailed in the institutional environment statement, Excellence
 with Purpose, (REF5a 2.9). Staff from this UoA founded/co-founded two Strategic
 Interdisciplinary Research Centres of Excellence (REF5a 2.9.4): Television Histories (FTS,
 CMPS) and Exoplanets and Habitability (FTS). CIM is itself a Centre for methodological
 innovation, combining scientific and creative methodologies, and contributing to hybrid fields
 such as the environmental and digital humanities. Academic Leads for five of the University’s ten
 GRPs (REF5a 2.9.1) are from this UoA: Connecting Cultures (Wheatley), Food (Haedicke),
 Habitability (Constable), Productivity and the Futures of Work (Bilton, Hampton-Reeves) and
 Sustainable Cities (Whybrow). The GRPs and Centres bring together researchers from across
 the arts, sciences and social sciences for large-scale events, including conferences, and smaller
 scale working lunches and symposia, thereby promoting and sustaining interdisciplinary
 research. GRP affiliated public-facing initiatives from UoA staff include: Pigott’s ‘Concrete
 Cinema’, a projection mapping project involving local residents of a Coventry tower block for
 Connecting Cultures, and Bilton’s and Hampton-Reeves’ webinars addressing creativity and
 productivity in the post-Covid 19 environment for Productivity and Futures of Work.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Internationalisation: Our prioritisation of internationalisation is reflected in a sustained
 endeavour to ensure that our research has range, scope and relevance both within and beyond
 the Anglo-American context. We continue to engage with film, television, theatre and other
 creative industries from Europe, North and South America, Asia and Africa demonstrated by
 research outputs that encompass African and European theatre, Nordic and Sami media
 cultures, and Brazilian and Japanese film and television, as well as two of the submitted ICS and
 their global non-academic beneficiaries. The international scope of our research spans every
 career stage and is reflected in the expansive reach of much of this UoA’s externally funded
 research: six AHRC, three BA, two Leverhulme and two NERC projects. We have secured IAS
 funding for international visiting fellows, including Jonathan Gray and Jennifer Gillian from the
 US (2017), and Andrew Burke and Jennifer Vander Burgh from Canada (2019), as well as
 obtaining a Newton International Fellowship for Pedzisai Maedza to join TPS from Zimbabwe in
 2021. The internationalism of our thriving research community of PhD students is evident from
 the diversity of their scholarship funding and ultimate success in securing permanent academic
 posts at institutions across the globe. This UoA’s commitment to the creation of and participation
 in multi-institutional networks links scholars across six continents (detailed below).

 RESEARCH THEMES

 Our five research themes draw on and develop established areas of research excellence and
 interdisciplinary expertise. They reflect the UoA’s inherent strengths while also demonstrating
 our responsiveness to emerging priorities in the wider research environment, such as the
 AHRC’s focus on interdisciplinarity for contemporary challenges, creativity and the creative
 economy, and understanding cultural value (Strategic Delivery Plan 2019); and our commitment
 to socially engaged, impact-driven research.

 Cities, Places, Environments: We have maintained a strong commitment to research
 dedicated to the analysis of cities and/or landscapes and their representation in visual and
 performance cultures. This is reflected in grant success for TPS and FTS’s joint AHRC project
 with Coventry University, ‘Sensing the City’ (2016-20) and influential edited collections, such
 Whybrow’s Performing Cities (2014) and Phillips’ The Japanese Cinema Book (2019). Key
 monographs include Brunsdon’s Television Cities: Paris, London, Baltimore (2018) and
 Whybrow’s Contemporary Art Biennials in Europe: the Work of Art in the Complex City (2020).
 The strategic development of this theme to address the vital importance of regionality, place-
 based research and the formation of local identities, is presented by Moseley and Wheatley’s
 ICS ‘The City and the Archive’ and Moseley’s monograph on Cornwall (2018). The broad
 conceptualisation of place and environment is evident in Kääpä’s monographs Ecology and
 Contemporary Nordic Cinemas: From Nation-building to Ecocosmopolitanism (2014) and
 Environmental Management of the Media: Policy, Industry Practice (2018). It also informs key
 research initiatives across the University, specifically: the Environmental Humanities Network,
 and the Sustainable Cities, Habitability and Food GRPs.

 Memories, Histories, Futures: The development of this research theme has foregrounded the
 futural aspects of the UoA’s challenging of received notions of memory and history, with a view
 to creating new paradigms with national and international reach. The significance and quality of
 this work has been recognized through the award of major AHRC research grants, from the
 British-based ‘Projection Project’ to the international ‘Producers and Production practices in the
 History of Italian Cinema 1949-1975’ and ‘Theatre and Visual Culture in the Nineteenth Century’.
 Major monographs include Moseley on stop-frame animation in children’s television in Britain

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1961-74 (2016), Burrows’ commercial history of British Cinema 1909-1914 (2017), Gundle’s
 Fame Amid the Ruins on stardom in Italian neo-realist cinema (2018), Hampton-Reeve’s
 Shakespeare in the Theatre: Peter Hall (2019), and Garde-Hansen’s Remembering British
 Television (2019). New appointments contributing to this theme include ECRs Wallace (FTS)
 working on the reconstruction of oral histories of projectionists in the UK and Drofiak (TPS), who
 works on indigenous identities, memory and language in the Yenisei North of Russia. The
 international reach of this strand is also evident in Hutchison’s ICS ‘Making Space: Connecting
 African creative practitioners through the AWPN’, which seeks to transform the future by
 researching and encouraging the dissemination of creative work by African female practitioners.

 Creative Industries and the Value of Culture: The overall strategy for this theme was to
 broaden the focus from policy in the Arts to a wider engagement with the cultural and creative
 industries and their role in shaping and transforming economic and cultural life. This focus on
 creativity and creative industries is a key rationale in the foundation of the new SCAPVC, which
 conjoins TPS, CMPS, History of Art and the Warwick Writing Programme (REF5a 1.5). The
 UoA’s explicit and implicit engagement with issues of cultural value as it emerges from the
 creative industries is reflected in key monographs, including Bandinelli’s Making Money While
 Doing Good (2020), Bilton’s The Disappearing Product: Marketing and Markets in the Creative
 Industries (2017), Gray’s The Politics of Museums (2015) and Wright’s Understanding Cultural
 Taste (2015). The vital value of culture at a local level is also represented by this UoA’s wide-
 ranging engagements with Coventry City of Culture, including Wheatley’s Ghost Town Project
 (detailed in Moseley and Wheatley’s ICS), Garde-Hansen’s work in Spon End and Holdsworth’s
 Homeless Monopoly.

 Theory, Aesthetics and the Popular: This theme centres on meta-critical analysis and diverse
 constructions of the popular, taking a notably broad approach to the latter that encompasses
 theatre, television, film, new digital media and visual cultures, and thereby addressing the
 aesthetic challenges of contemporary culture. CIM has made two new appointments furthering
 this research strand: Dieter (2014), whose work examines digital media cultures, and Waltham-
 Smith whose work examines the relation between music, sound practices and critical theory
 (2018). The exploration and theorization of different aesthetic forms is presented by de Luca’s
 coedited volume Slow Cinema (2016) and two monographs: Constable’s Postmodernism and
 Film: Rethinking Hollywood’s Aesthetics (2015) and Waltham-Smith’s Music and Belonging:
 Between Revolution and Restoration (2017). Traditional conceptions of the author and
 architectural knowledge/history are challenged by Jestrovic’s Performances of Authorial
 Presence and Absence (2020) and Drofiak’s Irusan: or, Canting for Architects (2020)
 respectively. Notable research success in this strand is evidenced by 3 award-winning
 monographs: Wheatley’s Spectacular Television: Exploring Televisual Pleasure (2016), Davis’
 Comic Acting and Portraiture in Late Georgian and Regency England (2015) and Holdsworth’s
 co-authored The Ecologies of Amateur Theatre (2018). Research impact is demonstrated by
 Holdsworth’s ICS, a national study of popular amateur theatricals conducted by the Royal Navy.
 Public engagement events include de Luca’s BA-funded programme of talks and film screenings
 on visual technologies and the presentation of planet earth.

 Ethics, Politics, Praxis: This new theme recognises the emergence of a significant body of
 work in the field of ethical and political theorizing; a trend that the UoA has developed further
 through strategic appointments: Aaron (2017) and Harpin (2015). This linking of the political and
 praxis is exemplified in different ways by Holdsworth’s monograph English Theatre and Social
 Abjection (2020), as well as Harpin’s monograph Madness, Art and Society: Beyond Illness
 (2018) and her theatre piece ‘What if the plane fell out of the sky?’, which was commissioned by

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bristol Old Vic and secured a national tour. It is also reflected in the work of two ECRs, Peetz
 and Petrovic, whose research combines performance and political theory. Notable research
 success is exemplified by two award-winning volumes: Aaron’s Death and the Moving Image
 (2015) and Schoonover’s co-authored Queer Cinema in the World (2016). The vital importance
 of ethics and practice-based research is exemplified by the international ICS: Calvillo’s ‘Yellow
 Dust: Engaging Citizens with Environmental Issues/ Making Environmental Issues Visible’, which
 involved the creation of installations in urban spaces, making use of data visualizations and
 sensing tools in order to develop a new understanding of air pollution dynamics. This priority is
 also reflected locally and nationally in Aaron’s annual ‘Screening Rights Film Festival’, which is
 held in Birmingham and Coventry.

 Our research themes inform and contribute to the broader research themes of the Faculty of Arts
 and the University. We act in accordance with the University’s Open Access policy (REF5a
 2.10) and the principles governing ethical research articulated by the University’s Research
 Integrity and Ethics Committee (REF5a 2.5) and comply with the necessary Research Integrity
 training (REF5a 2.11).

 2. People

 STAFFING STRATEGY

 The UoA comprises 43 eligible staff. Of these staff 30% are at Professorial level, 12% are at
 Reader level, 30% are at Associate Professor level, 14% at Assistant Professorial Level, 2% are
 Senior Research Fellow and 12% are Early Career Fellows. 85% of staff are on permanent
 contracts. Since 2014 the UoA made 20 new appointments of which 10 are early career
 scholars and 12 are women. Staffing strategies have played a vital role in furthering our
 research objectives: specifically, they have combined recruiting scholars to augment existing
 research strengths in Creative Industries and Cultural Value (Martin, Kääpä), Theory, Aesthetics
 and the Popular (de Luca and Waltham-Smith) and Ethics, Politics and Praxis (Aaron) with
 identifying talent with the potential to expand and enrich these research interests with impact-
 driven themes and fields of study. These include sustainability and the environment (Kääpä and
 Calvillo), the cultural politics of madness (Harpin), documentary and archive analysis (Wallace)
 theatre and global development (Smith), inequality in theatre audiences (Barrett) and work in the
 cultural and media industries (Ashton and Bandinelli).

 This approach has served to deepen and extend links between elements within this UoA, the
 wider faculty and University research strategies, and increased the potential number of non-
 academic stakeholders and beneficiaries. The recruitment of ECRs was highlighted as a key
 part of the UoA’s research strategy during this REF period and dedicated support for proposal
 development has paid dividends with 4 Leverhulme Trust-funded ECRs. The UoA also
 appointed post-doctoral research and teaching positions funded by Warwick initiatives including
 an Institute for Advanced Teaching and Learning (IATL) Early Career Teaching Fellow and an
 IAS Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Leadership Fellow (co-funded by EU Horizon 2020
 through the Marie Sklodowska-Curie COFUND scheme). In addition, the UoA participated in the
 IAS Early Career Fellowship Scheme for graduating PhD students, with 6 Fellows in the REF
 period. These provide a 50% stipend and dedicated training and support towards the
 establishment of independent research profiles. This strategy has strengthened capacity in
 existing areas of inquiry and enriched the UoA’s intellectual culture by adding expertise in media
 theory, practice-based research methodology, sensing and sound, indigenous creative


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industries, the museum sector and the environmental humanities. The appointment of
 colleagues at post-doctoral level reflects a commitment to developing future talent with such
 Fellows (Drofiak, Moffatt, Peetz, Petrovic and Rex) producing scholarship addressing urgent
 challenges that refreshes and renews our disciplines.

 The REF period has witnessed departures and retirements of staff including Professorial
 departures: Bruzzi, Gallafent, Reinelt, Harding and Bennett. Internal succession planning,
 enabled through the identification of development needs and career ambitions through the
 annual Personal Development Review (PDR) process, has enabled established female
 researchers to move to senior leadership positions (Harpin, Moseley, Wheatley, Garde-Hansen)
 within disciplines and the faculty.

 STAFF DEVELOPMENT

 The UoA takes seriously the career development of staff at all levels through formal and informal
 mentoring and peer review, in keeping with its commitments to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. Early Career colleagues are supported to attend IAS Early
 Career workshops, relating to publishing strategies and preparing funding applications.
 Research Fellows work with a dedicated mentor. More generally, staff development is driven by
 the PDR process, which provides a space for regular conversations with Heads of Department
 or nominated senior staff, which includes discussing support needs arising from equality and
 diversity issues that may cause barriers to research. These are opportunities for self-reflection
 and mentorship between both early and mid-career colleagues, as well as opportunities for the
 sharing of best practice between senior colleagues at professorial level. The process has
 research at its heart and allows strategic planning to emerge from an overview of resources in
 the light of staff aspiration and ambition and enables the identification of relevant training needs
 for researchers at all levels of seniority.

 The departments benefit from Warwick’s systems and structures to support and develop
 research careers. These include dedicated support from Research and Impact Services (R&IS).
 As detailed in REF5a 2.6 this includes support in the financial, administrative and legal
 requirements of grant application and in the embedding of impact into research design.
 Departments hold annual meetings with R&IS, enabling researchers to have awareness of UKRI
 priorities and other funding opportunities. Staff are able to take advantage of training and
 development opportunities and the one-to-one coaching and mentoring provided by the
 University’s Organisational Development Team. The provision, for example, of writing retreats,
 protected time for dedicated work on specific forms of research activity – including impact case
 studies and funding bids – has benefitted Calvillo, Moseley, Wheatley, Holdsworth and
 Hutchison in this period. Research leave remains a key investment in future research success
 and during this REF period, 29 staff have benefited from the University’s policy of enabling
 applications for research leave for one term for every six terms of service. Future applications for
 leave are assigned 12-18 months in advance enabling appropriate resource planning and
 facilitating longer term development of research activities.

 In addition to these mechanisms supporting all staff, the University probation policy assigns staff
 at Assistant Professor level with reduced teaching and administrative loads in order to facilitate
 dedicated time to the development of research careers, normally for a period of five years.
 Probationers are also assigned an experienced research mentor who provides guidance on the
 maintenance and management of a research career at Warwick. In this REF period, these
 policies have enabled Barrett, Pigott, MacDowell, de Luca, Calvillo, Dieter and Waltham-Smith to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 establish and enhance their profiles as international scholars (including, for Pigott and de Luca,
 securing prestigious grants from the AHRC and British Academy respectively) and to be
 successfully promoted to Associate Professor.

 Management within the UoA encourages researchers across all levels of seniority to take
 leadership roles in the broader research infrastructures of the University as part of their
 development. Several staff, as noted above, have directed or been involved in strategic steering
 committees of University Centres and the University’s GRPs. Staff from the UoA have also
 contributed to the broader research infrastructure of the University, through committee service,
 including as Deputy Chair of the Arts Faculty and Chair of the Arts Faculty Research and Impact
 Committee (AFRIC) (Holdsworth, Wheatley) and sitting on the University’s Research
 Governance and Ethics Committee, Research Impact Advisory Group, and Research Committee
 (Wheatley), ensuring the research themes and priorities of the UoA are at the heart of Faculty
 and University strategies.

 Participation within dedicated University training programmes on developing leadership
 (including the Warwick Leadership Scheme, the Warwick Academic Shadowing Scheme) has
 allowed members of the UoA (Wheatley, Moseley) to understand and contribute to broader
 University governance structures and to identify the requirements of strategic leadership. The
 supportive structures in place for staff development within the UoA, and the demonstrable
 commitment to the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers have meant that, in addition to the promotions noted above, five colleagues within
 the submission have been promoted to Reader (Wheatley, Moseley, Schoonover, Garde-
 Hansen, Gluhovic) while eight colleagues have been promoted to full Professor (Constable,
 Garde-Hansen, Jestrovic, Phillips, Moseley, Schoonover, Wheatley, and Whybrow) in this
 period.

 SUPPORT MECHANISMS FOR, AND EVIDENCE OF THE TRAINING AND SUPERVISION
 OF, PGR STUDENTS

 We currently have a thriving community of 54 PhD students, ranged in a combination of single
 and joint supervision across 40 supervisors. This diverse cohort is made up of 31 Home/EU
 students and 23 Overseas students. The gender ratio within this cohort is 18 male, 35 female
 and 1 who identifies as non-binary; 20 are from BAME backgrounds, with 10 reporting
 disabilities. Our students benefit from a range of scholarship funding sources, including
 Warwick’s own internal sources such as the annual Centre for Arts Doctoral Research
 Excellence (CADRE) and Chancellor’s International Scholarships, a Warwick Collaborative
 Doctoral Award (with C&T Theatre) and Warwick-China Council competitions, as well as from
 the Wolfson Foundation, the ESRC (in a collaborative doctoral award co-supervised with
 Sociology), the European Research Council and Coventry City of Culture. FTV has invested in a
 Collaborative Doctoral Award with the Media Archive for Central England (MACE) and TV
 production company Illumination. Our diverse and international community is supported by
 research scholarships provided by the Gibraltar Research Council, and from the Mexican,
 Colombian, Ecuadorian, Indonesian, Trinidad, Thai and Malaysian governments. This diversity is
 maintained and nurtured through recruitment practices led by Directors of Graduate Studies,
 with informal approaches to individual supervisors being the most common first step in
 identifying shared areas of interest. The competitiveness of the funding landscape, within and
 beyond the University, requires potential supervisors to work extensively with applicants in the
 refining of applications. While some funding sources stipulate distinct recruitment processes, our
 common practice is for prospective supervisors to interview prospective candidates with at least

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one other senior colleague. Our suite of successful MA programmes provides a productive
 pipeline for PhD students. In CMPS and TPS 12 PhD completions in the REF period originated
 from graduates of MA programmes and 9 current PhD students are graduates. FTV’s MA for
 Research includes specific bespoke training on PhD application as part of its curriculum.

 In keeping with the UoA’s commitment to interdisciplinarity, academic staff act as supervisors
 across departments and faculties including with Modern Languages, Education and Sociology.
 UoA supervisors have co-supervised projects with other institutions, including Monash and
 Cergy Paris, and established a PhD programme in Global Screen Studies with Nagoya
 University. Warwick’s membership of the Midlands4Cities AHRC doctoral training consortium
 has opened the possibility for regional collaboration, with UoA members currently engaged in
 supervisions with Leicester and Coventry. M4C students have access to placement opportunities
 with an expanding network of organisations from across the regional and national cultural sector
 to augment both employability and embed impact into doctoral training. A member of this UoA
 (Wright) acts as a site director for Midlands4Cities at Warwick. Since 2014 a new PhD route in
 Media and Communication has been approved to enhance the suite of programmes offered
 (PhDs in Creative Industries, Cultural Policy Studies, Film and Television Studies and Theatre
 Studies), and in this case specifically encouraging co-supervision across CCMPS and CIM.
 Internal funding from the IAS funded a PhD and post-doctoral ‘Performing Politics/Politicising
 Performance’ summer school in 2016 as part of the Warwick Performance and Politics Network,
 while the IATL supported the creation of a Media Policy Lab, allowing PhD students to contribute
 to the creation of new resources and toolkits underpinning a new degree programme in the
 Media and Creative Industries. Students are also able to pursue practice as research (PaR)
 PhDs, with many benefitting from a TPS student-led PaR lab for students within the UoA and
 beyond, which invites guest speakers and runs workshops to encourage rigorous reflective
 practice.

 PhD activity is organised by Directors of Graduate Studies in each department and includes
 dedicated work-in-progress seminars, as well as access to a programme of Arts Faculty training
 through the Doctoral College, R&IS and CADRE, which also provides funds for hosting an
 annual research festival. Students from the UoA contributed a joint session New Directions in
 Cultural and Media Research to this event in 2019, at which papers from students were
 discussed by a plenary panel of academics. CIM students in the Faculty of Social Sciences have
 access to training events from the ESRC DTP and are supported to organize their own
 postgraduate research conference. All students have access to the SkillsForge platform,
 providing details of training provision across the University that enables and supports
 professional development. Students and supervisors are encouraged to deploy this resource in
 their discussions of progress and their identification of future training needs related to both
 research and future professional development. Students are encouraged and supported to
 pursue teaching opportunities, with the Preparing to Teach in HE module from the
 Organisational Development team offering the potential for formal HEA accreditation. From 2019
 this provision has been augmented by access to the thriving Midlands4Cities AHRC DTP
 community, linking students to training and development opportunities and associated funding
 across eight regional institutions. Such initiatives embed the broader professional development
 of PhD researchers in the provision of specific research training through expert supervision and
 reflect an ethos in which PhD study produces high quality theses and high-quality researchers.

 PhD progress is monitored through rigorous processes, with students required to upgrade from
 M/Phil after 6-12 months of registration, to be subsequently reviewed annually as well as
 receiving monthly, recorded, meetings. Playing a full part in the research cultures of the

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departments, PhD students are invited to attend and organise research seminars and receive
 dedicated annual budgets to support conference attendance (including, in the period, significant
 investment in sending delegates to the ICCPR conferences in Hildersheim, Seoul and Tallin and
 to IFTR conferences in Belgrade, Hyderabad, Sao Paulo, Shanghai and Stockholm). Students
 are also encouraged to bid for additional funds (from CADRE, the HRF, the Humanities
 Research Centre (HRC) and the IAS, to pursue additional opportunities for attending, designing
 and hosting their own conferences and events. Benefitting from these supportive conditions, in
 the period since 2014 we have produced 56 PhD graduates, the overwhelming majority of which
 completed within four years.

 The career paths of our students demonstrate that the training they receive prepares them well
 for the workplace. It also reflects the UoA’s avowed internationalism. Graduates have secured
 teaching and research positions within the UK at the Universities of Cambridge, Hull, Leeds,
 Birmingham, Royal Holloway and Queen Mary University. They have also secured positions at
 Tallin University, the University of Amsterdam, the University of Arizona, Kyungpook National
 University, Sookmyung University, Changwon National University, Kyungnam University, Xi'an
 Jiaotong-Liverpool, Monash University, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg and
 Kasetstart University in Bangkok. In addition, graduates have joined the research, teaching and
 senior administrative staff within the UoA. PhD graduates have, in the REF period, produced
 monographs which further reflect and develop our research themes. These include books on the
 contemporary creative industries: the French Cultural Exception in the Digital Age, the Philippine
 Film Industry and Cultural Entrepreneurship; books on World Cinema, encompassing Japanese
 and Romanian cinema; books on the interrogation of new aesthetic forms, including 3D cinema
 and the mockumentary, and a book on the working-class audience for theatre. Graduates have
 also published work in journals including Cultural Trends, the International Journal of Cultural
 Policy, Performance Research, Contemporary Theatre Review and Film-Philosophy, highlighting
 the UoA’s ability to nurture and support new scholarship.

 EVIDENCE OF HOW THE SUBMITTING UNIT SUPPORTS AND PROMOTES EQUALITY
 AND DIVERSITY

 Recruitment across the four departments is mindful of protected characteristics in relation to staff
 diversity and done in accordance with University recruitment policy of transparency and clarity of
 person specifications and under the strict application of relevant University procedures on
 equality and diversity in both shortlisting and in the formation of recruitment panels. These
 commitments have produced departments that are inclusive to students and researchers with
 disabilities and from LGBTQ+ communities and in which four of the submitted departments
 (CMPS, TPS, FTV & CIM) have been led by women during the REF period. The UoA has an
 even male: female gender ratio (22:21) and 50% of Professorial appointments are
 women. Heads of Department are attentive to guidance from the University’s Race Equality
 Taskforce and supportive of its application for the Race Equality Charter in 2021. This
 initiative has not yet had the desired effect on staffing, beyond the promotion of a single woman
 of colour to a research track during this REF period. SCAPVC has developed an anti-racism
 strategy that seeks to redress systemic inequality and pursue racial justice across all areas of
 work, including recruitment and research and this commitment has successfully increased the
 ethnic diversity of visiting speakers presenting their research to the school.

 In day-to-day practice equality and diversity is promoted through policies which ensure inclusive
 participation in research activities, including making general time-tabling and planning of
 research events and seminars attentive to colleagues with caring responsibilities. Staff have

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefitted from the Warwick Returners Fellowship scheme which enables researchers returning
 from parental/adoption leave to have reduced teaching and administrative loads for a period of
 up to 12 months.

 In collating this REF submission, an agreed set of protocols was identified in keeping with the
 University’s agreed Code of Practice on selecting staff with research independence and their
 outputs. All research outputs were externally and internally graded with the highest graded items
 being selected. Any subsequent choices were informed by an output’s relevance to this
 environment statement, collective understanding of the prestige of publishers and journals in our
 respective disciplines and balancing outputs across the departments/centres, whilst accounting
 for differing staffing levels within departments/centres. In making choices we were informed by
 Equality and Diversity training provided by the University that addressed issues such as
 unconscious bias.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 To support our strategic aims, the UoA has prioritised activity to increase research grant income
 from a diverse range of external sources including the AHRC, ESRC, ERC, Wellcome Trust,
 Leverhulme Trust and the British Academy and successfully secured in excess of £2.2 million, a
 marked increase from REF 2014’s figure of £1,087,883. Major awards from the AHRC include
 £627,401 for ‘The Projection Project’ (Brunsdon), £330,500 for ‘Sensing the City’ (Whybrow),
 £718,491 for ‘Producers and Production Practices in the History of Italian Cinema 1949-1975’
 (Gundle) and £690,310 for ‘Theatre and Visual Culture in the Nineteenth Century’ (Davis).
 Research network grants have been secured from the AHRC, British Academy and UKIERI for
 several internationally significant projects including the AWPN (Hutchison); ‘Cultures of the Left:
 Manifestations and Performances’ (Jestrovic) and Greening Media Production (Kääpä).
 Individual awards include a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship for ‘Envisioning the World:
 Film, Media Culture and the Earth’ (de Luca), an AHRC follow-on grant for ‘Life: Moving
 Onwards: Ethical praxis and the Use of Film in the International End of Life Community’ (Aaron)
 and four Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowships (Drofiak 2018-2021; Moffatt 2019-2022;
 Peetz 2019-2022; Rex 2019-2022). Small research grants from the British Academy and
 Leverhulme Trust have funded research on ‘The Edwardian Cinema Boom 1909-1914’
 (Burrows) and the ‘Environmental Management of the Media’ (Kääpä). The British Council, the
 Sasakawa Foundation, the Canadian Centre for Architecture, and the Mellon Foundation have
 also supported innovative research and creative practice.

 In addition, staff participate in large multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional projects tackling
 urgent social issues including climate change, pollution and flood risk. This includes NERC
 funding as part of the ‘Drought Risk and You’ project (Garde-Hansen) that explored stories and
 memories of UK drought, and integrated the data with scientific modelling to build knowledge
 about drought impacts, experiences and adaptation. Calvillo is part of ‘Waterproofing Data:
 Engaging Stakeholders in Sustainable Flood Risk Governance for Urban Resilience’, a
 collaboration with the UK Environment Agency which brings together researchers from the UK,
 Brazil and Germany with funding from: ESRC, São Paulo Research Foundation and the German
 Federal Ministry of Education and Research in collaboration with NORFACE, the Belmont
 Forum and the International Science Council. External funding has facilitated deep and
 sustained research collaborations with other national HEIs (including Kings College London,
 Goldsmiths, Exeter, Royal Holloway, Cambridge) and international organisations in the US,
 Brazil, India, South Africa, Australia and Ghana. Grant income has facilitated impact work


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefiting national and international organisations including the UK Environment Agency, Royal
 Academy of Arts, National Association of Film and Audiovisual Industry, the Herbert Gallery and
 Royal Museums Greenwich, as well as individual theatre makers, playwrights and artists.

 To facilitate innovative outputs targeted at non-academic audiences, staff have secured
 commissions from artistic organisations, as well as national and international funding bodies.
 As co-director of Coventry Biennial (2019), Pigott has received funding from the City of Culture
 Trust and Arts Council England (ACE) for the next iteration, which will feature as part of
 Coventry’s City of Culture 2021. Calvillo received $15,000 from the Seoul Biennale of
 Architecture and Urbanism Production Grant for Yellow Dust (2017) and two grants of 4000 and
 30,000 Euros from Madrid's City Council Department of Culture for performance/art installations
 of The Breathers and The Descendents (2018). Waltham-Smith’s Cartographies of Cities:
 Soundmapping Urban Political Economies (2017–2019) project received the Akademie Schloss
 Solitude Fellowship. Harpin’s What if the Plane Falls Out of the Sky? received an ACE Grants
 for the Arts award of £36,000 (2017-18) to support its national tour. Aaron received grants of
 £5000 (2018) and £5500 (2019) from BFI FAN’s special theme fund ‘Histories of Protest’ to
 support curation of the Screening Rights Film Festival. Financial and practical support has been
 forthcoming from Africa Writes, Belgrade Theatre, Oxford Playhouse and Theatre Arts Admin
 Collective in Cape Town to facilitate staged readings, workshops and symposia emanating from
 the AWPN.

 INTERNAL FUNDING

 Staff benefit from a number of competitive internal funding sources including the GRPs, HRF,
 the IAS, the European Strategy Fund, Humanities Research Centre (HRC), Warwick’s Strategic
 Partnership Fund, the Industrial Strategy Fund, the Research and Development Fund (RDF),
 Warwick Impact Fund (WIF) and the Monash-Warwick Alliance. In total the UoA has been in
 receipt of £572,022 in awards to facilitate research and impact activity. Funding has enabled
 participation in professional networks, workshops, creative practice and engagement events
 (Aaron, Brunsdon, Burrows, de Luca, Dieter, Haedicke, Holdsworth, Moseley, Wallace,
 Wheatley) and pump-priming for major external funding applications (Bilton, Davis, Garde-
 Hansen, Wright). Internal awards have also facilitated international visiting scholars to contribute
 to the UoA’s vibrant research culture. In addition, staff have access to an individual research
 allowance and TPS launched a Practice as Research Fund in 2015.

 Warwick’s organisational infrastructure contributes to the international reach and scope of our
 research by supporting conference attendance, the development of partnerships and research
 networks with collaborators from South Africa, Australia, India, Brazil, Canada, Japan and the
 US. For example, de Luca has been awarded two grants of £5000 from the International
 Partnership Fund for the ‘Screening Disappearance’ project between Warwick and the University
 of São Paulo and Calvillo is a Co-I on ‘Creating the possible: interdisciplinary methodologies for
 futures research, experimentation and impact’ supported by the Monash-Warwick Alliance
 Research Catalyst Fund. Funding from the IAS, Warwick-Santander Fund and the GRP in
 International Development has also enabled international policy makers and scholars from South
 Africa, India, the US and Brazil to come to Warwick. Since 1967 the University has supported a
 teaching and research base in Venice, which staff have used for conferences including ‘Visuality
 and the Theatre in the Long Nineteenth Century’ (2019) and ‘What’s Left of the Left? (2019).

 Internal investment also fosters research partnerships with non-academic
 stakeholders/partners/collaborators and supports the delivery of impactful research and public

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement activities. To support our ICSs Hutchison received £78,461 from HRC, HRF, WIF
 and Warwick Ventures for activities associated with the AWPN (2014-2019) including website
 development, educational resources and the generation of a film. Hutchison’s Impact Leave in
 2019 facilitated dedicated time for this work. The WIF awarded Holdsworth £9017 to support
 collaboration with Royal Museums Greenwich. £3250 from the IAS’s Research Impact
 Development Award, and a £9200 Warwick ESRC IAA grant, alongside a term of Impact Leave,
 enabled Calvillo to collect evidence and testimonials for her ICS related installations and to
 develop new public displays of her air pollution visualisations and sensorial installations for
 Matadero Cultural Centre (Madrid 2019) and the Royal Academy of Arts (London 2020).
 Moseley and Wheatley received a total of £20,684 from the WIF and the Connecting Cultures
 GRP to support the digitisation of key archive assets, data gathering and public screening
 events. Funding and infrastructural support for impact and public engagement is not restricted to
 ICSs; for example, in 2019 Smith received an IAS Award and GCRF Fellowship worth £7500 to
 build partnerships with theatre practitioners working on theatre and peacebuilding initiatives in
 Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya. Harpin received £1000 from the Public Engagement Fund to
 support outreach activities with clinicians (psychiatrists, psychologists and psychotherapists) that
 ran alongside the national tour of What if the Plane Falls Out of the Sky? Aaron’s Screening
 Rights film festival received £10,872 of support from the HRF and Connecting Cultures GRP
 over three years, and Pigott secured £10,000 of HEIF funding to enable Coventry Biennial artists
 to produce new works in response to Warwick-based research.


 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES PERTAINING TO RESEARCH AND RESEARCH
 IMPACT.

 Committees and officers: Directors of Research and Impact (DRIs) coordinate research and
 impact policy and strategy; discuss research plans; give advice on priorities; facilitate staff
 access to available support; review funding bids, post-doc applications and organise research
 seminars. DRI’s attend termly meetings of AFRIC where research strategy, ethics and
 opportunities are discussed and disseminate information via staff meetings and research days.
 Large external grant applications receive feedback from an Arts Faculty peer review team.

 Faculty and University Research Resources: Dedicated Arts Faculty staff based in R&IS
 provide logistical and administrative support for bid writing; collaboration within and beyond
 Warwick; budgeting for research and advice on developing impact plans and evidence capture.
 Staff use the Warwick Impact Capture System as a central repository for tracking and evidencing
 impact. R&IS pioneered the Professional Writers Impact Development programme to evolve the
 communication of our research to diverse audiences. The Impact Leave Scheme funds teaching
 relief to enable staff to develop their impact portfolio in new directions. Staff share best practice
 via AFRIC and through termly Arts Impact Lunches that showcase successful projects, methods
 of working and provide a forum for debate and advice. The university recognizes excellence in
 research impact, public engagement and community contribution in its promotion criteria and
 annual staff awards. The Story of Children’s Television exhibition won a Community Contribution
 award in 2015 for its cultural and economic impact on the city and Harpin was shortlisted for a
 Public Engagement Award in 2018 for her work on arts and mental health. Ethical probity is
 ensured through the university ethics procedures (see REF5a 2.5).

 The University Library and dedicated subject-specialist librarians are key resources. The library
 provides access to digital collections (e.g. Box of Broadcasts, Drama Online, Kanopy) as well as
 to print and manuscript materials. CIM is developing new resources as part of a digital lab, which

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include bespoke designed tools, curated data sets and methodological resources, which are
 central to achieving its founding aim: to foster experimental forms of methodological innovation
 across disciplines. The recently established cross-faculty Centre for Digital Inquiry will also
 facilitate training, new digital tools for research and provide consultancy regarding digital
 components of grant applications.

 GRPs and city of culture: Staff benefit from the University’s operational and research
 infrastructures for supporting interdisciplinary research, principally through its GRPs (see REF5a
 2.9.1). They provide intellectual communities traversing disciplinary boundaries and offer
 dedicated administrative support for research and impact for both large-scale and small-scale
 projects. GRPs have enabled staff to run conferences, attend symposia, develop research
 impact collaborations and to embark on creative practice. For instance, £8000 from the
 International Development GRP enabled Vickery to run a seminar on the 2005 UNESCO
 Convention and Law and to re-launch the Law, Social Justice and Global Development journal
 and the Food GRP supported Haedicke’s PaR project Who’s Driving the Tractor? Conversations
 with Women in UK Agriculture, which was performed at Fordhall Farm and for the National
 Farmers’ Union.

 Opportunities connected to Coventry City of Culture 2021 provide evidence of cross-HEI
 collaboration and shared use of research infrastructure as the Universities of Warwick and
 Coventry have facilitated projects that cut across the institutions and connect with local
 communities and organisations. Within our UoA this has entailed projects including ‘World Wide
 Window’ using site-specific networked projection to connect communities (Wallace); ‘To Walk
 with Water’ involving storytelling relating to the cultural value of water in Spon End (Garde-
 Hansen); ‘Coventry Works’ exploring the visual heritage of the city’s working life (Wheatley) and
 ‘Homeless Monopoly’ exploring how art-based methodologies and gamification can be used to
 raise awareness of homelessness (Holdsworth). Staff have also benefitted from Coventry
 Creates, which offered an innovative response to the strain on creative artists during Covid-19
 by partnering researchers with artists in the city to generate artworks that respond to research
 projects showcased in a digital exhibition (Garde-Hansen, Holdsworth, Roy).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  This UoA has made an outstanding contribution to the vitality and intellectual infrastructure of its
 disciplines, as well as provoking wider public debate. It contributes to and informs the activities
 of cultural/heritage institutions, the world of the arts and media, policy makers in central/local
 government, the education sector, and the general public. Our research is shaped by and
 responds to issues and debates that concern society more widely. The relevance of our
 scholarship depends on stimulating collaborations provided through key relationships within and
 outside of the academy. As outlined above, institutional support is critical to facilitating effective
 collaborations, networks and partnerships. Internal funding has enabled us to be bold in
 reaching out beyond the academy, whilst support from R&IS and Warwick Ventures has aided
 administratively in establishing robust and sustainable working relationships with institutions and
 individuals. Peer support, within departments and in the form of an annual Faculty of Arts
 ‘Collaboratorium’ for troubleshooting and establishing modes of best practice, is also critical for
 sustaining our collaborative relationships beyond the university.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE DISCIPLINE

 Researchers from the UoA have contributed to international research networks, particularly as
 committee members/working group convenors of leading national/international research
 associations. These include the International Federation of Theatre Research (IFTR) Executive
 Committee (Haedicke, Gluhovic), Theatre and Performance Research Association (TaPRA)
 Committee (Harpin), and the British Academy (Brunsdon). The UoA has also contributed to the
 sustainability of its disciplines through the organisation of 55 specialist conferences, symposia
 and events. Examples of such events include: the International Federation for Theatre Research
 World Congress in 2014 (co-organised by all TPS staff), which brought over 950 delegates to
 Warwick from 65 countries; the symposium Breaking Boundaries: African Women Writing on the
 Edges of Race, Gender and Identity, (co-organised by Hutchison, Arts Admin Collective, Cape
 Town, South Africa, 2017) which involved 55 women artists & theatre programmers from 8
 African countries & the UK; and two iterations of the Screen Studies Annual Conference (co-
 organised by Phillips) involving 325 delegates from 26 countries.

 We also serve our disciplines through editorial contributions to key book series, journals, and
 publishing houses. Our researchers edit and co-edit 12 book series including Remapping World
 Cinema, BFI Television Classics, the African Theatre series and Shakespeare in Practice. We
 edit and serve on the editorial boards of 48 journals and digital platforms including Screen,
 Contemporary Theatre Review, Theatre Research International, Media, Culture and Society,
 Memory Studies, and the International Journal of Cultural Policy. Staff also review for a wide
 range of academic publishers including Routledge, Palgrave, Cambridge University Press,
 Bloomsbury, Methuen Drama and The Arden Shakespeare.

 Staff research expertise has led to invitations to review research proposals for a wide range of
 bodies, including the AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, Social Science and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada, European Research Council, Australian Academy of Humanities, and the
 Guggenheim Fellowship. Staff have also served on the judging panels of the STR Theatre Book
 Prize (Davis), the Green Gown Awards (Hampton-Reeves) and the Sandford St Martin
 Broadcast Awards (Moseley). This demonstrates our commitment to the sustainability and
 vitality of our subject disciplines and the drive to bring academic expertise to wider society.

 Researchers across this UoA have given 110 keynotes during this review period; just under 60%
 of these have been international keynotes. These included Jestrovic’s ‘The Eternal Emigrant and
 the Aesthetics of Solidarity’ (IFTR, Belgrade, 2018), Schoonover’s ‘Glamor Trash: Underground
 Cinema’s Reclamation of Hollywood’s High Gloss’ (University of Chicago, 2019), Calvillo’s
 “Toxica” (Post-Arcadia. Centro de Documentación y Estudios Avanzados de Arte
 Contemporáneo. Murcia, 2018), and Gray’s ‘From Cultural Diplomacy to Cultural Solidarity’
 (Compendium of Cultural Policies & Trends in Europe, Nicosia).

 Our Research excellence in the form of internationally-acclaimed work is evidenced in our prize-
 winning publications, including Aaron’s Death and the Moving Image (2015 - Kraszna-Krausz
 prize), Wheatley’s Spectacular Television: Exploring Televisual Pleasure (2016 - BAFTSS
 ‘Monograph of the Year’ award) and Schoonover’s co-authored Queer Cinema and the World
 (2016 - SCMS Katherine Singer Kovács award). Jestrovic received the Dragan Klaic Memorial
 award in 2015. The TaPRA David Bradby Award has been won by Davis’ Comic Acting and
 Portraiture in Late Georgian and Regency England (2015) and Holdsworth’s co-authored The
 Ecologies of Amateur Theatre (2019).


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS

 Our UoA has developed research collaborations that extend our international reach, including for
 the benefit of non-academic partners. We have developed active multi-institutional networks
 linking scholars around the world. For example, the on-going partnership between TPS and the
 School of Arts and Aesthetics at JNU (India) has resulted in a successful funding bid led by
 Jestrovic and Bishnuprya Dutt (JNU) to the British Academy International Partnership and
 Mobility Scheme for the interdisciplinary project Cultures of the Left: Manifestations and
 Performances involving researchers, artists and activists from UK, India, USA, Eastern and
 Southern Europe, Latin America, China). FTS collaborates with Kings College London and
 Sorbonne Nouvelle-Paris 3 on the AHRC-funded research project ‘Producing the Post National
 Popular’, co-led by Phillips, who also worked with Nagoya University on the ‘New Horizons in
 World Cinema Project’. In CIM, Dieter is co-founder of The App Studies Initiative (ASI), an
 international network of scholars involved in app-related media research from the Universities of
 Warwick, Siegen, Amsterdam, and Toronto. Drawing on these networks and others, we have
 hosted 28 international visiting speakers at Warwick who participate in our many research
 seminars and colloquia.

 KEY RESEARCH USERS, BENEFICIARIES AND AUDIENCES

 Our skill in evidence-gathering and analysis, and ability to provide critical and historical context,
 form the basis for our relationships with a wide range of external organisations. We have
 developed and sustain dialogues with arts/media companies, heritage organisations,
 government committees, education bodies/establishments, and diverse communities. We have
 extensive links to cultural organisations in the UK and abroad. These relationships serve multiple
 purposes. They allow us to bring new ways of understanding film, television, theatre, digital
 media and other cultural forms, in the past and the present, to professional scholars and wider
 user groups. Our research is committed to reflecting on/responding to the role of arts and culture
 in dealing with important challenges facing our world. Our collaborations often contribute to
 national and international debates about the role of the arts, media and culture in understanding
 human rights and social justice, the international environmental crisis, the shape and character
 of our cities in the past, present and future, and the right of diverse societal groups to be seen
 and heard. We have enriched and informed public life through the engagement of diverse
 communities with critical research-based thinking and innovative, collaborative projects. We
 actively seek to bring our work to wide audiences to support public participation, cultural
 enrichment and opinion formation.

 Our research contributes to five key research user-groups:

 Cultural and arts organisations

 Our research has had an impact on the vitality and sustainability of a variety of arts and cultural
 organisations, regionally, nationally and internationally. As we head towards Coventry’s UK City
 of Culture year, this impact has been particularly felt in our home city. Research activities from
 the Centre for Television Histories have brought significant new visitors and revenue into the
 Herbert Art Gallery and Museum through their exhibition The Story of Children’s Television,
 From 1946 to Now. They have also expanded the cultural offer of Coventry Cathedral via the
 Ghost Town: Civic Television and the Haunting of Coventry project, and extended the reach of
 the Media Archive of Central England into the city (see Moseley and Wheatley’s ICS). Each of
 these activities has diversified the audiences engaging with television history. Whybrow and

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pigott’s AHRC-funded project Sensing the City involved collaboration with colleagues from
 Coventry and Monash Universities and the artist Carolyn Deby (sirenscrossing) on site-specific
 studies of urban rhythms, atmospheres, practices and patterns of behaviour in Coventry. This
 project culminated in a major exhibition at the Herbert and other site-specific performances and
 research events. In the wider region, Pigott is technical associate at Vivid Projects, a
 Birmingham based arts agency and space, for which he has produced a significant number of
 artistic commissions. This has been an important platform for the AHRC-funded Projection
 Project (Brunsdon, Burrows, Pigott, Wallace), as has the Birmingham-based Flatpack Film
 Festival (which hosted ‘The Projectionists’ exhibition in 2016). In the UK, research from the
 Centre for Television Histories about the history of television for women and the value of the
 television archive to civic centres has informed presentations and consultations for the BBC.
 Internationally, the AWPN has involved collaboration with artists and organisations (including
 Amy Jephta, Arts Admin Collective, the Mothertongue Project and the Caucasus of Canadian
 Playwrights Guild). Members of the network connect with one another, researchers and other
 interested parties, including potential audiences, directors, funders and artistic managers and
 programmers in all parts of the world to dialogue about their work (see Hutchison’s ICS).

 Heritage organisations and museums

 Members of the UoA have worked closely with museums and other organisations, challenging
 them to reflect on and innovate their representation of theatre, film and television history,
 engaging diverse audiences, unlocking new resources, and telling new stories. In addition to the
 above, our research has had an impact on the visibility of and access to smaller research
 archives e.g. Davis and de Luca have both worked with the Bill Douglas Early Cinema Collection
 and Davis’s work has also highlighted the importance of the Theatre Collection at the University
 of Bristol. The AHRC network grant Afterlives of Protest: A Protest Memory Network 2018-2019,
 led by Garde-Hansen and Holdsworth’s work with Royal Museums Greenwich (see Holdsworth
 ICS) offer good examples of how our work has pushed and challenged heritage organisations
 and museums to think differently about their collections and curatorial practices. For instance,
 Garde-Hansen’s project with the Bishopsgate Institute, the People’s History Museum, Platform,
 and collaborators such as Warwick Arts Centre, Modern Records Centre, The Tate and Mass
 Observation Archive, has addressed the risks in archiving, researching and curating
 contemporary protest memory.

 Policy-makers, politicians and senior civil servants

 This UoA frequently provides evidence from research and clear analytical thinking in the
 provision of advice on policy problems and initiatives. Members of FTS have shaped policy
 around the preservation of our national and international screen heritage, collaborating with
 organisations such as the BFI (Phillips and Wheatley), the BBC and the Media Archive of
 Central England (Wheatley and Moseley). Our research has had a direct impact on policy
 guiding the prioritisation of digitisation projects, and on public access to the holdings of these
 custodians of UK screen culture. Gundle and Schoonover’s work with the Cineteca di Bologna
 has also left a legacy of digitised primary materials, a permanent resource for those with a
 professional, cultural or personal interest in the workings of Italian cinema. As well as this, our
 interdisciplinary work reaches perhaps unexpected areas of policy making. Aaron’s Life:Moving
 project, about filmmaking as an aspect of end of life care, has had a significant impact on
 palliative care research and policy making. The John Taylor Hospice redesigned their day
 hospice to afford small group interactions as a result of this project and it is increasingly used to


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 train practitioners working in this area in organisations such as Hospice UK and the African
 Palliative Care Association.

 The UoA has also produced research with impact upon environmental policy. Garde-Hansen’s
 on-going collaboration with the Environment Agency, National Flood Forum, Tewkesbury
 Council, Gloucestershire Archives, Gloucestershire Rural Community Council and other groups
 as part of her ESRC, RCUK and flood memory app project is an excellent example of this. Even
 more wide-ranging and internationally impactful are Calvillo’s ‘In the Air’ and ‘Yellow Dust’
 projects (see Calvillo’s ICS), which use innovative performative and visualisation techniques to
 investigate the material, technological, political and social dimensions of environmental pollution.
 Calvillo’s research has informed exhibitions and influenced policy makers all around the world: in
 Madrid, Buenos Aires, San Sebastian, Tokyo, San Jose, Philadelphia, Birmingham, Seoul, and
 Mallorca.

 Educators

 We have made it a priority to explain and expand on our research for and with educators
 working at all stages of the schools and colleges curricula in film, television, theatre and media
 studies. For example, Holdsworth received IAS support to collaborate with Essential Drama to
 deliver a series of workshops in schools and FE colleges supported by a digital education pack
 (downloaded 5176 times) to increase engagement with her research on Joan Littlewood.
 Hutchison and the AWPN have collaborated with Africa Writes, part of the Royal African Society,
 to develop and share ways for educators to begin exploring theatre from the African continent
 with students of various ages. In 2019, the AWPN ran 5 workshops for Africa Writes with Stoke
 Newington schools’ years 7-9 students, which culminated in them performing two extracts from
 South African playwright Koleka Putuma’s play, Mbuzeni for a community evening, and as part
 of the African Writes annual event at the British Library. An educational toolkit for teachers and
 students about theatre from the African context has been downloaded by over 100 organisations
 in 23 countries. Hampton-Reeves pioneered the development of undergraduate research,
 founding and leading the British Conference on Undergraduate Research, one of the biggest
 networks of its kind, working with partners in the US, Australia, Qatar and Germany to develop
 undergraduate research networks.

 The public

 The UoA is committed to engaging diverse publics in thinking anew about aspects of national
 and international arts and culture which they have taken for granted or ignored. We seek to
 promote engagement by challenging people’s understandings, opening them to new
 interpretations, and giving them critical purchase on films, plays and programmes which are both
 familiar and unfamiliar, to enable new responses. We strive to ensure that encounters with our
 research for the public make a difference to how they see and understand the world. As well as
 the engagements described above, we achieve this through our wide-ranging presence across
 media and presentation platforms. Our researchers regularly take part in BBC radio discussion
 at a local and national level, participate in local and national television programmes and record
 short films and podcasts that elaborate on their research. We have given public talks all over the
 country (e.g. Midlands Arts Centre, Gloucester and Coventry Cathedrals, Flatpack Film Festival,
 National Theatre, BFI Southbank, Tate Liverpool, Italian Cultural Institute London, The Design
 Museum, London) and the world (e.g. Institut Français, Cinema Camp, Lithuania, QueerSicilia
 International Film Festival and the Transmediale Festival, Berlin). For instance, Moseley’s work
 on Cornwall and film found platforms at Tick Box Bus and Man Engine Project that engendered

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wide-ranging conversations about representations of the region on film, raising awareness about
 minority and regional identity. Our experiments with finding new ways to present research
 material aim to connect with and advance the interests of the wider public. We believe that our
 research plays a part in the development of an inclusive and open society in which people are
 able fully to participate.




                                                                                         Page 18
