Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth


 Unit of Assessment: Physics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1       Unit context and structure

 Based in the Faculty of Technology, our Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation (ICG) and
 School of Mathematics and Physics (SMAP) provide a vibrant and innovative physics research
 environment. During this REF period we have established new research groups in Gravitational-
 Wave Science and Quantum Information, won eight UK and EU fellowships and created seven
 new academic posts, building on our reputation as a world-leading centre in Cosmology and
 Astrophysics. This submission includes 21 category-A staff (up from 17 in REF2014), including
 seven Early-Career Researchers (ECRs), reflecting the vitality and continuing growth of physics
 at Portsmouth.

 The ICG has grown dramatically since it was established as a research institute in 2002.
 Supporting that growth and diversification, research is organised in four broad but interrelated
 groups overseen by the Institute Director:

           Theoretical Cosmology: professors Crittenden, Koyama, Maartens, Wands; reader
            Bruni; senior lecturer Assadullahi; STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellow (ERF) Noller, starting
            in February 2021; research fellow Gumrukcuoglu.

           Observational Cosmology: professors Amara, Bacon, Crittenden, Nichol; Royal
            Astronomical Society (RAS) fellow Collett.

           Extragalactic Astrophysics: professors Maraston, Thomas; senior lecturers Canning,
            Graur, Whalen; research fellow Frohmaier.

           Gravitational-Wave Science: reader Lundgren; senior lecturers Harry, Nuttall, who
            holds a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (FLF).

 In 2018 we integrated all physics research in the university into the Faculty of Technology by
 establishing SMAP, which runs Institute of Physics (IoP) accredited undergraduate courses in
 Physics, Astrophysics and Cosmology. Physics research in SMAP focuses on:

           Quantum Information: reader Tamma; senior lecturer Goussev.

 Additional SMAP academic staff are submitted to UoA10 (mathematical sciences), UoA11
 (computing) and UoA12 (engineering).

 Portsmouth is a member of the South East Physics Network (SEPnet), a consortium of nine
 universities working together to share best-practice and promote excellence in research,



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 innovation and teaching. The network includes GRADnet – the largest postgraduate research
 school in England – as well as employer engagement, outreach and public engagement teams.

 1.2   Strategic developments since REF2014

 Our strategic objectives in REF2014 were:

 (i) To consolidate the ICG’s position as an internationally-leading centre of research
 excellence in cosmology and astrophysics, and strengthen leadership roles in major
 international collaborations.

 Building on previous investments in the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) and the Dark Energy
 Survey (DES), the ICG has secured a unique position spanning the range of upcoming
 experiments (see ‘Infrastructure’ in Section 3 and ‘Leadership Roles’ in Section 4). In 2015 we
 became institutional members of what is now the Vera C. Rubin Observatory’s Legacy Survey of
 Space and Time (LSST) collaboration. Percival and Nichol led the 2015 UK buy-in to the Dark
 Energy Spectroscopic Instrument (DESI), securing participant status for four ICG staff members
 plus associated postdocs and students. These investments helped win four new European
 Research Council (ERC) grant awards in this REF period under Principal Investigators Beutler,
 Collett, Koyama and Percival, as well as UKRI grant funding. Following Percival’s departure to a
 Research Chair in Canada in 2018, we appointed Amara (Royal Society Wolfson Fellow) in 2019
 to reinforce our leadership in large surveys, including LSST and the European Space Agency
 (ESA) Euclid satellite.

 We identified gravitational-wave (GW) science as a rapidly developing area, synergistic with our
 existing strengths in survey astronomy and gravitation, and established a new research group
 supported by University investment (REF5a paragraph 1). We appointed Lundgren as reader in
 2017, followed by Harry and Nuttall in 2018 as senior lecturers, alongside a research fellow. Our
 GW team plays a pivotal role within the Laser Interferometric Gravitational-Wave Observatory
 (LIGO). We joined the LIGO scientific collaboration in 2018 and led the detector characterisation
 working group and all-sky search group, developing one of the main analysis toolkits used within
 the LIGO/Virgo collaborations (PyCBC). This has resulted in STFC research grant awards,
 which have funded three postdocs, a citizen science project and a UKRI FLF. The 16 research
 outputs in Gravitational Waves submitted in this REF demonstrate the quality of the research,
 constituting 32% of our total outputs.

 To enhance synergies with astronomical transient surveys, we have appointed Graur (supernova
 astrophysics) and Collett (strong gravitational lensing) to permanent academic positions. In 2017
 we established the transients participation group (TiDES, founding PI Nichol), one of ten major
 surveys in the European Southern Observatory (ESO) 4-metre Multi-Object Spectroscopic
 Telescope (4MOST) consortium. In 2019 we became partners in the Gravitational-Wave Optical
 Transient Observatory (GOTO) collaboration, whose aim is to identify optical counterparts to GW
 events. Contributing a further 6 research outputs, this research is supported by a research fellow
 in data-intensive science, an STFC-funded postdoc, and an RAS fellow (Collett), who became a
 Royal Society University Research Fellow (URF) in October 2020.




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A total of 34 outputs in this REF2021 submission derive from on our involvement in large
 international astronomy surveys, accumulating more than 20,000 citations according to the Web
 of Science database. Clarivate identified three Portsmouth researchers (Nichol, Percival,
 Thomas) as Highly Cited Researchers 2020 in their analysis of the most influential researchers
 in space science over the past decade, an achievement matched only by Durham in the UK.

 (ii) To support research exchanges, visits and collaborations, encouraging fellowship
 applications of the highest calibre.

 To attract outstanding postdoctoral researchers and provide a stepping-stone into longer-term
 positions, we established a programme of three-year Dennis Sciama (DS) Fellowships in 2015,
 further expanding our international network. All of our DS fellows have moved on to senior
 fellowships or permanent academic positions since their fellowships, including an STFC ERF,
 Royal Society URF and UKRI FLF.

 We support an active visitor programme that currently includes 16 visiting research fellows. We
 hosted the National Astronomy Meeting in 2014, the 30th Texas Symposium on Relativistic
 Astrophysics in 2019 and numerous collaboration meetings (see Section 4). Our DS fellowship
 programme, extensive international engagement and unique position in major surveys have
 resulted in seven national fellowship awards (3x Royal Society, 1x Leverhulme, 1x RAS, 1x
 STFC and 1x UKRI) and one EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowship. We also appointed a
 Global Challenges champion to identify collaboration and funding opportunities, and won funding
 for international collaborations and training in South Africa (STFC award), China and Thailand
 (Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowships).

 (iii) To grow and diversify sources of external funding.

 Our annual research income over the current REF period grew by 21% compared with REF2014
 (see Section 3). We have developed interdisciplinary and intersectoral links to diversify our
 sources of funding. The growth of our SMAP undergraduate programmes has enabled us to
 establish a Quantum Science and Technology Hub (QSTH) aligned with EPSRC research
 themes as part of the national quantum landscape. University investment supported our
 appointment of a Data-Intensive Science Fellow (Frohmaier) who has applied data analysis
 techniques from astronomical research to interdisciplinary projects. These include collaborations
 with Oxford University Hospitals on the early detection of skin cancer and with Kings College
 Hospital NHS Foundation Trust to develop a web-based diagnostic tool for cardiac arrests.

 We contribute to university-wide thematic research areas (REF5a paragraph 9), including Future
 and Emerging Technologies, Health and Wellbeing and Sustainability and the Environment.
 Bacon is co-investigator on the Portsmouth work-package in the UKSA-funded CommonSensing
 project, helping Pacific island nations build climate resilience through satellite technology.
 Lundgren is working with the Centre for Applied Geosciences in the Faculty of Science and
 Health, pioneering the use of GW data-analysis techniques on acoustic data from rock fracture
 experiments, leading to a grant application to EPSRC. Lundgren also led a Research England
 E3 bid with researchers from the Faculty of Science and Health to develop accelerometer arrays
 and seismic sensor technology.



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (iv) To maximise the impact of our physics research.

 To assist our researchers to develop the impact of their research, we appointed an STFC
 Innovation Partnership Scheme fellow (0.4FTE) who works with the university’s Research and
 Innovation (R&I) Services (REF5a paragraph 57) and SEPnet to establish a framework of
 initiatives and activities connecting researchers with businesses, local councils and charities. We
 have also upgraded our outreach officer role into a senior Outreach and Public Engagement
 (OPE) Fellow (1.0FTE) to develop and deliver a more strategic OPE approach, overseen by our
 OPE Champion (formerly Masters, now Nuttall).

 Our impact and public engagement strategy has five strands:

       Engagement with school children: We have conducted repeat interactions with 1,400
        school pupils (aged 9 to 15) at targeted secondary schools and their feeder primary
        schools, delivering workshops and activities to increase pupils’ interest, enjoyment and
        participation in physics.

       Engagement through large events: Our OPE team supports researchers in developing
        new and innovative activities for large events and festivals. Since 2013 our research has
        influenced over 53,000 members of the public and schoolchildren at events including our
        annual Stargazing event at Portsmouth Historic Dockyard and the UKSA ‘Principia
        Schools Conference’ with astronaut Tim Peake in 2016.

       Engagement through citizen science: We have over a decade of experience with
        online citizen science projects, including Galaxy Zoo and Zooniverse (where we are one
        of only two UK universities with institutional membership). Our citizen science and
        outreach fellow (1.0FTE) provides dedicated Zooniverse development and support,
        enabling millions of people worldwide to engage with more than 70 active projects. We
        report this success as one of our Impact Case Studies (REF3UoA9Zooniverse).

       Engagement with visually-impaired children: Our visually-impaired outreach and
        public engagement fellow (1.0FTE) developed the award-winning Tactile Universe, which
        makes astrophysics research accessible to the blind and visually-impaired community.
        The project works with primary and secondary school children and external outreach
        professionals. It has also developed significant international connections, including in
        South America (funded by the IAU Office of Astronomy and Development). We report this
        multi-award-winning project in our second Impact Case Study
        (REF3UoA9TactileUniverse).

       Industrial and public-sector engagement through data science: We have built a
        portfolio of strategic impact activities with external partners, using data-intensive skills to
        address Grand Challenges in the UK Industrial Strategy of Growing Artificial Intelligence
        and the Data-Driven Economy. We have a programme of PhD placements (including
        placements with Royal Bank of Canada, STFC and Quant Foundry) and postdoctoral
        projects (including analysis of environmental, smart meter, cardiovascular, oncological
        and COVID-19 data, see REF5a COVID-19 annex).



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3    Future strategy

 Our future R&I strategy has six key elements:

       1. We will continue to develop the ICG as a world-leading centre for cosmology,
          astrophysics and gravitational-wave research. We will achieve this through the
          combined analysis of observational data, coming from multiple experiments, including
          Euclid, DESI, LSST, LIGO and the Square Kilometre Array (SKA). Our multi-wavelength
          and multi-messenger approach will focus on the interface between theory and
          observation, building on previous investments in appointments and facilities. With
          leadership roles in major international collaborations, our unique position across the
          range of upcoming experiments will deliver highly-cited research outputs and competitive
          grant funding (REF5a paragraph 60). This will include STFC, UKSA and ERC grants, as
          well as UKRI and Royal Society fellowships, enabling us to sustain a vibrant research
          environment, capable of attracting outstanding staff and students.

       2. We will develop our expertise in data analytics and software engineering to
          become a leading centre for advanced analytical techniques. To achieve this we will
          develop state-of-the-art tools to apply advanced statistical techniques and machine
          learning to datasets in astronomy and cosmology, enhancing our core research
          strengths and funding. We will deploy this expertise and infrastructure to support
          multidisciplinary projects with researchers across the university Thematic Areas (REF5a
          paragraph 9), broadening the range of research outputs, impacts and sources of funding.
          We will develop joint research grant applications aligned with priority areas for research
          funders, including EPSRC, NERC and NIHR.

       3. We will grow experimental physics research in SMAP through new appointments in
          quantum optics and material science, leveraging and expanding cross-faculty facilities
          (the QSTH and an Advanced Materials Laboratory). Building on existing collaborations,
          including with NPL, DSTL, IBM and the Quantum Metrology Institute, we will address
          priority challenges in energy, the environment and advanced technologies.

       4. We will exploit new opportunities in fields including quantum technologies and
          space science to diversify our physics impact. To achieve this we will build on our
          current expertise in large European Space Agency scientific missions, including Euclid
          and LISA, and collaborations with other Portsmouth researchers, e.g. the Global Earth
          Modelling project. We will work with the university Thematic Areas (REF5a paragraph
          11) and the university-led South Coast Centre for Excellence in Satellite Applications
          (REF5a paragraph 17) to provide services for industry and the public sector in quantum
          sensing and advanced image analysis, utilising our expertise in machine learning and
          citizen science.

       5. We will grow our innovation, outreach and public engagement work, in
          collaboration with our SEPnet partners. We will expand our long-term strategic
          engagement with local schools to their wider communities, developing pupils’ and their
          families’ science capital through regular engagement. We will also work with our SEPnet
          partners to collect evidence of impact, shaping OPE policy in our region and beyond, and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

          continue to develop links with businesses and public bodies (including hospital trusts and
          local authorities), building up a portfolio of joint projects. We will broaden the experience
          and perspectives of our staff and students through our growing number of placements.

       6. We will demonstrate our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion through
          our actions. By embedding equality and diversity in all our activities and promoting best
          practice, we will progress from our current Athena Swan bronze award to silver by 2025
          (REF5a paragraph 44). We will identify, recruit, develop and retain top researchers
          reflecting our diverse society (REF5a paragraph 29), and provide research opportunities
          for BAME students through placements and studentships.

 1.4    Open research strategy

 Research outputs are made freely available via arXiv.org. We ensure all publications are
 deposited on the university repository (Pure) within three months of acceptance, in line with
 UKRI and university policies (REF5a paragraph 24). Compliance is monitored by our academic
 Open Access (OA) lead, and supported by administrative staff. As a result, OA compliance rates
 rose from 83% in 2016 to 95% in 2020.

 Our outputs include a data availability statement on Pure, with over 98% compliance since 2018.
 We also make our research data available via our collaborations. Our surveys, including SDSS,
 LIGO/Virgo and DES, are committed to releasing and archiving data for the broader scientific
 community, and provide the information and tools required. For example, our researchers
 created public galaxy catalogues for SDSS Data Release 16 (MaNGA and eBOSS FIREFLY).

 Software developed by Portsmouth researchers is made freely available online. Examples
 include PyCBC, a primary analysis toolkit used within the LIGO/Virgo collaborations; FIREFLY, a
 fitting code for deriving stellar population properties; MaStar Stellar Population Models, which
 predict the spectral energy distributions of stellar population models; MG-PICOLA, a modified
 gravity N-body simulation code; and SONG, a Second-Order Non-Gaussianity Einstein-
 Boltzmann code.

 1.5    Research culture

 We support and encourage our researchers to perform at the highest international level, actively
 developing the next generation of research leaders. Consequently, our staff have produced
 agenda-setting research (demonstrated in our REF2021 outputs) and assumed leadership roles
 (see Section 4) spanning science collaborations, learned societies, Research Councils and the
 university (including the role of Pro Vice-Chancellor R&I).

 In 2017, the ICG drafted and adopted a Code of Conduct that commits us to actively pursuing a
 positive, respectful and courteous attitude, rejecting harassment, bullying and unethical
 practices, cultivating an environment where everyone feels valued and encouraged in their work.
 We also appointed a Dignity and Respect Champion to promote good practice and help resolve
 issues informally whenever possible. 93% of ICG staff in the Race Equality Charter Staff Survey
 2019 (response rate 41%) reported that their work environment clearly communicates that
 inappropriate language or behaviour are unacceptable.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We ensure all R&I activities undergo an ethics review (REF5a paragraph 23).




 2. People

 2.1   Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 2.1.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

 Strategic university investment funded new senior appointments to strengthen our research
 leadership in two key areas (REF5a paragraph 1): gravitational-wave science and observational
 cosmology. We appointed Lundgren as a reader in our new gravitational-wave group in 2017,
 followed by Harry and Nuttall as senior lecturers in 2018. Amara’s appointment as Professor of
 Cosmology in 2019 reinforced our leadership in large astronomical surveys.

 We aim to attract exceptional Early-Career Researchers (ECRs) from around the world, then
 encourage and support their development into more senior roles. For example, six current SDSS
 working-group chairs and four DESI key-project convenors are current or former Portsmouth
 postdocs. Seven of our 21 category-A staff submitted are ECRs, and nine hold non-UK
 citizenship.

 As a result of our commitment to developing and promoting our staff, many of our established
 academic staff are now in senior positions with significant management responsibilities. To
 ensure the continued vitality and sustainability of our research groups, we have appointed senior
 research fellows to proleptic lectureships in cosmology (Noller, arriving in 2021, and Collett) and
 as senior lecturers in extragalactic astrophysics (Canning, Graur and Whalen).

 In line with the university’s commitment to supporting and retaining outstanding people, 96% of
 our submitted staff now hold permanent positions (up from 71% in REF2014), including all 18
 academic staff. We have also maintained our record of appointing all senior research fellows to
 proleptic lectureships starting at the end of their fellowships (REF5a paragraph 32), including
 one STFC ERF and two Royal Society URFs in this REF period.

 We cultivate a balance between postdoctoral research staff working on UKSA, STFC and EU
 funded projects and more experienced staff on individual externally-funded and internally-funded
 fellowships. Dennis Sciama (DS) fellowships were established to provide a stepping stone for
 experienced postdoctoral researchers towards long-term fellowships or permanent academic
 positions; all of our DS fellows have since gone on to senior fellowships or faculty positions. To
 avoid short-term contracts, we routinely use university funding to extend or underwrite
 postdoctoral appointments while grant renewals are pending, enabling us to recruit and retain
 the best research staff.

 2.1.2 How we support staff at the beginning of their research career

 We help ECRs to build research teams through a range of support mechanisms (REF5a
 paragraph 41), including workload allocations, PhD student and postdoctoral support, and roles


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in international collaborations that include significant institutional investments (such as LSST and
 GOTO, see Section 3). All new PhD supervisors – including ECRs starting out as second and
 third supervisors – are required to take university training (REF5a paragraph 38). To help with
 fellowship and ERC grant applications, we also provide staff with internal peer-review support
 and mock interview panels.

 To facilitate new staff members’ integration, we encourage them to give presentations at our
 weekly lunchtime seminars to introduce themselves and their research. Alongside their
 membership of the university Research Staff Forum (REF5a paragraph 42), postdocs also elect
 a representative on the Faculty R&I Committee, and have a representative on the ICG
 management committee.

 Of 38 postdoctoral research staff leavers in this REF period, 14 successfully progressed to
 faculty roles at institutions around the world, including China, France, Germany, Norway,
 Poland, Spain, the US and the UK. Another five secured long-term fellowships in Denmark,
 Portugal, Spain and the UK.

 2.1.3 Staff development strategy for staff pursuing a career in research

 We ensure all newly appointed academic and research staff have induction meetings with their
 line manager, to identify and address their training needs. These are followed up with regular
 review meetings. In addition, we assign new academic staff and all research staff a mentor
 (REF5a paragraph 37), independent of their line manager, to facilitate their integration into the
 department and provide support and career advice.

 As part of our commitment to supporting their development, all staff undertake an annual
 Performance and Development Review (PDR) with their line manager, to discuss research plans
 and career goals, and identify training needs for the coming year (REF5a paragraph 53). In the
 latest (2019) staff survey, 100% of ICG staff reported having a PDR within the past 12 months.
 University training includes a Research Leader development programme involving coaching,
 work-shadowing and a three-day workshop. We encourage female staff to apply for Advance
 HE’s Aurora leadership programme (REF5a paragraph 35) and support this with workload
 allocations. Two recent participants both reported that the programme supported their academic
 career progression.

 A university sabbatical scheme was introduced in 2016 (REF5a paragraph 36) to allow staff to
 take paid leave for research or innovation, open to all academic staff (including fixed-term and
 part-time staff). Nichol was awarded a sabbatical in 2017 to build research collaborations and
 Bruni won a sabbatical in 2019 to deliver the Texas Symposium.

 2.1.4 Recognition and reward for R&I

 Our principal mechanism for recognising and enabling research and impact activities is the
 workload allocation (REF5a paragraph 53), which is a transparent and detailed work plan
 published each year. Research-time allocations are determined in line with faculty guidelines
 and include time for impact, outreach and public engagement activities. We empower line
 managers to recognise exceptional performance and contributions through recognition awards


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and nominations for the annual Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence (REF5a paragraph 55).
 Our OPE fellows won Vice-Chancellor’s Excellence awards in 2018 and 2020.

 We recognise and reward staff for excellent and impactful research leadership through
 promotion. Our promotion process is run annually, with workshops and mentoring available to
 help all staff develop their applications (REF5a paragraph 54). Since 2014, we have promoted
 Bacon and Tamma to reader, and Bacon, Koyama, Maraston and Thomas from reader to
 professor.

 2.2   Research Students

 We recognise postgraduate research (PGR) students as vital contributors to our research
 environment, underpinning our reputation as an internationally-leading centre of excellence. We
 have a total of 29 current PhD students, with 39 students completing their PhDs during this REF
 period (up from 28 in REF2014). 95% of our PGR students reported satisfaction with their overall
 research degree experience in the latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES2019, response rate 69%).

 As well as attracting first-class students from universities across the UK, our strong international
 profile enabled us to recruit exceptional international students. Of 39 students completing their
 PhDs in this REF period, 13 were non-UK nationals. However, only 6 of those students (15%)
 are female, while 7 of our current PGRs (24%) are female, highlighting the need to broaden the
 diversity of those we recruit.

 We fund our studentships through a combination of STFC doctoral training grants, ERC and
 Royal Society grants, and university bursaries (REF5a paragraph 63). In 2017, STFC also
 funded a Data-Intensive Science (DISCnet) doctoral training collaboration with SEPnet partners
 from Sussex, Southampton, QMUL and the Open University, with further funding announced for
 2020. The remainder of our studentships are funded by national scholarships, e.g. Thai
 government scholarships.

 Our STFC-funded PhD students are guaranteed 3.5 years of support, and extension requests
 may be submitted in the final year to enable students to complete their thesis. We recently
 approved all requests by students, within the final 12 months of completion, for funded
 extensions due to disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic (REF5a COVID-19 annex).

 2.2.1 Monitoring, support, progress and completions

 Underpinned by our commitment to student progress and development, we have a 100%
 completion rate during this REF period. Our PGR recruitment, progression and assessment are
 overseen by a postgraduate tutor, with students required to submit a Major Review report at the
 end of their first year and pass a mini-viva with two independent assessors to progress.
 Subsequently students submit an Annual Review to summarise progress and set goals and
 objectives.

 To support their progress, we allocate PhD students a three-person supervision team, including
 external supervisors where they bring additional expertise. This joint supervision strategy
 provides independent support for students and encourages synergistic connections and

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 collaborations. Our PGRs and their supervisors meet at least weekly. 100% of our students in
 PRES2019 said that their supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge required to support
 their research, and 95% said they had regular contact with their supervisor and feedback that
 helped direct their research.

 To meet our students’ training needs we provide a core lecture programme in their first semester
 and offer short specialised courses in the second semester. According to PRES2019, 95% of
 our students reported developing their ability to apply appropriate methodologies during their
 PhD. To facilitate their progress and development, we allocate each student a research training
 budget of £3.5k to attend relevant schools and conferences, and supplement this with additional
 fieldwork funding for observing trips or collaboration meetings. We encourage STFC-funded
 students to apply for funding for specialised training via long-term attachments with research
 collaborators (recent examples include placements in Madrid and Aachen). 95% of our students
 in PRES2019 reported developing contacts and professional networks through their PhD.

 2.2.2 Skills development and career preparation

 Our university Graduate School development programme supports and enhances our students’
 academic and professional skills (REF5a paragraph 38). We expect students to complete the
 Graduate Skills Professional Development programme during their first year to develop their
 pedagogical skills and provide a route to become HEA Associate Fellows. Students also
 participate in GRADnet (the SEPnet graduate training network) to gain technical, professional
 and leadership skills, and receive outreach training from our Outreach and Public Engagement
 senior fellow. DISCnet students are trained in the latest skills for the rapidly growing data
 economy through workshops and online DataCamp modules.

 We provide access to careers advice through our university careers and employability service
 and SEPnet workshops. Alongside senior staff talks on academic careers, former students and
 postdocs present talks on their career paths. We offer all PGRs three-month paid placements,
 through SEPnet and DISCnet, providing an opportunity to broaden their skills and career
 perspectives (Nichol was chair of the DISCnet placements committee). Students suspend their
 studies during the placement. Recent examples include projects with Oxford and King’s College
 Hospital Trusts, Quant Foundry (quantitative solutions), Earth-i (geospace intelligence) and
 Madgex (career software and services).

 Recognising the intense competition for postdoctoral positions that new PhD graduates face, we
 initiated a programme of 4-month research associate positions in 2020. Modelled on the STFC
 Studentship Enhancement Programme fellowships offered in 2014/15, these positions are
 available to recently completed PhD students to maximise the scientific output from their PhDs
 (via research or impact projects) and boost their research careers.

 The success of our academic training and career preparation is demonstrated by the fact that 15
 of our 39 PhD graduates in this REF period went on to postdoctoral positions at institutions
 worldwide. Examples include Yale, Max Planck (Garching), Swinburne, Kyoto, Barcelona,
 Imperial College, QMUL and Manchester. Other graduates have progressed into diverse




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 professions, including finance, software engineering and teaching, with increasing numbers
 entering data analytics, in industry and the public sector.

 2.3   Equality and Diversity

 Our commitment to promote gender equality was recognised by the ICG’s receipt of an Athena
 Swan Bronze award in 2015 (renewed October 2019). We aim to achieve a silver award by 2025
 (REF5a paragraph 44). The School of Mathematics and Physics will be applying in 2021.

 In 2020 the ICG extended the scope of its Athena Swan team to become an Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusivity committee. Chaired by the ICG Associate Director, the committee includes
 representatives from academic, research, professional and support staff and research students.
 We established a reading group which meets monthly to better educate ourselves about race
 and ethnicity. All staff undertake equality and diversity training, including unconscious bias
 training (REF5a paragraph 47), which is reinforced by departmental events and seminars. In our
 2019 staff survey, 93% of ICG staff reported that the university’s equality and diversity policies
 were made clear to them.

 Of our 21 staff submitted, three (14%) are female with the same proportion categorised as
 BAME. These proportions are consistent with the wider pool of research and academic staff in
 physics at Portsmouth (19% female and 19% BAME), reflecting the lack of diversity in research
 and academic staff in physics nationally. To address this, our recruitment and selection panels
 all include a trained interviewer and female staff members, and we give workload allocations to
 female staff to recognise and offset the additional demands that this places on them. Our
 selection panels encourage qualified applicants from under-represented groups, short-listing at
 least one female candidate for all posts, or reporting to the EDI committee why this was not
 possible. The Athena Swan self-assessment team monitors gender balance at all stages of
 recruitment, career progression and staff turnover. The mean and median gender pay gap for
 staff submitted is 7% and 19% respectively, compared to 17% and 14% for all research and
 academic staff in physics at Portsmouth – reflecting the smaller proportion of women in senior
 roles. One submitted staff member (5%) declared a disability, consistent with the sector average.

 Recent physics staff members on maternity leave have benefitted from ‘keep-in-touch’ days and
 flexible working arrangements on their return. We have also secured external funding to support
 childcare expenses associated with conference attendance, successfully lobbying the university
 to change regulations to allow the payment of childcare expenses for conference attendance.

 Our department heads actively promote flexible working (REF5a paragraph 46), with 93% of ICG
 staff reporting in the 2019 staff survey that their line manager supported flexible working. Of our
 21 staff submitted, four benefit from formal flexible working arrangements, including part-time
 hours. We have also instituted flexible working arrangements during the COVID-19 pandemic to
 help staff with additional caring responsibilities. Line managers and supervisors have kept in
 regular contact with their staff and research students throughout, providing additional support
 where needed.

 We require all staff involved in REF output selection to complete REF-specific equality and
 diversity training (REF5a paragraph 50). We follow the university’s REF2021 Code of Practice to


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 identify staff with significant responsibility for research, assess research independence and
 select outputs. The average number of outputs selected in this UoA from category-A female staff
 (3.0) was higher than from male staff (1.9), while the average number of outputs from category-A
 BAME staff (1.7) was slightly lower than the average for all category-A staff (2.0) or for staff with
 self-declared disabilities (2.0). However, these differences are not statistically significant given
 the small numbers involved.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Research funding and strategies for generating research income




                       Figure 1: Annual research income by funding category

 Our total research income grew from £7.1M in REF2014 to £10.1M in the current REF period,
 with a 21% increase in annual income. Figure 1 shows the breakdown in different funding
 categories. Note that COVID-19 delayed expenditure on some grants in 2019/20.

 Our strategic investment in staff and facilities (REF5a paragraph 63), including establishing a
 new research group in gravitational-wave science, has led to steady growth in our core STFC
 funding. Our STFC consolidated-grant awards have risen significantly over this REF period
 from £1.4M in 2013-16 to £1.6M in 2016-19 and £2.1M in 2019-22, despite flat-cash funding
 nationally, and increasingly intense competition. All of our STFC new applicant awards in this
 REF period were successful, including Masters (2015), Whalen (2017), Harry (2020) and Nuttall
 (2020), totalling a further £466k.

 Our strategic investment in astronomical surveys (REF5a paragraph 67) provided the platform
 for winning substantial European funding, including two ERC consolidator grants (€2.2M ‘Dark
 Survey’ grant, 2014-18; €1.7M ‘Cosmological tests of gravity’ grant, 2015-21), and two ERC


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 starting grants (€1.1M ‘Fundamental Physics from the large-scale structure of the Universe’
 grant, 2020-2025; €1.8M ‘Statistical era of strong gravitational-lensing cosmology’ grant, 2021-
 2026). Recent awards guarantee continued ERC funding until 2026.

 UKSA and Royal Society grants are linked to our leadership in major surveys including Euclid
 (UKSA awards totalling £1.3M) and DESI (totalling £653k). Smaller grants have supported DES,
 the extended Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (eBOSS, part of SDSS), and the ESA
 LISA mission.

 Our reputation as a world-leading research centre and unique position in major surveys has
 attracted outstanding fellowship applications and successes (REF5a paragraph 32), including
 STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowships (Beutler, 2017-18, Collett, 2021-26), RAS Research
 Fellowship (Collett, 2020-21), Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship (Amara, 2019-24), Royal
 Society University Research Fellowships (Beutler, 2018-20, Collett, 2021-26), UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship (Nuttall, 2020-27), and an EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship
 (Nadathur, 2015-17).

 Royal Society grants have supported collaborations in the USA and Australia (Collett), China
 (Percival) and Thailand (Wands). SA-DISCnet (2018-2019) utilised our expertise in developing
 data-science training in collaboration with our research network in southern Africa.

 New appointments and investments in innovation have attracted new sources of income. Grants
 from the U.S. Office of Naval Research ($317k, 2018-21) and U.S. Army Research Lab ($50k,
 2017-18) support our quantum information group. In addition, STFC innovation awards have
 come from an Impact Accelerator Account (£120k, 2019-21) and research grant ‘Developing
 synergies between transient astronomy and early medical intervention’ (£71k, 2018-19).

 Our public engagement work has won STFC funding through our latest consolidated grant
 (including a citizen science project, ‘Gravity Spy’, based on our GW research) and also through
 nucleus and follow-on awards for the Tactile Universe project (£10k in 2016-18, £51k in 2018-20
 and £7k in 2020-22).

 3.2   Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Building on previous investments in SDSS and DES, the ICG has strategically invested in the
 next generation of astronomical surveys (REF5a paragraph 63). Alongside our creation of a new
 gravitational-wave group, we have targeted major investments towards fostering collaborations
 between cosmology, astrophysics and GW groups, preparing for multi-wavelength and multi-
 messenger surveys. These investments include:

      Institutional membership of the Vera C. Rubin Observatory project to conduct the ten-
       year Legacy Survey of Space and Time (LSST): $25k per year for ten years (2015-25).

      Membership of the Time-Domain Extragalactic Survey (TiDES) transient science team
       (part of the 4MOST consortium), contributing to the design and operation of a transient
       survey linked to the LSST’s science goals and data stream: €200k (2017).




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Institutional membership of the Gravitational-Wave Optical Transient Observatory
       (GOTO), providing Portsmouth staff and students with full access to GOTO data, working
       groups and authorship: £200k (2019).

 The ICG runs a dedicated high-performance computing cluster (‘SCIAMA’) with 3700 cores.
 SCIAMA plays a vital role in our exploitation of large astronomical surveys, supporting the
 production of large galaxy mock catalogues and advanced statistical analyses of large datasets.
 Commissioned in 2010 with joint funding from SEPnet, it has been upgraded several times
 since, including additional nodes purchased with ERC funding in 2015 (SCIAMA-III). A 2019
 strategic university investment (£300k) paid for a major upgrade (SCIAMA-IV), providing an
 additional 896 cores with 8.4TB of distributed memory (REF5a paragraph 64).

 The ICG’s Research Software and Data Specialist (1.0FTE) and Senior Specialist Technician
 (1.0FTE) provide technical and specialist support for SCIAMA and its users. In addition, our
 citizen science and outreach fellow (1.0FTE) provides expertise supporting research and impact
 projects in citizen and data science, especially data-handling and curation.

 As a member of SEPnet-III, the university has committed £175k per year over five years (2018-
 23) – including £35k annual membership fee, plus in-kind commitments – to support employer
 engagement, research, impact and public engagement activities. We have a SEPnet-funded
 seminar room for graduate lectures and video-conferencing. SEPnet publishes an online list of
 infrastructure and equipment available to all partners.

 3.3   Operational and scholarly infrastructure

 The ICG administrative office has 1.5FTE support staff, including a full-time institute manager
 with financial training and experience of research grant applications and management.
 Researchers also work closely with professionals in the university research finance office.

 Our investment in computing and IT resources ensures a high standard of computing equipment
 for all physics researchers. In 2020, newly-furnished offices were made available for SMAP staff
 and students so that all our physics researchers benefit from modern, well-equipped offices co-
 located in the purpose-built Dennis Sciama building. In PRES2019, 100% of ICG research
 students reported that they had a suitable working space.

 3.4   Equality and diversity

 Our staff fully engage with equality and diversity actions in international collaborations such as
 the Committee On INclusion (COINS) in SDSS, to ensure equal access to these
 collaborations. For example, Canning is a member of the DESI Diversity, Equality and
 Inclusion committee and Nuttall is a LIGO/Virgo collaboration ally, part of an initiative to
 foster an inclusive environment within the collaboration. We advertise codes of conduct for
 meetings that we host. In the case of the Texas Symposium, we named members of the local
 and scientific organising committees as points of contact for anyone with concerns, which were
 then fully addressed.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.5       Support for impact activities

 We appointed an Innovation Partnership Scheme Fellow (Prosser), with initial funding from
 STFC, to foster relationships with external organisations, support PGR placements, and provide
 entrepreneurship training to PGRs and ECRs. University investment has also enabled the
 appointment of a Research Fellow in Data-Intensive Science (Frohmaier), who supports
 impact activities and interdisciplinary research through his expertise in advanced statistical
 techniques and machine learning. In addition, the ICG’s Senior Outreach and Public
 Engagement Fellow (Gupta) leads our strategic plan for public engagement, supported by the
 OPE team (including Bonne and Krawczyk).

 3.6       Use of major facilities

 Our researchers have benefited from the use of major astronomy facilities valued at £320k over
 this REF period, including highly competitive time awarded on the European Southern
 Observatory Very Large Telescope (valued at £280k) and the Hubble Space Telescope
 (£13k). Use of these facilities supports and exploits our involvement in major surveys, providing
 follow-up observations of data from surveys such as SDSS-IV and DES data, including
 gravitational-lens candidates and transients.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1       Support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 As a result of our strategic investments to secure early involvement in major international
 surveys such as SDSS and DES, Portsmouth researchers have played leading roles in a wide
 range of collaborations:

           Nichol was a member of the MaNGA steering and coordination group (2011-15)

           Maraston was a member of the SDSS-IV Advisory committee (2012-16)

           Masters is spokesperson for the SDSS collaboration (since 2017)

           Thomas was the MaNGA Science Team chair (2014-17) and a member of the SDSS-IV
            collaboration Science Committee. He is currently on the SDSS-IV Advisory Committee
            and Data Products Committee.

           Bautista (PDRA) is eBOSS Lead Data Scientist within SDSS-IV

           Amara is chair of the Collaboration Meeting Steering Committee for DES

           Bacon is magnification analysis team lead and management committee member for DES

           Nichol was a member of the management and science committees for the DES (2007-
            18).

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Based on our success in establishing leadership in current surveys, we have also expanded our
 involvement in the next generation of major surveys (such as Euclid, DESI, LSST and SKA)
 through both university investment and STFC/UKSA funding. This strategy has paid dividends,
 with Portsmouth researchers securing leading roles in these surveys:

       Nichol is a member of the ESA Euclid Science Team and Consortium Board

       Beutler was co-chair of the galaxy clustering working group in Euclid, a role formerly held
        by Percival

       Nichol was co-convener of the DESI time-domain working group, and was succeeded by
        Graur (then at Harvard)

       Canning is a co-convener of the galaxy and quasar physics working group in DESI

       Amara is a member of the LSST:UK executive committee

       Bacon is an LSST:UK board member and LSST:UK Science Liaison with SKA

       Collett is convenor of the LSST-Dark Energy Science Collaboration strong lensing
        analysis working group

       Nichol is LSST:UK Science Liaison with Euclid

       Bacon is the SKA Cosmology Science working group Synergies lead, and UK SKA
        Science Committee chair

       Maartens holds a South African SKA Research Chair (2011-20).

 We have also successfully developed a new research activity in gravitational waves, establishing
 the Portsmouth group as a key player in the international GW community and enhancing UK
 leadership in major experiments:

       Harry is one of two main contributors to PyCBC, one of the main analysis toolkits used
        within the LIGO/Virgo collaborations, and co-chair of the LIGO/Virgo all-sky searches
        for compact binary mergers working group

       Nuttall is co-chair of the LIGO/Virgo detector characterisation working group, a role
        formerly held by Lundgren

       Harry is co-chair of the LISA data-analysis tools work-package

       Nuttall is on the GOTO steering committee.

 Wands is a member of the international Particle Data Group collaboration that produces the
 Review of Particle Physics which attracts more than 2000 citations annually.

 We have hosted numerous collaboration meetings and workshops in Portsmouth, including the
 UK Cosmology workshops (June 2014, April 2017), BritGrav (April 2018), an international

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 cross-theme workshop on Quantum Sensing Technologies (April 2019), Bayesian inference
 in GW astronomy (May 2019) and the Portsmouth Workshop Series: The Quantum Industry
 (November 2019). In 2017, ICG researchers established a series of South Coast Cosmology
 workshops, held biannually with researchers in Sussex and Southampton, with the latest event
 being hosted online by Portsmouth in October 2020.

 International visitors since 2014 include Leverhulme Visiting Research Professor (Bershady),
 Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowships (Zhao and Gumjudpai), as well as national
 fellowships from Germany, Brazil, Italy and Japan. In addition Pogosian (Simon Fraser
 University, Vancouver) and Zhao (National Astronomical Observatory China, Beijing) both hold
 senior visiting positions at the university and are regular visitors.

 4.2       Engagement with key research users and wider contributions to the society

 Our appointment of an Innovation Partnership Scheme Fellow facilitated collaborative
 innovation projects with numerous external organisations. For example, we ran Deep Data Dives
 (data hacks) with external partners including Hampshire County Council, Portsmouth City
 Council, and the Royal National Lifeboat Institute. Our project with SSE analysed time-series
 data from smart meters using an algorithm developed for transient astronomy. In addition,
 Maraston collaborated with Blue Donut Studios to develop a mobile app called Cosmic Stroll,
 which allows people to take a virtual walk in the real universe based on SDSS data.

 Our appointment of a Research Fellow in Data-Intensive Science has enabled us to apply
 data-analysis techniques from astronomical research to interdisciplinary projects. Moreover,
 STFC funding, including an Impact Accelerator Account (IAA), has enabled the development
 of a range of projects:

           A web-based tools for cardiologists from King’s College NHS Foundation Trust

           The MoleGazer project with Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, which utilises
            algorithms used for detecting exploding stars in astronomical image data for the early
            detection of skin cancer

           An interdisciplinary project combining advanced statistical methods and data analytics
            and Earth modelling to identify geohazards.

 4.3       Engaging with diverse communities and the public through research

 Under the leadership of our Senior Outreach and Public Engagement Fellow, we were the
 first English university to implement a physics outreach and public engagement strategy,
 something that other universities have since adopted. We have carried out repeat interventions
 with 1,400 school pupils from ‘widening participation’ schools to increase their interest,
 enjoyment and participation in physics. In 2016 we hosted the UKSA ‘Principia Schools
 Conference’ with astronaut Tim Peake, attended by 500 schoolchildren and 1,500 members of
 the public. Our free annual Stargazing events have been attended by 9,850 members of the
 public, engaging a broad spectrum of society with our research to increase their awareness of
 and interest in science. Our work’s innovative nature is evident in our success securing £50k of
 external funding for public engagement projects through STFC and RAS competitive grant

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 schemes during the assessment period. Staff members such as Gupta, Maraston and Nichol,
 make regular appearances on radio and TV, and we regularly contribute to online platforms such
 as ‘The Conversation’ (REF5a paragraph 28).

 4.4   Contribution to sustainability of the discipline and responses to national and
       international priorities and initiatives

 In June 2014, we hosted the National Astronomy Meeting (NAM), attracting over 600
 participants. NAM is sponsored and coordinated by the RAS and is the society’s primary annual
 meeting. In addition to scientific talks, we hosted public talks, the STFC ‘Seeing the Universe in
 all its light’ interactive exhibition and the STFC Industrial Applications of Astrophysics/Astronomy
 session. NAM2014 was also accompanied by an extensive schools programme with organised
 events and activities for different age groups and for teachers.

 In December 2019, Portsmouth hosted the 30th Texas Symposium on Relativistic
 Astrophysics, welcoming 400 researchers from 40 different countries. We organised a free
 public event where panel members (including Nuttall from the ICG) discussed the discovery of
 gravitational waves from colliding black holes, and a session on equality and diversity which
 discussed biases in the academic environment and proposed actions to address them. We
 achieved a good gender balance in invited plenaries and session chairs (35% of our invited
 speakers were female, compared with 20% of participants overall).

 We responded to the national and international crisis caused by COVID-19 by employing our
 expertise in image- and data-analysis techniques. In partnership with Portsmouth Hospitals
 University NHS Trust, we led interdisciplinary projects using satellite imaging to analyse social
 distancing from satellite data and the spread of droplets in clinical environments.

 4.5   Indicators of wider influence on, contribution to and recognition by the research
       base

 4.5.1 Research councils

 We provided three sub-panel chairs of the STFC Astronomy Grants Panel during this REF
 period, for Observational Astronomy (Percival, 2014-15) and Theoretical Astronomy
 (Wands, 2015-16, and Crittenden, 2018-20). In addition, Nichol was a member of the STFC
 Science Board (2013-2016) and Balance of Programmes exercise (2017), Wands was a
 member of the STFC Astronomy Evaluation Panel (2019), and Nuttall is a member of the
 UKSA SPAC Affordability Options Review committee. Bacon was a member of the UKRI
 Future Leader Fellowships panel (2019).

 Koyama was a member of the Research Council of Norway Physics grant panel (2018-2019).
 Maraston is a member of the Caroline Herschel Prize Lectureship panel (since 2018) and was a
 member of the Hubble Space Telescope Panel Review (2015 and 2016), Italian National
 Institute of Astrophysics fellowship award panel (2016) and the Hubble Fellowship panel (2018).
 Nuttall was a member of the AAUW international fellowship selection panel (2020), and Whalen
 was a member of the US Department of Energy INCITE program award panel (2017-2019).



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5.2 Learned societies

 Maraston is a member of the RAS Award Committee (2015), Bruni is a member of the Institute
 of Physics Gravitational Physics Group committee (since 2017), and Wands is a founding board
 member of the European Physical Society Gravitational Physics Division (since 2017).

 4.5.3 Editorial boards

 Our researchers have served as editorial and advisory board members for several international
 journals including Monthly Notices of the RAS (Maraston since 2018), Classical and
 Quantum Gravity (Wands 2011-2016, Koyama since 2013), and Europhysics Letters (Wands
 2011-2016). Maartens was Editor-in-Chief of the journal General Relativity and Gravitation
 (2015-19), published by Springer under the auspices of the International Society of General
 Relativity and Gravitation. Others have been guest editors for international journals including
 Applied Sciences (Tamma 2019) and Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A
 (Goussev 2016).

 4.5.4 Awards

 The quality of our research is demonstrated by the awards and fellowships won by Portsmouth
 researchers during this REF period. Maraston was awarded the Eddington Medal for
 Astronomy (2018) and Collett won the Winton Award for Astronomy (2020) from the RAS.
 Masters won the Women of the Future Award in Science (2014) and Maartens was elected a
 Fellow of the International Society for General Relativity & Gravitation (2019). Harry, Nuttall
 and Lundgren shared in a number of prizes awarded to the LIGO Scientific Collaboration: the
 Gruber Cosmology Prize (2016), the Special Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics
 (2016) and the Princess of Asturias Award for Technical and Scientific Research (2017). In
 addition, Pettinari was awarded the 2014 RAS Michael Penston award for the best doctoral
 thesis in astronomy.

 4.5.5 Other contributions to the international research base

 Maartens is an SKA research professor at the University of the Western Cape, Maraston was
 visiting professor at the University of Vienna in 2016, and Whalen held an Ida Pfeiffer visiting
 professorship at the University of Vienna in 2019. Collett was awarded a distinguished visitorship
 at Swinburne and Wands is a supervisor for the international PhD programme PPGCosmo run
 by the Universidade Federal do Espirito Santo in Brazil.

 4.5.6 Invited talks

 Between 2014 and 2020, Portsmouth researchers gave 192 invited conference talks, 32
 invited lectures at graduate schools, 204 invited seminars and 114 public talks. Highlights
 include: Bacon’s invited plenary talk at ‘Fundamental Physics with the Square Kilometre Array’;
 Canning’s invited talk at MIT’s ‘Rising Stars in Physics’; Harry’s invited talk at the 5th IUPAP
 Nuclear Science Symposium; Koyama’s invited lectures at the ICTP ‘Summer School on
 Cosmology’, Trieste; Maartens’ invited plenary talk at the 29th Texas Symposium on Relativistic




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Astrophysics in Cape Town; and Nuttall’s invited talk at the International Astronomical Union
 Symposium 338 in Baton Rouge.




                                                                                           Page 20
