Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UOA27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 English Literature at Edinburgh is a community of 49 researchers, dedicated to exploring the
 historical richness and global diversity of Anglophone literature, and to enhancing the
 contribution of literature to creating, challenging and sustaining cultural life, histories and
 identities. Over the REF period, a combination of 17 outstanding new appointments, a more than
 doubling of our research income (to £3.9m), a two-fold increase in PGR completion, and a £15m
 investment in our estate have fostered major expansions in our research activities, underpinning
 a thriving research environment. Strategic growth has enabled us to deepen our long-standing
 strengths in literary history, from the later Middle Ages to the present day, and to broaden our
 increasingly global research, building clusters of expertise in Black Studies, Digital and
 Environmental Humanities.

 Based in the multidisciplinary School of Literatures, Languages and Cultures (LLC), English
 Literature benefits from active interdisciplinary collaborations across the College of Arts,
 Humanities and Social Sciences (CAHSS), notably through the Institute for Advanced Studies in
 the Humanities (IASH); and via the newly established Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI), a
 £140m University investment to harness the social and cultural benefits of digital and data-driven
 innovation.

 1.2. Research Strategy

 Our research strategy is founded on three key priorities:

      To extend and build on our deep disciplinary foundations in literary history and
       interpretation, by embracing the possibilities opened by new technologies and the
       perspectives created by new global challenges.

    This strategy has both driven and benefited from significant growth across all the research
    areas of the UOA. We have made 17 new strategic appointments, at career levels from ECR
    to Chair, increasing staff numbers by 25% since 2014 to 46.7 FTE. This has enabled us to
    extend the geographical and historical reach of our research and supported key expansions
    in major fields such as Digital and Environmental Humanities. The university has invested in
    the UOA with our re-location to a building purpose-renovated at a cost of £15m. This material
    growth has catalysed our expansion into new areas and approaches, powering our national
    and international impact activity.

      To promote and extend our active engagement with organisations and communities
       beyond the academy, working with literature in projects that support cultural heritage,
       identity and participation.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Our research has led projects in support of displaced communities in the Marshall Islands,
    with young people suffering the effects of conflict and inequality in Ukraine and India, and on
    the history of slavery-abolition in the US and the UK, as well as collaborations with a range of
    heritage and educational organisations across the UK (see Section 4.2). Our impact projects
    have been supported by funding from bodies including AHRC, GCRF, and ESRC with a total
    value of over £1.5m.

      To support both our established and early career colleagues to achieve ambitious
       research aims and develop rewarding careers in a productive research environment.

    Our initiatives to support and invest in our staff have reinforced the buoyancy and
    sustainability of the UOA as a whole (see Section 2). This has resulted in the publication of
    over 50 scholarly and creative monographs, editions and collections, from colleagues across
    all career levels, with leading presses including CUP, OUP, EUP, Palgrave, Routledge and
    Bloodaxe. Our PGR completions have more than doubled, rising from 60 to 127 in the
    period, and our researchers have won external funding of £3.9m (REF 2014: £1.8m), sharing
    in collaborative grants with a total value of over £9m.

 1.3 Research Strands

 Over the REF period, we have expanded our research into dynamic interdisciplinary approaches
 that interact with crucial issues and challenges of the contemporary world. We support our
 researchers’ innovative work in these new areas, while continuing to lead the core practices of
 literary history and interpretation that can bring the distinctive disciplinary perspectives of English
 Literature to new fields.

 a) Literary History and Interpretation. Our fundamental disciplinary practice continues to open
 new insights and perspectives across the field of Anglophone literature. Significant monographs
 testify to the range and depth of our interventions: Walker’s revealing first biography of Tudor
 playwright John Heywood demonstrates the vital role of comedy and sociability in political and
 social life across four tumultuous reigns, while Stevenson’s Reading the Times charts an
 innovative exploration of twentieth-century fiction in relation to time and history. Loxley uncovers
 new evidence vividly revealing the dramatist’s daily life and celebrity in Ben Jonson’s Walk to
 Scotland; in The Testimony of Sense, Milnes establishes the significant contribution of the
 literary essay to Enlightenment philosophy; and Vaninskaya reassesses the imagined worlds of
 Tolkien and early fantasy fiction in Fantasies of Time and Death. Lawrie’s ECR monograph The
 Beginnings of University English examines the development of the academic discipline itself.

 Literary interpretation also drives our work in many new areas that bring the discipline’s
 analytical insights to bear on contemporary social and political issues. Thomson’s essays re-
 define the contribution of Scottish literature to shaping national identity in the context of
 devolution and referendum. Jones brings new LGBT perspectives to contemporary Scottish
 literature, while Bateman makes a significant intervention in queer theory in relation to modernist
 writing in The Modernist Art of Queer Survival. Literary analysis underlies the emerging
 interdisciplinary field of the Economic Humanities, which explores the rhetorical, imaginative and
 narrative dimensions of economic theory and practice. Crosthwaite, a leading presence in this
 area, has published the foundational The Market Logics of Contemporary Fiction, while recent


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ECR appointment Kessous explores contemporary literature’s imaginative engagement with the
 impact of economic change. Our creative writers share the same disciplinary roots. Their award-
 winning poetry collections (Gamble, What Planet), contemporary novels with historic roots
 (Jamieson, macCloud Falls), and socially-engaged theatre (Overend, The Majority) all grow from
 an active engagement with and transformation of the practices of literary history and
 interpretation.

 b) Digital Humanities. A central strategy across this period has been to open literary studies to
 an expanding diversity of new research methodologies. As outlined in 2014, one key area has
 been the Digital Humanities. Recognising the far-reaching possibilities that digital technologies
 are opening for literary study, as well as their crucial and transformative effects on society and
 culture, we have significantly strengthened our active participation in this field. Following digital
 initiatives underway in REF 2014, we decided to draw in not only scholars who use digital
 resources for literary research, but also those who work on the digital processes themselves,
 developing tools and opening new intellectual horizons for literary research.

 To this end we appointed three new colleagues engaged in digital research influential across the
 Arts and Humanities, while contributing creatively to English Literature. Lang (appointed 2014)
 brings broad digital expertise, actively supporting researchers within and beyond English
 Literature. From research on literary modernism of the Commonwealth, she developed
 innovative methodological work on GIS mapping and literary landscapes. Alex (appointed 2018)
 works extensively in text mining; she is one of the core developers of the Edinburgh Geoparser,
 a textual place-name tool now made openly available to the research community. Alex had
 already forged collaborations with digital experts in the UOA. Loxley won two AHRC grants
 (£476.5k + follow-on £161k) to work with colleagues from Informatics, drawing on Alex’s text
 mining and geoparsing tools to create a digital map of Edinburgh’s literary cityscape (Impact
 Case Study 2). New projects on the possibilities of digital mapping intersecting with large-scale
 data are currently in development.

 Research by Terras (appointed 2017), holding a new College Chair of Digital Cultural Heritage,
 demonstrates how digital technologies can open transformative intellectual possibilities for
 researchers across the humanities. Terras occupies a central institutional role, bringing English
 Literature to the core of Digital Humanities at Edinburgh. She was appointed Director of
 Research at the University’s major new Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI), founded to drive
 forward the beneficial interaction of data science with society and culture. EFI was established
 with university investment of £140m, including £58m from the government’s City Region Deal
 (see REF5a), underpinning its civic commitment to working directly with its local and wider
 communities. Terras is Co-I on EFI’s AHRC-funded Creative Informatics partnership (total value
 £5.7m), which supports the growth of data-driven innovation within Edinburgh's creative
 industries. She also heads the new Centre for Data, Culture & Society, providing support to data
 and digital researchers across the College (see Section 3.2). In English Literature, her work has
 contributed new and influential pathways in Book History and literary study, such as ‘Digital
 Library Futures’ and the ‘Transkribus’ programme for the digital reading of manuscript text
 (Horizon Impact Award 2020). Having built this strong base of research, we are well set to work
 at the forefront of this rapidly evolving field over the coming years.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c) Book History. As flagged in 2014, The Centre for the History of the Book (CHB) has
 developed as a creative hub for diverse projects and researchers. Under its Director (Mole,
 appointed September 2013, Chair in Book History 2018), the Centre provides a focus and
 research-identity for a discipline that is active across the College, with 45 affiliate researchers
 from the university and beyond. During this REF period its flourishing Masters degree has
 contributed to growing numbers of book-history based PhD students (12 in the period across
 English Literature and other disciplines). Significant publications and projects in the area include,
 in scholarly editing, the historic Carlyle Letters, first publication 1970, now drawing towards its
 final 50th volume (Wild, Inglis); ground-breaking editions of Swinburne and Edward Thomas
 (O’Gorman); the Edinburgh Stevenson Edition, providing the first modern critical editions of
 many of R.L. Stevenson’s works (Fielding, Irvine, Thomson, Taylor). Digital Humanities projects
 are opening new modes of book history: digitally reconstructing, transcribing and publishing the
 ‘Great Parchment Book’ (Terras); digital preservation and analysis of modernist cultural artefacts
 (Lang). Notable work in book production and reception includes monographs on the history of
 the British and Irish book trade (Finkelstein) and the politics of book censorship (Inglis), with new
 work on the conjunction of literature, typography and graphic design (Leverhulme Fellow Ferris).
 The vitality of the field is apparent in English Literature collaborations: on graphic novels (with
 Education), on Edinburgh’s unique medieval manuscripts (with Modern Languages and History),
 and on literature and design (with Edinburgh College of Art).

 d) Environmental Humanities. Our work in this area engages with profoundly serious issues of
 the human relationship with the planet, drawing together literary and scientific approaches.
 Recognising this field as of increasing concern, not only in English Literature but across many
 disciplines as well as wider society, we have taken a leading role in building an interdisciplinary
 network across the university and beyond. Members of the UOA were instrumental in founding
 the Edinburgh Environmental Humanities Network (EEHN) in 2013. EEHN fosters
 interdisciplinary humanities-led responses to environmental crises and the values underpinning
 environmental decision-making. Farrier, currently network convener, was a founder member
 alongside colleagues from the Edinburgh College of Art, Divinity and Geosciences. His
 monographs on the Anthropocene and deep time are making significant interventions in shaping
 the field. Recent appointments have extended research, from Bateman on American
 contemporary prose-writing and the Anthropocene, to Campbell on Ocean Studies and poetry of
 the sea, and Overend’s theatre projects on the performance of wildness. This new development
 of the field complements our established research interests in space, place and geography, as
 seen in Keown’s GCRF-funded work in the vulnerable environments of the Marshall Islands and
 Fielding’s on the geographies and cultural identities of Scotland’s Northern Isles. The EEHN
 encourages cross-fertilisation and interdisciplinary contact, seen through its poetry event, Island
 Futures, which brought together poets working with Keown and Fielding; its monthly reading
 group; and its engagement with 10 international visiting fellows during the period.

 e) Black Studies. The strategic chair appointment of Bernier, already an established leader in
 the field, has enabled us to initiate a significant strand of research in interdisciplinary Black
 Studies. While the Black Atlantic has long been part of our teaching provision, an important
 objective for us is to increase the diversity and inclusivity of our research activity and to support
 the distinctive contribution that research in our UOA can make to contemporary debates about
 identity, diversity and oppression. Bernier’s ground-breaking monographs on Black American
 and British artists and writers have shone new light on the historical, literary and visual heritage


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of slavery. Working with institutions and community bodies in the US and in Scotland, she has
 also had striking success in bringing to international public prominence the influence and legacy
 of African American freedom fighters, most notably the family of Frederick Douglass (National
 Humanities Center Fellowship £34k, AHRC Leadership grant £202k, Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowship £152k). Public events and an international touring exhibition (over 34,000
 visitors in Edinburgh and the USA) promoted recognition and understanding of Black liberation
 movements, and literary and cultural traditions, on both sides of the Atlantic (see Impact Case
 Studies). Leverhulme Fellow Murray extended this work with an ECR monograph vividly
 recovering the widely-attended speaking tours of African American abolitionists in Victorian
 Britain. This is an important growth area for the UOA, as we look towards furthering diverse and
 multidisciplinary research collaborations across the College.

 The expansive range of our research activity demonstrates the success of our strategy to
 promote new interactions between our researchers that, while rooted in practices of literary
 interpretation, cut across both established groupings in literary study and disciplinary
 boundaries.

 1.4 Impact Strategy

 Our impact and research strategies are closely intertwined. Much literary research, especially in
 our newer areas, inherently engages with challenges and concerns shared by wider society, and
 we recognise the special position of literature to contribute beyond the university in the areas of
 cultural heritage, identity and social inclusion. We have supported our researchers towards
 imaginative and far-reaching pathways to impact in these areas by three main strategies:

     Building partnerships with educational, heritage and theatre organisations.
    Supported by our KE team, we have established partnerships with organisations ranging
    from the Shetland Museum to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C; from the
    Edinburgh Museum of Childhood to English Heritage; from Rage Productions, Mumbai to the
    National Theatre of Scotland.

     Training in public engagement and grant applications.
    Workshops and advice on KE and application-writing have supported 50% of our staff,
    across all career stages, to establish KE and Impact projects (see Section 2.1 c).

     Seedcorn funding to enable smaller and initiate larger projects.
    Internal funding for pathways to impact, amounting to £119k, has supported projects by 13
    colleagues, which collectively generated £2m external funding.

 The fruits of this strategy are evident in our selected impact case studies, collectively supported
 by external grant awards of over £1m, which have arisen from work in the Digital Humanities
 (Loxley, Alex and Anderson), Economic Humanities (Crosthwaite), interdisciplinary Black
 Studies (Bernier and Taylor), and creative theatre projects engaging issues of conflict and
 inequality (McCartney). These, with our other large-scale KEI projects, are strikingly varied, yet
 all focus on literature’s enabling role in heritage and in the empowerment of vulnerable
 individuals and communities. The LitLong project (Loxley, Alex and Anderson) used new digital
 methods to map Edinburgh’s rich literary cityscape. Its innovative interactive technology has


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 been adopted by the UNESCO City of Literature and the Edinburgh Book Festival, generating
 public engagement with literary heritage. McCartney’s Sewing Society Together used theatre to
 empower deprived or traumatised young people in Russia, Ukraine and India. In Our Bondage
 and Our Freedom, Bernier and Taylor worked with national foundations in the USA and
 Edinburgh to restore to public understanding a little-known chapter of African American heritage
 on both sides of the Atlantic. Crosthwaite’s Showing Us the Money partnered with galleries,
 museums, libraries, schools, education charities and professional bodies to promote public
 financial literacy. On opposite sides of the globe, Writing the North (Shetland/Orkney – Fielding)
 and From Displacement to Development (Marshall Islands – Keown) both focused on historically
 fragile island communities, fostering community-led arts production and recovery of local literary
 heritage. Collectively, we have supported impact projects that demonstrate how methodologies
 inherent to literary studies and the humanities can actively intervene in today’s most urgent
 challenges, as well as enhancing public understanding of moments of cultural change, conflict
 and crisis.

 1.5 Open and Ethical Research

 Openness and ethical sensitivity are not only important in the conduct of our projects but are the
 inherent subject of much of our research. The technologies of digital humanities are opening
 previously unimagined access to new knowledge and forms of literary understanding, as
 exemplified in our text mining and digital mapping projects. Exploration of the hugely complex
 implications of the openness brought by the digital revolution permeates both critical and
 creative research, as seen in work on the mass circulation, preservation and accessibility of
 texts (Terras), or in fiction exploring the dystopian dangers of secretive biotechnology
 (Alexander). Our publications in the Environmental Humanities address crucial ethical issues of
 the human relationship to the planet, while projects in Black and Indigenous Pacific literature
 work to address ethical issues of historic oppression and contemporary identity.

 The increasing social engagement and global reach of our projects demands active ethical
 oversight. All our research projects are assessed through a College ethics-approval process, to
 ensure they meet the highest standards. This has enabled secure risk-assessment for both
 researchers and those with whom they interact, in work involving issues such as international
 child-protection arising from projects in Russia and India (McCartney) and the Pacific (Keown),
 and accession of terrorist material for work on censorship (Inglis).

 Our Open Research Strategy welcomes and supports the national drive to make research freely
 available to as wide a range of audiences as possible; we have achieved 100% OA compliance
 for REF 2021, exceeding requirements in some areas. Yet we also recognise the particular
 challenges of Open Access publication for our discipline, especially as regards monographs and
 creative outputs. We are actively contributing to the debate, with Terras, Chair of the College
 Library Committee and a governor of the National Library of Scotland (NLS), publishing
 significant interventions in the complex area of digital accessibility.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.6 Future Strategy

 Over the next REF period we aim:

     To decolonize our research agenda, through making targeted appointments in global
      Anglophone literatures, with a view to diversifying our staff profile, collaborating more
      extensively with researchers in area studies across LLC (e.g. Latin America and Asia),
      and bidding for further GCRF funding to support global research. Our work in this field
      will centre on our existing expertise in Environmental Humanities, with a focus on
      environment, cultural resilience and climate crisis; and Black Studies, with a focus on
      racial justice and legacies of empire.

     To make a step-change in our work in literary history and interpretation and Book
      History through greater integration of our work in Digital Humanities within both areas.
      Our target is for 25% of our staff to engage with Digital Humanities methods and theories
      in their research. We will expand on our expertise in text mining through collaborations
      with at least five other schools in CAHSS.

     To strengthen our engagement with civic and regional organisations through the platform
      provided by EFI and through it, the City Deal, and to contribute to post-pandemic
      regeneration in the cultural sector in Edinburgh and beyond; to draw on our research to
      contribute historical and cultural perspectives to crucial political debates about the future
      of Scotland.


 2. People

 Our community has expanded from 41 (38.5 FTE) at REF 2014 to 49 researchers (46.7 FTE).
 Since 2014, we have made 17 appointments, to strengthen existing areas of excellence and
 enable new initiatives. One priority has been to ensure vitality across all career stages, enabling
 a robust and mutually supportive research community. New appointments have invigorated and
 balanced our profile: currently we have eight chairs, 25 Senior Lecturers/Readers, nine
 Lecturers and seven Teaching-and-Research / Postdoctoral Fellows. By gender, the department
 divides 24/25 (M/F), with equal numbers (4/4) at professorial level. This profile enables us to
 plan for future developments while enabling effective targeted support for research mentoring
 and collaboration.

 2.1 Staff Development

 Support for our researchers is based in the three principles of the Researcher Development
 Concordat:

 a) Employment. Our support for those entering the profession begins before recruitment. In
 the current pressured climate, with the proliferation in the HE sector of short-term teaching-only
 posts, our UOA has committed to offer our fixed-term Fellowship positions as ECR Research-
 and-Teaching contracts (30% research), to enable colleagues entering the profession to
 establish themselves as independent researchers. The UOA aims to ensure these contracts are


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 genuinely developmental for junior colleagues’ research careers by avoiding a proliferation of
 very short (e.g. single-semester) posts. Our standard practice is to appoint to three-year
 positions; our first such ECR post-holder has left to take up an open-ended university lecturer
 position. During the period we have hosted one BA and two Leverhulme postdoctoral fellows,
 and appointed two Chancellor’s Fellows (5-year tenure-track fellowships focused on cutting-
 edge research).

 All staff are given comprehensive guidance and support for their research, through mentoring
 and regular reviews. New appointees are assigned a mentor, an experienced member of staff in
 a specialism close to their own, who can help them to integrate into the research culture of the
 UOA. All staff benefit from an annual Research Review with a senior researcher, enabling
 targeted discussion of current and future research projects, and longer-term research ambitions.
 These reviews explore career priorities and emerging projects, addressing all aspects of
 research including publication, public engagement, KE and impact plans, funding applications,
 and development and training needs. Records of Research Reviews are shared with the School
 Research Office which can use early notice of embryonic projects to engage with individuals on
 opportunities for research funding, or to facilitate engagement with the KE and Impact team in
 the Edinburgh Research Office. For example, following a first annual Research Review in July
 2020 and School Research Office guidance, two of our fixed-term ECR Fellows won a £8350
 workshop award from the Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE).

 Staff have generous time allocated for research. The School Workload Allocation Model
 ensures equitable allocation of teaching and administration, building in 40% research time for
 those in open-ended research-and-teaching roles. This is protected in an Annual Review,
 overseen by the Head of Department, where research is discussed within the pattern of overall
 responsibilities, allowing any imbalance between teaching and research time to be addressed.
 All staff are entitled to apply for one semester’s research leave after six semesters worked. This
 policy has supported and enabled many of our most original and significant monographs, and all
 eligible colleagues have benefited from such leave during the REF period. Periods of parental
 and sick leave count towards the semesters worked, supporting research continuity. To enable
 the most effective use of research leave, all applicants, in consultation with their departmental
 Research Director, propose a research plan before taking leave, and submit a concluding report
 afterwards, which is forwarded to the next Research Review. This system of oversight enables
 flexibility, helping staff to take research leave at points which will most benefit their developing
 projects. Research leave has, on occasion, been advanced, delayed or split, to suit the nature of
 the project, publishers’ deadlines, collaborations or staff circumstances. Advanced leave has, for
 example, enabled the timely publication of monographs (e.g. Vaninskaya on Modern Fantasy),
 and supported colleagues returning from sick or parental leave to successfully re-engage with
 interrupted projects.

 All research staff have access to a range of funds to support their research. This includes a
 generous School Research Fund for conference attendance, research trips, and publication
 expenses (upper limit £1000 p.a.). A discretionary fund can supplement the allowance where the
 project, or individual circumstances such as caring responsibilities or disability, demand.
 Opportunities for seedcorn funding are also available through a variety of schemes. The
 College’s Challenge Investment Fund for interdisciplinary initiatives supported Vaninskaya’s
 Scotland and Russia: Cultural Encounters, and Taxidou’s Democracy, Violence and Theatre.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The success of these inclusive support systems is apparent in our research productivity: the
 period has seen the publication of over 50 books and 230 peer-reviewed articles and chapters.

 b) Culture and Environment. We have developed transparent and inclusive research
 management systems. Research support across the UOA is overseen by the School Research
 Office, whose team has significantly expanded since 2014 from one dedicated administrator to
 three, enhancing capacity to offer guidance and support across the lifetime of research projects.
 The office works closely with the School Research Committee, bringing together knowledge,
 support and management of the UOA research community, while also channelling the wider
 university research strategies, policies and support. Individuals have ready access to both
 Research Office guidance and the Committee (the Chair holding regular open office hours). This
 structure promotes shared understanding across the UOA of the institutional support for
 research and impact, while also helping individual researchers to recognise the contribution of
 their own projects to the wider research culture of the College.

 We promote a strong culture of research interaction. A programme of research seminars and
 events runs throughout the year, where staff and visiting speakers – often research colleagues
 of staff members – share insights into their current projects. These seminars are open to all staff
 and PGRs of the department and beyond, encouraging a cross-fertilisation of research interests.
 Most recently, a colloquium has brought together staff and students with an interest in life-
 writing, including those involved in the James Tait Black Prize in biography (see Section 4.2), to
 facilitate an ongoing research group. ECR and postdoctoral fellows participate actively in such
 events, being encouraged to offer papers, suggest speakers, or set up new seminar strands
 (e.g. Leverhulme Fellow Ferris’s interdisciplinary forum Radical Notations, exploring the
 relationships between literature, technology and design). The seminars, Research Reviews and
 ECR mentors all help our researchers to engage with colleagues, supporting them into the
 research culture and networks of the UOA.

 c) Professional and Career development. We encourage all researchers to refresh and
 extend their skills through workshops, courses and programmes offered to promote research
 careers. From School provision, our new and ECR colleagues have attended Funding
 Landscape Overview events, while colleagues taking first steps into funded research have
 attended sessions on Small Grant Funding, and staff from all grades have taken advantage of
 Writing Retreats. Attending Funding Landscape and Writing Retreats led, for example, to
 Overend’s £10k RSE workshop grant for Performing Wild Geographies, and helped Bateman
 develop a Leverhulme Fellowship application for LGBT lives in Climate Fiction. Opportunities for
 further career stages include a College Mid-Career Fellowship programme (McCartney, Milnes,
 Mole: all leading to submitted or in-development large grant applications to AHRC); and a
 competitive university Strategic Leadership in Research scheme (Crosthwaite). These initiatives
 provide staff with time outside normal duties to plan and draft grant applications, the second
 supported by a bespoke programme of guidance with expert advisors and mentors.

 We provide extensive support for staff to enhance their skills and activity in public engagement
 and impact. Staff regularly share experiences of successful practice, both through one-to-one
 mentoring and via ‘showcase’ events (e.g. Walker’s work with heritage organisations on site-
 specific performance of early drama, and Crosthwaite’s on raising public financial literacy in the
 interdisciplinary History of Financial Advice). The Edinburgh Research Office (ERO) provides


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 individual advice, workshops and networking opportunities, with the KE and Impact team offering
 expert guidance and support through the life of a project. Impact-funding is available to enable
 smaller projects: grants from School and College funds have resulted in successful public
 projects such as Dunnigan’s exhibition of Scottish Children’s Literature, Mole’s curation of an
 exhibition for the Wordsworth Trust and Thomas and Thomson’s public seminar programme
 From Renaissance to Referendum (see Section 4.2). Our support strategies have resulted in
 over 50% of our staff, from ECR to Chair, actively interacting with external organisations in
 knowledge exchange and public engagement.

 ECRs gradually take on active roles in research leadership, acting initially as Assistant and
 then as Principal Supervisors of PhD students, as organisers of research seminars, or working
 with colleagues in research and public engagement activities. ECRs have played significant
 roles in departmental initiatives such as Scottish Writers in the Nineteenth Century (SWINC), the
 annual Spy Week, and the judging of the long-established James Tait Black Fiction, Biography
 and Drama prizes (JTB) (for all, see Section 4), as well as the Centre for the History of the Book
 and the Carlyle Letters.

 Research and impact achievement is a key element in career progression for all members of
 staff. The success of our support is reflected in the pattern of promotions during this REF period.
 Since 2014, eight staff (M/F 2/6) have been promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, and
 three to Reader (M/F 1/2). There have been three internal Chair promotions (M/F 1/2).

 2.2 Research students

 The UOA has a flourishing research postgraduate community, with an average of 100 current
 enrolments on PhD programmes across the period. Our recruitment has increased significantly,
 with 116 new PhD enrolments 2014-20 (REF 2014: 76). Successful completions have more than
 doubled to 127 (REF 2014: 60).

 a) Supervision. Working with the supervision programme introduced by the Scottish Graduate
 School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), we have established systems to promote supportive
 and stimulating research relationships for all PhD students, between the students and staff of the
 UOA and within the PGR community. All PGRs have at least two supervisors, with the breadth of
 scholarly expertise within and beyond the UOA enabling us to support many interdisciplinary
 projects. Colleagues continue supervision during research leave, ensuring continuity and
 stability. Supervisory meetings are recorded online, allowing students and supervisors to share
 oversight and monitoring of research progress. In an annual review, students submit sample
 work to a panel of supervisors and external readers, where reflective reports on progress are
 shared, and future plans agreed. We have instituted an additional first semester review for first
 year PhD students to ensure timely and focused development in their projects’ crucial early
 phases.

 b) Career Development. Beyond individual supervision, we offer an active programme of
 research and career training. New PhDs attend a Research Methods course focused primarily
 on developing effective research strategies through engaging with Edinburgh's extensive range
 of material and electronic resources. This is followed by a series of focused workshops that
 explore key topics in research and research careers: from presenting at conferences and using


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 blogs and social media, to applying for research grants and carrying out public engagement and
 impact activity. Training is supplemented by workshops on the challenges of doctoral research,
 mapped to the four domains of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF), that are
 offered by the University’s Institute for Academic Development (IAD). Our internal programme is
 designed to complement the wider training opportunities offered by SGSAH. These have greatly
 benefited our students, who have profited particularly from the week-long annual Summer
 School (held virtually in 2020) and internship scheme. Our students have attended such events
 as the Heritage Careers Day and have especially praised student-organised events: examples
 include setting up, completing and presenting on a Writer-in-Residence internship, and attending
 workshops on ‘Researching Trauma in the Arts and Humanities’ and ‘Hosting successful online
 events: adapting to Covid and the climate crisis’.

 As they progress, PGRs are actively encouraged to present conference papers, to share their
 work with specialist audiences and build their profiles. Self-funded students presenting papers
 may apply to the School for funding of up to £500 each year to cover expenses. All second and
 third year PGRs are offered the opportunity to teach first/second year undergraduate tutorials,
 on satisfactory completion of our training programme which involves mentoring, observing- and
 observed-teaching, tutorial design and an interview. Teaching is offered primarily for career
 development, limited to two hours per week in one semester per year so as to protect research
 time. In the interests of fair employment this is formalized via Student Experience contracts and
 pegged to official pay-scales.

 c) Community: Our research seminars offer a welcoming forum for staff and PGRs to interact
 as peers, and students and staff regularly share in reading groups and activities open to the
 research community at large. Students work with staff organising conferences (e.g. Jones’
 ‘Scottish Women’s Fiction Symposium’), while grant capture within the UOA has provided
 opportunities for PGRs to work on staff research projects. For example, students have played
 key roles in a number of public engagement and impact projects, gathering evidence for
 Crosthwaite’s Show Me the Money and History of Financial Advice, and contributing directly to
 research publication and curation of the exhibition run by Dunnigan’s SELCIE (Scotland’s Early
 Literature for Children Initiative) at the Edinburgh Museum of Childhood.

 Our PGRs have independently developed a vibrant community themselves, providing impressive
 mutual support for research, professional development and well-being. They run regular Work in
 Progress sessions for students to present research and receive feedback – primarily from peers,
 with invited staff attendance. They support each other’s writing through peer-reading schemes,
 and are active in founding and running various research groups (e.g. Talking Masculinity;
 Fantasy and Folklore; Connecting Memories). Some run associated conferences and seminars,
 such as the Late Antique and Medieval Postgraduates Society (LAMPS), the interdisciplinary
 Edinburgh Early-Modern Network, and the Edinburgh Nineteenth-Century Seminars funded by
 the University’s Student-Led Initiative Fund. Student organisation of online events has flourished
 under Covid-related travel-restrictions. PGRs work to edit, design and contribute to the online
 open-access postgraduate journal of culture and the arts, Forum, acquiring key skills for future
 work in the profession or beyond.

 We seek for our students to become excellent, independent and professional researchers,
 prepared for careers in academia and beyond. Recent PhD graduates have won lectureships


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 at the universities of Aberdeen, Bath Spa, Birkbeck, Birmingham, Exeter, Glasgow, Napier and
 Nottingham; as well as Fudan (Shanghai), Groningen (Netherlands), Linnaeus (Sweden),
 Siedlce (Poland) and Stuttgart (Germany). Others have gone on to postdoctoral positions at
 Columbia, Cyprus, Freiburg, Leuven and Oxford; published monographs with Palgrave, EUP,
 CUP, Routledge, and Liverpool UP; and won essay, novel and poetry prizes for work arising
 from their PhDs. Postdoctoral Fellowships offered by the University’s Institute for Advanced
 Studies in the Humanities have given a number of our PGRs a first career stepping-stone,
 including one of our current ECR Teaching-and-Research Fellows. Our doctoral students have
 also gone on to success in a wide range of fields beyond the university, carrying the insights and
 skills of the discipline into wider society. Examples include roles as Literature Officer with
 Creative Scotland, Headteacher of an independent girls’ school, Writer-in-Residence at Krakow
 City of Literature, Policy Officer at Citizens Advice Scotland, Learning Officer at York Minster,
 and adult-learning Programme Coordinator in the Royal Household.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 Since 2014, we have consolidated and enhanced our long-standing commitment to equality,
 diversity and inclusion. Our approach to EDI is informed by our extensive research on issues
 affecting equality and inclusion, including gender and queer studies (Bateman, Bernstein,
 Jones), interdisciplinary Black Studies (Bernier, Taylor, Murray), post-colonial writing (Keown),
 with refugees (Farrier, McCartney), and working-class literature (Kelly). Bernier, an expert in
 interdisciplinary Black Studies, was appointed as LLC’s first People and Equalities Director,
 developing a School-wide action plan to promote and embed equality, diversity and inclusion
 practices and principles, and running workshops on EDI issues.

 In 2017 the School won an Athena Swan Bronze award, which has driven our work on gender
 equality. The UOA has maintained a positive staff gender-balance: 25 of our 49 staff are female,
 with equal numbers of men and women (4/4) at professorial level. Those involved in
 appointment interviews, and Annual and Research Reviews, are EDI-trained, ensuring
 awareness remains live throughout our research management. We are committed to increasing
 the ethnic diversity of staff, and our planned expansion in Black and global literary studies will
 offer an excellent opportunity to achieve this.

 Our development and support processes apply equally for all researchers. We recognise
 research development as a particular issue for post-doctoral fixed-term staff, taking their first
 steps into an academic career. Following our commitment to help them remain research-active,
 all colleagues currently on Teaching-and-Research Fellowships have been successful in having
 new work published or accepted for publication within a year of appointment. Part-time staff are
 actively supported towards promotion: of our staff on open-ended contracts, six of the eight
 currently part-time are in promoted positions. Researchers with young families or caring
 responsibilities, or suffering ill-health, have benefited from moving to flexible or part-time working
 patterns, returning to full-time if circumstances change, while part-time working has enabled
 those nearing retirement to continue research careers for longer. Staff experiencing or returning
 from a period of ill-health are advised by Occupational Health on support strategies, such as an
 agreed phased return, or adapted timetabling. In all, nine colleagues have benefited from such
 adjustments. Research seminars are scheduled within working hours to facilitate participation by
 those with caring commitments.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff are actively urged to take their full annual leave, and the School has been proactive in
 offering individual support for those, especially carers, affected by the pandemic. The university
 promotes a variety of initiatives on mental health, exercise and occupational health, including
 mindfulness courses, cycling and walking groups, and mandatory training and risk-assessment
 for computer use. In support of our researchers, members of the UOA are welcomed by a variety
 of active University groups such as the Staff Pride (LGBT+) Network (Stonewall Scotland
 Network of the Year 2018), Disabled Staff Network and Race Equality Network.

 This inclusive approach has underpinned work on our REF submission. All staff involved in the
 double-review and selection of outputs completed EDI and Unconscious Bias training, and full
 account was taken of special circumstances affecting staff-productivity. An independent School
 oversight group reviewed the UOA selection to consider issues of distribution or inclusion by
 career stage or gender. Our submitted outputs demonstrate the balance of our selection: female
 colleagues produced 49% of submitted outputs (and make up 49% of submitting staff), 30% are
 by ECR and Grade 8 authors (34% of staff), and 70% of all staff submitted 2 or more outputs.
 This is testament to how our inclusive research support has enabled staff to flourish across
 career stage and gender.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 In this REF period, our research income has more than doubled to £3.9m, deriving from
 project grants with a total value of over £9m (REF 2014: £1.8m / £2.6m). Our programme of
 support for colleagues seeking funding has led to over 40% of our research staff holding grants
 during the period, with funding success reflected across genders (grant holders 50:50 M:F) and
 all career stages (grant holders 25% ECR, 50% MCR). We have responded to the shift in the
 funding landscape towards collaborative and interdisciplinary projects with strong impact
 components: over 60% of successful grant applications were for projects of this kind (REF 2014:
 16%).

 Standout funding successes include Loxley’s projects on the digital preservation and mapping of
 textual archives (£686k from AHRC and RSE); Bernier’s exploration and promotion of the literary
 and cultural legacy of African American freedom fighters (£388k from US National Humanities
 Center, AHRC and Leverhulme); Keown’s contribution to cultural and arts education in the
 context of population displacement (£377k from GCRF, ESRC and AHRC); and Taylor’s project
 on Ezra Pound’s Cantos (£308k from Leverhulme). Digital Humanities have been a particular
 growth area, with £542k flowing to the UOA from projects by Alex, Lang, Loxley and Terras, from
 grants totalling £7m. Walker’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (£96k), Milnes’ BA mid-
 career fellowship (£80k), and Farrier’s Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship all led to
 ground-breaking monographs, with Tierney-Hines’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship (£27k)
 underway. Over the period we have hosted a BA and two Leverhulme Postdoctoral Fellows, in
 May 2020 we won two Marie Curie fellowships (coastal history and reimagining romantic drama),
 and in July a Leverhulme ECF (African American visual culture), to start September 2020.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Increasingly diverse areas of research methodology across the UOA are winning external
 funding, from foundational textual editing (Carlyle Letters, BA £36.5k; Fielding, Stevenson
 edition, MHRA £23k), to performances (Overend, RSE £10k), to new methods in digital
 humanities (Lang, BA £15k). A growing number of funded projects are collaborative across
 disciplines. Colleagues work, for example, with researchers from Education (Keown, Marshall
 Islands), Informatics (Loxley, LitLong), Economic History (Crosthwaite, History of Financial
 Advice), Astronomy (Malpas, Social Dimensions of Outer Space), and Education, Design
 Informatics and Biology (McKie, EFI-funded projects on speculative narratives). Vaninskaya is a
 Co-I on the History and Games Lab, exploring games as a medium for the public understanding
 of history.

 Colleagues build on smaller funding applications to progress to larger projects (e.g. Taylor £3.7k
 from BA (2012), £308k from Leverhulme (2016); Crosthwaite £5.5k share of £87k (2013), £71k
 of £362k from AHRC, as Co-I (2016); now drafting £350k AHRC application as PI through
 Strategic Leadership in Research Scheme). Internal impact funding of £119k has supported 13
 colleagues towards projects which collectively raised £2m external funding. Our larger funded
 projects are all generating significant impact, or important resources for future literary research.
 For many, this has been recognised by attracting repeated funding: small workshop or network
 grants leading to major awards, and follow-on funding supporting impact activities (Keown,
 Loxley, Bernier). Projects from REF2014 have also attracted follow-on grants in this period,
 resulting in impact and influential outputs (Fielding, Writing the North; Loxley, Ben Jonson’s
 Walk. See Section 4.2).

 Funding has been won from the AHRC, ESRC and GCRF, Leverhulme, BA, Carnegie Trust and
 RSE, along with the National Humanities Center, the MHRA, and from other universities, as well
 as smaller or more specialized organisations, such as the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation,
 and the Research Society for Victorian Periodicals. This spread of funding sources reflects the
 UOA’s deliberate strategy of diversification in order to target best-fit funders and schemes
 across our projects.

 Tailored systems support our researchers in generating research income. The School
 Research Office circulates regular updates on funding opportunities, matching staff to schemes,
 and provides guidance and support for applications. A ‘Critical Friends’ scheme for applications
 operates in the School (UOA colleagues participating as both applicants and mentors), and a
 dedicated panel of senior researchers peer-reviews all mid-size and large grant applications.
 This support is complemented by the University-level Edinburgh Research Office, which offers
 specialised advice on schemes such as GCRF and European Research Council. Research staff
 have benefited from a range of programmes to build skills and confidence in winning and leading
 larger grants (see Section 2.1 c). Assisted by this suite of support, colleagues have won 45
 external awards over the period.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 In 2014 the UOA came together from its scattered accommodation to join the School in a new
 home at the centre of the College estate. Undertaken at a cost of £15 million, the successful
 renovation of 50 George Square, already an outstanding listed example of 1960s Scottish
 Modernism, has been recognised in multiple awards, including a Scottish Design Award and a


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Civic Trust Award. The building offers individual offices for research staff, generous areas for
 small-group social and working interaction, and impressive large-scale project and lecture
 spaces.



  50 George Square, Edinburgh




        PGR Study Suite




 All areas are equipped with computing, internet and advanced AV facilities, supported by
 technical staff within the School. A dedicated suite for PGRs enables them to develop their own
 community, while sharing research facilities alongside staff. Unlike many areas of our previous
 accommodation, the whole building and its facilities are fully accessible and designed to foster
 equality and diversity.

 The move has undoubtedly contributed to research productivity by providing individuals with
 private working space and immediate access to the university’s online research resources, while
 encouraging informal interaction between researchers, including PhD students, leading to
 shared understanding and collaboration between colleagues. The newly designed circular
 Project Room provides a striking space for larger research seminars, conferences and impact
 activities (including, for example, a series of ‘impact showcase’ events highlighting outstanding
 impact activity).



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          The Project Room




                               Small-group collaborative workspace


 A lecture theatre seating almost 300 hosts major public lectures and events, including the UOA’s
 annual Susan Manning Memorial Lecture, with speakers including Janice Galloway, Professor
 Dame Hermione Lee, Professor David Bromwich and Professor Caryl Phillips. Artefacts (such as
 three-dimensional text objects and wall-display panels) produced for previous research projects,
 including Shakespeare in Scottish Collections and the department’s 250th anniversary
 celebration, have been incorporated into the public areas of the building, allowing it to stand as a
 physical embodiment of our research culture.

 The university has invested significantly in infrastructure for Digital Humanities, both within and
 beyond the UOA (see Section 1.3). The major new Edinburgh Futures Institute and £5.5m
 Creative Informatics initiative have opened opportunities for our researchers: six staff from the

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UOA are now involved with EFI in research projects (McKie, two interdisciplinary projects on
 speculative narratives) or in developing postgraduate courses based on their research (in
 graphic novels, creative writing, digital humanities and economic narratives). In 2019, digital and
 data-driven research underwent a step-change with the launch of the Centre for Data, Culture
 and Society. Founded in the context of the City Region Deal, the Centre brings together digital
 researchers from across the College and facilitates partnerships between academics and
 Edinburgh cultural organisations. Directed by Terras, managed by Otty (a former member of the
 UOA) and featuring Lang and Alex as School representatives, it enables cross-disciplinary
 collaboration and offers support, training and resources. Our researchers are active members of
 its Digital Cultural Heritage Cluster and have benefited directly from small project grants (e.g.
 Trill, Lang).

 Interdisciplinary research in the UOA is further supported by the university’s Institute for
 Advanced Studies in the Humanities (IASH), established for this purpose in 1969. Walker is on
 the Management Group of IASH, which hosts some 30 national and international fellows each
 year, bringing in new research perspectives. Fellows, especially those within its institutional
 theme of Environmental Humanities, are frequently sponsored or mentored from within the UOA,
 forming stimulating interactions. Farrier and the EEHN have worked with 10 Fellows, Overend
 and McCartney with a Creative Fellow developing a play on deep time, and one of our new
 Marie Curie Fellows comes to us following an IASH fellowship.

 3.3 Scholarly resources

 Research in our discipline benefits from Edinburgh’s world class collections, both within and
 beyond the university. The university library holds extensive manuscript, print and digital
 collections, and subscribes widely to online scholarly resources (2m print books,1.4m e-books
 and 185k e-journals). Specialist collections include the Centre for Research Collections (CRC),
 the new Law Library and the religious studies holdings of the long-established New College
 Library, enabling wide-ranging historical, contemporary and interdisciplinary research. PGRs
 from our UOA have contributed extensively to the CRC’s ongoing development of online
 cataloguing of its historic holdings, enhancing their own skills while significantly expanding the
 collection’s accessibility for researchers in Edinburgh and beyond. A dedicated subject librarian
 for English Literature facilitates access to and management of research resources in our
 discipline, while staff and PGRs can both add to the collections by recommending new items
 relating to their research.

 Beyond the university, Scotland’s copyright library – the National Library of Scotland – and
 other Edinburgh-based institutions, including the National Records of Scotland (NRS), the
 Scottish Poetry Library (SPL) and the Library of Mistakes (LoM, the world’s first dedicated public
 library of financial history) all hold unrivalled collections of original material. Researchers in the
 UOA not only consult these holdings extensively, but actively enhance how the institutions
 archive, interpret and present their materials through collaborative projects (e.g. Bernier and
 Taylor’s exhibition with the NLS on Frederick Douglass and his family; Thomson and Thomas’s
 From Renaissance to Referendum public seminar series with the SPL; Dunnigan’s work with the
 Museum of Childhood on its archive of early Scottish children’s literature; and Crosthwaite’s
 History of Financial Advice project with the LoM).



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University’s Information Services offer a wide range of support for research data
 management, hosting and design for websites and multimedia applications. This has provided
 technical support for many of our most significant research and impact projects, such as the
 websites for Writing the North (writingthenorth.com) and the Scotland-Russia archive
 (https://www.scotland-russia.llc.ed.ac.uk), and the multimedia digital environments of The
 Cantos Project (thecantosproject.ed.ac.uk) and LitLong (litlong.org).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Since 2014, the UOA has contributed significantly to the increasingly open, collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research culture in English Studies, at national and international levels.
 Wide collaboration is a particular strength in our newer research strands, which are by their
 nature interdisciplinary.

 Our researchers in Digital Humanities, working across the College with areas such as
 Informatics, Art and Design, and the Edinburgh Futures Institute, are also active participants in
 national centres and partnerships. Alex and Terras are Fellows of the UK’s national Turing
 Institute for data science, Alex as Co-Convener of the Humanities and Data Science interest
 group. Our researchers contribute to large- and small-scale collaborative, often multinational,
 projects (Terras, Oceanic Exchanges traces historical global-information networks in newspaper
 repositories; Lang, The Data-Sitters Club introduces Digital Humanities textual analysis tools
 through engagement with young-adult popular fiction). As Head of the Edinburgh Language
 Technology Group, part of one of Europe’s largest communities of natural language processing
 specialists, Alex collaborates in many publications in the field of text mining. Loxley is Co-I on
 the AHRC-funded project Creating a Chronotopic Ground for Mapping of Literary Texts, run from
 Lancaster University and involving researchers from several UK universities, the Turing Institute,
 the British Library and the Wordsworth Trust. Such collaborative projects keep our researchers
 at the forefront of the digital opportunities that will continue to transform and sustain the
 discipline.

 The Edinburgh Environmental Humanities Network partners similar organisations in Australia
 and Sweden, aiming to develop collaborative work in the Environmental Humanities throughout
 Scotland, the UK and worldwide. Engagement with the network and its partners underpins
 Farrier’s monograph Anthropocene Poetics, as well as the award-winning creative non-fiction
 Footprints: In Search of Future Fossils, referenced in the UN Human Development Report 2020,
 to which he also contributes an essay. Another network member, Keown, shows the wide
 collaborative reach of work in this field. With a Co-I from Education, she is PI on a GCRF project
 in the Marshall Islands, in partnership with the University of the South Pacific, a Marshallese
 poet and a Hawaiian artist. In the emerging interdisciplinary field of the Economic Humanities
 Crosthwaite has played a leading role, acting as Co-I with colleagues from Manchester and
 Southampton Universities, on two AHRC-funded projects involving industry, educational and
 cultural partners. Across the whole UOA, our researchers are expanding into wider
 collaborations, working in externally funded projects with the universities of Aberystwyth, Brunel,




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 East Anglia, Lancaster, Manchester, Southampton and UCL, as well as those of Arkangel,
 Dublin, Duke, Galway, Geneva, Groningen, Madrid, McGill, New York and the South Pacific.

 Alongside newer initiatives, we continue to support the broader sustainability and expansion of
 the discipline in areas in which we have deep-rooted expertise. The Centre for the History of the
 Book offers doctoral training, and hosts international fellows, while its CILIP-accredited Book
 History MSc fosters PGR enrolment; SWINC (Scottish Writing in the Nineteenth Century, led by
 Fielding and Irvine) runs nationwide seminars and workshops, while supporting those involved in
 collaborative research projects such as Writing the North, on the literary heritage of Orkney and
 Shetland, and Scotland's Early Literature for Children Initiative. The UOA invests in the future of
 literary research through major collaborative editing projects: the New Edinburgh Edition of
 the Works of Robert Louis Stevenson (Fielding); The Cantos Project (Taylor); the publication of
 literary records and letters in The Carlyle Letters (Inglis); Records of Early Drama: Scotland
 (Carpenter); Victorian Lives and Letters Consortium (O’Gorman). Staff lead series supporting
 the newest critical research: Edinburgh Critical Studies in Modernism, Drama and Performance
 (Taxidou), Edinburgh Critical Studies in Romanticism (Fielding et al.), Edinburgh History of
 Twentieth-Century Literature in Britain (Stevenson), Engagements in Modern Scottish Culture
 (Thomson et al.), all with EUP; OUP Oxford Textual Perspectives (Walker); Palgrave Studies in
 Literature, Culture and Economics (Crosthwaite et al.).

 4.2 Impact and Engagement with Society

 In commitment to knowledge exchange, public engagement and the promotion of wider impact,
 our researchers have established direct relationships with a range of external organisations –
 primarily, though not exclusively, with the creative industries of literature and performance, with
 the heritage sector, and with schools and educational projects for young people, nationally and
 internationally.

 Beyond our case studies, the UOA’s work in fostering public understanding of literary
 heritage and its role in cultural identity is particularly showcased by two projects exploring
 very different island communities. Writing the North (Fielding) inspired engagement with the
 literature of Orkney and Shetland through an anthology bringing together historic and current
 writers, lesson packs for schools and a major exhibition at Shetland Museum and Archives,
 reaching participants aged from eight to 65+. Extending beyond Scotland, the project has acted
 as a model for preserving and celebrating minority languages and dialects, including through
 transatlantic connections with Hudson’s Bay Company Archives in Manitoba, Canada. From
 Displacement to Development (Keown) has pioneered the use of arts education to build cultural
 resilience and community-led arts production in the displaced communities of the Marshall
 Islands, resulting in the publication of the first Marshallese graphic novel, a video performance
 poem totalling over 125k views worldwide, improved pedagogical approaches in schools and an
 anthology of poetry by children.

 Other significant KEI and impact projects within the UOA include:

     Partnership with the Edinburgh Museum of Childhood on Scottish Children’s Literature
      and its continuing, or re-discovered, effects on readers old and young (Dunnigan; 112k
      visitors over six months).


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     The public programme and archive on Scottish-Russian cultural relations (Vaninskaya;
      events engaging cultural organisations across Scotland and London)

     The annual Spy Week which works with the NLS, Edinburgh Filmhouse and
      contemporary novelists and scriptwriters to host public events focusing on espionage
      fiction and film (Cooke and Fielding, 2014-present, attendance over 500 in 2019).

 Mole worked with the Wordsworth Trust to curate an exhibition on photographing Wordsworth
 country (12.5k visitors over four months); Loxley with the heritage industry, including such
 organisations as English Heritage, Notts County Council and Sutton House (NT) on Ben
 Jonson’s walk from London to Edinburgh; Kelly with the James Connolly Visitor Centre in
 Belfast, also establishing links with the TUC Education arm and the governments of Cuba and
 Venezuela in a developing project on Working Class Classics (c. 2,000 attendees). Other
 research projects have involved organisations such as the Scottish Poetry Library and Abbott
 House in Dunfermline, both as partners and beneficiaries, and as channels through which to
 reach wider audiences. Some of these projects have already achieved identifiable impact; others
 are at earlier stages, working along pathways that confirm our future impact vitality.

 We embed this commitment to public engagement at all levels: ECR initiatives include Ferris’s
 public event on literature, gender and intelligence work at Bletchley Park (celebrating
 International Women’s Day 2019; 50 attendees), Lawrie’s leadership of the popular How to Read
 a Novel MOOC run in conjunction with the Edinburgh International Book Festival (44k enrolled
 learners, 2017-20) and BA Fellow Thomas’s lead role in the From Renaissance to Referendum
 public seminar series with the Scottish Poetry Library (300+ bookings) and the first international
 conference on Ian Hamilton Finlay. These projects all exemplify the broad participation of
 colleagues in the experience of devising projects, working with communities beyond the
 university and developing pathways to impact. This is frequently extended to PGRs, who are
 often recruited as active partners in projects (e.g. Scottish Children’s Literature, Spy Week),
 giving them direct experience in working with external partners and in publication.

 For researchers in theatre, performance practice and direct engagement with audiences are
 integral to research. Colleagues have worked in Scotland with the Traverse Theatre, National
 Theatre of Scotland (NTS), Playwrights Studio Scotland, Tron Theatre, Theatre Hebrides, Birds
 of Paradise, Stellar Quines, The Arches arts centre and Òran Mór, as well as with the National
 Theatre of Great Britain (NT), and professional companies in North America, Russia, Ukraine
 and India. A strong strand of practice has focused on socially engaged theatre designed to
 impact the lives of audiences. This is especially established in McCartney’s practice of Applied
 Theatre, working over many years with a range of groups including refugees and asylum
 seekers, those within the criminal justice system in the UK and USA, and young people in the
 care systems in various countries (Impact Case Study 3). Similarly active and challenging
 engagement of audiences in urgent contemporary issues of democracy can be seen in
 Overend’s work on The Majority at the National Theatre.

 Ongoing links between our research priorities and Scottish cultural and commercial life are
 well established. Many colleagues contribute research expertise to events at Edinburgh’s
 International and Fringe Festivals, Film Festival, Book Festival and the Scottish History Festival.
 The James Tait Black Fiction, Biography and Drama prizes have forged especially strong links


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 between the research community of the UOA and the organisations and audiences of the
 Edinburgh festivals. The book awards, which celebrated their centenary in 2019, are the oldest
 literary prizes in the UK. They are judged by our researchers working on contemporary fiction
 and life-writing, supported by a panel of PGR reviewers. The prizes are awarded, through
 partnership with the Book Festival, at a prestigious event for which we have built an engaged
 international audience through the How to Read a Novel MOOC on the fiction shortlist. The more
 recently established drama prize is awarded through a partnership with the Traverse Theatre
 and the Schaubühne Theatre, Berlin, resulting in an Edinburgh Fringe Festival performance.
 These prizes, run by our research community, benefit the festival organisations by drawing
 audiences with heightened critical awareness of literature and theatre, engaging them in new
 ways with the work presented; they also enrich public engagement opportunities for both our
 staff and student researchers. In the last three years, the Festival sold 1,300+ tickets for the JTB
 prize ceremonies and events attached to the MOOC. Figures from the Festival bookshops point
 to significant sales boosts for winning titles (in the order of several hundred per cent).

 Successful public engagement collaborations have helped to open up new research areas: for
 example, the annual Spy Week festival has fed into an in-progress AHRC network-grant
 application on Secrecy (Cooke), a developing monograph project on espionage fiction (Fielding),
 and a project on Scottish-Russian cultural encounters (Vaninskaya). Many of our researchers
 directly address wide readerships beyond the academy in published work arising from their
 research. In addition to our creative writers engaging audiences for poetry, fiction and theatre,
 O’Gorman has published well-received books on Worrying and Forgetfulness, Mole on the
 Secret Life of Books, and Inglis on censored books, while Farrier’s Footsteps was named on
 ‘best books of 2020’ lists in The Times and The Telegraph. Taxidou’s interdisciplinary Dictionary
 of Modernism is set to become an essential educational resource.

 4.3 Wider Influence and contribution to sector

 Our researchers contribute significantly to the leadership of our discipline and of the arts and
 humanities more widely, nationally and internationally. Thomson chairs University English, the
 major representative body for the discipline at HE level in the UK, working closely with the
 English Association and the Institute of English Studies. In this role he has been a vocal
 advocate for English and other humanities subjects in the context of challenges in the sector
 (see e.g. Susanna Rustin, ‘Why study English? We’re poorer in every sense without it’, Guardian
 10 Feb. 2019). Walker serves on the Council and Advisory Board of the AHRC, chairing the
 latter; on the Advisory Council of the Institute of English Studies; the Board of Trustees and
 Higher Education Committee of the English Association; and on the Fellowship Committee of the
 Royal Society of Edinburgh. He also chairs the English Language and Literature sub-panel for
 REF 2021. Loxley and Walker are on the Board of Trustees of the UNESCO: Edinburgh City of
 Literature Trust, Walker as deputy and acting chair. Loxley collaborates with the Trust’s project
 to establish a ‘Literature House’ in Edinburgh, helping to raise £20k from Creative Informatics,
 and winning CDA funding from SGSAH for a PGR to research ‘The Literature House in the
 Digital Age’. Thomson, Keown, Lang, Farrier and Taxidou have served on the AHRC peer-
 review panel. Colleagues have also acted as peer reviewers for research bodies including the
 Carnegie Trust, the Irish Research Council, the Austrian Science Fund, the Swiss Academy, the
 European Institutes for Advanced Study, the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council and the Australian Academy of the Humanities. These contributions foster our


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 research community by keeping our UOA in vigorous engagement with the developing priorities
 and initiatives in the discipline.

 Colleagues have been called on to advise universities nationally and worldwide on research
 policy and chair appointments (including Aberdeen, Birmingham, Cardiff, Exeter, Glasgow,
 Lincoln, Newcastle, Oxford, the Sorbonne, Trinity College Dublin and Colgate University, USA).
 Walker was International Assessor for the Australian research assessment exercise, Excellence
 in Research for Australia (ERA) 2015, and chaired the recent Research England review of the
 School of Advanced Study at the University of London. We are active in supporting journals and
 publication in the discipline: during the period, Bernier co-edited The Journal of American
 Studies (CUP), and Farrier was Associate Editor of Environmental Humanities (Duke UP), while
 Carpenter co-edits Medieval English Theatre (Boydell). Thomson chairs the EUP Press
 Committee (on which Crosthwaite, Dunnigan, Fielding, Jones and Lang have also served during
 the period). Colleagues sit on the editorial boards and act as peer-reviewers for many of the
 leading journals in the discipline, and as series-editors and reviewers for major university
 presses nationally, and many worldwide.

 Individual researchers’ contributions to the wider research community have recently been
 recognised by the award of prestigious international fellowships or visiting appointments at
 institutions such as the Complutense University of Madrid, the Stanford Humanities Centre, the
 Centre for Spatial and Text Technologies (Stanford), The Humanities Research Centre, ANU
 (Canberra), The Huntington Library, California, the National Humanities Center (North Carolina),
 and the Rare Books School at the University of Virginia. They have given keynote lectures in
 universities worldwide (including at Oxford, Harvard, Stanford, NYU, St Louis, Fribourg and
 Uppsala), and been invited to deliver, among others, the Huntington Library Crotty lecture,
 George Jack Memorial Lecture (St Andrews), and the Timothy Reuter Lecture (Southampton).
 Research publications have received honours including a Saltire Literary Award and Media
 Ecology Association Award (Mole); the Royal Society of Literature Giles St Aubyn Award
 (Farrier); the Magma International Poetry Prize (McKie); a Scotsman Fringe First Award
 (McCartney); the Scottish Book Trust Callan Gordon Award (Errington); and the Pigott Poetry
 Prize (Gamble).




                                                                                          Page 22
