Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Abertay University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context, structure, and strategy
 Abertay University’s reputation for excellence continues to grow. It has been ranked the top
 modern university in Scotland twice since REF2014 (Guardian Good University Guide 2019;
 Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2017) – achievements to which the submitting unit
 has contributed significantly. This is our first UoA32 submission; staff working in design-related
 disciplines have previously submitted to General Engineering. Research in the School of Design
 and Informatics (SDI) is highly integrated, with staff from across our disciplines included in
 UoA32. In total 19.9 FTE academics are included. 14.2 staff from the Division of Games and
 Arts, 4 from the Division of Games Technology & Mathematics, and 1.7 from the Division of
 Cybersecurity. The school's courses in Games Development and Game Art are regularly listed
 among the top 25 in international rankings (Princeton Review 2014-21), and alumni from Abertay
 University’s videogame degrees are regularly included in Develop Magazines 30 under 30 listing
 for their contributions to the games industry. During the REF2021 period, the school’s research
 in Unit32 has had a growing impact in the field, as well as attracting significant external funding
 (including the Abertay-led £11.5M InGAME: Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise R&D
 centre).

 We are recognised nationally and internationally for innovative, distinctive, impactful, and
 collaborative interdisciplinary research that follows both theoretical and practice-led inquiry in Art
 & Design. This focuses particularly on two thematic areas: Performance and Play, which
 approaches video games as cultural objects investigating their socio-cultural functions in relation
 to both society and the economy; and Applied Games, which integrates user experience and
 interaction design with development tools and techniques to design interactive works that raise
 awareness, facilitate learning, and foster behavioural change. Exemplary outputs evidencing the
 diverse and wide-ranging research activities within UoA32 include the BAFTA-nominated game
 art installation Killbox (DeLappe 2016), the high-impact monograph Performativity in Art,
 Literature and Videogames (Jayemanne 2017), and a Unit member’s service as President for
 DiGRA (Digital Games Research Association), the largest international community of games
 researchers (Huber, 2016-ongoing). Such work has bolstered and expanded the excellent
 reputation of this Unit through efforts in research, industry partnerships, and knowledge
 exchange that redefine and push disciplinary boundaries.

 Core to these efforts is a commitment to research practice and output of the highest standard,
 and investment in new forms of scholarly inquiry, public engagement, and sector partnerships.
 The activities of the Unit align with and are supported by the University’s strategic approach to
 research and knowledge exchange, R-LINCS (Research-Led Innovation Nodes for
 Contemporary Society) framework, which was implemented in 2014. R-LINCS is organised in
 four central themes (Creative Industries, Environment, Security, and Society), and embodies the
 University’s ambition to function as a hub of excellence for interdisciplinary research focussing
 on the development and delivery of impactful practical solutions to issues and problems (R-
 LINCS 2014-19). UoA32’s core focus is on the R-LINCS Creative Industries theme, providing the
 guiding principles for how the Unit’s activities are structured and how areas of expertise are
 organised. Notably, a Unit member (Sloan) also serves as University-wide Theme Leader for
 Creative Industries. In future, University-wide RKE activity will be focused on the institutional
 RKE strategies of ‘Challenge Spaces’ that address key local, national and international priorities,
 ‘Pooled Excellence’ that draws upon multidisciplinary research, and drives innovation through
 cross-institutional working (R-LINCS2 2020-25). UoA32 will play a leading role in the Challenges
 Space, Creative Industries and Cultural Vitality.

 Applied Games and Performance & Play function as two distinct research areas within the
 Creative Industries theme, reflecting ambitions of interdisciplinary collaboration and industry

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnership fostered by R-LINCS, and which are well-aligned in their focus on the development
 of innovative, productive, sustainable, and future-oriented Sector connections. During REF2021,
 work in both areas has resulted in a significant increase in high-profile relationships and in
 national and international partnerships, leading to high impact outputs, larger audiences, and
 increased levels of external funding support.

 Applied Games draws on its academic and industrial expertise to engage a range of research
 methodologies – from play as interrogation and ideation in serious game jams to data driven
 design in full development projects – to explore the role and value of games in education, in
 training, and in science communication. Researchers seek to develop new game design
 frameworks following practice-based approaches, for instance by applying media archaeology to
 game design. Applied Games brings together expertise in computing, mathematics, design, and
 psychology to develop and evaluate both hardware and software. For example, recent work in
 agri-tech has brought Augmented Reality (AR) technologies and Artificial Intelligence (AI)
 together with animal husbandry to increase efficiency and animal health.

 Performance and Play explores communities of play and experimental practice-research utilising
 digital and traditional media, the incorporation of game development, screen technologies and
 extended reality (XR) applications into site-specific performance and art, and studies of
 performance audiences. Working closely with industrial partners (e.g., Microsoft, Sony) to
 explore the potentials of emerging technologies for immersive storytelling and new forms of
 creativity and play. Current international collaborations integrate storytelling and game
 development, with a focus on energy use, climate change and conflict. This includes a strong
 focus on immersive technologies, with research focused on novel applications of virtual,
 augmented, and mixed reality. Recent work includes developing an app for street level play
 outside the V&A Dundee during the Covid-19 lock down.

 Game studies research spans both areas within UoA32 to encompass game production studies,
 interactive narrative, immersive storytelling, and critical analysis of games culture. In games
 studies, Unit members have produced high impact research outputs and practice-based
 collaborations, as evidenced below.

 The two foregoing areas align well towards facilitating an interdisciplinary context where Unit
 members investigate the development and application of interactive and immersive media in
 cultural contexts, and develop new curatorial, exhibition and archival practices. Here, innovative
 ways to engage audiences with the socio-cultural impact of digital technologies are being
 developed, with areas of application including heritage and preservation, as well as practice-led
 approaches in collaboration with industry.

 SDI has worked to develop its research culture by focussing on our strengths in interdisciplinary
 research and our proximity to industry. SDI used competitive funding from UKRI (CICP), BEIS
 (ISCF), and the Scottish Government (City Deal and Scottish Futures Trust) to establish R&D
 centres that build on established relationships, networks, and pathways to impact. This approach
 supports academic engagement with applied RKE opportunities and delivers impact directly into
 the local, national, and international economy.

 Around these centres, the University built a scaffolding of support and opportunity for research
 collaboration and career development. Industry partners such as Sony Interactive Entertainment,
 Microsoft Research, and Disney Research, alongside sector agencies IDGA, UKIE and TIGA,
 policy makers DDCMS and Creative Scotland technology vendors such as EPIC, NVidia and
 AWS create an innovation-rich environment for applied R&D. Strong relationships with research
 organisations such as UKRI/InnovateUK, DiGRA and FDG, SGSAH, brings opportunities for
 funded PhD, KTP and support for training and publishing that has benefited many UoA32staff.

 Interdisciplinary research and collaboration are supported by the new £5M office and research
 facilities made available by the University as well as highly effective unit-specific infrastructures
 for knowledge exchange, information sharing, development of best practices, and organisation

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of research collaborations. Over the course of REF2021, these have included a monthly in-
 person event series (Stop Work Share initiative (Section 2)), as well as weekly Unit-wide online
 meetings and an online communication and collaboration platform to discuss funding
 opportunities, collaborative research projects, and opportunities for public-facing and sector-
 facing knowledge exchange.

 Two large-scale research and knowledge exchange endeavours – InGAME and the Emergent
 Technology Centre – demonstrate the success of activities within the submitting unit. InGAME is
 a large interdisciplinary and cross-institutional R&D centre for innovation in the games sector,
 which was awarded £5.2M by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) and £500k by
 the Scottish Funding Council (SFC). The Emergent Technology Centre (ETC) is a new
 research/project environment on campus that comprises five specialist labs and studios
 available for creative practice, research, prototyping, and knowledge exchange activities, and
 which features a partnership with Dundee City Council to deliver R&D into the city’s new 5G Use
 Case programme (£5.5M Tay Cities Deal, UK/Scottish Government). The ETC also connects to
 a university-wide initiative to establish AI/machine learning and Data Science as a new multi-
 discipline area for research and teaching across the institution (see future strategic plans).

 InGAME and the ETC align with the R-LINCS theme Creative Industries. InGAME focuses on
 Games, creative experimentation, and driving innovation and sector integration through
 diversification. The ETC focuses on the areas of Experimental Game Design; Games
 Programming; Real-time Animation; Virtual & Augmented Realities; and Complex Systems
 Visualisation. The two centres align with postgraduate teaching and research activities in the
 University’s MProf in Games Development and MSc in Computer Games Technology and have
 led to the creation of a new MSc in Artificial Intelligence and User Experience.

 Research and knowledge exchange efforts under the themes Applied Games and Performance
 and Play have led to sector development funding of roughly £6M over this REF period and the
 next. Funding includes the AHRC-funded knowledge exchange hub Design in Action (£520K,
 White 2012-2016) and the Create Converge initiative designed to improve knowledge
 partnerships between media businesses, knowledge institutions, public organisations, and end
 users (£115K, Co-Is Robertson & Szymkowiak 2016-2019). In the second half of the cycle,
 development of and investments in the InGAME initiative have yielded significant outcomes
 including the spin-off InGAME International (£0.5M from AHRC, Sloan et al. 2020-2023) and the
 Horizon 2020-funded TRIPLE (Targeting Researchers through Innovative Practice and Multi-
 Lingual Exploration) project (£353K, Co-I Szymkowiak 2019-2023).

 1.2 Future Strategic Plans and Aspirations (2020-2025)
 UoA32 will continue to build on current successes in Applied Games and Performance and Play
 to develop and diversify application areas, industry networks and international partnerships.

 Crucial to our future plans is the support provided through the new research strategy (R-LINCS2
 2020-2025). The University is committed to continued support for research and knowledge
 exchange activities that focus on interdisciplinary, innovative, and collaborative approaches to
 address the complex problems that face modern society. This includes continuing investment in
 research and knowledge exchange to strengthen the reputation of Abertay as a world leading
 institution in the innovative development and scholarly exploration of video games and
 immersive technologies.

 The aforementioned ETC research facility will play a crucial role in support of future activities by
 providing much needed research space and access to crucial equipment while also playing a
 key role in facilitating innovative approaches to the utilization of the new £4M 5G Research &
 Development Testbed in partnership with Dundee City Council and Scottish Futures Trust
 located in the heart of the city. The latter will be pivotal to future research for both thematic areas
 as we consider how best to realise the potentials of high-speed networking in opening up
 opportunities for innovation ranging from game development, VR/AR, the Internet of Things,
 social play and performance. Further opportunities for innovation, creative development and

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community engagement are anticipated considering Abertay’s central role in a 4,000 seat
 esports arena and academy coming to the Dundee Waterfront by 2024.

 Furthermore, we are committed to increasing numbers of research-active staff; investment in
 postgraduate research scholarships; and support for funding applications. Over the next 5 years
 Abertay will invest in and support c.15 fully funded PhD studentships, funded PhD studentships
 for newly appointed academic staff (subject to the approval of a research plan that is aligned
 with the R-LINCS2 objectives), Abertay Futures Scholarships, Pump Priming awards, and Open
 Access Publication awards.

 Ultimately, there is a clear vision for continuing to develop and expand the vitality of our research
 environment. We will exploit the momentum behind our growing research output and impact
 towards solidifying our reputation as a world-leading environment for the development and
 scholarly consideration of gaming and immersive technologies for the betterment of the creative
 industries, our communities, and our future.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Staffing strategy: As indicated above, UoA32 includes a total of 19.9 FTE staff coming from the
 three divisions within SDI: Games and Arts; Games Technology & Mathematics; and
 Cybersecurity. Our submission reflects a dramatic increase in research focus within the
 constituent divisions. The staff returned represent a balance of experience, with two professors,
 seven senior lecturers and eleven lecturers, of whom nine have been promoted at least once in
 the assessment period.

 Investment in new academic staff across the assessment period has been driven by a strategic
 plan for improving existing research strengths. This strategy is evidenced in the eight external
 hires within this UoA, including the appointment of established researchers such as DeLappe
 (Games and Tactical Media), Zeilinger (Computational Arts & Technology) and Jayemanne
 (Games Scholar), and early career researchers (ECRs) such as Parker-Love (Animation and
 Interactive Art), Bozdog (Immersive Experience Design) and Mehrpouya (Computer Games
 Technology). We also welcome numerous visiting researchers who benefit from our research
 culture and contribute to it through seminars, masterclasses, support, and providing inspiration
 to ECRs and postgraduate research students (PGRS). These included international successful
 game developers (e.g., Ed Fries, Mary Flanagan, Philip and Andrew Oliver, and Mike Bithell)
 and Marie-Claire Isaaman, CEO of Women In Games, who supports the school to improve
 gender balance in student and staff groups.

 Our recruitment strategy reflects the commitment to bring original and diverse perspectives into
 practice-based and scholarly research in Games, Creative Technologies, and Digital Culture.
 Recent appointments reflect the importance placed on international recognition; excellence in
 alternative as well as commercial game design; and expanded notions of community, agency,
 and the role of play. Our approach is to engage practitioners and scholars at a variety of career
 stages to develop a cohort of research staff who help shape a unique environment for
 excellence.

 In the School of Design and Informatics, 44 new appointments were made during REF2021: 4
 Professors/INGAME Director, 2 Senior Lecturers, 16 Lecturers, 5 Research Fellows, 9 Research
 Assistants, 4 Teaching Fellows, 1 Technician and 3 Research Project Staff.

 Staff Development: Abertay is fully engaged with (and a signatory of) the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity (CSRI); the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (CSCDR); the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC); the Concordat on Open Research Data
 (CORD); and the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research (CEPR), which we use to
 guide development of supportive RKE policies (see Section 2). All staff, students and visiting

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers adhere to the highest standards of integrity in the conduct of their research as set
 out in the Abertay Research Code of Conduct (ARCoC) and engage in mandatory research
 integrity training (including GDPR for Researchers).

 New staff, including ECRs, benefit from a comprehensive Induction Programme covering PGR
 degrees and regulations, Abertay’s RKE Strategy, ARCoC, CSRI, CORD and CSCDR.
 Depending on experience, new staff undertake our PgCert Academic Practice (PgCAP) which
 includes an optional taught module on research covering regulations and policies underpinning
 research practice, building RKE networks, research planning and funding. All new lecturers who
 don’t have a teaching qualification are required to undertake the PgCAP as part of their
 probation and are allocated time to do so. All staff are also required to complete an online
 Epigeum course on supervision skills before taking on PGRS.

 Our Sabbatical Policy encourages staff to apply for sabbatical leave for research (6-12
 months). The policy provides for particular consideration of leave following
 maternity/adoption/shared parental leave to help re-establish an employee’s career and allows
 for sabbatical leave to be explored as positive action to promote career development for under-
 represented groups.

 Consistent with the CSCDR, all staff have personal Development Discussions with their Heads
 of Division (HoDs) twice a year. Development Discussions appraise both short-term research
 objectives and long-term plans, discuss development needs, and review any well-being and
 workload issues. Development needs are met through the Graduate School and by HoDs.

 The Graduate School has three Researcher Development Staff who, together with senior
 Abertay staff, provide >100 development opportunities. Training includes advanced statistics,
 GDPR, impact, enterprise, PGR supervision, public engagement, paper and grant writing. Where
 necessary, staff development needs were met by external organisations, (e.g., Fast Track
 Impact, Transparent and Reproducible Science training).

 R-LINCS has provided PhD studentships (details below) and also awards ‘pump priming’
 research funding. UoA32 staff have been awarded three pump priming grants (£11.5K) which
 have resulted in subsequent academic outputs (Parker & Galloway, Creative Communities:
 Shaping Process Through Performance and Play, 2017; Jayemane, Chronotypology: A
 Comparative Method for Analyzing Game Time, 2020) and support for Open Access
 publications.

 Staff research has been supported by internal funding for travel, staff development, and
 equipment. Also supported are career development and dissemination through conference and
 exhibition attendance, including national events (Coventry Biennial, Now Play This, Electronic
 Visualisation & the Arts (EVA), Ars Electronica) and international conferences in Europe
 (DiGRA, EuroGraphics, Develop:Research); the USA (Games for Change, GDC, Indiecade) and
 Australia/Japan (DiGRA). The total allocation for direct support of staff development between the
 years 2014-2020 amounted to £116K.

 UoA32 staff are also actively involved in the TRAMS cross-institutional mentoring scheme to
 access objective support for career development, in partnership with the Universities of St
 Andrews and Dundee, Glasgow School of Art, James Hutton Institute and Trinity College, Dublin
 (8 staff as mentees and 2 as mentors, equally divided between male and female staff).

 Support for Interdisciplinarity and Collaboration: SDI runs regular staff research forums. In
 2016 two new regularly scheduled research focused workshops/presentations/sessions, Stop
 Work Share and Creative Industries Research Theme meetings were implemented. Stop Work
 Share provides a cross-disciplinary forum across SDI for staff, PGRS and visiting scholars that is
 entirely focused on research. Creative Industries Research Theme meetings are an informal
 opportunity to meet and discuss research ideas with colleagues, share personal research, learn


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 about projects, hear about current funding and publication calls, and seek assistance or
 feedback on proposed or ongoing research.

 From 2017 to 2020, as part of Weave programming, SDI initiated the lecture series Platform,
 which featured 19 international contributors who gave presentations attended by staff, PGRS
 and the public. Weave also produced exhibitions, workshops and events that connect directly
 into our local community. Speakers were chosen collaboratively by a committee of SDI staff
 working together to identify contemporary artists, game designers and scholars to provide
 monthly talks scheduled in off-campus, city-centre locations. Weave built on Dundee’s status as
 a UNESCO City of Design to integrate the university in the cultural life of the city, and to
 establish new relationships and networks for grass roots engagement and development.

 2.2 Research Students
 We are committed to supporting a postgraduate research community that integrates theory and
 practice and generates new knowledge and new forms of knowledge production. The School
 hosts innovative doctoral projects informed by rigorous academic research and is committed to
 collaborative and public dissemination. We support a postgraduate research community that
 engages both practice, theory and methodologies corresponding to the themes of Games,
 Creative Technologies, and Digital Culture.

 As members of the Graduate School, all postgraduate research students (PGRS) benefit from
 clear institutional requirements for supervision and examinations, centralised training provision,
 domain-specific expert tutorials, our research infrastructure, and a variety of office, studio,
 project, and seminar spaces. The Graduate School administers a structured system to support
 PGRS progress:
     Progress panels: students complete annual progress reports and present their work to a
     Review Panel to assure good progress, supervision quality and opportunity to address any
     issues.
     Personal development planning: Students track meetings, achievements, goals, and
     training needs (e.g., statistical training, impact experience) in a Vitae Researcher
     Development Framework system, which must be submitted for approval before the viva. This
     ensures that students are systematically focused on progress, and able to articulate the
     research, experience and wider achievements attained throughout their postgraduate
     training.
     Annual Graduate School conference: PGRS are required to present their research to
     peers, supervisors and academic staff from across Abertay. This helps students to develop
     presentation skills and confidence in a formal professional context.
     Training: Weekly skills-based seminars are held during term-time to meet training needs,
     including research methods, statistics (SPSS and R), qualitative analysis, public engagement
     and outreach training, academic writing, funding applications and business development.
     Access to Researcher Development Officers: providing tailored statistical support,
     academic advice, and peer-review (e.g., funding applications).
     Funding opportunities: students can apply to a dedicated fund for conference attendance
     and researcher training support.

 During this REF period we awarded 11 PhD degrees and 5 MbR degrees. We have 12
 continuing PhD students and 6 continuing MbR/MPhil students, which represents a sustainable
 and robust PGR community given the size of this UoA.

 Funding for our PGRS has been secured from various external organizations (AHRC/SGSAH,
 SFC, Northwood Trust, MacMillan Cancer Support Scotland) and supported internally through 2
 RLINCS studentships and 3 Abertay Futures Scholarships. Staff co-supervise students at
 external institutions including University of Dundee and the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland.
 Abertay is a member of The Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) providing
 our PGRS with access to expertise, resources, and training opportunities. SGSAH has provided
 training programmes and direct support through the Applied Research Collaborative
 Studentships, which have supported two PGRS during this review period.

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 SDI follows all policies as set out in the University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan,
 which stipulates that fair and transparent procedures are operated in respect to recruitment,
 deployment, training, promotion and dismissal of employees. SDI has significantly improved
 equality and diversity during this assessment period.

 SDI initiated the formation of the Division Athena Swan self-assessment team which is
 overseeing the submission of an Athena Swan Silver application, to be submitted in May of
 2021. Staff from Games and Arts also took a central role in forming the Athena SWAN Charter at
 Abertay (2014) and made a successful submission for institutional Bronze status in November
 2015 and renewed in 2018.

 Support is given for training in gender awareness, including conferences and a range of
 mandatory and voluntary training. For example, since 2015, we have supported 6 SDI female
 staff in the Aurora leadership programme. There is also support for flexible working, maternity
 and paternity leave. Flexible working is fully supported, with staff enabled to work remotely
 where preferred or necessitated as part of the university’s digital strategy. All staff in the division
 have undergone mandatory unconscious bias training to combat the influence of social category
 membership cues on decision-making, consistent with Concordat commitments.

 Recruitment: Abertay has been working to improve the proportion of applications from women
 for academic posts. We have developed and publicised Writing for Recruitment guidance to
 raise awareness of gender differences in perceptions of wording in adverts and criteria. We also
 reviewed the wording on our candidate briefs to ensure that the language does not deter women
 from applying. Next steps include the establishment of a working group to develop further
 initiatives to encourage more women to apply for academic roles in SDI specifically.

 In 2014, SDI included 29 academic and research staff, 5 women (17%) and 24 men (83%). As of
 2021, SDI has grown significantly and improved the male/female ratio: 76 staff (25% female,
 75% male (see Table 1 for recruitment equality and diversity data). Submissions to UoA32 for
 this assessment period reflects the gender ratio of the larger staff cohort: 24% of submitted
 outputs are by female researchers.

 Table 1. Recruitment Equality and Diversity Data
  Characteristic                Applicants                          Appointments
  Sex                           23% Female                          26% Female
  Age                           Average age = 36                    Average age = 35
  Race                          26% BAME                            11% BAME
  Sexual Orientation            9% LGBT+                            10% LGBT+
  Disability                    14% declared disability             11% declared disability

 Promotion: In 2014, a new promotion process was adopted and a panel consisting of the
 Principal, Deputy Principal, all Deans, the Head of Human Resources, and an external member
 (usually university senior management) is convened annually to consider written submissions for
 promotion.

 In recent years the successful promotion of women staff in SDI has been equivalent to that of
 men. Through the promotions process, and across the REF2021 period, 39 applications were
 submitted and 14 applications were successful (29% of those promoted were female (SDI has
 25% female staff). Additionally, during this assessment period SDI promoted two women to HoD
 roles (including one to Professor) and appointed another female professor. This evidences that
 the action plans formulated in response to the institutional Athena application in 2018 have
 started taking effect. Further equality and diversity data for promotion is not presented due to the
 potential to identify individuals because of the small numbers involved.



                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Since 2014, SDI has invested in its research infrastructure to ensure that there is strong
 leadership and expertise across our priority areas of Applied Games, Performance and Play and
 Sector Development. Working with the University’s Graduate School, SDI has developed a
 managed strategic approach to the acquisition of research resources and investment resulting in
 a total income of £2,336,761 (Figure 1) and commensurate with our rapid growth ~60% of
 income was in the last two years.

 Figure 1. Annual research income across the REF assessment period




 Growth in research funding is a consequence of investment in researcher development and the
 growing impact of research outputs in national and international economic, academic, and
 cultural contexts. The interdisciplinary character of our research has led to the implementation of
 wide-ranging funding sources, matching specific research ambitions to appropriate funding
 models. Below, we highlight major projects that have contributed to this pattern of income. Note
 that while REF 4B requires reporting on spend our narrative reports on a research/ applied
 research (KE) project basis to provide a clearer sense of the nature of funding received and to
 represent both cross-Unit and cross-REF period income generation.

 Applied Games
 Five awards have totalled £625K from funders from the UK and Europe. European Commission
 funding supported STEP: Young People and Environment £178K (2015-2019) to develop an
 eParticipation platform, to promote the participation of young people in the decision-making

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 process on environmental issues. An AHRC funded project Visualising the Impact of the Iolaire
 £19K (2017) to explore how games design and technology can enhance collective memory of
 the HMY Iolaire tragedy in the Outer Hebrides. This was followed by an AHRC Immersive
 Practices grant developing Their Memory: Exploring Veteran's Voices, Virtual Reality and
 Collective Memory £60K 2018 using games design and technology and new storytelling
 techniques engaging hard to reach audiences with wartime memories. Mapping for Social
 innovation £215K (2018 – 2021) funded by the Northwood Charitable Trust addressing social
 challenges through creative, simple, and sustainable digital end products. Innovate UK
 supported a Knowledge Transfer Partnership £153K (2018 – 2020) to create the Location
 Indicators App, built on our existing Knowledge Transfer Partnership with National Air Traffic
 Services to deliver a polished prototype of a KTP Associate Design.

 Performance and Play
 Nine awards over the reporting period totalling roughly £214K since 2014 from diverse public
 sources, working with national and international cultural partners to impact new audiences.
 AHRC Networking Grant project Video Games in the Museum £35K (2014 - 2015), with the V&A
 London, to facilitate debate about the collection and display of video games. Scottish Graduate
 School of Arts and Humanities ARC Studentship - Connecting Performance and Play £31K
 (2015-2018) with the Scottish National Theatre, established interdisciplinary design methods for
 the development of games and performance. AHRC Immersive Experiences awards, one in
 collaboration with Coventry University, Immersive Practices: Reality Remix £15K, (2017 – 2018)
 engaged augmented and virtual reality for critical creative research applications exploring
 memory, place and performance; and Space, Place, Sound & Memory £10K (2017-2018) with
 University of Edinburgh investigated the recreation of historic acoustic spaces virtually as a
 vehicle to explore medieval and renaissance performance. Game Play £5K (2017) from
 Innovate UK, Exploring Games and live performance in partnership with Poorboy and Biome
 Collective. EngagePlus: Experiencing live orchestral music through technology (2017 - 2020)
 £4K SGSAH studentship working with the University of Dundee and the Royal Scottish National
 Orchestra. Carnegie Trust award for Design Methods Virtual Reality Games £7K (2017 – 2018):
 new methods audio design in order to fully explore the expressive potential of VR. ICHOS:
 Dynamic Audio for Virtual Reality and Games £90K (2018- 2019) RSE fellowship to develop
 interactions of materials and movements for an all-in-one solution for dynamic audio design in
 VR. RSE Digital Art & Activism £17K (2019 – 2021) critically engages the current state of digital
 art/activism through workshops, an international symposium and publications.

 Sector development – projects looking at ways of working with industry
 Over the last decade Abertay University has worked closely with University of Dundee and
 University of St Andrews developing complementary skills knowledge and research capacity in
 relation to the theory, practice, and business of the creative and cultural industries. During the
 REF2014 period the University of St Andrews led the ESRC funded Institute for Capitalising on
 Creativity and Abertay University led the SFC funded Moving Targets; KE for the Digital
 Industries projects.

 Following the same pattern of rapid growth as evident in Games and Arts and working with
 colleagues in related disciplines (UoA12), SDI has continued to work to deepen links between
 academia and industry in the creative industries to deliver collaborative research with impact.

 UKRI and EU funded projects during the REF2021 period began with Design in Action (UoA32
 returned, 2012-2016, £5.7M AHRC funding, Abertay a partner). Design in Action evidenced
 design as a key strategy for economic growth and innovation within industry, focusing on the
 value of design-led innovation across business, technology and policy. Design in Action
 delivered wide reach (633 SMEs attended events), income generation (£672K external funds
 leveraged for projects) and job creation (81 jobs through funded projects). Create Converge (EU
 Interreg, 2016-2021) co-returned with UoA12, £3M, (£100K to Abertay as partner in a large
 consortium) focuses on the convergence of creative technologies to deliver new ways of working
 and to reach into new markets. Key contributions from Abertay include working at the interface


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between film and games for virtual production (now a new Erasmus+ project) and the design and
 development of bespoke controllers for interactive experiences.

 Our most recent award (InGAME, £5.7M, AHRC and SFC, 2018-2023) integrates our RKE
 practice from Design In Action and Create Converge together with our work on Modelling &
 Simulation via Applied Games in both Engineering and Allied Health (UoA3). InGAME –
 Innovation for Games and Media Enterprise – is the UK Creative Cluster for Computer Games,
 co-returned with UoA12). InGAME is led by Abertay in partnership with the Universities of
 Dundee and St Andrews. InGAME is partnered with industry (Sony, Microsoft, 4J Studios,
 Outplay and others) to provide a R&D environment for new and experimental creative content,
 products, services, and experiences. Central to InGAME’s delivery is its approach to innovation.
 We have developed the InGAME Applied Games Lab that enables industry to work directly with
 our R&D team to harness the power of computer games to solve real-world problems, codesign
 challenges and de-risk those solutions through project scoping and prototyping. To date
 InGAME, at its mid-point, has delivered 28 outputs (R&D projects, innovation labs, bootcamps
 etc.), has supported 17 companies with its R&D voucher scheme and provided networking and
 training opportunities to >700 people.

 InGAME has already led to three spin-out funded projects. First, InGAME International (co-
 returned with UoA12) is a £0.5M AHRC funded project (2020-2023, match funded by partners in
 China) to identify policy and regulatory barriers to cooperation and develop new modes of
 working to create innovative new products, services, and business models. Informed by a series
 of demonstrators we are developing guidelines for industry, academic programmes, and
 professional training to ensure that new generations of games professionals are equipped to
 work with researchers to innovate new products for international markets. Second, SmARtview
 is a spin-out of our InGAME Applied Games Lab (50x return on investment) funded by Innovate
 UK (£250K total, led by AgriEpi Innovation Centre with Pocket Sized Hands games SME and
 Abertay (£75K of funding, co-returned with UoA12), 2020-2022). SmARtview is developing an
 AI-powered Augmented Reality tool underpinned by machine learning to improve animal health
 and productivity. Third, and awarded in December 2020, we are working with the UK
 Government Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport to provide a rapid evidence
 assessment of loot-boxes and computer games to inform government policy.

 Going forward, and as noted in Section 1, Applied Games and Performance and Play will play a
 major role, together with Engineering (UoA12) and Cybersecurity in our new consortium
 (Dundee City Council, Scottish Futures Trust, Abertay) to deliver impact in our £4M 5G
 Research & Development Testbed located in the heart of the city. Central to delivering growth
 and value in the sector is the experimentation – innovation – diversification model of InGAME
 and deep engagement with industry partners in creative and cultural industries and creative
 technology sectors.

 Adjacent to the 5G testbed, and at an even more ambitious scale, Northern Lights Arena Europe
 Ltd, Dundee City Council and lead InGAME partner, Abertay University, announced plans to
 bring a revolutionary new 4,000 seat esports arena and academy to the Dundee waterfront by
 2024 at an estimated cost of £40-60M. This new development will stimulate new R&D and
 educational opportunities in the esports domain and further cement Abertay’s and Dundee City’s
 role as a world leader in computer games.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities:
 The Unit has continued to enhance the research environment with substantial investment in
 physical infrastructure. SDI was formed in 2015 to integrate Art & Design, Modelling &
 Simulation and Cybersecurity into a single collaborative working environment with a shared
 research space. In 2019, SDI facilities were upgraded with extensive renovations, including the
 recreation of White Space, new staff offices and labs in support of teaching and research in the
 form of the new ETC (Emergent Technology Centre). Investment for the SDI refurbishment
 including the ETC was £5,487,895. Our HIVE (Human Intelligent Virtual Environment) was
 retrofitted prior to being included as part of ETC at a cost of £32,561.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The ETC is a 400 m2 facility comprised of five specialist labs and studios that can be used for
 creative practice, research, and knowledge exchange activities, as well as events and specialist
 teaching or training. The primary purpose of the ETC is to provide a collaborative facility for
 research and practice, centred on novel digital technologies. This includes: software applications
 and approaches, such as game engines and visualisation tools; hardware innovations, such as
 new screen and projection technologies, game controllers; user input devices, assistive
 technology; digital and physical prototyping, such as photogrammetry and 3D printing;
 connected technology, such as 5G and online platforms.

 The addition of InGAME, will provide a state-of-the-art research space where staff and PGRS
 are invited to engage in innovative and cutting-edge research with research fellows, staff from
 partnering institutions (University of St. Andrews and University of Dundee) and partners in the
 creative industries.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration with both external partners and internal colleagues is central to our research and
 includes a range of consultancies, service within public institutions, collective activities between
 designers/artists and other producers, key positions within publishing, curatorial, displaying and
 disseminating, cultural organising and the public presentation of knowledge. Our modes of
 collaboration are intrinsic to our teaching; for instance, through their research connections staff
 organise opportunities for students to work with industry partners and cultural institutions on
 curriculum-related projects.

 External Collaborations
 We collaborate with a range of academic institutions and stakeholders from throughout the UK
 and internationally. Collaborations have been supported by funding supported by UKRI council-
 funded research projects, SFC funded knowledge exchange, EU Horizon and Erasmus+
 research and academic collaborations. Academic collaborations with other Scottish universities
 include: University of Dundee; University of St. Andrews; Edinburgh College of Art; Glasgow
 School of Art; Gray’s School of Art and the Scottish Graduate School of Arts and Humanities.

 Across the UK we work with University of the Arts London, Royal Holloway University and
 University of Hertfordshire on funded digital creative industries projects. Internationally, we have
 funded projects with the Royal Danish Academy of the Arts, the Norwegian Film School, Zagreb
 Academy of the Dramatic Arts, the Cologne Game Lab, MOME Budapest and University of
 Southern California. A current UKRI funded research project in Shanghai has led to a new
 collaboration with Shanghai Academy of Social Science, and Shanghai Theatre Academy
 among others.

 Abertay University has targeted research collaboration as a strategic priority in order to pool
 resources and compete for resources on capacity and scale as well as depth and excellence.
 The School of Design and Informatics has enjoyed considerable success in establishing
 collaborations to drive creative practice and applied research in novel and emerging areas.

 Academic Partnerships
    • Bozdog and Sloan: 2017-2020, St Andrews University, University of Edinburgh, The Watt
       Institution Greenock, The McLean Museum Greenock, Sugaropolis
    • Bown, DeLappe, Donald, Galloway, Sloan, Szymkowiak, White 2019-2023, University of
       St. Andrews, University of Dundee, InGAME (Innovation for Games and Media
       Enterprise) AHRC CICP
    • Jayemanne & DeLappe, 2017, University of Coventry, Reality Remix – AHRC Immersive
       Experiences




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Donald, 2015, Erasmus Exchange Scholar to IIM, Pôle Universitaire Léonard de Vinci
        Paris; 2017, University of the Highlands & Islands and Isle of Lewis heritage
        organisations, Visualising the Iolaire.
    •   Lyons, 2017, University of Dundee, Color Specs.
    •   Mehrpouya, 2016, Leeds University, Centre for Research in Digital Education, Coding
        the MOOC: RTD
    •   White, 2014-15, University of Southern California, V&A Research, Danish Film School,
        Cologne Game Lab, University of Malta. MOME Budapest, NHTV Breda, Video Games
        in the Museum; 2012-16,
    •   Sloan, 2017-2018, University of Dundee, Dundee and Me: How the City Shapes our
        Moods; 2017-2018, University of Dundee, A Computer Game to Educate the Public
        About Cancer Progression.
    •   Sloan 2019-22, Shanghai Academy of the Dramatic Arts, Shanghai Theatre Academy,
        China
    •   White, 2012-2016 University of Dundee, Abertay University, ECA, GSA, Grays School of
        Art: Design in Action. AHRC Creative Economy KE Hub Design in Action (DiA)
    •   White, 2918 – present Co-Director, Creative Economy Hub. AHRC Scottish Graduate
        School for the Arts and Humanities. Sixteen HEIs across Scotland plus 29 supporters
        from the arts, culture, creative & heritage sectors.
    •   White & Szymkowiak 2015 to present. Management Board, Scottish Informatics and
        Computer Science Association. SICSA members comprise all 14 Informatics and
        Computing Science Schools in Scottish Universities. The coordinating SICSA institutions
        are University of Edinburgh, University of Glasgow and University of St Andrews.
    •   White 2020. DREEm: Experience Economy Project Board, University of the Arts London
    •   White, 2018 – Present. VPASSH Vice-Principals of Arts, Social Sciences ad Humanities
        Forum. All Scottish HEIs.

 Non-academic external partnerships
 Collaborations and partnerships with non-academic institutions and industry are typically
 engaged by our researchers to develop impact in the wider community. A characteristic of our
 external partnerships is the way in which staff from across the UoA use forms of game design
 and digital media within a range of collaborations to connect, inspire and impact upon
 stakeholders, audiences, and participants. The examples below demonstrate how collaboration
 with stakeholders across industry, charities, government, and communities have resulted in
 impact on the economy, health and wellbeing, education, and culture.
     • Bozdog, Love, 2019, Collaboration/Commission V&A Dundee, Socially Distanced
         Playscape.
     • DeLappe, Upsticks, 2019, app development: Abertay Mprof students, V&A Design
         Museum and Gramazio Kohler Research and students of the MAS Architecture and
         Digital Fabrication at ETH Zurich.
     • Huber, Brennan, 2019, V&A Dundee, co-produced workshops on game-exhibit curation,
         outreach and knowledge exchange for Videogames: Design/Play/Disrupt.
     • Huber, 2018, Sviluparty Games Festival, Italy, publication of “Game studies in the
         Cinquecento” in Ludica, Annals of the history and culture of games.
     • Jayemanne, 2020, in partnership with the Fair Play Alliance and Roblox White Paper
         developed “Children’s Safeguarding in Online Games”.
     • Love, 2016-2018, Collaboration with Carnegie House Museum, Dunfermline, game
         development project; 2020 – Present, Collaboration with Dundee City Council, InGAME
         and Sculptor Lee Simmons on Whale Song Park, a large-scale digital playpark at
         Dundee’s waterfront.
     • Mehrpouya, 2015-2016, Glasgow Children Hospital in Minecraft, working with Glasgow
         Children Hospital Charity, Scotland
     • Szymkowiak, 2019-2023, Triple (Targeting Researchers through Innovative Practices
         and multiLingual Exploration), working with CNRS – HumaNum.



                                                                                        Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Consultancy
 Consultancy and Advisory in Industry
    • Galloway, 2015-16, Creative Skillset Network: Industry Advisory Board; 2020-21
        ScreenSkills - National Occupational Standards for Interactive Media and Computer
        Games – Steering Group
    • White, 2010 – present Sony PlayStation First academic Advisory board, 2016: Women in
        Games Management Board; 2014-17: Sector Working Group (Games) Member,
        CREATe, RCUK; 2018-pesent. V&A Dundee Design for Business Management Board;
        2012-15 - Creative Skillset National Board Scotland.

 Consultancy and Advisory in Cultural and Public Sector Institutions
 As the leading institution in the UK for videogame education, Abertay University has led the
 development of the subject and discipline as an academic field as well as a cultural form. The
 expertise of staff from the school of Design and Informatics is regularly sought to contribute to
 economic, social, and cultural policy development.
     • DeLappe, Brennan, 2019-present, V&A Dundee Abertay Advisory Group
     • White, 2020, Experience Economy Project Board, University of the Arts; 2018: A Cultural
         Strategy for Scotland Academic Consultation Group. Scottish Government
     • Zeilinger, 2018 to present, International Advisory Board, Digital Communities, Prix Ars
         Electronica
     • White, 2018 -- A Cultural Strategy for Scotland Academic Consultation Group. Scottish
         Government
     • White, 2019/20 – Academic advisor CODE: Centre of Digital Excellence, Dunedin, New
         Zealand

 Advisory and Editorial Boards
    • Bozdog, 2019-present, Co-editor Scottish Journal of Performance – special issue Art of
       Care.
    • DeLappe, 2020-2021, Guest editor special issue Re@ct, Media-N: The Journal of the
       New Media Caucus
    • Zeilinger, 2019-2020: Guest editor for a special issue of the journal Frontiers in
       Blockchain.
    • Szymkowiak, Editor, Frontiers in Human Neuroscience

 Prizes, indicators of esteem, and positions of influence
 Selected Awards
     • Bozdog, 2017, IGDA Scholars - Women in Games Ambassador Studentship 2017
     • DeLappe, 2019 NetArt Honoree, Webby Awards, Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences
        (IADAS); 2017, Guggenheim Fellowship, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial
        Foundation, New York, NY; 2016, Nominee, Kill Box, Best Computer Game, BAFTA
        Scotland
     • Michalokos, 2018, Royal Society of Edinburgh Enterprise Fellow; 2018, Converge
        Challenge ‘18 Finalist; 2016, New Interfaces for Musical Expression - Conference Award

 Collections
     • DeLappe, The Imperial War Museum, London, United Kingdom; BAMPFA, Berkeley Art
         Museum and Pacific Film Archive, Berkeley, CA

 Selected Visiting fellowships and residencies
    • DeLappe, 2015, Autodesk AIR, Artist in Residence Program, San Francisco, USA; 2015;
        Artist in Residence, Grand Central Art Centre, Santa Ana, USA;
    • Zeilinger, 2018, Research fellowship, “Rethinking Affordance,” Akademie Schloss
        Solitude, Stuttgart; 2015, Research-Creation Residency, Signal Culture Experimental
        Media Art Center, Owego/USA


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   White, 2019: Visiting Professor: Dundee University, Duncan of Jordanstone College of
        Art and Design

 Selected Professional body memberships
    • Brennan, Member of Unesco Dundee Core Group.
    • DeLappe, Donald, Moody, Biome Collective, Dundee
    • Donald, Royal Society of Edinburgh, Young Academy Member
    • Huber, Member of the National Expert Group on Digital Ethics
    • Jayemanne, Diversity Special Interest Group, DiGRA
    • Michalakos, JAMES (Joint Audio Media Education Service) Member
    • Prior, Professional member of Association for Computer Machinery.
    • Szymkowiak, Abertay Representative SICSA (Scottish Informatics and Computer
        Science Alliance)

 Selected Reviewing of papers
    • Sloan, The Computer Games Journal (2014-)
    • Sloan, Gaming and Virtual Worlds (2017-)
    • Bozdog, Book Peer Review: MIT Press
    • Huber, Reviewer for Games & Culture (SAGE Publications)
    • Zeilinger, AI & Society; Philosophy & Technology; and Oxford Journal of Legal Studies.
    • Prior, Journal of Transactions on Accessible Computing, Journal of Information
        Technology and People.
    • Jayemanne, Reviewer for ToDIGRA, Games & Culture journals
    • Szymkowiak, International Journal of Technology and Human Behaviour

 Selected Grant reviewing activities
    • Sloan, AHRC Peer Review College (2017-)
    • White, 2020: Ad-Hoc Reviewer UKRI COVID_19 Funding call; 2018; and Strategic
        Review College Member – AHRC; 2018.
    • Szymkowiak, 2019, Carnegie Trust Panel.
    • Donald, 2018 Peer Review College – UKRI

 Selected Judging/jurying panels
    • Sloan, 2017-2018, jury, AMAZE.
    • Lyons, 2015, Impact 9 Print Conference, Hangzhou China
    • Prior, ACM CHI Conference
    • Jayemanne, 2019-2020, Jurist – Prize in Narrative Excellence, Independent Games
        Festival
    • DeLappe, 2020, Residency Award Museum of the Moving Image, NYC

 Selected Conference and Festival leadership
    • Brennan, Bozdog, DeLappe, 2012-2019 curatorial and organizing committee, NEoN
        Digital Arts Festival, Scotland
    • Brennan, Galloway, Sloan, 2016, co-organized DiGRA (Digital Games Research
        Association) and FDG (The International Conference on the Foundations of Digital
        Games), Dundee
    • DeLappe, 2019, Co-Chair Re@ct: Social Change Art Technology, Dundee
    • King, 2018, organised the 19th International Conference on Intelligent Games and
        Simulation, Dundee
    • Huber, 2016, Hosted the First Joint International Conference of DiGRA and FDG,
        Dundee
    • Huber, 2016 to present, President of the Digital Games Research Association (DiGRA),
        producing international conferences in Melbourne, Australia, Turin, Italy and Kyoto,
        Japan.

                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Jayemanne, 2020, Game Engines Beyond Games Symposium, Babycastles Gallery
        NYC & Mozilla Hubs.
    •   Love, 2020 – present, Board Director, Now Play This: A Festival of Experimental Game
        Design, London
    •   Mehrpouya, 2014-2016, committee member, EVA Conference, Europe.
    •   Zeilinger, 2018, Lead organizer Rethinking Affordance, Akademie Schloss Solitude,
        Stuttgart, Germany

 Selected Keynote speakers
    • DeLappe, SCIFI-IT 2020, 4th Annual Science Fiction Prototyping Conference, Ghent
        University, Belgium
    • Huber, 2019 Games and Geopolitics, Moscow, Russia
    • Jayemanne, 2019, Ludic Literature, University of Glasgow.
    • Mehrpouya, 2014, ICT & Art Connect, Brussels, Belgium
    • White, 2018: Session Keynote, UK/China Creative Industries Partnership Development
        Workshop, Shanghai; 2017

 Selected Invited speakers
 (highlights from research featured in over 60 invited talks internationally):
     • Michalakos, 2019 Improvising with Live Electronics - Seminar / Norwegian Academy of
         Music, Oslo
     • Galloway, 2019 National Crime Agency Cyber Prevent Network Conference, Invited
         Speaker.
     • Zeilinger, 2018: “The Ends of Appropriation.” Invited lecture at the ‘Re-‘ Research
         Network, CRASSH, Cambridge University, Nov 30.
     • Mehrpouya, 2017 Guest lecturer for a week-long Games for Change module at Pôle
         Universitaire Léonard de Vinci. (2017)
     • Jayemanne, 2019 30-31 March. BBC Radio 3 Free Thinking Festival 2019, Sage
         Gateshead: “How They Manipulate Our Emotions”
     • Donald, 2011 – 2015 Visiting Lecturer, BBC Academy, 2011-2015
     • DeLappe, artists lecture, Game Politics, Goethe Institute - Istanbul, Turkey

 Exhibitions/ and Performances
 (highlights from research featured in over 50 events internationally):
     • DeLappe, Open World: Video Games & Contemporary Art, Akron Art Museum, Akron,
         Ohio
     • Love, Ola De La Vida. (2017). [Installation]. FuturePlay Tech Zone, Edinburgh
         International Fringe Festival.
     • Lyons, EpiGenSys: Visions of Epigenetics, invited artist. Paris France.
     • Michalakos, 2019 / Performance / ACM Creativity & Cognition (San Diego 2019)

 Knowledge exchange and outreach activities
 Industry facing talks/workshops
 (highlights from research featured in over 25 events):
     • Brennan, 2018: Guest speaker the British Council Galloway, 2015 Connecting
         Performance and Play. Knowledge Exchange Network, National Theatre of Scotland,
         Dundee Rep, Abertay University.
     • White, 2019: Panel Member, UK-China Creative Industries. UKRI China
     • Love, Love, L., & Hamilton, M. (2019). [workshop with 25 Play practitioners and
         academics] You are invited to… play, chalk and talk with #oneplaything. 120-120. from
         Play Perform Learn Grow, Thessaloniki, Greece.

 Outreach
 Our research staff are typically involved in various outreach activities, highlights include:


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brennan, 2018-2019: Leading the design and delivery of Bright Ideas - a creative learning
 journey for Widening Access pupils in Higher Education, from all secondary schools across the
 city.
     • Brennan, 2018-2020: Platform - Leading a team of academic staff to deliver a monthly
        talk series, bringing established external creative practitioners for a diverse local
        audience.
     • Bozdog, Generation ZX(X) – with NEoN Digital Arts Festival and Creative Scotland,
        Douglas Community Centre, Hot Chocolate Trust, Weave by Abertay, The Royal
        Conservatoire of Scotland, The National Theatre of Scotland, Loadsaweeminsinging,
        Dundee City Council - Dundee's Art Galleries and Museums
     • Love, Cadbury’s Heroes League Partnership 2020 – to promote the benefits of social
        play to families and the public in a national campaign. Interviewed by regional and
        national radio (10+ stations), regional TV (ITV England) and Ladbible.
     • Jayemanne, 2017 Abertay Faculty representative at the IGX Show, Mumbai, India.




                                                                                        Page 16
