Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth


 Unit of Assessment: 25 – Area Studies


 1     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Portsmouth’s submission to the Area Studies Unit of Assessment (UoA) has
 been successfully expanded by 85% since the last REF, increasing from 42 to 78 individuals.
 Our entry comprises equal proportions of male and female researchers and 15% Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs), reflecting our commitment to an inclusive research environment.

 Researchers in this UoA are members of the Centre for European and International Studies
 Research (CEISR), based in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (FHSS).
 Established in 1998, this centre was the vehicle for a multidisciplinary entry into the European
 Studies UoA in the 2001 and 2008 RAE, and the Area Studies UoA in the 2014 REF.

 (i)       Research Structure and Context

 Research in CEISR is organised into ten research groups comprising staff and postgraduate
 students. These research groups provide a foundation of intellectual support for individual
 researchers: members are allocated an individual research mentor, and also take part in regular
 meetings and workshops to receive constructive feedback on draft articles, presentations and
 external funding bids.

 In alphabetical order, CEISR’s research groups are:

       ●    Citizenship, Race and Belonging (CraB): lived experiences of citizenship, ‘race’ and
            belonging, drawing on interdisciplinary methodologies from Sociology, History, Cultural
            Studies, International Development and Politics.

       ●    Francophone Africa: the internal histories, colonial legacies, and globalised futures of
            Francophone Africa.

       ●    Higher Education: research on higher education in Europe.

       ●    History: early modern, modern, and contemporary American, British, European, and
            Asian histories.

       ●    Language Across Borders: cross-boundary approaches to the study of language
            practices, through linguistics and associated disciplines.

       ●    Mental Health in Childhood and Education (MICE): early support, intervention and
            well-being from the early school years through to higher education in Britain and Europe.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        ●    Peace, Security and Conflict (PSC): the intertwined fields of peace, development,
             humanitarian intervention, security and conflict studies.

        ●    Sociology and Social Theory: social thought, social exclusion, sport and consumer
             culture, and the ethics of human/non-human interactions.

        ●    Transnational Politics and Society: cross-border transnational and supranational
             dimensions of Europe, the EU and the wider world.

        ●    Women’s and Gender Studies: histories of feminism, gender, language and sexuality,
             and international development, and contemporary activism in Africa and Asia.

 Members can belong to more than one group, facilitating and fostering links between related
 fields of Area Studies and promoting interdisciplinarity.

 CEISR is managed by a Research Executive, comprising a Director, Deputy Director, and the
 Leaders of its ten constituent research groups. It reports to the FHSS Research & Innovation
 (R&I) Committee, chaired by the Associate Dean of Research, which oversees the development
 and implementation of the UoA research strategy (see below) and researcher support
 mechanisms.

 (ii)       Strategy and Objectives

 Research within CEISR has benefitted significantly from the 2014 University decision to devolve
 all REF2014 QR funding received to the faculties that were responsible for its generation (see
 Institutional Level Environment Statement, Section 4, paragraph 63, hereafter REF5a). The
 Faculty R&I Committee manages these funds and CEISR can call upon an annual budget to
 progress its activities.

 Our UoA strategy is to build capacity while ensuring inclusion and sustainability. Thus, we
 have invested CEISR’s funds to grow and internationalise our postgraduate community, build
 staff supervision capacity and experience, facilitate high-quality outputs and impact, and invest
 in Strategic Projects that enable staff to pursue collaborative and interdisciplinary research.

 We utilise approximately 40% of the budget for PhD bursaries that facilitate international
 collaboration (see Research Strategy: Objectives 2014-2020, iii).

 Professional Development Allowances (PDA) account for 20% of the QR funding. All
 research-active staff are eligible for an annual £1500 PDA that may be spent on research travel
 costs and other activities, including externally provided specialist training, networking, or impact
 support costs. Further sums are available on application, for presentations at international
 conferences or where a significant benefit can be identified.

 We allocate the remaining 40% of funding to writing retreats, Strategic Projects and an
 annual sabbatical policy. Funding for our Strategic Projects is allocated through an annual
 competitive process. Projects must demonstrate interdisciplinarity, strategic relevance, impact,
 an external funding strategy, and development of ECRs.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CEISR’s research groups have provided the foundation for colleagues to undertake
 interdisciplinary research and formulate Strategic Projects specifically designed to realise
 our 2014 objectives. These projects are an essential vehicle in building and strengthening
 capacity, inclusion and sustainability. In alphabetical order, our current Strategic Projects are as
 follows:

         ●    Globalised Africa: investigates women’s rights, exploring whether globalisation has
              disrupted patriarchal mind-sets that normalise violence, poor healthcare and lack of
              education for women and girls.

         ●    Port Towns and Urban Cultures (PTUC): explores the liminal societies at the
              intersection between maritime and urban cultures and spaces within historical and
              comparative contexts.

         ●    Supernatural Cities: examines how we imaginatively engage with historical and
              contemporary urban environments, focusing on ideas of haunting and the unseen city.

         ●    Transnational Civil Society: investigates the formation of transnational networks of
              NGOs and individual policy entrepreneurs, and their interaction with governments and
              international organisations.

         ●    West African Peace and Security Network (WAPSN): researches the history, root
              causes and dynamics of insecurity in West Africa and explores how policymakers might
              seek to alleviate them.

 (iii)       Research Strategy: Objectives 2014-2020

 Our strategy to build capacity, inclusion and sustainability identified four primary objectives
 over the last seven years:

         1. Increase External Income. SUCCESSFUL. We increased our research and innovation
            income by 44% between 2014 and 2020, exceeding our target of 25%. Our
            sustainability strategy encouraged staff from different career stages to apply for external
            funding (see Section 3), while our mentoring strategy aimed to encourage more
            inclusivity in grant generation. As a result our income increased from £866,701 to £2.6
            million over the REF period. Principal Investigators ranged from ECRs to senior
            members of staff, and overall approximately one third (26) of Area Studies researchers
            secured income awards from 20 different funding bodies. Our Strategic Projects were a
            driving force behind these successes, mobilising interdisciplinary efforts and expertise. Of
            the 26 researchers who successfully won awards, 12 were involved in Strategic Projects.

         2. Increase postgraduate provision and increase the pool of experienced
            supervisors. ON TARGET. Our numbers of doctoral completions increased by 40%
            (from 22 in REF2014 to 31 in the current REF period), meeting our target. As well as
            investing in bursaries, we expanded our number of experienced supervisors by arranging
            for ECRs and mid-career researchers to gain supervisory experience. Together, this led
            to the joint award with the Universities of Brighton and Southampton of the ESRC South


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

           Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP) in 2017, which unlocked further UKRI
           bursaries.

        3. Build and develop interdisciplinary work through Strategic Projects.
           SUCCESSFUL. All 5 Strategic Projects have successfully developed strong
           interdisciplinary research. For example, the eight members of the Transnational Civil
           Society project, led by Leucht, span areas including politics, international relations,
           sociology, journalism and history. They organised ten interdisciplinary conferences and
           workshops, produced 30 outputs, and one impact case study (ICS, REF3
           UoP25Translation), and have been awarded over £720k since 2014.

        4. Contribution significantly to the sustainability of the UK Area Studies research
           base. ON TARGET. Alongside our existing strengths, CEISR actively embraced the New
           Area Studies (NAS) agenda, which strengthens our approach to fostering
           interdisciplinarity. NAS rejects traditional definitions of ‘area’ in terms of geographical
           proximity or political and territorial boundaries. By reconceptualising areas as ‘spaces’
           that vary by research theme in their scalar and temporal dimensions, researchers with
           diverse backgrounds can identify thematic synergies that break free from disciplinary
           silos. This approach has encouraged the formation of four new research groups: CRaB,
           MICE, Higher Education and PSC. Our Globalised Africa Strategic Project also adopts
           the NAS approach, sharing overlapping research themes such as education, violence,
           citizenship and women’s rights with the new research groups. The interest in NAS has
           contributed to the UoA’s growth from 42 to 78 staff (74 FTE). We intend to develop and
           strengthen this approach over the forthcoming REF period.

 (iv)     Research Strategy: Objectives 2020-2025

 As a research community, CEISR has engaged with our University’s new Vision 2030 and
 Strategy 2025 (see REF5a Section 2, paragraph 11) through a process of consultation and
 discussion across our research groups. Beginning with articulation of groups’ own research and
 innovation ambitions and objectives in this context, we have synthesised the key elements of
 these into five pillars that make up our strategy for the next five years.

    1.     Develop our marginalisation and New Area Studies Agenda research, advising
           policymakers and collaborating with community groups and non-HEI institutions, building
           on the work of research groups and Strategic Projects such as Francophone Africa,
           CRaB and Globalised Africa.

    2.     Develop our Civic University role, forging stronger links with Portsmouth City Council
           and the local community to make a demonstrable contribution to the city’s cultural, social
           and economic well-being.

    3.     Demonstrate our commitment to Diversity and Equality in all research activities, aiming
           to achieve Athena Swan Bronze, and promote good practice into the wider community.

    4.     Build on our commitment to international and interdisciplinary scholarship. For
           example, PTUC members led in the creation of a new interdisciplinary journal due to


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

             launch in 2021, Coastal Studies (Sage), which James and Isaac Land (Indiana State
             University, USA and PTUC associate member) will edit. The journal will be a world-
             leading forum where humanities and social science researchers can explore
             interdisciplinary approaches to coastal research.

       5.    Continue supporting researchers to internationalise their research. As part of this,
             we are collaborating with the Université de Caen to establish our first International
             Doctoral Seminar Programme. Designed for Area Studies postgraduate research
             students (PGRs), this live-streamed seminar series will focus on transferable research
             methods and interdisciplinary approaches. We will also launch the University’s first split-
             site international Doctoral Training Programme with Sweden’s Halmstad University,
             offering students a unique opportunity to research and teach in Britain and Sweden. The
             Universities will match-fund PhD bursaries, and each supervisory panel will have a mix of
             Portsmouth and Halmstad staff. Staff will also organise international workshops on
             shared research interests that arise from the bursaries.

 (v)        Enabling and Facilitating Impact

 Our approach goes beyond the Impact Case Studies selected for this REF; we fully embed
 impact engagement throughout our unit. This approach was supported by a university-wide
 policy of supporting impact in the 2015-2020 Strategy (see REF5a Section 2, paragraph 11).

 Research group leads regularly liaise with the Impact Lead (Stewart), the Faculty’s Associate
 Dean (Research), and the University’s Research Impact Manager to identify and develop
 potential impact (see REF5a Section 4, paragraph 59). External consultants provide impact
 training and the University and Faculty Impact Acceleration Funds offer financial support. Staff
 authoring case studies for REF2021 have also benefitted from a 100-hour workload allowance to
 facilitate their efforts.

 Our approach to impact is also guided by a commitment to three key strategic principles:

       1. Applying a problem-based approach that enables us to engage with pressing social
          issues, we focus on research that empowers marginalised and vulnerable groups
          and stimulates community engagement in heritage, history and culture.

 Globalised Africa’s ICS (REF3 UoP25Gender) on the significance of all-women peer networks
 exemplifies our commitment to this principle, engaging the Department for International
 Development’s (DFID) advisors in Bangladesh, Myanmar and Nepal. These advisors have
 collaborated with the project to prevent violence against women in all three countries (2016-
 2020). Working directly with affected communities, the project has established the value of
 setting up peer groups to build resilience among women.

 Two ICS also focused on civic marginalisation. From 2013-2015, PTUC led the curation of the
 ‘Lest We Forget’ exhibition to stimulate public engagement with the First World War in
 Portsmouth. This project’s research on working-class communities, patriotism and the ways
 communities dealt with loss framed the exhibition and provided a platform for broader
 community engagement. (REF3 UoP25WWI). The Supernatural Cities ICS (REF3


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UoP25Darkfest) also impacted how local communities used supernatural storytelling to create a
 sense of local identity and enrich their understanding of their environments and culture.

        2. Engaging stakeholders throughout the research process, to ensure relevance to
           societal needs and issues.

 The Transnational Civil Society ICS (REF3 UoP25Translation) revealed how many
 development NGOs lack the local language capacity to communicate effectively with those
 receiving their aid. Working with NGOs in Malawi and Peru, the project helped change their
 language policy and practice. Practitioners report significant improvements in their relationships
 with communities, who now have a better understanding of NGOs’ development projects in their
 locality. The MICE research group’s ICS (REF3 UoP25Voices) also developed practitioner
 knowledge in social and educational care. Engaging with support-service professionals to
 formulate inclusive working practices with ‘vulnerable groups’, their research has benefitted
 those most affected by the politics of austerity.

        3. Delivering impact sustainability through ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and the
           creation of new impact pathways.

 An example of our fast-moving and dynamic impact is the research on staff sexual misconduct in
 higher education led by Bull, who co-founded the 1752 Group (a UK research, consultancy and
 campaign organisation dedicated to ending staff sexual misconduct in higher education). Bull
 provided expert advice to stakeholders in higher education and the National Union of Students to
 inform the development of national policy in this area. Nicholls’ project Sobriety Stories: Drinking
 Pasts, Sober Presents and Imagined Futures also collaborates with relevant stakeholders,
 including the Director of the iChange21 programme (an online coaching and support programme
 for reducing or stopping drinking), to develop relatable guidance, support and resources for
 women drinkers. During the COVID pandemic, Nicholls expanded her research into lockdown
 drinking habits to inform Government policy and campaigns around alcohol reduction. She has
 been invited to present her findings to Public Health England, Scottish Alcohol Research
 Network, and Scottish Health Action on Alcohol Problems.

 (vi)     Promoting and Supporting Interdisciplinarity

 CEISR’s structure and role in promoting interdisciplinary research was commended as an
 example of best practice by the British Academy in 2016 (see Section 4). The Faculty explicitly
 targets funding towards interdisciplinary Strategic Projects, funding research groups that
 conceptually frame their activities in terms of themed spaces. As per the NAS Agenda outlined
 above (see Research Strategy: Objectives 2014-2020, iii; and Research Strategy: Objectives
 2020-2025, iv), researchers determine their concept of ‘area’ according to the theme of their
 study, for example gender-based violence, lived experience of citizenship and race, spectral
 histories, conflict and insecurity, civil society networks, and port towns. Transnational spaces of
 shared identities underpin the CRaB group and the Transnational Civil Society project, which
 incorporate political scientists, sociologists and historians. The WAPSN project fuses Area
 Studies and International Relations perspectives to explore how regional and global actors
 shape patterns of violence in localised spaces. More conventional areas of regional and



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 linguistic expertise also remain central to our research, as illustrated by groups such as
 Francophone Africa and Language Across Borders.

 We also employ interdisciplinary approaches to help empower marginalised actors. For
 example, Globalised Africa colleagues examine the role of neoliberalism and patriarchy in
 normalising gender inequality and are trained in anthropology, education studies and social
 demography. We have made it a priority, when funding research groups, for them to
 demonstrate interdisciplinarity in their approach to marginalisation and exclusion research. For
 example, the CRaB group produced collaborative outputs between political scientists,
 sociologists and historians that focus on ethnic diasporas and asylum seekers’ lived
 experiences.

 The University’s decision to invest in five interdisciplinary Themes (see REF5a Section 2,
 paragraph 9) fortified CEISR’s quest to promote international interdisciplinary research. For
 example, Garner was awarded a Themes Research and Innovation Fund (TRIF) Challenge
 Award for a research project titled ‘Exploring the Edge of Citizenship’, which drew together
 humanities and social science approaches to defining ‘community’ and ‘citizenship’. The project
 held its first workshop in July 2019 on the theme of ‘Nationhood’, with 3 remaining workshops
 delayed until summer/autumn of 2021 due to COVID. In addition, Burkett was awarded a TRIF
 Strategic Fellowship in 2019 to develop interdisciplinary digital humanities with colleagues at
 the University of Waterloo, Canada. The first phase of this collaboration resulted in a successful
 bid for a PhD project within CEISR's participation in the ESRC SCDTP.

 (vii) Progress towards an Open Research Environment

 The University supports broader access to data and knowledge (see REF5a, Section 2,
 paragraph 24). Given that 13% of all Areas Studies journal articles were Open Access (OA) in
 2013, we have since committed to informing, educating and training staff about our OA strategy
 on a regular basis. Consequently, Area Studies OA compliance reached 97% in 2020, with
 senior researchers leading the OA drive within their research field. For example, Andress is on
 the Editorial Board of the New Historical Perspectives series, a joint initiative of the Royal
 Historical Society and Institute of Historical Research to facilitate OA work by early-career
 scholars, at no cost to the author. The programme has published six monographs and an edited
 collection to date, with a range of additional material under development.

 The University has set a correlative target that 80% of academics will have ORCIDs. In this Unit,
 85% of members now have an ORCID, and we will continue to promote this useful tool to all
 academic staff.

 (viii) Research Integrity

 Our Faculty Ethics Committee, staffed by experienced researchers from a range of disciplines,
 oversees the ethical review process, which is mandatory for all research projects. It begins with
 light-touch online information-gathering, and escalates as required to full detailed review of
 documentation and proposed practice.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We require all PGRs to undergo dedicated ethics and ethical compliance training, in conjunction
 with the University Graduate School. PGR supervisory teams are responsible for flagging up
 ethical issues in the first instance.

 These processes are supported by a University-wide Research Governance Policy and Ethics
 Policy (see REF5a Section2, paragraphs 22-3). Any Principal Investigator or postgraduate
 student who has submitted a non-compliant project will work with their supervisor or an assigned
 mentor to revise their plan accordingly.

 The Francophone Africa group (Vince) and the Transnational Civil Society project (Leucht)
 have also initiated an ongoing review of the Faculty and the University’s ethical review and
 overseas travel policies. Entitled Decolonising Research Ethics, this project aims to adjust
 current ethical processes to give more weight to authorship and scholarly ownership issues
 when local researchers are employed as fixers, translators or research assistants (including
 situations where the collaborators’ identities may need protecting). The project aims to ensure
 that the ethical review process emphasises knowledge co-creation, giving voice to
 underrepresented groups.




 2     People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 (i)    Staff development strategy for staff pursuing a career in research

 Staff development is addressed through a strong local mentoring programme delivered through
 the research groups in CEISR, and with the provision of internal and external, personal
 development, career development, and subject specific training.

 Our UoA mentor relationships provide staff with discipline and subject-specific advice on
 progressing their research career, complementing the Performance and Development Review’s
 (PDR’s) institutional focus (see REF5a Section 2, paragraph 2). Following a discussion with their
 group lead about their development needs, we match early and mid-career scholars with senior
 academic research mentors with an established profile. Under Kaiser’s guidance, for example,
 ECR Stoddard won a one-year fellowship at the Otto Suhr Institute of Political Science at Free
 University Berlin in 2014 and a two-year Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship in 2018. Kaiser’s
 Political Science Fellowship at the University of Duisberg and well-established funding
 successes with the Marie Skłodowska-Curie scheme provided the requisite experience for such
 academic mentoring.

 Each research group also contains an impact mentor who provides tailored advice to colleagues
 about fostering, tracking and demonstrating research impact. Impact mentors have produced a
 REF ICS and/or have experience assessing the reach and significance of impact in REF-related
 exercises.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We address staff training needs in three main ways. First, staff are extensively supported by
 the programme of internal research training workshops coordinated by the University’s Research
 & Innovation Services department (RIS). 61% of UoA staff took advantage of these opportunities
 during 2014-2020 (48 UoA staff attended 54 workshops - see REF5a Section 3, paragraph 33).

 Second, we encourage staff to use their PDA funds to acquire research training from external
 bodies (see below). For example, Stoddard attended a European Consortium for Political
 Research summer school on quantitative methods at Central European University in Austria,
 and Burkett undertook advanced, intensive NVivo training from QDA Training.

 Third, we strongly encourage women to register for the Aurora and Springboard programmes,
 which provide extensive mentoring support for aspiring female leaders in research and higher
 education. Since completing the Aurora programme, for example, Shamai has been appointed
 Athena Swan representative for her department in a competitive process.

 (ii)   Staffing and recruitment policy

 Of the 42 individuals entered in REF2014 for this UoA, 16 were ECRs, 14 were mid-career
 researchers and 12 were senior researchers, with 60% men and 40% women. Our current entry
 almost doubles the number of staff submitted in 2014 to 78 (74 FTE) and achieves equal
 proportions of men and women.

 Overall, 55% of academics recruited over the REF period were aged 26-35 and 15% of all
 submitted staff are classed as ECRs, demonstrating our Faculty’s investment in staff in the early
 stages of their careers (see REF5a Section 2, paragraph 1). While the proportion of ECRs is
 lower than the previous cycle, our emphasis on collaborative research and research mentoring
 has encouraged staff who were not entered into REF2014 to intensify their research activity.
 Alongside RIS development-training programmes aimed at recently appointed staff, the UoA
 mentoring system provides research leadership training to ECRs to enable succession planning.
 For example, our Women and Gender Studies research group is co-led by Purvis (Professor)
 and Nicholls (ECR). This relationship enables Nicholls to develop her leadership skills under
 Purvis’ close mentorship, while ensuring the group’s sustainability.

 Our robust procedures for recognising and rewarding achievement have established
 career progression as an important feature of our staff profile since 2014. Among
 submitted staff, 72% of women, 53% of men and 50% of BAME staff were promoted during this
 REF cycle. Promotions were also awarded to 61% of full-time staff, 73% of part-time staff and
 100% of fixed-term staff submitted. Overall, we promoted 58% of submitted staff members to
 Senior Lecturer, 21% to Principal Lecturer or Reader and 12% to more senior roles. Crack (F)
 and Stewart (M) were both promoted to Reader in 2020 and are currently engaged in the
 ‘Reader to Research Leader’ training programme, which provides intensive mentoring support
 from internal and external Professors. The programme is designed to facilitate succession
 planning to the Professoriate and will be open to all colleagues promoted to Reader in the future.

 The University has moved towards permanent Teaching and Research contracts to
 facilitate a solid foundation for its research culture. By moving away from appointing
 temporary-contract lectureships, we have increased our permanent research capacity and


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 avoided the exploitation of part-time hourly paid staff. Our submission includes only one
 individual on a fixed-term contract (see below). All 31 staff recruited during this REF period have
 significant research responsibilities and are included in REF2021. For example, Field was
 appointed as Lecturer in 2014 after completing his PhD at Portsmouth and was promoted to
 Senior Lecturer the following year. He has since published journal articles with two staff
 members and was part of the successful €100k bid to the European Commission to renew the
 University’s status as a Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence for the Study of Transnational
 Europe. Field is now Director of the Centre and holds the prestigious title of Jean Monnet Chair
 – successes supported by intensive mentoring and comprehensive peer review of his
 publications and bids.

 (iii)   Support for staff at the beginning of their research careers

 We have entered a total of 11 ECRs in the current REF cycle. Our faculty ensures that ECRs
 joining us receive an unconditional 20% research workload allowance for their first two years
 (see REF5a Section 3, paragraph 41) and partners them with an experienced research mentor.
 This process ensures that ECRs are supported to meet the performance goals set during their
 annual Performance and Development Review (PDR), and thus to retain or expand their
 research workload allowance after the initial two-year period. ECRs have the same Professional
 Development Allowance entitlement as senior colleagues (see below). ECRs join research
 groups and Strategic Projects and can bid for Faculty QR funds and Themes Research and
 Innovation Funds. We also encourage ECRs to join our faculty’s ECR peer-support network and
 elect a representative to the Faculty R&I Committee.

 The University supports staff to pursue doctoral degrees in research that furthers its
 vision and strategic objectives (see REF5a Section 3, paragraph 29). This commitment was
 facilitated by the introduction of a continental style ‘compilation’ thesis in 2016, which allows
 candidates to achieve a PhD through peer reviewed publications and enables staff to build their
 published research profile while simultaneously achieving their qualification. For example,
 Roberts joined the University with practitioner skills from local government and, with mentoring
 and funding support, has recently submitted her PhD following the compilation thesis route. She
 has recently published her first two papers in peer reviewed journals and her first monograph.

 (iv)    Sabbatical leave

 Our competitive faculty-wide sabbatical system was replaced in 2016 by a university-wide
 sabbatical policy (see REF5a, Section 3, paragraph 36). We assess sabbatical applications
 through a faculty panel that includes UoA representation and requires applicants to outline how
 their expected outputs/outcomes align with our strategy. Priority is given to colleagues who are
 at an early stage of their research career or have experienced a period of low research
 productivity because of heavy administrative and/or teaching loads. For example, we awarded
 Lazell a sabbatical to produce her first book after she spent two years as Subject Lead for
 Politics and International Relations.

 (v)     Recognition and reward for research and impact




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We encourage staff to apply for promotion based on their research and impact achievements,
 and research mentors reinforce this message at the UoA level. Several of the UoA’s leading
 researchers have risen to senior positions during this REF period. We have promoted two
 women (Vince in 2016 and Crack in 2020) and two men (Bell in 2017 and Stewart in 2020) to
 Reader, and two women (Bradley in 2017 and Heard-Laureote in 2018) and one man (Beaven,
 2017) to Professor. We also promoted Lee (M) to Reader followed by Professor during this
 cycle, and he was appointed Director of the University’s Security and Risk research theme (see
 REF5a Section 2, paragraph 9).

 Our UoA holds an annual workshop led by senior researchers, providing targeted advice for
 applicants for promotion. Stewart made a successful application for promotion to Reader after
 attending such a workshop led by Professor Bradley in 2018.

 We recognise and reward research and impact activities at the unit level through the
 workload allocation system (see REF5a Section 2, paragraphs 2-3). Our progressive system
 awards research time based on current and planned activity profiles. We award all staff identified
 as maintaining or developing a research profile appropriate to their career stage a workload
 allowance of 20%, which is incrementally increased to 40% when justified by current and
 projected activities. The system’s rules and processes are transparent and overseen by Heads
 of Department and the Dean of the Faculty. Staff who pass the 20% research workload are
 eligible for the annual £1,500 PDA (see Section 1).

 Research students

 (vi)   Recruitment of doctoral students

 Our UoA recruits students through four routes. Firstly, there is a self-funded option.
 Secondly, the ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Programme (SCDTP) offers Area Studies
 scholarships (both student-led and supervisor-led, see below). Thirdly, there is a University-
 sponsored option for staff (see Roberts’ example above). Fourthly, our faculty provides bursaries
 for supervisor-led projects that are consistent with UoA strategic objectives. We also use this
 route to prioritise opportunities for supervisors who have had relatively little opportunity for
 supervision to join project teams and develop their profile, under the mentorship of senior
 colleagues.

 At least two staff members review and select PhD applications based on the project’s originality
 and the student’s capability. We interview candidates shortlisted for faculty bursaries with a
 gender-balanced panel, with BAME staff representation where possible. Applications are scored
 against similar criteria for SCDTP students, including points given for students from non-
 conventional backgrounds to broaden participation.

 (vii) Studentships from major funding bodies

 In recognition of our PGR research culture in Area Studies, the ESRC awarded the South
 Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP) to Portsmouth, Southampton and Brighton
 Universities in 2017. CEISR coordinates the Area Studies pathway within the SCDTP. Within
 this REF period, CEISR has recruited 17 Area Studies students with full ESRC scholarships: five


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in the first year (2017), three in the second (2018), five in 2019 and a further four in 2020. All
 projects were interdisciplinary and included cross-institutional supervisory teams. Chafer also
 successfully secured an ESRC Postdoctoral Fellow in 2020 (Jacob).

 In collaboration with the British Council, the Algerian Ministry for Higher Education also provides
 fully-funded PhD bursaries for Algerian students to study in the UK. Thanks to a successful
 application led by Vince, six Algerian doctoral students have enrolled at the University to date.
 Our UoA also secured an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award in partnership with the British
 Council (2014-2017), aiming to increase policymakers’ understanding of Algerian culture.

 (viii) Monitoring and support for research students

 Our induction week facilitates the beginning of our students’ research journeys, connecting new
 students with established PGRs via the annual Faculty PGR Conference to help them build peer
 networks. Induction week also includes a meeting with their full supervisory team to undertake a
 skills analysis exercise and devise an individually-tailored training programme. This training
 schedule is revisited periodically at subsequent meetings and adjusted as the student’s needs
 change. Students access training primarily through the Graduate School Development
 Programme (GSDP), which provides over 190 workshop events on more than 70 topics per year
 (see REF5a Section 2, paragraph 21). Full-time PGRs are required to undertake at least ten
 days of training per year (five days for part-time).

 Students can use their annual research fund to attend external training workshops or
 conferences to network and improve their presentation skills. In 2019, we increased this fund
 from £500 to £550 over three years for self-funded students, and to £2,000 over three years for
 bursary students. We based this increase on a survey of competitor universities’ funds to ensure
 our Faculty is in line with sector-wide standards.

 Our primary formal mechanisms for monitoring student progress and ensuring successful
 completions are Major Reviews (where we upgrade the student from MPhil to PhD status) and
 Annual Reviews (conducted by experienced academics outside the supervisory team). In 2018,
 our faculty achieved a 100% Major Review progression rate (up from 96% the year before) and
 a 93% Annual Review progression rate (up from 82%). In the 2019 Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES), our faculty’s progress and assessment mechanisms received 91%
 satisfaction scores, with 94% of respondents agreeing with the statement 'I understand the
 requirements and deadlines for formal monitoring of my progress' and 93% agreeing with the
 statement 'I understand the required standard for my project/thesis'.

 The number of completions in Areas Studies has risen from 22 during the 2014 REF period to 31
 between 2014 and 2019. Of the completions achieved over this cycle, 52% were by men, 48%
 by women, 18% by BAME students and 9% by students who disclosed a disability. While thesis
 submission rates vary from year to year, depending on students’ circumstances, our submission
 rate in 2018-19 was 85% – the highest in the University. Our high completion rate is partly
 attributable to the faculty’s annual ‘Thesis Boot Camp’, facilitated by our Academic Skills Unit
 Director. CEISR actively encourages participation in this intensive two-day writing retreat, which




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 includes motivational talks, goal-setting and effective-writing techniques. These sessions are
 always well attended and enthusiastically received by PGRs.

 (ix)   Skills development and careers support for research students

 We encourage PGRs to develop their presentation skills at conferences, seminars and peer-to-
 peer events. Our annual faculty PGR Conference features paper presentations and poster
 displays by PGRs and a ‘three-minute thesis’ competition. We also encourage PGRs to present
 at the departmental research seminar series and the CEISR seminar series, helping them
 integrate into the faculty’s research culture, and support them in initiating their own research
 programmes. For example, we host a monthly lunchtime seminar series organised by PGRs for
 PGRs. Since January 2020, the elected faculty PGR representatives have also held monthly
 research-in-progress sessions to give PGRs a space to discuss their research outside of a
 supervisory framework, with research students from varied disciplines. Over the last year, they
 have continued to host these sessions remotely during the COVID-19 lockdown.

 Our supportive PGR training and research culture has inspired our students to take on leading
 academic roles in national research networks. For example, Hostein was elected Chair of the
 British International Studies Association’s (BISA) Postgraduate Network in 2019. She organised
 a BISA-funded international conference at Portsmouth that celebrated the 100th anniversary of
 International Relations (IR) and explored alternative perspectives on world politics from non-
 Western and marginalised standpoints, with a keynote address from leading IR scholar
 Professor Kimberly Hutchings.

 The faculty runs an annual careers workshop to help PGRs prepare for their postdoctoral future.
 The 2019 workshop focused on ‘Alternatives to Academic Careers’ and featured external
 participants who used their PhDs to achieve success outside of higher education in both the
 public and private sector. In contrast, the 2020 workshop focused on academic careers, inviting
 ECRs who had secured postdoctoral funding and/or junior lectureships to speak about their
 experiences.

 We advise PGRs who want to pursue academic careers to undertake the Graduate Students
 Professional Development (GPROF) course, which is a six-month programme teaching core
 pedagogic skills. PGRs can apply to become Advance HE Associate Fellows once they
 complete the course.

 To support students’ writing ambitions, our faculty provides training sessions on publishing in
 academic journals, to supplement the Graduate School Development Programme’s sessions on
 publication strategies. In line with the New Area Studies approach, we also run sessions on
 ‘citation ethics’ that reflect on the problematic implications of research predominantly undertaken
 by white, male scholars from the global North. These have resulted in several PGR publications
 in peer reviewed journals, including solo pieces (e.g. Bentoumi, De Graaf, Olawoore, Page) and
 collaborative papers with supervisor (e.g. Toltica with Chafer and Stoddard, Bortun and
 Kreuschitz with Heard-Laureote, and Martin with Bradley).

 We also provide mentorship to students aiming to enhance their academic job prospects by
 engaging with the impact agenda. For example, SCDTP-funded student Revesz became the first


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 European Parliamentary Research Service (EPRS) visiting PhD fellow in 2019 under the
 tutelage of Kaiser. He has held an in-house forum for all EPRS staff and his PhD will include
 recommendations for institutional and practice changes in the EPRS to enhance the quality and
 effectiveness of expert provision to MEPs.

 All our PGRs also have access to support from the University’s Careers and Employability
 Service up to five years after they graduate. We can point to a significant number that have gone
 on to secure academic positions in the UK and beyond. For example, Brosig is Associate
 Professor in International Relations at the University of Witwatersrand, South Africa; Libero is
 Lecturer in History and Education at Dixie State University, USA; Momesso is Lecturer in
 International Development at the University of Central Lancaster; and Huggins is Senior Lecturer
 in Politics at the University of Suffolk.

 Equality and Diversity

 Our UoA is committed to supporting all members through fair practices, systems and structures
 (see REF5a Section 3, paragraphs 43-52). All Schools from which UoA members originate are
 actively working on their Athena Swan Bronze Award applications (see REF5a Section 3,
 paragraph 44). We also made considerable progress in improving our gender balance, with
 women now comprising 50% of our entry. This figure compares well with the sector average for
 female academic staff (45.8%). Since 2014, nine new appointments of women have further
 strengthened our research community. Six of these have been promoted to Senior Lecturer
 during this REF cycle. More than half of all research-based promotions since 2014 have also
 gone to women, including two of the four new professorial chairs.

 Our improved gender balance reflects the benefits to women of our intensive research mentoring
 and support (for ECRs through to professors). We have also targeted our internal funding
 mechanisms towards women, who gained valuable research-leadership skills as a result. For
 example, Tremlett and Siklodi were awarded £15,700 from the Themes Research and
 Innovation Fund for a joint project to accelerate their research careers (see REF5a, Section 2,
 paragraph 12). Others have benefitted from internal QR-funded projects that enabled them to
 gain first-time experience managing a research team and budget. For example, Crack’s
 leadership of Transnational Civil Society helped her demonstrate the research leadership
 achievements that were an essential component of her successful application to Reader.

 Unit-level data on ethnicity is not available for the 2014 REF exercise, but our current
 submission comprises 9% BAME staff. We will continue our efforts to increase this proportion to
 reach the sector average of 14.6% for academic staff (see REF5a, Section 3, paragraph 45).

 Members of this UoA undertake research that directly aims to understand and improve equality
 and diversity issues. For example, Rutazibwa researches ways to decolonise international
 solidarity through reparations to formerly colonised areas in place of aid. In addition, Leddy-
 Owen writes about nationalism and race in the UK, with a particular focus on asylum seekers’
 and immigrants’ perceptions.

 Only 2% of staff declared a disability in the Area Studies submission, which is below the
 University average of 4.5% and the national average of 4.1%. We encourage Heads of Schools


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 in the UoA to manage their teams inclusively to give people the confidence to disclose a
 disability (see REF5a, Section 3, paragraph 45). The unit has a diverse profile in terms of
 nationality: 75% of submitted staff are British, 19% are EU citizens and 7% are non-EU
 international.

 (x)    Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff

 Our unit includes eight part-time staff (5% of the UoA submission) and one QR-funded
 postdoctoral research fellow on a fixed-term contract. Alongside developing her publication
 record and international profile, the Fellow plays a significant role in cultivating the national and
 global profile of the PTUC and Supernatural Cities projects.

 At the time of writing, the UoA is strategically investing QR funds into an area of growing
 research significance by recruiting two additional postdoctoral researchers to the Mental Health
 in Childhood and Education group and West African Peace and Security Network project.
 The unit also successfully recruited two Leverhulme-funded postdoctoral fellows during the REF
 period (Naylor and Lucia).

 Our faculty funding support and mentoring are available to fixed-term and part-time staff on the
 same basis as permanent and full-time staff, part of our explicit commitment to equal opportunity
 career development. We document and monitor their progress against the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers (see REF5a Section 3, paragraphs 41-42).

 (xi)   Support for the wellbeing of staff and research students

 The Higher Education Research Group co-led a £150k Office for Students project on PGR
 Wellbeing in 2018-20 (see REF5a Section 3, paragraph 39). The project introduced a new 'PGR
 wellbeing' session in the compulsory supervisor-training course, including training to identify
 mental health problems and refer students to support services. Another key outcome was the
 Portsmouth Action Learning Sets (PALS) initiative, which created peer-led sessions designed to
 improve researcher wellbeing and effectiveness. The majority of PALS participants reported that
 the intervention had a positive personal impact, increasing their social connections, confidence
 and likelihood of seeking support.

 We provide several services and resources to support staff wellbeing (see REF5a Section 3,
 paragraph 48). Mental health and wellbeing checks can be booked with the University’s
 Occupational Health nurses, and an Employee Assistance programme runs a free and
 confidential 24/7 helpline. We also support UoA members via our Flexible Working Policy to
 protect time for childcare and other such commitments (see REF5a Section 3, paragraph 46). In
 addition, we recently expanded the Personal Development Allowance policy to enable UoA
 members to cover childcare costs when away for research purposes.

 (xii) Inclusion of equality and diversity considerations in the construction of the REF
       submission

 All staff involved in this REF’s preparation undertook external workshops and online courses on
 ‘Equality and Diversity’, ‘Unconscious Bias’ and ‘Bullying and Harassment’ (see REF5a Section


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3, paragraph 50). Our UoA’s commitment to equality and diversity is also exemplified by the joint
 coordination of the REF2021 submission by Crack (F) and Beaven (M).

 Our REF output selection was governed by the University’s Code of Practice, and a gender-
 balanced panel undertook internal peer reviews. All colleagues in the Unit were initially assigned
 one output. We subsequently assembled the remainder of our output portfolio according to
 output quality, guided by internal and external peer review using the REF criteria of originality,
 rigour and significance. Where there was a tie, we gave preference to outputs that fit
 thematically in the unit or were delivered by colleagues presently employed by the University.
 Our submitted outputs are largely commensurate with our staff profile in terms of gender (48%
 women and 52% men), BAME (7%) and disability (1%). In addition, the majority of our Impact
 Case Studies have been produced by women.




 3     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 (i)    Strategies for External Income Generation

 External income generation is crucial to our strategy of maintaining a sustainable, lively and
 international research environment and producing world-leading research and impact
 (see REF5a Section 4, paragraph 60). Our strategy is three-fold: (i) broaden the base of funded
 scholars; (ii) diversify funding streams; and (iii) target our historical strengths to secure large
 grants.

 A key aim has been to build capacity and broaden the staff-base for external funding
 applications. We encouraged ECRs or staff without experience in funding applications to apply
 for smaller grants (under £10k) to initiate research projects. Between 2015 and 2019, RIS
 provided a range of relevant training sessions including ‘Introduction to Research Funding’ (4
 events), ‘British Academy Small Grants’ (2 events) and ‘Applying for Small Grants’ (2 events)
 attended by 25% of Area Studies UoA staff. Our faculty also organises events for Area Studies
 staff. For example, Bull ran an ESRC New Investigator applications workshops and Stoddard
 held workshops for researchers new to writing funding bids. Notable research projects or
 international-collaboration successes include McCall, British Academy (£3.9k); Holmes, British
 Academy (£4.7k); Salvi, British Academy Newton Mobility (£5k); and Bull, British Academy
 (£8.6k).

 Our second aim was to diversify the income-stream base (see REF5a Section 3, paragraph
 62). To this end, we targeted non-traditional funding bodies, with several colleagues successfully
 securing sponsorship from governmental, commercial or philanthropic organisations. For
 example, James was awarded £3k by the Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation to organise a
 collaborative workshop with Kobe University in Japan. This relatively modest investment was
 match-funded by CEISR to facilitate the collaboration between academics in East Asia and
 Europe. This initiative evolved into the world-wide Coastal History Network (see Section 4). A
 larger grant of £89k was awarded to Esbester by the Institution of Occupational Safety and
 Health. In collaboration with the University of Reading, this interdisciplinary project resulted in a


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 series of workshops that brought practitioners and academics together, a published industry-
 focused policy report, and an academic monograph.

 The development of large-bid capability is a key element of our strategy going forward (see
 REF5a, Section 3, paragraph 61), targeting large grant funding towards our historically
 strong research areas including international development, the European Union, and
 decolonisation. Between 2015 and 2017, RIS offered targeted training sessions for more
 experienced researchers writing complex bids. Training sessions included ‘Processes and
 Support for Submitting Research Funding Bids’ and ‘Strategies for Research Success’. Our
 large-grant successes include Bradley’s leading research on women’s rights in Globalised
 Africa which was awarded over £1m from funding bodies, including a £500k AHRC grant to
 explore resilience in South Sudan through an Arts Curriculum. In addition, Kaiser’s
 (Transnational Civil Society) world leading research on the European Union and transnational
 politics accrued over £500k, including a major EU-funded project on ‘Networks and Narratives:
 The Transnational Community of the European Union 1957-2004’. Vince was also awarded over
 £500k for projects on the post- independent Algerian state that focused on the generation of
 students who experienced decolonisation.

 Our strategy has paid off: our income increased from £866,701 to £2,660,659 over this REF
 period. Not included in these figures are recent funding successes for projects due to begin in
 2021, which indicate that our income strategy has created solid foundations for the future. For
 example, Andress was awarded a Leverhulme Major Fellowship worth £166k in December 2021.
 In addition to the awards listed in our REF4, Stoddard was awarded two Fellowships: a
 Postdoctoral Fellowship at the Kolleg-Forschergruppe on 'The Transformative Power of
 Europe' at the Otto Suhr Institute of Political Science, Freie Universität Berlin (€30,000), and an
 EU-funded Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship at the Scuola Superiore
 Sant’Anna in Pisa (€180,277). Both awards have helped develop the WAPSN’s growing profile
 in conflict and insecurity research in West Africa.

 (ii)   Funding links to impact and high quality outputs

 We based our strategy for internally funding Strategic Projects on UKRI’s model, requiring
 internationally significant research outputs and clear and demonstrable impact. This investment
 paid dividends: four of the six Impact Case Studies submitted in the 2021 REF exercise were
 fostered by Strategic Projects.

 We have placed considerable emphasis on providing staff with training and resources, and
 offering a research environment conducive to high quality outputs. We routinely invite ECRs and
 staff members returning to research to training workshops on writing articles, book proposals
 and monographs run by senior colleagues in the UoA. Since 2018, CEISR has funded four
 writing retreats for colleagues writing-up their research. These have proved especially
 productive, particularly for those writing articles. For example, the last writing retreat in January
 2020 (pre-lockdown) enabled 10 of the 15 participants to complete and submit an article or
 complete revisions for re-submission. For colleagues engaged in more sustained research, our
 faculty also offers a sabbatical competition designed to enhance staff research profiles at all
 points of their career (see Section 2, iv).



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 By following through on this strategy, we have developed a solid track record of producing high-
 quality outputs and impact from externally-funded projects. In her AHRC project ‘Generation
 Independence’, for example, Vince produced a monograph entitled The Algerian War, the
 Algerian Revolution (2020) and impact pathways included a series of short documentaries about
 Algerian university students and graduates in the 1960s and 1970s. As well as providing an ICS
 for the UoA (REF3 UoP25WWI), Beaven’s AHRC award ‘Gateways to the First World War’,
 organised over twenty community events across the country including a national BAME
 Seafarers community workshop at the National Archives (January 2019), and a nation-wide
 mobile exhibition on seafarers and the First World War. In addition, Bradley’s ESRC funded work
 on violence narratives in Nepal and Myanmar demonstrated the importance of all-women peer
 networks, a policy adopted by DFID advisors, and enabled Bradley to author a book entitled
 Global Perspectives on Violence against Women and Girls (2020).

 (iii)   Infrastructure

 Our research and impact activity is supported by the University’s Research & Innovation
 Services department (see REF5a Section.4, paragraphs 56-9). Further support is offered by the
 faculty’s Humanities and Social Science Research and Innovation Office (HSSRIO), led by the
 Faculty’s Innovation Manager. HSSRIO consolidates knowledge, experience and expertise on
 funding bodies and the research funding environment, and organises a well-attended
 programme of interdisciplinary workshops (led by senior Area Studies staff) on research funding
 and related topics.

 HSSRIO offers discipline-specific and interdisciplinary support to all staff engaging in external
 bid development and research collaborations, and mixes academic, finance and administrative
 capacity. It consists of a Postgraduate Officer, a Senior Research Secretary, and two Senior
 Finance Officers with extra capacity for specific post-award support currently being created. A
 Research and Innovation Officer is also responsible for supporting and overseeing external bids
 from the initial idea through to submission, offering one-to-one support for writing, funder
 selection, engagement or impact pathways, and facilitating peer-to-peer advice and local peer
 review. Finally, the Research and Innovation Administrator assists with event organisation,
 research communications, research profile maintenance, and maintenance of the Research and
 Innovation Information System. The dedicated one-to-one support offered to academics by these
 individuals has been a crucial factor in developing our increasingly successful track-record of
 funding.

 Continuing our longstanding policy of developing our intellectual infrastructure, we have made
 significant investments since 2014 in library-based research resources. Collaborating with
 research groups, the Faculty Librarian has invested a total of £733k between 2014 and 2020.
 This includes permanent acquisition of major UK, European, North American and Chinese
 newspaper archives, and thematic resource collections ranging from the holdings of the Naval
 Records Society to visual cultures of the First World War and the history of film censorship in the
 20th-century USA. The resources of the Churchill Archive are complemented by a collection on
 London Low Life from the 18th to the 20th Centuries. New access to materials such as the
 Calendars of State Papers and the Mass Observation Archive has been complemented by




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 selection of several extensive collections on women’s and gender history and the history of
 sexuality, and on African-American histories.




 4     Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 (i)    Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Our Strategic Projects anticipate that members will use funds to engage in networking
 activities to establish long-term collaboration. They have worked systematically to develop
 partnerships and expand networks over this REF cycle.

 In collaboration with the University of the Highlands and Islands, Port Towns and Urban
 Cultures (PTUC) jointly leads The Coastal History Network, a worldwide network of almost 150
 scholars. Following their successful application to the Institute of Historical Research for new
 online international partnership seminars, the network’s Coastal Connections seminars will begin
 in 2021 and are organised by nine convenors (including Bassett) drawn from universities from
 across the globe. The network aims to establish common research themes to stimulate
 international collaborative research bids, workshops and outputs.

 PTUC is also engaged in a long-running collaboration with Gothenburg University and
 Gothenburg Maritime Museum, producing a range of international conferences. These include
 ‘Mapping the Urban Waterfronts’ (Gothenburg, 2015), ‘Maritime Masculinities’ (Oxford Brookes
 University, 2016) and a workshop with the National Maritime Museum, ‘New Perspectives on
 Coastal and Maritime History’ (Greenwich July 2019). These conferences have resulted in two
 edited volumes: Port Towns and Urban Cultures: International Histories of the Waterfront, 1750-
 2000 (Palgrave 2016) and Maritime Masculinities (Palgrave 2020).

 PTUC also signed a memorandum of understanding with Lloyds Register in London to provide
 bursaries of £90k per doctoral student to research port and maritime history. They will initially
 enrol one student in September 2021, with the prospect of further bursaries in the forthcoming
 years.

 Supernatural Cities also organised four international conferences, co-hosting two with the
 Limerick School of Art and Design (‘Exploring the Urban Mindscape’, 2016; ‘Gothic Cities’, 2017)
 one with the University of Hertfordshire (‘The Urban Wyrd’, 2018), and one with the University of
 Chichester (‘The Fabled Coast’, 2019). The group also produced an edited volume entitled
 Supernatural Cities: Enchantment, Anxiety and Spectrality (Boydell, 2019). Under Project Leader
 Bell’s editorship, this involved collaborations with international scholars from HE institutions in
 the UK, Ireland, the USA, Russia, South Africa and Australia.

 Since 2016, Transnational Civil Society has organised several international workshops
 supported by faculty funding. As a result of one of these, Siklodi partnered with colleagues from
 Trondheim University to submit a successful Fellowship application (2019-21). During her
 Fellowship, Siklodi developed a successful £1.2 million Trondheim-led bid as a co-Investigator to


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the Norwegian Directorate of Education and Training for a collaborative project on International
 Civic and Citizenship Education.

 In addition, Dennis held a workshop with Hall (Johns Hopkins University) on ‘Understanding and
 Examining the Digital Advocacy Pioneers’ (2020), which resulted in a special issue of the
 Journal of Information Technology and Politics.

 The West African Peace and Security Network (WAPSN) established a Memorandum of
 Understanding to open up cooperation with the University of Ibadan’s Institute for Peace and
 Strategic Studies - one of the largest and most prestigious centres of its type in West Africa. This
 led to Professor Isaac Albert (Ibadan) and Dr Philip Attuquayefio (Legon) joining us as Visiting
 Professor (2018) and Visiting Fellow (2019) respectively. In 2020, this collaboration delivered a
 successful £50k British Academy / GCRF bid with Chafer, Stoddard and Lazell for an
 interdisciplinary research project on conflict-sensitive responses to armed violence in the Sahel.

 Our Visiting Professor scheme fosters access to valuable collaboration and networking
 opportunities. For example, Visiting Professor David Hanley is an Emeritus Professor of
 European Studies and former Head of the School of European Studies at Cardiff University. He
 delivered the CEISR Annual Lecture and research seminars, provided networking opportunities
 and expertise on European politics to colleagues and PhD students in the Transnational Politics
 and Society research group, and participated in PhD students’ Annual Reviews. In addition,
 Visiting Professor Quintin Colville, Senior Curator of Research at the National Maritime Museum,
 has jointly organised workshops exploring cultural heritage and identity and facilitated
 partnerships with non-HEIs and wider community groups.

 Our seminar programme of external speakers promotes networking between our staff and
 guests. Each research group organises regular seminars, with funds allocated to pay for external
 speakers. CEISR also hosts an annual lecture from a high-profile speaker, which has included
 Professor Edith W. Clowes (University of Virginia), Professor Paul Betts (University of Oxford),
 Professor Thierry Balzacq (Sciences Po), and Professor Robbie Shilliam (Johns Hopkins
 University). The programme has catalysed collaborative ventures between UoA staff and
 external speakers. For example, Rutazibwa co-edited a book with Shilliam, Postcolonial Politics
 (Routledge).

 (ii)   Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences, and their
        impact

 Members of our UoA have routinely engaged with a wide range of research users, beneficiaries
 and audiences over this REF cycle. For example, the UoA has hosted the Jean Monnet Study
 Centre of Excellence for the Study of a Transnational Europe since 2013, funded by the
 European Commission. The Centre addresses crucial European (dis)integration themes and
 systematically engages with European institutions. Kaiser is a Non-Residential Senior Fellow of
 the EPRS (the in-house service providing expertise to MEPs). His publications about the
 European Parliament, which include an EPRS report on the Parliament’s role in EU institutional
 reform (2018), have opened a pathway to impact. Kaiser is collaborating with the secretary-
 general of the European Parliament, the director-general of the EPRS and several secretaries-
 general of leading political groups to create educational resources on the European Parliament’s

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 history. These would be used to train new MEPs and political-group staff and to educate the
 wider public.

 Another example is our Mental Health in Childhood and Education (MICE) project’s work. In
 line with our UoA focus on marginalised groups, MICE developed research relationships with
 practitioners supporting displaced children and children from ethnic minority communities. For
 example, MICE funded a conference promoting inclusive practice, titled ‘Welcoming Diversity’
 (2019). Participants included the West-Wiltshire Multifaith Forum, the Wiltshire Racial Equality
 Council (WREC), Wiltshire Black Police Association, and other stakeholders in education and
 health. WREC subsequently used Sims-Schouten’s research to successfully bid for £18k from
 the Wiltshire Community Foundation Trust. They aimed to support vulnerable ethnic minority
 communities with court hearings, mediation, food vouchers and social care, benefitting 40
 vulnerable families with complex needs in west Wiltshire in 2020. Sims-Schouten is now working
 with a school in Wiltshire to develop its policy and practice concerning children from ethnic
 minority communities.

 (iii)   Wider contributions to the economy and society, and impact not contained in the
         impact case studies

 Research developed in this UoA directly contributes to society through several impactful
 activities, as demonstrated in the following examples.

 Our Citizenship, Race and Belonging (CRaB) group forges several pathways to impact. In
 line with our strategic principle of applying a problem-based approach to empower
 marginalised and vulnerable groups, Leddy-Owen’s research expertise on ‘race’ and
 nationalism led him to develop relationships with key stakeholders in migrant support. Leddy-
 Owen is a trustee for local migrant support charity Friends without Borders, who co-organise
 with the Red Cross a regular drop-in advisory session for Portsmouth-based migrants. He is also
 a qualified adviser in immigration law, offering weekly appointments to migrants looking for
 immigration-related advice, to keep service-users better informed as they attempt to resolve their
 immigration status. His research expertise also informs the development of Sanctuary
 Scholarships for local asylum seekers undertaken by the University’s Scholarship Working
 Group.

 In line with our strategic principle of applying a problem-based approach to stimulate
 community engagement, CRaB and ArtReach (an organisation that seeks to connect art with
 diverse communities) made a successful bid to the Institute of Strategic Dialogue and Google to
 run the ‘Creating Communities’ project. This project organised 20 public displays of refugee-
 based art in 2017. Evaluation data indicate a positive impact on attitudes towards refugees
 among groups considered to be particularly hostile, including older, less educated and lower-
 income participants. In 2020, CRaB also organised a public seminar on ‘HipHop Education’ with
 two US-based contacts: Edmund Adjapong, director of the Science Genius Program (a New
 York programme that uses hip hop to engage urban students with the sciences) and Rovion
 Reed, co-founder and CEO of Kinetic Vibez (an organisation that uses yoga, hip-hop music
 production and mindfulness to empower young people). The event was attended by




                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 representatives of Portsmouth City Council, local teachers and teacher trainers interested in
 enhancing inclusivity in educational spaces.

 (iv)   Engagement with diverse audiences and publics

 Our UoA engages policymakers and practitioners. For example, the WAPSN Strategic
 Project formed a partnership with Chatham House colleagues to deliver bespoke security
 training targeted at policymakers and practitioners in West Africa. WAPSN scheduled six major
 events from 2018 onwards. Those held in London were aimed at UK/European officials while
 events held in Abuja, Nigeria, were aimed at overseas practitioners and the Economic
 Community of West African States. As the WAPSN project lead, Stoddard visited Nigeria in 2019
 and was invited to present his research to the British High Commission (including the High
 Commissioner). Furthermore, Chafer provided evidence as an expert witness to the House of
 Lords International Relations and Defence Committee in May 2020 as part of its inquiry into ‘The
 UK and Sub-Saharan Africa’.

 We engage with marginalised communities at the international level. For example,
 Globalised Africa member Bradley led a collaborative project investigating how art and heritage
 in South Sudan reveal different expressions of resilience among vulnerable groups, and how
 these compare with international humanitarian actors’ understanding and operationalisation. The
 project’s co-investigators include academics at UCL, the University of Oxford, the University of
 Juba and the Catholic University of South Sudan. The project partner is the Sudanese NGO
 Likikiri Collective (Art Heritage, Resilience and Humanitarianism in South Sudan, £300k, 2018-
 20). This project has left a legacy of practical tools based on specific art genres (e.g. storytelling
 by community actors), which opens spaces for more sensitive and participatory approaches to
 development.

 We work with marginalised communities at the national level. For example, Transnational
 Civil Society member Tremlett led an ESRC-funded £77k project entitled ‘Challenging dominant
 representations of LGBTIQ Roma in public spaces through queer research-informed
 interventions’ (2019-20). This collaborative project, which involves Brighton University's Centre
 for Transforming Gender and Sexuality, has resulted in a series of workshops and an exhibition
 on the visual self-representations of LGBTIQ people from Roma (Gypsy or Traveller)
 backgrounds. The project has enabled participants to explore creative outlets to express their
 multiple identities and feelings evoked by their stigmatisation in public discourses.

 We develop relationships with local stakeholders to further our role as a civic university.
 In 2020, Bassett (PTUC) and Vince (Francophone Africa) launched an outreach project entitled
 ‘Portsmouth Black History: Recovering untold Stories for New Generations’. This collaborative
 project brings together local academics, community activists, curators, archivists and teachers to
 consolidate and enrich knowledge about Portsmouth’s Black history. The project also engages
 local communities in the co-production of knowledge, produces educational materials for local
 schools about local Black history for all key stage levels, and develops effective ways to raise
 the visibility of Portsmouth’s Black history in community arts and public history institutions.

 Bassett and Vince are also working with teacher-training courses to decolonise the curriculum.
 The project has been enthusiastically embraced by local stakeholders, including Portsmouth

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Museums and Libraries Service, Portsmouth Educational Partnership, Black Lives Matters
 representatives and the African Women’s Forum.

 (v)     Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 We encourage colleagues to pursue opportunities to be influential in the development of
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary structures. Several of our researchers head national and
 international professional bodies whose members include leading scholars, ECRs and PGRs.
 Chafer is currently the elected Vice-President of the UK Council for Area Studies Associations
 (UKCASA, consisting of 17 Area Studies Associations). Chafer was previously President of
 UKCASA (2015-19) and was also appointed as the Area Studies representative of the Institute
 of Modern Languages Research Advisory Council (2018-21).

 Andress chaired The Society for the Study of French History (2017-21); Bawa Mason chairs the
 Institute of Translation and Interpreting (2019); Siklodi is an elected member of the Steering
 Committee of the ECPR Standing Group on Citizenship (286 members); Crack is the founder
 and convenor of the British International Studies Association (BISA) Working Group on NGOs
 and Civil Society (148 members), and Cheng is Secretary-General of the European Association
 of Taiwan Studies. Through these roles, members support the discipline by organising
 prestigious conferences and promoting collaboration and networking among researchers.

 (vi)    UoA support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research

 CEISR fosters a research environment that enables researchers to share strong disciplinary
 identities, intellectual coherency and interdisciplinary work. Indeed, CEISR’s significant
 contribution to interdisciplinarity was recognised in a British Academy report Crossing Paths:
 Interdisciplinarity Institutions, Careers, Education and Applications (2016). CEISR was one of
 seven Research Centres in the UK identified by the British Academy as exhibiting a track record
 in interdisciplinary work. The other Centres are based at the Oxford, Cambridge, Durham,
 Manchester, Edinburgh and Warwick universities. The report praised CEISR for nurturing a
 vibrant and expansive interdisciplinary research culture that informs both teaching and research.

 PTUC and Supernatural Cities offer exemplars of interdisciplinary research. Their work
 explores how the digital humanities can uncover rich strands of marginalised cultural heritage.
 Both groups have developed European networks, on port and supernatural urban cultures
 respectively, and explore how the digital humanities can enhance comparative analyses of
 tangible and intangible urban cultures. PTUC have also developed a prototype ‘Sailortown’ app
 and database enabling users to explore nineteenth-century Portsmouth’s cultural geography.
 Following a series of workshops, the concept is currently being trialled with colleagues in
 Gothenburg, with plans to extend analyses to other ports. Likewise, Supernatural Cities have
 developed ‘Portsmyth’, an app that explores urban space and draws together interdisciplinary
 and practice-based research. Their research will be presented on a geo-located digital platform,
 enabling academics from disciplines such as architecture, history and creative writing to make
 new connections with the urban environment.

 (vii)   Responses to national and international priorities and initiatives



                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our UoA boasts a dynamic and outward-looking research culture addressing critical issues
 facing society today. For example, Transnational Civil Society organised a high-profile event
 titled ‘Civil Society Under Attack’ (2018), which focused on NGO accountability and
 safeguarding. This was a rapid response to the Oxfam scandal in Haiti that had broken in the
 media two months before, when aid workers were accused of sexually exploiting local women
 and girls. Attended by over 60 delegates, the workshop included presentations by Professors
 from LSE and the University of Reading, ECRs from UCL and University of Sussex, think tanks
 (Overseas Development Institute), NGOs (Keeping Children Safe, Involve, Corporate Europe
 Observatory and Bond) and project members. The audience included personnel from the
 Independent Commission for Aid Impact (who attended to collect evidence as part of the
 ongoing DFID inquiry into safeguarding), World Vision, Family for Every Child, and Chatham
 House. The substantial number of practitioner attendees demonstrates the strong links our
 members have established with non-academic stakeholders.

 A more recent example is Stewart’s 18-month project on homelessness during the COVID-19
 pandemic (funded by ESRC/UKRI, £182k). Stewart is working with the homeless charity St
 Mungo's (and its partners) to recommend measures to support migrant groups facing
 homelessness in times of crisis and beyond.

 (viii) Indications of wider influence

 Our UoA members have held significant editorial positions exemplifying the UoA’s scholarly and
 professional contribution to the research base. Researchers have held roles as editors of
 international journals, including Flenley (Journal of Contemporary European Studies), Stewart
 (Journal of Cultural Analysis and Social Change), Gibbons (British Catholic History), and Sims-
 Schouten (Children and Society). In addition, our staff have been invited to be Guest Editors for
 leading international journals, including English Historical Review (Gibbons), Translation Spaces
 (Bawa Mason), International Migration and China Perspectives (Cheng).

 Staff spanning the various disciplines of Area Studies have also been invited to join the editorial
 boards of high-level journals. Examples include French History (Andress), Modern and
 Contemporary France (Chafer, Vince), Caucasus Survey (Youngman), Mariners Mirror (Pearce),
 Journal of Cultural Analysis and Social Change, European Societies (Smart), Sport in History
 (Beaven), Critical Military Studies (McSorely), Journal of Transport History (Esbester), and
 Sociological Research Online (Stewart). Senior researchers are also book-series editors or
 editorial board members with leading publishers. For example, Andress is on the editorial board
 of the Royal Historical Society New Historical Perspectives open-access monograph series, and
 Beaven is series editor of Global Studies in Cultural and Social Maritime History (Palgrave).

 All staff undertake peer review and refereeing work, across a range of publishers and journals
 too numerous to list, but including leading global outlets such as Oxford and Cambridge
 University Presses, and leading international journals in history, sociology, international relations
 and allied disciplines. Our senior staff are also members of national and international peer
 review colleges. These include the AHRC Peer Review Panel (Andress, Beaven, Bradley),
 Agence Nationale de la Recherche (Chafer), and the European Science Foundation Experts
 Review College (Beaven). Kaiser is on peer review panels for the European Union, Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie and Jean Monnet Programmes and sits on Hong Kong, German, Flemish,

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Danish and Dutch Research Councils. Chafer has also been Deputy Chair of the Area Studies
 REF panel over this REF cycle.

 International prizes and fellowships awarded to our UoA members demonstrate global
 recognition of our UoA’s standing and contribution. Recipients include Bull, who won the British
 Sociology Association’s Philip Abrams Memorial Prize in 2020; Sims-Schouten, who won an
 Emerald publishers’ Literati Award in 2019; and Vince, who won the Women’s History Network
 Book Prize in 2016. In addition to the several Fellowships mentioned above, Kaiser is also
 Visiting Professor at the College of Europe, Belgium. Stoddard received competitive Fellowships
 from the Free University of Berlin (2014) and an EU Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Actions International Fellowship (2018). Xu was awarded the British Educational Research
 Association’s Early Career Research Award, and Visiting Fellowships were awarded to Leucht
 (Max Planck Institute for European Legal History), Marten-Finnis (Heidelberg University), Chafer
 (Université Libre de Bruxelles), Cheng (Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Taiwan), Siklodi (Trondheim
 University) and Rutazibwa (Johannesburg Institute for Advanced Studies).




                                                                                          Page 25
