Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Abertay University

 Unit of Assessment: 24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA24 is a small highly collaborative and collegial unit administratively contained within the
 Division of Sport and Exercise Sciences, which is one of four Divisions in the School of Applied
 Sciences. Housed in the Kydd Building in the Bell Street Complex, the Division has been
 through a period of growth over this assessment period and has members across its two
 research groups. 2014 was Abertay University’s first submission to the Research Excellence
 Framework in the Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism UoA, and was based on 6
 FTE. Our submission to REF 2021 is based on 11.6 FTE.

 Abertay’s research strategy is to produce high-quality research and knowledge exchange
 aligned with international, national and local priorities, and deliver real impact for society (see
 REF5a). Activity, collaboration and interdisciplinary innovation is driven across the University
 through implementation of our R-LINCS (Research-Led Innovation Nodes in Contemporary
 Society) Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy. Within the REF assessment period
 Abertay has operated under two Strategic Plans: R-LINCS (2014-19) and R-LINCS2 (2020-25).
 R-LINCS is driven by a University-wide Research Executive responsible for enhancing the
 development of a sustainable research environment through strategic investment, review and
 cross-cutting support, structures and initiatives; a UoA24 member of staff is a Research
 Executive member. The Research Executive interacts directly with the University Executive, the
 Schools and the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC), to promote
 and facilitate a thriving, inclusive and collaborative research environment, and enable impact
 within and across research units. As outlined in Section 3, the UoA has benefited over the
 assessment period from significant support and investment from the School and University in
 research and impact infrastructure, new research appointments, dedicated technical support and
 development of laboratories to accommodate additional areas of research activity and add
 capacity for future impact collaborations.

 Our campus co-location and UoA’s appetite for collaboration enables us to work effectively
 across discipline boundaries. Collaborations within Abertay have extended the scope of our
 research activity (for example, research on cardiovascular function of prolonged
 supplementation with omega 3 in older adults in collaboration with the Division of Engineering
 and Food Science) and offers the potential for innovative projects of a much greater scope to be
 pursued in the future that would not otherwise have been possible (e.g., developing e-sports
 research taking advantage of a £5.5M investment in the School of Design and Informatics which
 includes an Emergent Technology Centre). Our approach to enabling impact also involves
 working directly with stakeholders outwith the University in order to translate our research
 findings into innovative solutions that enable improved outcomes at the heart of the unit strategy.
 Our proactive and selective approach in identifying potential beneficiaries significantly enhanced
 the level of research activity and sustainability of our research environment, as evidenced in our
 selected impact case studies.

 We have increased our research income by 34% (REF4b), number of postgraduate research
 students by 94% (REF4a) and quality of research outputs (REF2; and Web of Science citations
 have increased by 212%) during the REF2021 assessment period compared to the 2014 REF
 submission. We also have been highly effective in generating knowledge exchange income
 (£2,664,273; Section 3) and enabling impact (REF3).

 The UoA context and structure has allowed us to meet all of the strategic aims set out in the last
 assessment period, and our thriving environment also supports our future strategic aims and
 goals for research and impact.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

 The 2014 REF submission set out a commitment to: 1) further develop the research groups; 2)
 increase the number of postgraduate research students; 3) increase research income; and 4)
 increase dissemination and public engagement. All of these strategic aims for research and
 impact have been achieved during the assessment period, and evidence is provided below.

 1) Further develop the research groups.

 In order to meet this aim, the University has funded the expansion of the UoA’s research groups
 since the last REF through the establishment of a new professorial role to provide research
 leadership, 7 new academic posts and a dedicated technician who also draws in expertise from
 the wider technical team (outlined in Section 2). Significant investment (£2.75M) has also been
 made during this assessment period in new research laboratories (outlined in Section 3). The
 number of research active staff returned in this assessment has increased from 6 in 2014 to 11.6
 in 2020. Two research groups have been established during the assessment period
 (Biomechanics and Physiology; and Social Science of Sport) as part of our strategy to enhance
 the quality of our research and impact.

 A review of the staff base and interests (in 2015) led to a refocus of research groups. Related to
 these staff strengths and interests there were two clear groups, a biomechanics and physiology
 group, and a social science of sport group. The Head of Division took a strategic decision to
 develop the groups in these two complementary areas. Due to the diversity of sport and exercise
 science, this was an effective way for shared interests to be developed and also to align
 research with the University strategy and structure, including for integration of post-graduate
 research students into the disciplinary specific research environment that complements the
 Abertay Graduate School provision. These research groups provide supportive structures that
 enable researchers to meet with peers who share a methodological and/or subject interest.
 Groups have a fluid membership which can vary according to topic, and some individuals are
 members of both. Each meet up several times per academic session, and provide supportive
 peer review (for ideas, presenting research) and act as an academic sounding board for
 research. Postgraduate Research students (PGRS) are regular and active contributors, and
 each group has collaborated in bringing at least one high profile research related flagship event
 to Abertay, for example, Biomechanics and Physiology (BASES 2019 Student Conference) and
 Social Science of Sport (Leisure Studies Association 2019 Conference).

 Research across the two groups has concentrated during the assessment period on current
 research challenges in the field involving populations with protected characteristics (e.g., age,
 gender, disability). This research contributes to the welfare and safety in sport agenda, which
 has growing salience as an issue in sport locally, nationally and internationally. The approach of
 the UoA to supporting and enabling impact in this distinctive area is to work directly with
 stakeholders in order to translate research findings into innovative solutions that enable
 improved outcomes. For example, one of the selected impact case studies outlines how our
 research has contributed to reversing a significant sports participation drop-out from the Gaelic
 Athletic Association in Ireland among 12-16 year-old male participants. Our strategy has led to
 the establishment of a sustainable network to support sport participation in youth sport
 populations.

 Our second selected impact case study outlines how our research has influenced professional
 practice and improved outcomes of sport support services in the United Kingdom, Australia and
 New Zealand. Working directly with elite sport wellbeing practitioners, our approach has
 translated the findings into easy-to-use tools that have enabled effective changes in the practice
 of career transition support to improve outcomes at individual, sport and organisational levels.
 The impact of this research was publicly noted in a Parliamentary debate on sport in the UK and
 an impact campaign by the English Institute of Sport.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the selected impact case studies, our strategy has enabled impact in other areas.
 For example, research on high intensity in the physiology and biomechanics area is being
 applied across performance settings. For example, programmes developed on the basis of the
 UoA’s research has supported elite kickboxers with a new way to train, culminating in one
 kickboxer becoming world champion. The research has also underpinned the work of sports
 coaches, and the development of a local company (i.e., HIIT IT).

 2) Increase the number of postgraduate research students.

 The UoA has significantly benefitted from the development of the Abertay Graduate School with
 regard to its vibrancy and critical mass (outlined in Section 2). The number of doctoral degrees
 awarded to students supervised in the UoA is 5 (there were no doctoral degrees awarded in the
 2014 assessment period) and our PGRS registrations in the cognate area of Sport and Exercise
 Sciences, Leisure and Tourism has increased from 8.5 in 2013-14 to 16.5 in 2019-20.

 3) Increase research income.

 Research income (REF4b) has increased across this assessment period, but the UoA made a
 strategic decision to focus more on knowledge exchange to help generate further income and
 drive our approach to income. As outlined in our 2014 submission, the Scottish Government
 made a significant investment in the Dundee Academy of Sport (DAoS; further details provided
 in 4th strategic aim below: Increase Dissemination and Public Engagement) and this is not
 returned as research income as it was a project funded by the Scottish Funding Council. This
 presented us with a unique, fixed time-frame opportunity which was the main focus of our
 attention during the assessment period. This helped the UoA generate £2,664,273 in knowledge
 exchange income across this assessment period.

 4) Increase dissemination and public engagement.

 Dissemination and public engagement has increased during this REF period through a number
 of impact strands. The DAoS was created to help achieve this aim through targeted
 dissemination routes with a range of stakeholders (schools, colleges and community groups)
 using sport research as a vehicle for widening access to education. Since January 2014, we
 have worked with 90 schools to deliver 1337 sessions underpinned by sport research to 40114
 school children from predominantly SIMD20 (Scottish Index of Multiple Deprivation)
 backgrounds. During this assessment period, the DAoS also engaged directly with, and
 accessed the networks of, a number of local partners in order to disseminate research: an
 articulation and access programme to support college students progress to university level study
 (307 sessions delivered to 6055 students); a CPD programme for sports professionals and
 volunteers (162 sessions to 4626 individuals); and summer camps (75 sessions delivered to
 2504 individuals). Recognition of our impact includes: Shortlist for Best Partnership Award
 (Herald Higher Education Awards 2016); Silver Game Changer Award (Legacy 2014); Game on
 Scotland Legacy Award (Legacy 2014); and Partnership Excellence Award (Angus Council
 2014-15 and 2015-16).

 During the REF period, we proactively contributed to popular science events (e.g., Dundee
 Science Festival, Pint of Science) and staff regularly make presentations to non-academic
 audiences (e.g., Leisure and Culture Dundee, Hawkhill Harriers, Caley Cricket, Café Science,
 Dundee Women’s Festival) as part of the UoA’s strategy to increase dissemination of our
 research.

 The University’s External Relations Department receives fortnightly updates from us, detailing
 research awaiting publication, with projects that have suitable public interest potential taken
 forward for promotion. The level of media uptake on press released articles is recorded via the
 communications distribution system and communicated to staff through a weekly media bulletin.
 Website traffic and social media impact from research is recorded on a quarterly basis, and part
 of the UoA’s strategy was to extend the reach of the media coverage of our research. Over the

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assessment period, the UoA has contributed to 110 media outputs related to research. This is
 significantly more than during the previous assessment period and includes more international
 and national media coverage. This has helped raise our profile and facilitate the establishment of
 new research partnerships, which are central to our impact strategy.

 UoA staff have published 121 journal articles, 3 books and 21 book chapters during the
 assessment period. Compared with REF2014 assessment period, Web of Science citations
 have increased by 212%.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 To build upon the success of achieving our strategic aims during the assessment period, the
 future strategic aims and goals for research and impact for the UoA are:

 • Maintain and enhance areas of research distinctiveness, while facilitating the development of
 research in areas to address emerging challenges across society.

 • Further extend research and impact activities at the highest attainable quality level.

 • Build research grant income sustainability.

 • Increase the number of PGRS to contribute to the vibrancy of our research environment.

 • Increase the impact of our work by enhancing current collaborations and developing new
 partnerships regionally, nationally and internationally.

 We will achieve these aims and goals over the next REF period through the following activities:

 • Maximising the originality, significance and rigour of research outputs, with the expectations
 that the majority will be at least internationally excellent in quality.

 • Increase research grant submission and acquisition, and the number of staff holding grant
 awards through an increase in the diversity of sources. Collaborating with other groups across
 the University (for example with Computer Games in relation to eSports research, provides an
 excellent opportunity to the UoA to increase research grant income).

 • Provide all staff with enhanced support, training, development and communication
 opportunities.

 • Work directly with key research users and beneficiaries in order to translate the findings of our
 research to enable effective changes in practice to improve outcomes for government-affiliated
 organisations, professional associations, and third sector organisations.

 • Prioritise research on safety in sport and exercise by building upon interdisciplinary and
 collaborative links.

 • With regard to planning, we will remain flexible especially with regard to some aspects of the
 UoA that have been affected by the impact of COVID-19. The Biomechanics and Physiology
 group, in particular, have been unable to continue some laboratory-based research with human
 participants due to Scottish Government restrictions, and there may be ongoing challenges
 conducting some aspects of this research moving forward. In addition, some impact activities
 had to be suspended. At the end of the assessment period, the principles that intend to inform
 our strategy for the environment in the next period are supportive and will help the Unit continue
 to be agile and resilient. For example, the University principle that staff are able and encouraged
 to work across all existing facilities, will allow the Unit to further collaborate with colleagues
 across the University in general science (e.g., molecular biology, food science) to a much

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 greater extent when permitted under COVID-19 guidance. The Graduate School has also put in
 place support for PGRS (including funding, on-line training, frequent Q&A sessions) to ensure
 that the quality of research is not compromised.

 Our future strategic aims, goals and activities are aligned with the university’s new Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Strategy (R-LINCS2 2020-2025) (see REF5a). This alignment ensures a
 sustainable base for internal support and collaboration across disciplines during the next REF
 period. Abertay have made a strategic commitment over the next five years to invest in and
 support c.15 fully funded PhD studentships, funded PhD studentships for newly appointed
 academic staff (subject to the approval of a research plan that is aligned with the RKE strategy
 objectives), Abertay Futures Scholarships, Pump Priming awards, and Open Access Publication
 awards.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Our University Strategic Plans affirm Abertay’s core purpose to develop and sustain an inclusive
 and supportive environment, welcoming and retaining students and staff from a diverse range of
 backgrounds and inspiring our students, staff and graduates to achieve their full potential and to
 have a positive impact on the world.

 The key objectives of the UoA staffing strategy are to:
 • achieve a sustainable, supportive and productive staffing structure that promotes equality and
 diversity;
 • attract and develop talented, high-performing research-active staff that strengthen our
 reputation in areas which enhance our academic programmes, thereby ensuring a sustainable,
 vibrant and collaborative researcher community;
 • enable all academic staff to be demonstrably research active, and to contribute explicitly to
 recognition of individual and collective research excellence;
 • provide resources strategically and flexibly to support the development of researchers,
 including our PGRS, and to enable timely responsiveness to emerging opportunities; and
 • ensure research students are engaged fully with our research environment, including the
 Graduate School’s programme of research development activities and events.

 Since 2014, the UoA has made 7 academic appointments of which 2 have been replacement
 posts. Investment in academic posts has been strategic, aimed at balancing experience for
 research leadership, building capacity in areas of research excellence and developing the next
 generation of researchers. These appointments have included lecturers in Physical Activity and
 Health, Biomechanics, Strength and Conditioning, Sports Sociology, and Sports Development.
 We also proactively identified a need for a new appointment at Professorial level, and this
 appointment has supported a step change in both quantity and quality of research outputs, grant
 applications and research income through mentoring across our two research groups.

 The team of academic staff (4 female and 12 male; one part-time female) comprise one Head of
 Division, one Professor, 2 Senior Lecturers and 12 Lecturers. All Category A eligible staff are on
 permanent contracts. Over the assessment period, 18 applications were submitted from 11
 members of staff for promotion (7 successful). Equality and Diversity data prior to 2017 are
 unavailable, but since, 7 appointments were made from a pool of 42 applicants. Appointments
 were 29% female, average age = 34, 0% BAME, 0% LGBT+ and 0% declared disability.

 Staff development

 R-LINCS (2014-19) focused support and activity around four overarching cross-University
 themes (Environment, Security, Society and Creative Industries), to drive the development of
 research excellence and impact. R-LINCS2 (2020-25) will build on our successes and accelerate
 impact through an integrated strategy across the institution, driving and coordinating actions at

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual, School and University levels. Strategic RKE activity is focused within and across
 Challenge Spaces (Creative Industries and Cultural Vitality; Health and Care across the
 Lifespan; Security, Equality & Social Justice; Sustainable Development & Inclusive Living)
 addressing key local, national and international priorities that our research base best positions
 us to respond to. These will be addressed by drawing on our Pooled Excellence research
 expertise, which represent cross-institutional ways of working. Researchers will be able to align
 with one or more areas to encourage collaboration, and cross-fertilisation of ideas and expertise.

 The University, and Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE), Strategic Plans identify
 supporting staff development as central to achieving our ambitions. All new staff and PGRS
 receive a mandatory and comprehensive Induction Programme and information pack which
 identifies sources of RKE support, as well as key information such as the University
 Postgraduate Research Degree Regulations and Handbook, the University Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Strategy, Concordat to Support Research Integrity (CSRI), Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers (CSCDR), Concordat on Open Research Data
 (CORD), Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research (CEPR) and Knowledge Exchange
 Concordat (KEC). This includes substantial guidance on the ethical pursuit of research and the
 avoidance of research misconduct (including plagiarism, and breaches of GDPR for Research
 and IP rights). Informal communication with and between the Abertay research community (staff
 and students) is aided via a social media tool (ARC Yammer) to encourage discussion,
 awareness and to promote collaboration and interdisciplinarity.

 Staff development is supported by regular research planning, internal peer-review of research
 grant application proposals, pump priming for research (e.g., pump priming investment to
 support research in golf during COVID-19), sabbaticals and conference funding. Mentoring for
 research and impact activities is supported through a Cross-Institutional Academic Mentoring
 Scheme (TRAM) with the University of Dundee, University of St Andrews, Glasgow School of
 Art, James Hutton Institute and Trinity College, Dublin; the UoA has had 2 mentees and 3
 mentors engaged in the TRAM programme during the assessment period.

 Consistent with the CSCDR, all staff have personal Development Discussion meetings (formerly
 Pathways to 2019) with the Head of Division on a bi-annual basis. These formal discussions are
 designed to appraise both short-term research objectives and long-term plans, discuss training
 and development needs, and review any well-being or workload issues. In 2020 the University
 introduced dedicated 3-year rolling Research and Development Planning for all academic staff.
 Staff and PGRS have access to over 100 discipline-specific, advanced and higher-level
 researcher development opportunities, seminars and training workshops delivered via the
 Graduate School. Examples include, grant writing workshops, training for research managers,
 research methods and statistics modules, enterprise training and competitions, understanding
 Intellectual Property and Copyright, GDPR, data management, and ethical conduct, to ensure
 research is conducted according to appropriate frameworks and standards. PGRS can tailor
 their professional development training to their specific needs and career aspirations. The
 Graduate School also offers one-to-one support with research design and statistical analysis,
 publishing and grant writing, the development of enterprise bids, and public engagement events.
 The UoA is also committed to Open-Access publication, supported by the University fund for
 open-access journal fees.

 UoA staff have access to three Researcher Development Staff: a Statistician who is available to
 all researchers for advice or collaboration and hosts regular training and drop-in statistical
 workshops; a Public Engagement specialist, who also manages the Nuffield Research
 Placement for Scotland and the Dundee Primary Schools Science Week and a Senior Developer
 to support the development of research plans, academic writing (grant and fellowship
 applications) and impact, through workshops, individual support and a ‘Writing Academy’; and.

 UoA researchers are also supported in knowledge exchange aims (e.g., with industry and the
 public sector) via two Academic Enterprise Leaders (academics with excellent track record in


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing KE) available centrally to promote, advise and mentor staff towards developing
 research impact.

 There is a probation period of 2 years for new appointments which includes regular objective
 setting and discussion with the Head of Division. Depending on experience, staff may be also
 required to complete the university’s Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP).
 This qualification has a research focus as well as developing teaching skills, including modules
 such as ‘Developing Academic Practice’ and ‘The Effective Research Academic’. These focus
 on: informing staff about the local and national contexts of regulations, codes of practice and
 policy that underpin postgraduate education, research and research supervision; introducing
 staff to a body of best practice methods underpinned by pedagogic knowledge to support staff
 development as professional and effective research academics; promoting opportunity for staff
 to build confidence and develop practical skills and networks in order to effectively balance and
 integrate all areas of academic practice (research, supervision and teaching); developing a
 critically reflexive approach to academic practice; and supporting the development of
 individualised continual professional development and implementation plans for effective
 practice. All UoA staff who are inexperienced in postgraduate supervision are required to
 complete an online Epigeum course on Supervising Doctoral Studies and our in-house training
 before taking on and being mentored through a first PGRS supervision (100% of unit staff have
 completed this). Those new to Research Degree examinations must engage with the Novice
 Internal Examiners Process which involves in-house training and observation of viva voce.

 Abertay recognises that researchers are often best placed to develop their research into new
 products or applications which offer solutions to end-users. Therefore, in 2016, the University
 introduced an open Intellectual Property (IP) Policy, giving researchers free access to the IP
 they generate (with the exception of specific identified circumstances).

 Training and Supervision of PGR Students

 The University is committed to the provision of training, development and support for all its
 PGRS to ensure that they develop the intellectual, research and transferable skills needed to
 enhance their research effectiveness, employability and career development within an
 increasingly competitive employment market. The pan-University Graduate School was
 launched in 2014 as part of our R-LINCS Strategy and during this assessment period it has
 transformed the quality of the UoA research environment.

 Situated centrally within the University, all postgraduate students and academic staff are given
 membership of the Graduate School and have access to our dedicated flexible study and social
 spaces – a forum in which they can meet, work and learn with other researchers and
 postgraduates from across the University. The Graduate School offers open-plan and extended
 access to PCs with general and analytical software (including SPSS, N-VIVO, R and specialist
 by request) and access to electronic publications, bookable meeting rooms, a seminar room, a
 kitchen with refreshments, printer facilities, telephones and lockers, permanent or hot-desk
 facilities according to need. PGRS access discipline specific facilities and laboratories from
 across the University as appropriate to their needs and regardless of their nominated principal
 host School. PGRS also have access to all University Support Services including Information
 Services (Library and IT support) and Student Support (including welfare, careers and academic
 support).

 As well as providing a physical space, support and access to an extended and diverse peer
 group of PGRS, the Graduate School creates a structured system to support progress:

    -   The Graduate School develops, coordinates and provides over 100 training and
        professional development opportunities [e.g., research methods, statistics (SPSS and R),
        qualitative analysis] annually to our PGRS and research community, and offers help with
        funding applications, academic writing and publication, research impact, business
        development, placement opportunities, training for teaching and teaching opportunities,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research design and statistical support, public engagement and outreach activity. The
        programme of activity is flexible, allowing customisation to suit the research area and
        individual needs and aspirations, so that PGRS are developed as professional
        researchers within their discipline context (informed by EUA Salzburg II
        Recommendations; Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF); QAA UK Quality
        Code Chapter B11 and UK Quality Code for Higher Education, Research Degrees). The
        co-location of PGRS also serves to promote integration, collaboration, informal support
        groups, mentoring, networking and a multi-disciplinary research and working ethos within
        the University community. PGRS have several formal (e.g., representation on the
        University RKEC) and informal routes [e.g., the Postgraduate Research Student Survey
        (PRES), and the Graduate School Forum and Rep system] for providing feedback, which
        allows us to monitor responses against national benchmarks and address any issues
        should they arise.

    -   Personal development planning: PGRS use our ADEPT tool (based on the Vitae RDF) to
        plan their professional (training needs) and personal development goals and track their
        ongoing achievements. (e.g., career development, dissemination, statistical training,
        impact experience), which must be submitted for approval one month before their final
        thesis submission. This ensures that students are systematically focused on progress,
        and that they are able to articulate all of the research, experience and wider
        achievements attained throughout their PGRS training.

    -   Annual Progress Reviews: students and supervisors complete an annual progress report
        and presentation reviewed internally by a panel of senior researchers (Research
        Degrees Assessment Panel), with both supervisor and student speaking separately in
        private to the panel after the presentation. This not only provides an annual check on
        student progress and an opportunity to address any issues in a timely manner, but also
        gives the student the opportunity to practice addressing questions about their research
        decisions in preparation for viva.

    -   Annual Graduate School conference: All PGRS present their research to peers,
        supervisors and academic staff from across the university. This helps students to
        develop presentation skills and confidence in a formal professional context. PGRS have
        been encouraged to present at external conferences and support conferences hosted by
        the UoA (e.g., the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences Student
        Conference 2018 and the Leisure Studies Association Conference 2018).

    -   Funding opportunities: students can apply to a fund for conference attendance and
        researcher training support (funding awarded to 2 students across the assessment
        period). They can also apply to the Chancellor’s Fund (since 2018-19), which has
        assisted two PGR students to meet expenditure relating to their specific area of research,
        including expenditure on travel, conferences and networking opportunities.

 The growth in number and success of our postgraduate student base has been a notable
 component of our improved research environment during the current assessment period. Over
 the assessment period, the number of PGRS registrations has increased (2013-14: 8.5; 2014-
 15: 15.5; 2015-16: 15; 2016-17: 16.5; 2017-18: 14.5; 2018-19: 12; 2019-20: 16.5). Studentships
 have been funded through external and competitive awards (e.g., Carnegie Trust, Northwood
 Trust). Studentships are also funded through internal investment, including winning 3 out of 32
 R-LINCS studentships available through open competition across the University, and one
 Abertay Futures Scholarship (fee waiver awarded to excellent postgraduate students who
 undertake research in areas of strategic priority to the University). The UoA also provides regular
 funding for research equipment to PGRS. For example, the purchase of a Zephyr Bioharness 3
 for PGRS studies related to sprint interval training led to a published output by the research
 student in the Scandinavian Journal of Medicine and Science in Sports.

 Supporting their career development, PGRS are authors on 15 published papers this
 assessment period and have presented at over 40 conferences. Our PGRS have achieved

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 excellent success after graduation, going on to lectureships (e.g., Chapman University in the
 United States) as well as relevant employment outside of academia (e.g., Clinical Trials Data
 Manager).

 Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity

 The UoA supports and promotes equality and diversity in research careers through the
 University’s Equality and Diversity Framework, which guides and supports the University
 community. Since REF2014, the University has been awarded the Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze
 award (2015 and 2018). Abertay was one of the first universities to sign-up to the Race Equality
 Charter pilot in 2014, and in 2016 we became and remain, the first and only Higher Education
 Institution in Scotland to hold the Race Equality Charter Mark bronze (RECM). Our AS and
 RECM action plans are embedded within a comprehensive and mainstreamed Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Action Plan covering the range of protected characteristics. We
 have held an NHS Scotland Healthy Working Lives Gold Award since 2016, and a Living Wage
 Foundation Award.

 Abertay is fully engaged with (and a signatory of the CSCDR & KEC) the principles of the CSRI,
 CSCDR, CORD, KEC, and CEPR, which we use to guide development of supportive RKE
 policies, practices and structures. We are compliant with our CSRI commitments; all staff,
 students and visiting researchers are required to adhere to the highest standards of integrity in
 the conduct of their research as set out in the Abertay Research Code of Conduct, and engage
 in mandatory research integrity training (including GDPR for Researchers).

 Aligned with our strategic aims and our commitment to enabling our staff and researchers to
 excel in an inclusive, healthy, supportive environment, since REF2014 we have reviewed our
 structures for EDI governance, management and involvement. The University’s ethos is one of
 embedding inclusion, diversity and equality in all our policies, operations and strategic thinking.
 We seek to recognise and value colleagues and students with different backgrounds,
 experiences and attitudes who bring fresh ideas and perspectives to the University. Supported
 by our People Services team, all managers hold responsibility for implementing the University’s
 EDI policies, and we manage our progress in this area through our Inclusion, Diversity and
 Equality at Abertay (IDEA) Management Group. This Group also monitors implementation
 through annual reporting and our governing body, Court, has oversight of our work in this area
 through its People, Health & Equality Committee, which received regular reports including our
 Mainstreaming Reports. The University consults the Trade Unions on EDI through regular Joint
 Liaison Committees and works with Abertay Students Association on student EDI matters;
 members of the unit have been involved in these groups.

 A fair and inclusive environment is promoted by ensuring that all those involved in research-
 related decision-making undertake appropriate equality and diversity training and that decision
 outcomes are assessed via EIAs at key process application stages. Also, all Abertay University
 staff are required to undertake on-line training in Diversity at Work and Unconscious Bias and all
 those involved in making REF 2021 related decisions completed these courses before
 contributing to any decisions regarding staff or outputs. In addition, all Heads of Division have
 undertaken a substantial Leadership and Management Development programme, including
 specific elements on equality, diversity, inclusion and unconscious bias. The aim for the
 combination of the training courses is to ensure that all those involved in Abertay’s research
 processes: have an understanding of the legal framework for equality, diversity and inclusion;
 understand the concepts of discrimination and unconscious bias; have an awareness of how
 discrimination and unconscious bias might arise in our research processes and how to avoid
 that; and are able to ensure that our research processes promote an inclusive environment.

 The University has taken steps to make sure that equality, diversity and inclusion is at the
 centre of the UoA’s REF 2021 work. This includes the development of the REF 2021 Code
 of Practice, which describes the processes, procedures, and decision-making principles that we
 have followed to ensure a fair and transparent approach to building an inclusive 2021 REF

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submission. The Code of Practice is aligned with the University’s overarching Equality Action
 Plan, which addresses equality, diversity and inclusion across all protected characteristics. It is
 the same for all UoAs and our UoA had representation on the Working Group that developed the
 code of practice. Therefore, our guiding principles for our approach to the REF include: taking
 account of our current and historical context and our current strategic aims; recognising that
 academic roles vary and value different types of academic role and varied career paths;
 supporting academic staff development, including development of research independence; being
 underpinned by equality, inclusivity and fairness, ensuring that all staff are treated with dignity
 and respect; taking account of staff circumstances that have affected an individual’s or unit’s
 ability to work productively throughout the assessment period; and ensuring transparency,
 consistency and accountability in all our decision-making processes in relation to REF.

 Flexible working is fully supported, with staff able to work remotely where needed (or
 necessitated during 2020) as part of the University’s Digital Strategy launched in March 2020.
 The terms and conditions of part-time and fixed-term staff are the same as equivalent full-time
 staff (pro rata).

 In 2018, Abertay established the Lead Voices initiative through which staff and students with
 direct or academic experience in protected characteristic groups, volunteer to act as voices
 advocating for their peers, thereby providing more visible routes for input and impact
 assessment of the University’s developing policies and strategies. Members of staff from the
 UoA have been directly involved. Through these structures, we identify issues that are common
 across the University, ensure consistency of practice and enhance accountability for resolving
 EDI issues.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 As outlined in Section 1, the UoA has had a mixed economy of income related to research and
 research impact following a strategic decision to focus our attention on knowledge exchange
 during a fixed period of time. A total of £2,664,273 in knowledge exchange income has been
 generated across this assessment period, including the flagship Dundee Academy of Sport
 project, and we have capitalised this to drive our approach to impact.

 Going forward, the UoA has aligned itself to collaborate with other groups across the University
 on eSports research and research impact. Abertay are a lead partner, with Northern Lights
 Arena Europe Ltd and Dundee City Council, on a revolutionary new 4,000 seat eSports arena
 and academy opening in Dundee by 2024 at an estimated cost of £40-60m. This new
 development will stimulate new R&D and educational opportunities to the eSports domain and
 further cement Abertay’s and Dundee City’s role as a world leader and hub for computer games.
 This presents an excellent opportunity for the UoA to increase research grant income.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 UoA research and impact applications are supported by the University's Research, Enterprise
 and Innovation Services (REIS), Graduate School and ethics committees. REIS identifies and
 disseminates relevant opportunities for research funding. REIS offers advice and support to the
 UoA on research related matters, including costing, reviewing and approving applications for
 external funding, processing and managing grants awarded. Graduate School resources (e.g.
 Researcher Development staff, training seminars) are available to all staff, and are widely used.
 These university-wide points of contact provide excellent pooled expertise to support staff to
 build research grant income. The School's Research Ethics Committee monitors the conduct of
 all research against research ethics frameworks and reports to the University Research Ethics
 Committee.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Both research groups benefit significantly from University-wide resources. Staff and students
 had access to the HIVE (Human Intelligent Virtual Environment), a multipurpose and intelligent
 immersion studio environment) during the early part of the assessment period. It provided an
 immersive environment where participants are surrounded by sounds and images on a 6m
 screen, and their behavioural and physiological responses can be recorded in real-time. This
 was amalgamated into a new Emergent Technology Centre in 2019 to be aligned with the
 University’s interdisciplinary research agenda and contains state-of-the-art high-resolution video
 projection equipment and sound systems.

 The Biomechanics and Physiology Research Group works across two designated physiology
 laboratories (one of which is wholly designated for research), a dedicated strength and
 conditioning laboratory, a dedicated biomechanics laboratory and access the University’s
 general science laboratories. Access to the general science laboratories across the University
 during the assessment period, including biomedical, food and nutrition laboratories, has provided
 the group with the opportunity to extend the scope of our research activity and has offered the
 potential for innovative projects of a much greater scope to be pursued in the future that would
 not otherwise have been possible. For example, research collaborations with the Division of
 Health Sciences on accurate regulation of energy stores is linked to reproductive success and
 survival.

 The Physiology laboratories have benefitted from investment during the assessment period and
 are fully equipped to undertake research monitoring the exercising human in various
 environmental conditions and exercise modes in ways that we could not conduct previously. In
 addition to the existing 3 Monark 891 cycle ergometers, 2 Cosmos treadmills, 1 Tanita
 sequential bioimpedance analyser (MC-780P), 1 Tanita DC-430 S MA and 1 Zephyr Bioharness
 3, strategic investment has been made in the research environment through the purchase of 2
 Monark upper body ergometers, environmental altitude tent, 2 Cortex Metalyser 3B gas analysis
 systems, 1 LODE Excalibur sport with integrated pedal sensors, 1 isokinetic chair and CNAP
 cardiac monitoring system. Other new research equipment include a smartspeed light gate
 system, 20 Viper GPS units for football and rugby game analysis and 2 x Gymaware linear force
 transducer, as well as heart rate monitors, lactate scout, lactate pro 2, hemocue for blood
 analysis and blood pressure cuffs.

 The Strength and Conditioning Laboratory was a new, strategic investment in 2017 and is
 equipped with 6 Olympic lifting platforms, 6 squat racks, Olympic lifting bars and weights. This
 provides the UoA with greater capacity for research.

 The Biomechanics Laboratory is equipped with an 8-camera VICON 3D motion analysis system,
 Quintic 2D motion analysis system, 4 x high-speed cameras, 2 x AMTI force platforms, 2 x Just
 jump mats, Megawin 8-channel EMG system, AP Capture portable telescopic sports mast
 system, Nacsport Scout+ Performance analysis software, Statsports Viper GPS system (plus
 associated software general + rugby modules) and 10 x Actigraph accelerometers. All of these
 were strategic investments during this assessment period and ensure more accurate research
 result.

 The Social Science of Sport group has also benefitted from access to excellent research
 facilities, including psychology laboratories in the Division of Psychology and Forensic Sciences
 and a qualitative research lab in the Division of Sociology. These collaborations have enhanced
 our research environment and supported our research impact. The facilities ensure quality
 research is produced and allow us to expand the types of research we conduct across discipline
 boundaries.

 The UoA has access to the £32 million-pound Dundee Regional Performance Centre which
 opened in 2019. The facilities include an indoor, full size 3G pitch for football and rugby, outdoor
 3G combined grass pitch, indoor athletics centre with an 80m running straight, outdoor athletics
 track, velodrome, eight court sports hall with observation area, strength and conditioning suite


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and sports science suite. There has been an interruption in the use of these facilities due to
 COVID-19.

 The UoA’s research and impact activities are supported by the University’s excellent library and
 electronic information resources.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships are central features across the UoA
 submission as these facilitate and strengthen how we establish impact. Our approach is to
 identify potential stakeholders and beneficiaries of our work early on and directly involve them in
 the research. As illustrated in the two selected case studies, we then ensure the findings are
 disseminated by working directly with them and also follow-up in order to enable strong research
 impact.

 The UoA has established research collaborations with local (Dundee United Football Club,
 Dundee Football Club, Fife Flyers Ice Hockey, Dundee High FP Rugby club, Dundee City
 Aquatics, Leisure and Culture Dundee, Carnoustie Golf Links), National (Scottish Karate,
 Scottish Rugby Union, Mountaineering Council for Scotland, Scottish Gymnastics, Scottish
 Swimming, sportscotland, Scottish Curling, Bowls Scotland, Judy Murray Foundation, Police
 Scotland, Diabetes Research and Wellness Foundation, Age Concern, Active Schools, Sport
 Northern Ireland, Switch the Play Foundation) and international (National Rugby League in
 Australia, Gaelic Athletic Association in Ireland) organisations.

 Staff within the UoA have collaborated with 57 international HEIs during this assessment period.
 48% of submitted output in REF2 are with international co-authors. This diversity of international
 collaboration reflects the growing research reputation of staff in the UoA.

 Members of staff have honorary research appointments at the University of Canterbury (New
 Zealand) and University of Limerick (Ireland). These appointments have helped extend the
 international scope of impact activities, including the submitted impact case studies.

 Members of staff contribute to the International Socio-Cultural Research Group on Women’s
 Artistic Gymnastics and to the EU COST Network action, Transdisciplinary Solutions to Cross-
 Sectoral Disadvantage in Youth.

 The research carried out in Brazil led to collaborations with Catalytic Communities, Comitê
 Popular da Copa e Olimpíadas, No Tokyo 2020, Non Paris 2024, NOlympics LA, Counter
 Olympic Network and a funded Carnegie Trust project.

 Other collaborations across the UoA include: youth swimming (sleep/land based resistance
 training) accredited by Scottish Swimming; Scottish Curling; YMCA Perth; Take your Marks,
 Active Schools, Dundee City Council, UK Anti-Doping, UK coaching, HIIT workshops for various
 groups (cricket, Forfar Road Runners); Fitness testing for Hawkhill Harriers; Pre-season HIIT for
 Dundee football academy teams; and local golf professionals regarding golf fitness (Yoga/HIIT).

 Our collaboration with industry and public sector partners has facilitated knowledge exchange
 and impact. Key partnerships include: Kanzen Karate, advisor for Edinburgh Biotech. The
 company, HIIT IT, developed high intensity exercise training programmes in the workplace
 based on our research.

 Our collaborative research has underpinned our impact in the wider community. For example,
 our research has elevated the professionalism of elite sport wellbeing practitioners and enabled
 organisations and practitioners to generate further impacts through improved outcomes.
 Beneficiaries include the English Institute of Sport, National Rugby League, UK Netball Players

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association, Scotland Professional Footballers’ Association, World Players Association and
 Switch-the-Play. The beneficiaries of our research on dropout from sport include the Gaelic
 Athletic Association (GAA) as an organization, 1,174 GAA clubs and the Irish mainstream
 education system.

 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to the research base, economy and society by the UoA during this assessment
 period include the following examples below. These contribute to the UoA’s approach enabling
 impact as they have supported the identification of potential stakeholders and beneficiaries of
 our research, and subsequently enhanced the vitality and sustainability of our research
 environment:

 • representatives on journal Editorial Boards, including Sports Medicine, International Review of
 Sport and Exercise Psychology, International Journal of Environmental Research and Public
 Health, Frontiers in Psychology, International Journal of Public Health, Journal of Emerging
 Sports Studies, Frontiers in Sports and Active Living, Cambridge Scholars Publishing;

 • reviewers for research grant funding organisations, including Diabetes UK, MS Society,
 Economic and Social Research Council, Medical Research Council, Carnegie Trust and
 European Science Foundation;

 • examiners for national and international university research doctoral degrees including Kings
 College London, Edith Cowan University, Manchester Metropolitan University, University of the
 West of Scotland, Limerick Institute of Technology;

 • invited research presentations at national and international conferences, including UK
 Coaching (December 2017), National Rugby League Conference (April 2019), Sport Ireland
 (September 2017), World Players Association (September 2019), Professional Association of
 Athlete Development Specialists (August 2018), Australian Institute of Sport (November 2020),
 Sports Science Summit (January 2017), EU Summit Adaptive Living and Textiles (June 2015),
 BASES Student Conference (2019), Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport (December,
 2020), Portuguese Society of Sport Psychology Keynote address (November 2018), Dundee
 Leisure and Culture (April 2019), Active Schools (January 2016), Scottish Mountaineering
 Council (October 2015);

 • public research presentations, including Pint of Science, Dundee (May 2019);

 • commissions of trust, including Leisure Studies Association (Executive Board Member,
 Memberships Officer), Scottish Gymnastics Board of Governance Member, Physiological
 Society (Historical and Archives Committee);

 • hosting a British Sociological Association event in 2019, entitled Challenging and Changing
 Institutional Abuses of Power.

 • the organising of the Leisure Studies Association 2019 Conference (contributing £146,668 to
 the local economy over 3 days) and co-organising (with the University of Dundee) the British
 Association for Sport and Exercise Sciences 2019 Student Conference (contributing £232,000 to
 the local economy over 2 days);

 • actively disseminating research and impact in the media nationally and internationally,
 including over 110 news articles. UoA staff have also discussed their research on local, national
 and international radio and television stations.

 • collaborating with the Switch the Play Foundation charity to establish a knowledge mobilisation
 platform, called Play it Forward Researchers. The platform focuses on wellbeing in sport from


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the unique perspective of former athletes who have also been trained in the scientific method
 and subsequently conducted research about sportspeople.

 • The UoA has also established an evidence-based platform, called Sport IntegriTay, that
 produces resources to support sport organisations to increase recruitment and retention in sport
 with a specific focus on supporting the Tayside region. With the support of the University’s
 Enterprise Unit, Bell Street Ventures, resources are created to enhance sporting environments
 so that all participants in sport, whether they are taking part (as an athlete, coach, grassroots
 participant), watching (as a parent), volunteering (as an official) or working in sport do not feel
 unsafe or excluded for any reason, including because of their background, age, sexual
 orientation or ability.

 • Our dissemination and public engagement activities through the Dundee Academy of Sport
 have made contributions to society, including the Dundee Physical Activity Strategy, Giving
 Children and Young People a Sporting Chance, widening access, employability, increased
 awareness of education, increased skills and numeracy.

 • As part of the UoA’s strategy to contribute to the safety and sport agenda, we have proactively
 contributed to society through focused collaborative research and dissemination activities related
 to the COVID-19 pandemic. This includes research focused on the sport of golf, and we intend
 to continue this research moving forward in collaboration with stakeholders.




                                                                                              Page 14
