Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: 24

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 As a highly ambitious, emerging unit, this is UoA24’s first REF submission. Our team
 encompasses a multi-disciplinary, collaborative research group under the umbrella title of the
 Cambridge Centre for Sport and Exercise Sciences (CCSES), within the School of Psychology
 and Sports Science, Faculty of Science and Engineering. Since 2014, our strategy has been to
 promote a coherent approach to research through interdisciplinary, developmental, innovative
 and community-based projects.

 Our unit aligns with the institutional priority research themes of: Ageing; Vision; Entrepreneurship
 and applied innovation; and Social inclusion and marginalised communities. We have a growing
 network of local government and community-based agencies, as well as involvement in industry
 and public sector initiatives. Our research focuses on improving health and well-being through
 sustained engagement and safe participation in physical activity, including in workplace settings
 and by high-risk populations. Our research also places strong emphasis on coach education and
 experiential quality, aiming to improve coach-athlete-parent interactions and effective learning
 development.

 Our strategy has been to conceptualise and develop three inclusive thematic areas based on
 staff expertise and institutional priority research themes: Health, Nutrition and Physical Activity
 (HNPA); Coaching and Management (CAM); and Movement, Vision and Injury Prevention
 (MVIP). The expertise of CCSES staff (highlighted in bold) ranges from strategies to reduce
 sedentary behaviour and supporting community-wide physical activity (driving our two Impact
 Case Studies; Smith) and healthy ageing initiatives, through to innovative applied, nutritional,
 psychological and behavioural approaches to improve exercise adherence, coaching initiatives
 and sports performance. Research is driven through a balance between qualitative, quantitative
 and epidemiological methodologies, with each thematic area assigned a research lead, to co-
 ordinate in-group discussion and facilitate project development. Our research strategy is
 managed locally by the CCSES Director of Research (Smith), in conjunction with the Head and
 Deputy Heads of the School of Psychology and Sports Science, and by the Deputy Dean
 (Research and Innovation) in the Faculty of Science and Engineering.

 As an emerging unit, our collective achievements demonstrate considerable growth with the
 following notable highlights:

    •   Progressive growth in research active staff from 5 to 12 since 2014, including 4 ECRs,
        with University-driven initiatives for all staff leading to 1 Professor, 5 Reader/Principal
        Lecturer (now Associate Professor) and 5 Senior Lecturer appointments
    •   Significant University investment (£300k) to establish dedicated research facilities; and
        further sports therapy clinic investment in 2018
        (£100k) to enhance research contributions beyond               200

        REF2021                                                        175
                                                                         No. of publications




                                                                       150
    •   We have achieved an eight-fold growth in annual                125
        research outputs from 21 in 2014 to over 200 in                100

        2020 (see graph, right). Overall, UoA24 has                     75
                                                                        50
        generated over 570 peer-reviewed publications                   25
    •   We are now one of the fastest-growing units at                   0
                                                                         2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
        ARU, with over 65% of outputs in notable journals                             Academic Year
        (e.g. American Journal of Medicine, International
        Journal of Behavioural Nutrition and Physical Activity)



                                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   We have an established income generation profile (£123,150), including current grants
        from external agencies (e.g. EU ‘Cancerless project’ funding, £306,130 and the Ministry
        of Defence, £100,485) supporting funded doctoral research
    •   We have developed and sustained a thriving postgraduate research culture, having
        established a unit-specific MSc Programme (annual cohort ~15) which contributes to
        both research innovation and peer-reviewed outputs. We have actively encouraged and
        grown our doctoral researchers (from 2 to 22) resulting in 5 completions, and establishing
        a framework for future progress
    •   Our team collaborates with researchers across the globe, including prestigious
        Institutions (e.g. Harvard University; University of Cambridge; University of Oxford; Kings
        College London; University College London; University of Paris-Saclay; University of
        Bologna; Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais; University of Murcia)
    •   Our research involves collaborations with external partners/charities and industry,
        generating impact through health and physical activity promotion regionally, nationally
        and internationally, including: Single Homeless Project Charity (REF2021 ICS1, Smith),
        Mitie Energy Ltd. (REF2021 ICS2, Smith), Ministry of Defence, Cancer Research UK,
        Cambridge County Council, Cambridge Commodities Ltd.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 During initial planning, our collective and strategic vision considered progress leading into and
 growth beyond REF2021 as follows:

    •   Current vision: To establish a regionally and nationally recognised research unit with a
        growing reputation for high quality research outputs, and sustained evidence of growth in
        terms of income generation, and external, community and industry-based research
        collaborations. Our research culture will provide a thriving and engaging environment
        driving innovative and exciting projects, generating purposeful impact within industry,
        workplace and charitable trust settings. Our research will align with institutional research
        priority themes and ARU research strategy by ‘transforming lives’ through innovative,
        applied and public-sector research-informed initiatives.

    •   Longer term vision: Our longer-term 5-year vision will be to grow research leadership
        within CCSES, enhancing our research excellence profile in building an internationally
        recognised integrated group, delivering multi-centre projects, addressing contemporary
        issues associated with health, physical activity and well-being. This will include growth in
        research council funding and industry partnerships, increasing postgraduate numbers
        and externally-funded research active staff, as well as generating wide-reaching impact,
        with a view to: i) informing clinical practice and occupational health settings (e.g. NHS); ii)
        providing evidence-based research informing regulatory practice and preparation
        strategies (e.g. International Olympic Committee); and iii) supporting educational
        strategies and policies pertinent to developing sustained and safe engagement in
        physical activity across the lifespan (e.g. Living Sport).

 Our strategy involved achievement of the following aims (underlined), with progression
 monitored through scheduled team research days. Recruitment of research active staff was an
 important initial focus to ensure progressive broadening of appointments pertinent to physical
 activity, nutrition, environmental physiology, sports coaching and management, biomechanics,
 strength and conditioning and psychology to facilitate diversity of skills across the sports
 science/coaching continuum. This has led to a core team of 12 full-time staff enabling the
 development of overlapping research interests. Open team discussions supported
 conceptualisation of three thematic areas to align research interests and drive open-research
 interaction and innovation. From this, the HNPA, CAM and MVIP areas (see above) were
 developed through consolidation of research interests (see Figure 1). This formed the platform
 for staff/postgraduate researcher alignment to specific thematic areas, with experienced staff
 leading in-area research innovation and progression meetings. This alignment process has been
 integrated within annual appraisal strategic planning.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                              Figure 1: CCSES Research Themes

 Furthermore, in creating a platform to drive qualitative research excellence, the launch of our
 ‘ARQlab’ (a strategic forum promoting qualitative research discussion and dissemination) and
 Coaching Network initiatives within CAM has supported student research development, and
 applied research dissemination with external coach partners. Staff expertise has been attained
 in areas pertinent to epidemiological research and public health, including systematic review and
 meta-analyses methodologies leading to extensive national and international collaborations and
 peer-reviewed publications (e.g. Smith et al (2019), “Telomere length and health outcomes”,
 Ageing Research Reviews 15(51): 1-10).

 ARU investment and resource provision (£300k) facilitated dedicated physiology and
 biomechanics laboratories, coaching and research testing areas. With further funding in 2018
 (£100k) providing state-of-the-art sports therapy clinics, central institution investment has led to
 significant growth in research project and community-based initiatives, alongside growth in post-
 graduate numbers, and provides a future platform for research expansion e.g. injury prevention.
 Institutional investment has also led to the achievement of Laboratory accreditation with the
 British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences in 2017, demonstrating attainment in high
 facility standards and physiological testing excellence.

 The appointment of a Director of Research (DoR; Smith) in 2017 to co-ordinate and oversee
 research activities, shape strategic direction, provide on-going support to thematic areas, and
 manage research impact was also vital to our research strategy. This has led to providing
 support for early career researchers (ECR), through recognition of ECR staff requiring workload-
 balance guidance and mentorship and has been adopted within our annual appraisal system to
 include protected research time. There has also been a focus on nurturing a supportive
 environment for research active staff, through careful consideration of workload-balance in line
 with individualised research goals, access to mentorship programmes and career development
 workshops, and opportunities for grading reviews. As such, over half of staff have achieved
 senior lecturer grade or higher in this assessment period, in keeping with our longer-term aim of
 developing research leadership across thematic areas. In line with this, Faculty-mentoring and
 application guidance has led to three successful research sabbatical applications (resulting in
 four outputs, and large-scale funding, e.g. Roberts; Ministry of Defence, £100,485, to
 investigate dietary intake in new military recruits to enhance training adherence and minimise
 injury risk).

 A highlighted unit aim was to improve research growth through funding applications and wider
 partnerships. Our unit utilised workshops provided by ARU’s Research and Innovation
 Development Office (RIDO) for guidance on funding applications to support early project growth.
 This provided opportunities for staff to engage in different facets of successful grant writing and
 share knowledge/expertise relevant to developing cross-disciplinary grants. Our unit also
 implemented cross-Faculty ‘sandpit’ events and invitational research seminars to broaden our

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 network and explore cross-discipline interests. This has led to collaboration and project
 development internally with staff from the Vision and Eye Research Institute; Life Sciences;
 School of Medicine; the Global Sustainability Institute; and Sound and Game Engineering.
 Within CAM, our Coaching Network initiatives have facilitated staff to develop qualitative
 research projects in coach-education and learning; and develop research partnerships externally
 with Living Sport and Sport England to improve active participation and inclusion in sport.

 In line with our unit’s vision of ‘transforming lives’ through sustained and safe participation in
 physical activity, generating research impact centred around established published research in
 the field of sedentary behaviour reduction (Smith). This was based on institution-led workshop
 evaluation, in conjunction with RAND Europe, of potential impact studies aligned with our unit’s
 central goal of improving health and well-being through increased physical activity. Our impact
 strategy has been to develop and sustain industry (e.g. Mitie Energy Ltd.) and charitable trust
 (e.g. Single Homeless Project Charity) partnerships. This has led to externally funded case-
 impact research-assistant support prioritising data collection on the benefits of an exercise
 intervention within a London-based homeless population (REF2021 ICS1, Smith), and
 strategies to reduce sedentary behaviour within the workplace (REF2021 ICS2, Smith). Faculty
 funding has facilitated further data collection, alongside dedicated staff research time for projects
 with national and European schools, aligned with ICS2.

 Our strategy to deliver high quality research outputs initially focused on output quantity, with an
 initial goal of achieving >50 outputs in total by 2018, and an ambitious target of publishing over
 50 outputs per annum by 2020. To achieve this, we created an interactive research culture,
 including a central point for collation of outputs, expertise around journal quality and integrity,
 advice on open access provision, and University funding support. Not only have we surpassed
 this target four-fold but we have contributed to over 570 peer-reviewed publications, making us
 one of the fastest growing institution-wide units. In progressing to an open research
 environment, we have sought to improve our research integrity and output quality through
 interaction with expert reviewers (including critical appraisal of publications and open dialogue
 around future project methodology), alongside thematic area staff discussion, and sharing of
 exemplar ideas when developing new projects. The majority of research staff (83%) have
 successfully applied for Open Access Funds (10 staff beneficiaries, 29 papers published,
 £38,862.60 spent), leading to high-quality publications in notable journals (e.g. Barnett (2015)
 “The Effects Of Inspiratory Muscle Training In Older Adults”, Medicine and Science in Sports and
 Exercise, 47(4): 691-697; Smith (2016) “Context-Specific Associations of Physical Activity and
 Sedentary Behavior With Cognition in Children”, American Journal of Epidemiology, 183(12):
 1075-1082).

 A further strategic aim of increasing research dissemination has been achieved through staff
 being guided by the CCSES DoR to publish open access outputs on University and online
 platforms (e.g. Anglia Ruskin Research Online Repository (ARRO), Figshare and Symplectic,
 with 58% of our unit utilising ORCID digital identifiers). Our unit is proactive in working in
 partnership with the ARU Press Office to maximise public domain research dissemination (e.g.
 Smith, BBC Horizon documentary on public health as part of ‘The Great British Intelligence test’,
 2020); and actively engages in public talks (e.g. Cambridge Science Festival, Gordon; and our
 own ‘Train Smart’ research seminars; Roberts, Willmott, Gordon) and workshops (e.g.
 Cambridge Coaching Network; Stodter, Cavallerio) which has facilitated wider delivery of
 research to various audiences. Within HNPA, we have actively engaged with industry partners
 (e.g. Cambridge Commodities Ltd. and Biocare Ltd) to provide research-informed publications
 on the health benefits of nutritional products pertinent to exercise, for public, professional and
 commercial beneficiaries (Roberts). With MVIP, recognition of visual attention research has led
 to involvement within the regional Bikeability Scheme and further funding to improve hazard
 perception and developing safer environments for young cyclists (Timmis, van Paridon). We
 have also increased our participation in national (e.g. British Association of Sport and Exercise
 Sciences), and international conferences (e.g. American College of Sports Medicine, Qualitative
 Research in Sport and Exercise) operating a rotational system for staff to provide equal
 opportunity with effective use of School conference funding and travel bursaries.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Beyond REF2021, we have set an ambitious vision of establishing CCSES as an internationally
 recognised integrated research group developing and delivering effective, practical strategies to
 facilitate sustained engagement and safe participation in physical activity across the lifespan.
 We will achieve this through growing research leadership in each of the current thematic areas,
 working closely with our CCSES DoR, to strategically develop inter-disciplinary, multi-centre
 research projects focusing on social inclusivity within sport and exercise, occupational health
 promotion, active ageing and injury prevention. Our longer-term strategy will focus on enhancing
 research excellence through growth in research council funding (building on learnings from
 successful applications, and developing links with established partners e.g. University of
 Cambridge), with the aim of submitting total bids of >£1M per annum by 2025. To achieve this, it
 will be imperative for our unit to build on current European and international research
 collaborations to develop multi-centre grant applications. This will be attained, in part, through
 greater focus on quarterly writing retreats, experienced staff mentoring support for sabbatical
 applications, and greater inclusivity at international conferences and events to promote
 networking opportunities. Our research income will also be supported through widening industry
 partnerships, furthering current technology and nutrition-based connections (e.g. Cambridge
 Commodities Ltd.) and developing innovative strategies to integrate new partners within
 postgraduate research projects. Through prioritisation of research time towards funding
 applications and aligned project development, we will aim to increase externally funded
 research-active staff and postgraduate researchers across thematic areas to achieve this vision.

 We propose to target staff expertise pertinent to psychology and injury management, with the
 aim of developing two new thematic research areas: behavioural psychology and exercise, and
 prehabilitation and injury management, to widen our capability in line with driving an inter-
 disciplinary approach to research. We will also sustain and enhance our research impact,
 through on-going data collation pertinent to exercise strategies to improve physical and mental
 well-being for homeless populations, with a view to extending community reach throughout the
 UK. In addition, we will continue to build our expertise in occupational strategies to reduce
 sedentary behaviour in the workplace, through international project development based on
 existing protocols. Finally, we will also develop three new impact projects centred around:
 ‘functional ageing’ (through epigenetic targeted exercise/nutrition protocols), ‘participation and
 preparation strategies’ (e.g. in conjunction with organisations such as the International Olympic
 Committee), and ‘safe activity environments’ (with a focus on social inclusion in physical activity
 across the lifespan).
 2. People

 Our unit is driven by enthusiastic, engaged and creative staff, working in synergy with a
 committed and vibrant student cohort. This energetic dynamic is at the core of our unit’s
 achievements, with investment and support for our researchers being a central strategy towards
 our longer-term vision.

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our unit comprises 12 full-time staff, 25% are female, 25% are under 35, 34% are over 45, with
 33% holding ECR status in this period. Our staffing strategy is focused on recruiting
 professionally qualified, research active individuals to diversify expertise in sports
 coaching/education (Stodter, Dowling), physical activity, health and nutrition (Barnett,
 Roberts, Smith, Willmott), applied biomechanics (Morrison) and psychology (Cavallerio)
 alongside existing staff. This created the platform from which our thematic areas and underlying
 research focus has emerged.

 All staff have been recruited in accordance with the institution’s Equal Opportunities policy, with
 research an essential requirement within job descriptions. From the 8 staff employed since 2014,
 there has been an equal balance between ECRs and more experienced researchers (50%) (with
 a track record of publications, income generation and active collaborations). This has been an
 important strategy facilitating an internal mentorship structure, with ECRs allocated an


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experienced mentor to provide guidance and open discussion around research and career
 progression, in collaboration with the CCSES DoR.

 As a growing unit, staff inclusivity is at the heart of our team dynamic. Not only has our
 recruitment strategy focused on a positive trend towards gender/age balance, but our structure
 provides support in terms of flexible working hours, particularly for those with parenting
 responsibilities. Whilst dedicated office space provides a positive environment for communal
 discussion and idea sharing, staff are also encouraged to work remotely to support individual
 requirements. All staff have access to remote desktop, IT and School Learning Technologist
 support. Faculty funding has enhanced accessibility for those with disability characteristics,
 including travel-to-work bursaries, specialised IT equipment and research assistant support.
 Likewise, Faculty funding has facilitated support for teaching cover for those staff on
 maternity/paternity leave.

 CCSES staff are based in Compass House, Cambridge, a dedicated research facility with local
 technician and IT support. This has provided a favourable environment for staff-student
 interaction, project delivery and research discussion, creating a positive research culture. In
 enhancing this research culture, staff undertake yearly appraisals with allocated School line
 managers who facilitate open discussion around annual achievements, personal development,
 research planning and workload management. This generates open dialogue around individual
 objectives (including planned outputs, funding and supervision), in conjunction with the wider
 objectives of thematic areas. Recognition of time allocation (~30%) for staff carrying a significant
 responsibility for research, particularly ECRs, has been a contributing factor in our unit’s
 achievements.

 In recognition of the enthusiasm and drive within the unit, our staff have proactively pursued
 grading review applications as part of appraisal plans and career progression. This has included
 engagement in institution support workshops (outlining criteria and examples of good practice),
 as well as aligned mentor schemes (particularly for those pursuing Reader/Professor grades).
 This has resulted in the successful attainment of 1 Professor, 5 Readers/Principal Lecturers
 (now Associate Professors) and 5 Senior Lecturers for our unit; and provides the foundation for
 leadership development in line with our longer-term vision.

 As a platform for research development, staff are required to complete institutional courses in
 research integrity, ethical practice, data protection and risk assessment. There is a plethora of
 institutional opportunities for professional and research development, particularly through the
 ARU Staff Researcher Development Programme. This includes sessions aligned with the Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Framework including writing and publication, engagement and impact,
 working with businesses, research methods, leadership and management, career development
 and personal effectiveness. Staff have been proactive in personal development opportunities,
 collectively engaging in 51 sessions in this period. Institutionally, RIDO plays a fundamental role
 in enhancing our unit’s adaptability, knowledge-base and research skills pertinent to grant
 writing. Alongside promotion of the ARU ECR Charter, RIDO has supported staff development in
 the unit through regular updates on both ECR and theme-specific funding opportunities.

 Allocation of School funding has led to the establishment of a unit-specific Research Funding
 Scheme, which provides staff with opportunities to apply for small grants (<£2,000) to support
 various development and research initiatives including: individual staff training and development;
 ECR and thematic area funding (with equal distribution of funds between ECRs and experienced
 staff); conference and research dissemination; research and impact case development;
 consumable and equipment funding; developing international collaborations; and research
 internships. Applications are encouraged across the year and involve a peer-review process with
 equal consideration to funding across thematic areas. As an example, this has facilitated
 implementation of our ARQlab initiative. Funding has also been obtained by 8 staff, for 17
 research internships supporting exploratory work leading to postgraduate research project
 development. Furthermore, with conference and travel bursaries operating on a rotational basis,
 this has facilitated wider equality in funding distribution, resulting in all unit staff participating in

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 both national and international conferences. This has further supported staff development
 through engagement in keynote invitations and conference presentations (e.g. American College
 of Sports Medicine, Smith; International Council for Coaching Excellence, Stodter).

 Institution QR funding has also supported staff and research-skill development through
 engagement in external CPD courses (e.g. statistics, grant development, research training
 skills), and doctoral studentships (e.g. VC funded doctoral programmes). In addition, with the
 introduction of the ARU Doctoral School, there has been strategic support for staff in terms of
 postgraduate supervision training. This has included annual monitoring review and viva-voce
 preparation training, which has been essential in guided administration and support for our
 postgraduate researchers.

 Our annual Faculty Research Conference, unit-specific research away-days and Faculty-level
 networking events facilitate broader dissemination of research ideas and interests and
 showcases research excellence via staff presentations and highlighted research cases. Staff
 meetings within thematic areas have been positive in terms of identifying research and/or
 professional development requirements. By example, this has resulted in the conception and
 integration of our ARQlab within CAM, promoting collaborative discussion pertinent to qualitative
 research methodologies. Additional support for development is provided through School funding
 for strategic writing retreats to complete peer-reviewed articles, develop collaborative funding
 applications, or for specific professional development/grading review applications. Since 2016,
 13 writing retreat places have been completed by 7 unit staff, leading to 5 publications, 4
 successful grading review applications, and 2 grant applications.

 CCSES staff are also encouraged to pursue career and research development, adding to the
 objectives of thematic areas through our annual sabbatical scheme. Support includes advice
 from senior management on application-makings, through to mentor advice from successful
 applicants. Our unit has achieved 3 sabbatical applications, which has brought about further
 external partnerships and successful grant applications (e.g. Ministry of Defence, £100,485 to
 develop doctoral research investigating nutritional strategies to minimise injury risk with military
 recruits, Roberts). This scheme has also facilitated 4 research outputs and supported staff
 doctoral research development.

 Research students
 Alongside growth in staff numbers and institutional
 resource provision, our unit has focused on
 developing postgraduate research (including
 support for 2 current staff undertaking doctoral
 research). In achieving our aim of validating two
 postgraduate courses (MSc Sport and Exercise
 Sciences/Sport Coaching) this has formed a
 platform for postgraduate research growth. We
 now have a sustained annual cohort of ~15 MSc
 students which underpins our postgraduate research delivery, and strategically feeds forward
 into doctoral project development through developing critical, independent thinking,
 methodological considerations and data evaluation. Funding bursaries, including subsidised
 registration costs for postgraduate studies permits wider access to our MSc and PhD
 programmes. Additionally, through advertised doctoral programmes (e.g. FindaPhD), cross-
 faculty collaborations (e.g. Vision and Eye Research Institute), successful attainment of 2 ARU
 VC funded studentships (Gordon, Smith) and external funding (e.g. Ministry of Defence grant,
 £100,485, Roberts), we have increased doctoral student numbers from 2 (2014) to 22 (2020).
 There have been 5 PhD completions in the assessment period (see Table 1), with 4 in current
 submission. There have been prestigious employment achievements from our unit (e.g. Caddy
 (supervisors: Gordon, Timmis), now Lead Project Engineer for the British Cycling Development
 Programme). Our current students also contribute to cross-faculty research development (e.g.
 Trott (supervisors: Smith, Johnstone) is now a research assistant within the Faculty of Health,
 Education, Medicine and Social Care).

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This has created positive momentum within our unit, resulting in a 50% increase in applications
 to the unit in 2020 from national and international candidates. The appointment of a Director of
 Postgraduate Research for the School (Aspell) has facilitated this process through application
 screening, alignment with supervisory team expertise, and research proposal assessment. Our
 research students are provided with exceptional support, including allocation of supervisors with
 subject expertise and skill-base, who provide unit-level support in terms of research structure
 and objective planning, integration to our ARU ‘Progress Platform’ virtual monitoring
 environment and frequent guidance and feedback on thesis development. Aligned with this, in
 structuring supervisory teams, our unit has focused on maximising experience and mentoring
 opportunities to ECRs to facilitate growth in supervision capability in line with our longer-term
 vision.

 Centrally, the ARU Doctoral School provides an institutional platform delivering training and
 support services for our research students and supervisors. For doctoral students, this includes
 mandatory research skills development through online and workshop-based training sessions
 (e.g. introduction to research ethics and integrity; working with human subjects; presentations
 and academic writing skills; thesis production and examination preparation) at strategic points
 across the doctoral programme. The ARU Doctoral School facilitates annual monitoring reviews
 via student/supervisor guidance, and assessor panels, independent to the supervisory team.
 This supports student progression in an open, non-biased manner in preparation for final
 examination; and has provided a constructive mechanism in timely doctoral completions within
 our unit.

 Our dedicated research facility provides students with on-site access to ample working areas,
 meeting spaces, laboratory equipment, technician support and learning resources, as well as
 local access to main campus student support, study skills and library facilities. This provides a
 unique and engaging environment for MSc and PhD researchers to interact with supervisors
 regularly, creating a positive space for cross-discipline research discussion and peer
 socialisation. Our unit has also created local networking opportunities and peer-support
 connections to promote researcher inclusivity and drive a thriving research culture. Our quarterly
 research seminar series, for example, provides students the opportunity to present project
 findings, and openly discuss research methodologies. With the innovation of our ARQlab,
 students also interact with staff and external collaborators in exploring qualitative methods and
 real-world coaching applications. Postgraduate students also actively engage in collaborations
 with staff projects to further develop practical and problem-solving skills relevant to their
 research (e.g. integration of 4 postgraduate students to support data collection for funded
 research investigating cardio-metabolic health benefits of polyphenol-rich nutrition products in
 overweight adults, Roberts).

 Research students are encouraged by supervisors and the Director of Postgraduate Research
 for the School to actively engage in our Faculty Annual Research Conference, to promote
 project dissemination, openly network, and integrate with other student researchers and staff
 across the institution. This has provided a platform for doctoral students leading to conference
 presentations. Students are supported through our unit-specific School Research Funding
 Scheme to present at national and international conferences across their doctoral journey. This
 has brought about highlighted research achievements e.g. Strongman (supervisor: Morrison),
 2019 British Association for Sport and Exercise Sciences Annual Conference, winner for ‘best
 research poster’. Our unit-specific School Research Funding Scheme also provides avenues for
 students to engage in further skill development (e.g. article writing, statistics courses, laboratory
 testing skills). The drive within our unit to build a thriving research culture has led to research
 students contributing to over 25 peer-reviewed publications in this assessment period (e.g. Trott
 (2020) “A comparative meta-analysis of the prevalence of exercise addiction in adults with and
 without disordered eating”, Eating and Weight Disorders, 1-10; supervisor: Smith; Strongman
 (2020), “A scoping review of non-linear analysis approaches measuring variability in gait due to
 lower body injury or dysfunction”, Human Movement Science, 69; supervisor: Morrison; Wiffin
 (2019), “Effect of a short-term low fermentable oligosaccharide, disaccharide, monosaccharide

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and polyol (FODMAP) diet on exercise-related gastrointestinal symptoms”, Journal of the
 International Society of Sports Nutrition, 16:1; supervisor: Roberts).
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 As an emerging unit, we have achieved a research income of £123,150, mainly across the
 second half of the assessment period, reflecting initial establishment of facilities and research
 infrastructure, and development of projects. 49% of this income was attributed to UK-based
 charities via open competitive process and UK industry, commerce and public corporations.
 However, our recent progress reflects successful applications and current projects with external
 agencies contributing to future income (e.g. Horizon 2020, Cancerless project – developing and
 implementing a new cancer care pathway for the homeless, Smith, total value £2,500,000, with
 £306,130 awarded to our unit; and Ministry of Defence, funded doctoral programme to
 investigate nutritional strategies to reduce injury risk and support training adaptations in UK
 military recruits, Roberts, £100,485).

 We have taken a pragmatic approach to our income strategy, with initial focus on applying for
 seed-funding, ECR development, and small-medium grants (e.g. Physiological Society, £9,500;
 Determining the effectiveness of a practical, inexpensive heat therapy treatment method for
 reducing the risk of pre-cardiometabolic disease, Willmott, Roberts, Gordon; Sport Scotland,
 £13,720 to develop coach-athlete education programmes, Stodter; Spencer Foundation,
 $22,671; Using ethnodrama as an educational resource to encourage transformative learning,
 Cavallerio), whilst building experience with larger-scale applications (Innovate UK, £300,000;
 The use of hydrogen-rich water in conjunction with physical activity: impact on exercise
 adherence and health benefits, Roberts, Smith, Johnstone, Gordon). This originated from
 discussions within thematic areas, coupled with advertised funding opportunities (e.g. Research
 Professional communications) aligned the unit’s research goal of ‘transforming lives’ through
 promotion of sustained engagement and safe participation in physical activity. In doing this, we
 sought unit-specific training from our Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO), with
 tailored advice from our Faculty Research Income Managers (Abbott, MacCormac) in funder
 identification, grant costing and application review and submission.

 This has led to a number of successful small-medium grant applications for our unit, including
 UKRI (e.g. MRC Public Health Intervention Development, £4,177 to develop an intervention to
 reduce sitting time among office workers (the ReSit project), Smith) and Charitable Trust
 funding (e.g. Cancer Research UK, £20,000, Stealth project, Promoting physical activity across
 the life course through play, Smith; Chartered Institution of Highways & Transportation (CIHT)
 Foundation, £7,880 to explore visual attention and hazard perception in young cyclists, and
 develop a virtual reality game to improve hazard perception in young cyclists (Timmis, van
 Paridon). This has led to further funding to evaluate specific Council schemes (e.g. Essex
 County Council, 2020, £10,000 to evaluate Bikeability Training programmes in the region,
 Timmis, van Paridon) which will be progressed in line with our longer-term vision of informing
 policy change and regulatory practices.

 Strategic planning and monitoring around income objectives features within staff appraisals.
 Senior management provide support through consideration to workload balance, connecting
 staff with experienced Faculty collaborators, recommendations for funding streams, and
 connections with advisors in relation to prospective KTP projects. Staff engagement in RIDO
 research seminars has supported unit awareness and understanding around the grant writing
 process, with guidance on winning successful bids, and working with collaborators. Where
 discussions have been held with prospective industry partners, collaboration with our RIDO-
 based Faculty Partnership Development Manager (Kritzinger) and Business Support Manager
 (Glendinning) has been instrumental in liaising with external partners, supporting full economic
 costings and formalising terms of agreements.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 On-going support provided by these managers in terms of project monitoring, invoicing and
 provision of quarterly progress reports to funders has facilitated project quality and delivery. This
 has led to progressive development over the assessment period, evidenced through our unit
 successfully achieving numerous industry and collaboration-based funds (see Table 2). Outputs
 from exploratory research funding (e.g. ReSit project) has led to partner discussions to deliver
 evidence-based projects within charity and corporate sectors. This has brought about further
 research and consultancy funding aligned with impact case development e.g. Single Homeless
 Project Charity, £33,190, ‘Promoting physical activity in the homeless’ (REF2021 ICS1, Smith),
 and Mitie Energy, £25,833, ‘Promoting physical activity in the workplace (REF2021 ICS2,
 Smith).




 Institutional funding support has provided a strong platform facilitating research initiatives, staff
 development and doctoral funding. Successful application for School Learning and Teaching
 awards (£3,372, Cavallerio, Stodter, Dowling; £3,123, Cavallerio, Timmis) has driven start-up
 and maintenance funding to implement our ARQlab project, increasing awareness and
 dissemination of qualitative research methods. This has also provided funding means to support
 research assistant costs in evaluating project effectiveness and sustainability. Our unit has
 secured 3 staff sabbaticals across the assessment period, which has facilitated successful grant
 applications (e.g. Ministry of Defence, £100,485, Roberts), and supported staff doctoral
 progress. We have also achieved 2 ARU VC doctoral studentships (‘Physiological and metabolic
 responses to exercise programs based on genotype’, Gordon, Roberts; ‘Developing digital
 behaviour change intervention to increase physical activity in isolated older adults’, Smith) which
 is shaping future doctoral programmes.

 Looking ahead, our income strategy will focus on building research excellence through
 consolidating unit efforts, sharing successful application approaches, and obtaining strategic
 advice from external HEI-collaborators. In doing so, we will aim to: develop joint projects with
 cross-Faculty and cross-HEI collaborators; increase our experience with Research Council and
 larger-scale funding; and increase the number of cross-HEI collaborative applications in line with
 our longer-term vision. We have already secured a number of research grants creating the
 foundation for this strategy (e.g. Action Bladder Cancer UK, £9,944, Promoting physical activity
 to bladder cancer survivors, Smith; European Commission, £21,066, WE project – Investigating
 the effects of discrimination on health in LGBT, Smith (Co-I), part of larger £250,000 award;
 Fattoria La Vialla, Italy, £18,500, industry funding investing the impact of a natural antioxidant
 food product on exercise-induced oxidative stress in adults, Roberts), as well as applications in
 final submission (e.g. ESRC Healthy Aging Catalyst Awards, £62,000 to develop a cycling
 intervention scheme encouraging older adult activity, Timmis, van Paridon).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our unit has flourished over the assessment period following institutional funding (£400,000) and
 team relocation to dedicated research facilities. This has shaped the research identity and

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 culture within our unit, based on central location, resource accessibility, team integration and
 provision of ample laboratory and research space. Our laboratory suites include a customised
 267m2 ‘multi-purpose laboratory’ (MPL) with dynamic capability for a diverse range of activity-
 based projects, coaching initiatives and innovative developmental work (e.g. 3D motion analysis,
 strength and conditioning monitoring, gait assessment, neuromuscular evaluation, eye tracking
 monitoring). Institutional QR funds have facilitated resource development, including: a state-of-
 the-art Vicon motion capture system, floor integrated force plates, Olympic lifting platforms/
 Smith machine, and an Isokinetic dynamometer. The MPL is widely used for multiple research
 projects integrating physiology/nutrition/biomechanics/psychology and coaching disciplines.

 Our facilities also include a suite of research laboratories permitting a wide range of research
 initiatives. The 118m2 Human Physiology Laboratory provides a thermo-neutral controlled
 environment in which research involving cardio-respiratory, metabolic and biochemical
 assessment occurs. The addition of an environmental heat tent, portable sauna units and
 cooling bath has facilitated expansion of project areas associated with pre-cooling and heat-
 related adaptations, largely brought about through Faculty resource provision for ECRs. This has
 led to development of grant applications (e.g. Physiological Society, £9,500; Willmott, Roberts,
 Gordon) to pursue innovative environmental-exercise strategies to minimise cardio-metabolic
 risk in adults, and build on research aligned with the English Institute of Sport preparations for
 the Tokyo Olympics. Our ambition is to progressively expand this emerging research area
 leading towards infrastructure funding for a purpose-built environmental chamber.

 The main Performance Testing Laboratory provides a 34m2 facility dedicated to research, as
 well as consultancy income pertinent to physical activity and athletic support. In achieving
 national laboratory accreditation with the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences,
 demonstrating testing and operational excellence, we have utilised this area as a central location
 for researcher training and skills development. CCSES research activities are supported by a
 dedicated full-time Laboratory Technician (Thompson) centrally-located within the laboratory
 complex, who oversees laboratory use, provides specialist equipment training and technical
 expertise. This has been fundamental to the efficacy of both research student and staff project
 delivery.

 The inclusion of a category 2 Human Tissue Laboratory within our laboratory areas has
 increased our potential to collect biological samples. This has brought about positive
 collaboration with the ARU Biomarker Lab, within the Faculty’s Science Centre, not only through
 on-site assessment of various health biomarkers, but through provision of longer-term storage
 capability under Human Tissue Authority licence. This has generated considerable research
 interest from external and industry-based partners (see Table 2), and has provided scope to
 pursue advanced methodologies, resulting in successful funding applications (e.g. Ministry of
 Defence, ARU VC Studentships). Our facilities provide an attractive, professional and well-
 resourced environment to expand project opportunities, as demonstrated by research ventures
 with the University of Cambridge (Gordon, Roberts), University College London (Roberts) and
 Brunel University (Willmott).

 Our future ambition will be to expand our biochemical and exercise testing laboratories, including
 an environmental extremes laboratory, and develop a marketing portfolio to promote our
 research capabilities to prospective HEI-collaborators. We have already instigated this through
 recent institution funding for a microbiological safety cabinet (£8,500), increasing our
 independence and capability; and will further pursue this to expand our assay testing capacity,
 whilst working in greater synergy with the ARU Biomarker Lab to develop consultancy research
 activities. This will enable us to specialise in developing methods pertinent to metabolic testing,
 immune and inflammatory profiling and connect with other leading experts to develop multi-
 centre projects in line with our longer-term vision. We also aim to expand our sports therapy
 clinic area, obtain accreditation for clinical gait analysis, and develop this as a platform to
 enhance injury prevention research.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations
 Our unit has been highly proactive across the assessment period in instigating and sustaining
 numerous collaborations aligned with government, charitable trusts, industry and commerce; as
 well as establishing research partnerships with academic collaborators and world-leading
 experts. In achieving our goal of demonstrating growth with ‘external, community and industry-
 based research collaborations’ we have generated ‘purposeful impact within industry, workplace
 and charitable-trust settings’. This has largely been determined within thematic areas based on
 strategic alignment to the unit’s goal of improving engagement and participation in physical
 activity across the lifespan, as follows:

 Health, Nutrition and Physical Activity – with established published work in the field of
 sedentary behaviour reduction and physical activity (Smith), our focus has been on pursuing
 collaborations to drive impact in this area. QR funding to support travel costs led to distinctive
 partnerships being established with Mitie Energy Ltd (to improve physical activity in the
 workplace) and Sport England (in funding the Single Homeless Project) resulting in the
 successful implementation of two impact projects. Further reach has been achieved through
 developing new (e.g. the Purfleet Trust) and existing (Smith, with University of Murcia, Spain)
 collaborations to expand projects in wider settings (e.g. support for homeless individuals in the
 East of England, and reducing sedentary behaviours within school settings). Unit staff have also
 collaborated with prestigious institutions to explore evolutionary aspects of human development
 aligned with physical activity (Gordon, with University of Cambridge) which has further
 generated cross-HEI collaborations, post-graduate project development and resource-sharing.

 Our staff also collaborate with industry partners to design and implement studies evaluating the
 health benefits of nutritional products. Awarded sabbatical funding facilitated discussions with
 prospective partners, including resource and consumable provision specific to study delivery.
 This has resulted in centrally placed industry partners working in synergy with unit staff to
 generate research programmes with consideration to evidence-based and market-level
 applications (Roberts, with Cambridge Commodities Ltd., Biocare Ltd., Bayesian R&D Ltd.,
 Netherlands, and the Institute of Fitness and Nutrition Sciences, India). This has further
 facilitated cross-HEI and NHS Foundation Trust collaborations (Roberts, with University of
 Cambridge, and the NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Core Biochemical Analysis
 Laboratory, Addenbrookes Hospital).

 Staff aligned with HNPA have also established European and international partnerships to
 develop cross-discipline physiology research interests with applications to improving cardio-
 respiratory health, which has led to on-going internships, resource sharing and doctoral
 supervision (Gordon, with University of South Paris, France, and Universidade Federal de
 Minas Gerais, Brazil). Cross-HEI collaborations have been established to investigate
 applications and health benefits of leisure activities pertinent to physical activity engagement; as
 well as the use of digital technologies and heat acclimation relevant to exercise adherence and
 occupational health (Willmott, with University of Brighton, Brunel University). Our institutional
 affiliation with our ARU Biomarker Lab has driven promotion of resource capability, leading to
 collaborative funded research (Roberts, with University College London) to investigate novel
 gut-related inflammatory biomarkers associated with metabolic syndrome development in
 children. This is a promising area of research aligned with physical activity promotion, with
 further research studies being explored.

 Coaching and Management - unit staff have developed a wide-reaching network of HEI-
 collaborators, including support for staff on a mentorship basis. For example, research exploring
 sport policy and governance, and organisational frameworks pertinent to sport and exercise
 have led to national and international partnerships being established (Dowling, with
 Loughborough University, Manchester Metropolitan University, University of Alberta, Mount
 Royal University, Canada). The innovative conceptualisation and implementation of our ARQlab
 initiative, including School learning and teaching funding support, has resulted in our unit

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborating with leading experts to deliver specialist seminars pertinent to qualitative research
 methodology (Cavallerio, with Swansea University, Laurentian University, Leeds Beckett
 University and the University of Birmingham), and enhance qualitative research in sport injury
 psychology and coach-athlete dynamics (Cavallerio, with University of Portsmouth, University of
 St. Marys Twickenham, University of Chichester and University of Toronto).

 QR funding has supported the development of the ‘Street Games’ and ‘Play with Pride’ initiatives
 to increase inclusivity within physical activity and sport programmes. These have led to
 government interactions via Living Sport and Cambridge City Council (Stodter, Cavallerio,
 Dowling), with additional Faculty post-covid funding (£2,800) to support the development of
 ‘Play with Pride’ through an evaluation of an LGBTQ+ inclusive coaching initiative (Stodter).
 With on-going research exploring effective coach learning and education, our staff not only
 interact with other leading HEI-collaborators (Stodter, with Liverpool John Moores University,
 Oxford Brookes University, Loughborough University) but are innovatively developing models to
 understand and enhance learning in sports coaching. Unit staff have also been involved in
 research investigating head injuries and training in women’s rugby, leading to the development
 of a consortium of HEI-collaborators (Stodter, with University of Exeter, University of Swansea,
 Cardiff Metropolitan University, Waikato University, and Auckland University of Technology) and
 successful sabbatical application to further this research.

 Movement, Vision and Injury Prevention - research in this area has largely focused upon
 visual hazard prevention and road safety with young cyclists. Established links with the
 Cambridgeshire Bikeability Scheme and Essex Highways, along with staff proaction in applying
 for funding from the Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation has resulted in public
 and government body collaborations to explore visual attention in hazard perception (Timmis,
 van Paridon). This supports the unit’s interest in creating innovative strategies to improve safe
 participation in physical activity across the lifespan. Strategic alliance has been formed with
 cross-Faculty collaborators (Timmis, van Paridon, Morrison, with the ARU Sound and Game
 Engineering Research Group) to develop a virtual reality game to improve cycling skills in
 children, along with facilitating doctoral research investigating driver cyclist conflict. Unit staff
 have established other institutional and wider HEI-collaborations (Timmis, van Paridon,
 Morrison with the ARU Vision and Eye Research Institute; Timmis, with University of Bologna
 and University of Essex) to explore visual search behaviour in exercise and health settings,
 including the risks associated with mobile phone use and physical activity. Our staff have also
 collaborated with the Professional Golfers Association to restructure their education programme
 based on established research (Morrison, with the University of Ulster), and scientifically
 evaluate golf equipment alongside the R&A Rules Ltd., to promote sustained participation in
 physical activity.

 Contributions
 The culture within the unit is synonymous with research dissemination and public engagement
 largely based on the importance of physical activity for health and well-being, and wider
 community, industry and media interest. Our staff are professionally supported through our
 Press Office (Green, Forsyth). Engagement in high-profile media activity has included television
 appearances (e.g. BBC’s The Truth About…series, exploring Mental Health, Smith, and Impact
 of diet on health, Roberts; BBC’s The Great British Intelligence Test, and Good Morning Britain,
 Smith), newspaper articles (e.g. Metro, Smith; Daily Mail, Smith, Roberts, Timmis; and the
 Guardian and Daily Telegraph, Timmis), and online media (e.g. ScienceDaily, Smith). This has
 extended to numerous articles on online platforms (e.g. The Conversation) with global reach to
 public and academic audiences (i.e. article on fat-burning and exercise achieving over 1,300,000
 reads, Roberts, Gordon, Willmott). Our staff have been proactive with radio and podcast
 interviews creating wider interest around the health benefits of exercise (e.g the Naked Scientist,
 Gordon), and nutritional applications within sport (e.g. Athlete Evolution, Roberts).

 Our unit has been proactive with public engagement events, including the Cambridge Science
 Festival, the British Science Festival and the National Cycle Conference, facilitating wider
 dissemination around visual perception research (Timmis, van Paridon), and health benefits of

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exercise (Gordon). We have also instigated our own public forum to actively share ideas around
 exercise training and health (e.g. ARU Train Smart seminars, Roberts, Gordon, Willmott). Staff
 research has also been actively used within various media and charitable campaigns. By
 example, biomechanical expertise on gait analysis has been utilised to promote physical activity
 in children (Morrison, with StartRite/The Daily Mile Foundation). Coach-education research has
 been utilised by the Open University and Sport England to deliver open online courses (Stodter,
 contributing to over 1,400 accesses). Partnership with Para-Monte, the UK’s only Altitude
 Awareness Charity, has been instigated by our unit (Willmott) to promote safe participation in
 activities involving high altitude, with online research dissemination inform public awareness.

 Unit staff have also been instrumental in establishing research groups, steering committees and
 conference organisation. Expertise in systematic and meta-analyses review methodologies has
 resulted in staff co-ordinating internationally leading groups (e.g. European Society of Geriatric
 Medicine Group in Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses, Smith) including numerous HEI-
 collaborators and health service providers (Smith, with Yonsei Medical School, University of
 Padua, Alberta Health Services). Staff are involved with the Cluster for Research into Coaching
 (CRiC) Steering Committee (Stodter), and actively support conference organisation. Building on
 knowledge gained through involvement as a member of the Organisation Committee for the
 International Conference of Qualitative Research in Sport and Exercise, has led staff to organise
 and chair the first online ECR and student conference for the International Society of Qualitative
 Research in Sport and Exercise (Cavallerio), with engagement from current ARU doctoral
 students.

 In promoting physical activity, health and well-being, our staff have contributed to numerous
 national and international conferences across the assessment period, as well as delivering
 professional webinars and keynote lectures. This has facilitated wider dissemination of thematic
 area research and active promotion of the unit through invited presentations and personal
 communications. Highlighted invitation and presentations have included: the International Sports
 Medicine and Sports Science Conference, Malaysia (Willmott, exploring the development and
 implementation of heat alleviation strategies to enhance athletic performance); the International
 Conference on Olympic and Paralympic Sports, Brazil, and the International Conference on
 Sport and Exercise Sciences, University of Paris-Saclay (Gordon, exploring limitations to human
 performance); the International Society of Sports Nutrition Conference (Roberts, exploring
 dietary applications within exercise settings); and the International Society of Biomechanics
 Conference (Morrison, exploring human movement, player surfaces and biomechanics).
 Dissemination of staff research promoting physical activity in the workplace has also been
 carried out at public exhibitions (e.g. Leisure Industry Week) and academic forums (e.g.
 European Physical Activity Network, Smith).

 Staff contribute to a wide number of academic societies and professional bodies, through active
 membership, conference attendance (with support from our unit-specific School funding
 scheme) and online communications promoting research and employment opportunities. This
 includes the British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (with 50% of unit staff as
 members); the British Psychological Society, the British Association for Nutrition and Lifestyle
 Medicine; the European College of Sports Science, the European Association for Sport
 Management; the UK Sport Development Network; the UK Strength & Conditioning Association,
 and the American College of Sports Medicine. Furthermore, staff support governing bodies
 through professional and public sector research promotion (e.g. Roberts, Editor-in-Chief,
 Nutrition Evidence Database).

 Our unit staff contribute to over 40 peer-reviewed journals, supporting international research
 quality and dissemination, in the capacity of Editorial Board members (Dowling, Gordon,
 Roberts, Smith) and expert reviewer roles. Our breadth of contribution to the academic
 community covers all aspects of physical activity, health and well-being, with journals ranging
 from: The Psychology of Sport and Exercise Science; Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise
 and Health; Journal of Sport Management; Sports Medicine; International Journal of Sports
 Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism; and Optometry and Vision Science as examples. Finally, our

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff have contributed to over 15 doctoral examinations, developing wider collaborations with
 over 7 HEIs.




                                                                                           Page 15
