Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Solent University

 Unit of Assessment: 34 (Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

         1. Solent’s 2015-20 strategy established research as a core pillar of the University’s
            ambition, extending and enhancing its commitment to being research-informed and
            research active. Since 2015, the evolution of the Research Office, researcher
            development programme and increased strategic appointment of postdoctoral
            researchers has provided a foundation to developments within the UoA. The target-
            specific research sub-strategy provided the strategic framework and encouraged
            development of the research environment underpinning this Unit of Assessment (UoA)
            submission (see paragraph 14 of the institutional level environment statement). One of
            the key objectives for the University was ‘to improve our performance in the next REF
            and enhance our position in the league tables’. This informed the research sub-strategy
            and consequently plans within this UoA submission to ‘focus on the translation of
            knowledge into societal […] benefit’.

         2. Research in this Unit of Assessment has been driven by the development of an
            overarching theme that focuses on cultural politics and production, encompassing a pool
            of 18 staff with significant responsibility for research in the School of Media Arts &
            Technology and the School of Art, Design and Fashion.

 Present Strategy
    3. The cross-School approach followed a strategy harnessing a programme of staff
       development, a review of external stakeholder engagement and School-based financial
       support for networking, conferencing and publications. While encompassing different
       approaches across the Schools, the following 10-point strategy informed the aim and
       intent in planning for this UoA:

  (i)       Develop critical mass for an improved REF submission. For example, postdoctoral
            researchers (Benjamin; Spence; Fathallah) were recruited to support research culture
            and community. They have been closely involved in the development of cross-
            disciplinary and cross-institutional research groups, including the Culture, Media, Place
            Research Group. Development of critical mass has also been supported via the
            introduction of academic career pathways which were used to focus research aims in
            ongoing appraisals. Through the research pathway, the UoA was able to evaluate and
            establish integrated, dedicated objectives on research activity focussing on subjects in
            support of the UoA, for example: screen culture and politics, and cultural production, and
            to support related impact case study work.
  (ii)      Utilise newly appointed Strategic Leads in School research planning. Strategically
            focussed annual research plans supporting impact activity and staff development were
            introduced in the period to support the UoA and presented to the Research & Knowledge
            Exchange Committee. These plans targeted support for Strategic Lead-approved staff
            development funding to develop key areas. For example, Aldridge’s ongoing archival
            work via the Agatha Christie estate and subsequent ‘pathways to impact’ activities were
            financially supported, culminating in the monograph and numerous public-facing events
            and appearances to share his findings.
 (iii)      Develop collaborative relationships with cultural organisations in the city. The
            Solent Showcase Gallery significantly features in the city’s community activity and reach
            and has featured in research plans for the UoA. The Gallery’s work extends through the
            city’s Cultural Development Trust and memberships/collaborations with organisations
            ranging from the SCEP (Southampton Cultural Education Partnership) to Go!
            Southampton, fostering environments of co-creation and co-production. Similarly, a long-


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         standing relationship with regional film education charity City Eye has enabled outputs to
         be presented to a public audience in a range of venues across the city.
 (iv)    Assess current stakeholder, civic and public engagement events for potential
         research dissemination and impact activity. This identified some long-standing
         opportunities used for research dissemination (Southampton Film Week) as well as bid
         development (Black Heritage Association; Positive Message Ltd).
  (v)    Invest in impact-facing case studies and suitable research outputs. Research Office
         programmes for support and investment in systems - including PURE and PIVOT,
         supported staff development and knowledge around funding relating to the UoA. This
         culminated in the development of impact case study work (Kerr and Peberdy; Aldridge)
         and paved the way for larger ongoing developments in the current City of Culture bid.
 (vi)    Develop research potential and outputs for creative practice in film, culture and
         the arts. The focus on developing cultural practice has led to the production of
         exhibitions (Moreton), a documentary film (Alamouti) and an Arts and Humanities
         Research Council (AHRC) shortlisted essay film (McSweeney). The University’s
         commitment to UoA34 continues in the next iteration of the research strategy which
         provides scope for further integration of theory/practice. The Strategic Lead for Media
         Arts and Technology, with a Media Production colleague, submitted a successful
         proposal to host the next Meccsa Practice Symposium on research impact (now
         scheduled for July 2021 due to the pandemic).
 (vii)   Produce regular School-wide updates on research opportunities and support.
         School-based Research Advisory Groups were established to support opportunities for
         development relating to the UoA and tethered to the School Research Plan developed by
         the Strategic Leads.
(viii)   Integrate research-facing performance and development objectives in staff
         appraisals. The Strategic Leads introduced the research and Scholarly Activity objective
         into the annual appraisal scheme which could range from doctoral research completion
         to the submission of research findings to peer reviewed journals.
 (ix)    Ensure staff-space for research specialisms in curriculum framework and
         curriculum content. Research informed teaching is embedded in course and curriculum
         development to ensure research specialisms inform module options (McSweeney; Kerr;
         Alamouti; Slevin).
  (x)    Support and guidance for early career researchers and postgraduate research
         students. A culture of support and mentoring within the research community supported
         early career researchers (ECRs) and doctoral students in their development and
         established a growing strength in media cultures and practices. These emerged in cross-
         discipline research groups including the Culture, Media, Place Group referred to above,
         the Work, Inequalities and Lifecourse Group and the Realist Evaluation Research Group.

 Future Strategy
    4. UoA34 is one of the University’s strongest research areas and consequently a key
        element in University REF planning informed by i) supportive relationships with external
        stakeholders, ii) a strong creative-critical approach to exploring cultural politics and
        production and iii) a commitment to social and cultural equality and diversity. This
        research cycle has clearly established the groundwork for further future strategic aims
        relating to this Unit of Assessment. The University’s new Future Ready Strategy 2020-
        2025 identifies ‘research impact’ as one of five university-wide priorities. Following the
        direction of the newly appointed Pro Vice Chancellor for Research and Knowledge
        Exchange’s enabling strategy, the ongoing strategic direction for this UoA is built around
        growing the number of research grant applications and awards, support for further
        affiliations to related learned organisations, and increased research outputs and impact
        case studies. UoA34 is already identified for a future submission drawing on research
        opportunities relating to Southampton’s City of Culture bid, while building on research
        consultancy with cultural organisations and impact-driven work aligned to knowledge
        exchange programmes. We are developing a newly created research centre for screen
        cultures and targeting UoA34 activity through the introduction of staff-centred Individual
        Research and Knowledge Exchange plans. This will identify and prioritise research

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        project development, activity and funding support, and draw on a newly appointed UoA
        Lead to coordinate projects and outputs designed to work with and impact the creative
        and cultural industries.


 2. People

    5. The staffing strategy to enhance research has been supported by adopting several
       coordinated and parallel strands working to achieve the summary of aims noted above.
       The overall submission has increased from the six staff returned in 2014 to 18 in the
       current REF exercise, representing growth of the UoA. Attention has been given at the
       point of recruitment to research interests, specialisms, publications and practice to build
       critical mass. This has subsequently been supported by research-focussed staff
       initiatives. These include:

 School-based initiatives:
    • The Performance and Development Review (PDR) annual appraisal scheme –
       introduced in this current REF cycle – and deployed to identify subject-specific research
       objectives at School-level in support of the UoA.
    • Career Pathways that publish attainment indicators for all grades/levels of staff have
       been used and followed to identify staff with significant responsibility for research.
    • Academic Workload Planning – introduced during this REF cycle with specific allocated
       time for research and additional allocations to support development during this cycle
       (McSweeney; Peberdy; Moreton; Slevin).
    • Using the Solent University Code of Practice for REF 2021 – introducing an annual
       300hrs allocation for staff on the research pathway with significant responsibility for
       research that is impact driven and peer reviewed.

 Research Office support
    • The University’s Researcher Development Programme demonstrably developed and
       supported colleagues in this UoA, whether via attendance to interactive workshops
       (Slevin; Joy; Spence), or in running workshops on, for example, publishing, networking
       and research and practice (Kerr; McSweeney, Foster).
    • Financial assistance via the Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange Awards
       (RIKE) has been targeted and consistent in its support for this UoA (Peberdy; Moreton;
       Aldridge; Loscialpo).
    • The Mentoring Scheme, which secured 34 signatories in the first call.
    • The Annual Conference as forum for key stakeholders, project development and HE
       research sector representatives.

 School-level strategy
    • The creation of newly appointed Strategic Leads to produce and deliver on annual
       School research plans for staff development and research growth.
    • The appointment of Doctoral Coordinators to build supervisory capacity and enhance the
       PGR community.
    • The use of School budget to support targeted staff development funds for conferences.
    • The School-wide audit to identify activity and then inform relevant Department Heads on
       support and PDR objective setting.

 ECR development

    6. The creation of the Culture, Media and Place research group (see above) is run by a
       research fellow (Adie) and postdoctoral researcher (Spence). This cross-disciplinary
       example of one of Solent’s research groups strengthened research culture, reputation
       and profile around the UoA through a programme of external speakers discussing project
       development, advice and support for quality outputs and impact.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    7. The ECRs and postdoctoral researchers work across the Schools, supported by
       Strategic Leads and research colleagues, collectively achieving success in publishing in
       a range of high impact journals (Cultural Trends, The Journal of Arts Management,
       Transnational Cinemas) and producing monographs (Joy, Slevin, McSweeney, Aldridge).
       Our postdoctoral researchers have made further contributions to ongoing policy debates
       in public-facing fora ranging from The Conversation to submissions to parliamentary sub-
       committees such as a cultural district initiative in Jamaica (Spence), policing facial
       recognition in Scotland (Benjamin) and tackling prosperity via global media cultures to a
       House of Lords Select Committee in the UK (McSweeney).

    8. International collaboration during this cycle, some of which is ongoing, has extended to
       China, Jamaica, Italy, Belgium, Sweden and the U.S. Research links have been
       established to the Black Cultural Archives and United Nations’ SPIDER Initiative and
       Jamaica’s foreign cultural district initiative (Spence).

 Promotion of Equality and Diversity
    9. The UoA overall reflects the equality and diversity (E&D) profile of the University’s
       submission as a whole (see paragraphs 32 and 33 of the institutional level statement),
       except in relation to gender, where the representation of women in the submission is
       27%, which is below the institutional average. Activities to promote equality and diversity
       have included:
    • The appointment of postdoctoral researchers in support of the UoA, which promoted
       diversity in recruitment with active interventions at the point of advertising, encouraging
       applications from the BAME community and people from marginal identities.
    • The UoA works to actively identify stakeholders with a track record of community and
       cultural engagement informed by E&D, for example Southampton’s City Eye. This also
       fostered a research culture that requires integrity to be informed by inclusivity.
    • Visiting speaker programmes specifically invited BAME and LGBTQ+ guests from the
       creative industries and areas of cultural production and practice.
    • Safe, open and inclusive forums were provided for staff to support research strategy
       planning across the Schools.
    • Attention to research activity that supports the mainstreaming of equality and diversity
       informed a number of UoA outputs, thus informing the research culture for this UoA.
    • Staff are aware of conduct and disciplinary procedures mitigating against prejudice and
       inequalities.

 PGR completions and development
   10. Within the Unit there have been two doctoral completions during the REF period. The
       recruitment to the doctoral programme during the review period has been increasing,
       with 25 currently registered doctoral students aligned to the UoA. The planned
       introduction of an institutional bursary scheme will drive further recruitment and ensure
       the sustainability of this growth. Doctoral students are supported by the Researcher
       Development Programme and further training provided through the University of East
       Anglia virtual online training, to which the University subscribes.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    11. The University has invested c.£6 million into the reconfiguration and development of its
        John Millais Building. The redevelopment has included refitting of screening facilities, and
        the building hosts the Media Academy, which provides a hub for research in creative and
        critical research and is central to the development of the Unit at Solent.

    12. The focus on development of early career researchers is reflected in the profile of
        research income generation within the UoA. In total, £26,000 of research income was
        reported to HESA in the period. However, this is underpinned by significant work to
        enable a developmental culture shift towards embedding bidding activity as part of

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        academic career development within both the Schools of Art, Design and Fashion
        (SADF) and Media Arts and Technology (SMAT).

     13. A bid development culture has been fostered across all academic staff in the Schools,
         and academics have been encouraged to engage with the Research Office bid support
         training and guidance. This important experiential career development has resulted in 22
         external research and innovation bids across all academics within the Schools, with 11
         successfully receiving an award (see below). Underpinning this growth in bid culture, the
         Schools encouraged engagement with the University’s internal fund for pump-priming
         and seed funding projects with potential for external bid development. This fund (RIKE)
         supports both research and innovation. Seven academics across the two Schools were
         successful in the RIKE competition: Reynolds, ‘Digital Archives’, Chamberlain, ‘ANTS’,
         Daniel ‘Training Programmes for Craftspeople’, Khasreen ‘Life-cycle Carbon
         Assessment’, Pitts ‘3D Body Scans & CG Characters’, Benjamin ‘Speculative City’,
         McSweeney ‘Battleground’. In addition, Benjamin bid for and won an award from the
         University’s Research England QR allocation for Policy through Evidence (‘The Ins and
         Outs of Privacy’). Four of the academics supported in this way went on to develop
         external bids.

     14. Across the UoA, external bids have included a number of collaborative applications with
         UK and international partners, providing researchers with important experience and
         growing confidence in bid development. These included:
 •   Creative Europe Culture Cooperation Project for ‘Transnational Creative Exchange’ (Lloyd)
     £88,964
 •   Interreg 2 Seas ‘VIVID’ (Lloyd) £151,691
 •   AWZ GMBH ‘Active Comfort’ and ‘Interpack’ (Mann & Lloyd) £8467 / £17,454
 •   Five Arts Council England awards:
         o ‘Museum University Partnership Initiative’ (Reynolds) £6,550
         o ‘Smart Murals’ (Reynolds) £5,217
         o A Network Support Grant (Reynolds) £1,500
         o ‘Making Out’ (Lannin & Maple) £8,837
         o ‘Stand Together’ (Ross & Maple) £15,000
 •   AHRC/British Academy/University of London ‘Being Human – Let’s Get Lost’ (Loscialpo)
     £1,000
 •   ‘UX, UI and Digital Marketing’ consultancy (Al-Husban), £14,000
 •   Two awards from the Southampton Cultural Development Trust
         o ‘Music Creatives’ (Anderton & Martin) £2,000
         o ‘Music Audiences’ (Anderton & Martin) £2,000

     15. While unsuccessful, other bids to the Arts Council, AHRC, EPSRC, the British Council,
         and Horizon2020 represent the step change in the approach to academic career
         development and burgeoning confidence in bidding, which has in turn influenced the
         growth of the UoA and research pathway staff.

     16. The majority of the successful bidding has been in the innovation space and knowledge
         exchange space in this period, and this reflects the focus on foundational activity to
         support emerging researchers and early career researchers. A further two bids have
         been developed and submitted since the beginning of 2021 (AHRC, Foster and Future
         Leaders Fellowship, Ito).

     17. Further developmental engagement is planned to foster the continuing growth of a
         research bidding culture to enable an increase from the six academics on the research
         pathway who have currently engaged in the above bidding activity. The goal of the UoA
         is that all researchers on the pathway will have engaged in bid activity by 2027.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

    18. Collaborations and networks have underpinned both the research outputs and impact
        case studies for the UoA. The culture of public engagement and civic responsibility
        regarding dissemination and reach has informed the research base regionally and
        internationally. As noted, city-facing partnerships with our gallery, arts, cultural and
        music-based organisations, as well as charities and support groups, have extended our
        beneficiaries significantly since 2014. Close relationships with the Cultural Development
        Trust have linked researchers to audiences, as well as current and future stakeholders,
        which is now manifested in emerging City of Culture projects and partnerships.

    19. There are clear research-informed collaborations with the City Eye, The Consent
        Academy and Pan Eros Foundation (Seattle, US), the UK Production Guild (film culture)
        and Modern Films supporting the Screening Sex charter work. The relationship with the
        Agatha Christie’s estate continues with Aldridge’s next project, and The Black Heritage
        Association continues to work with Spence. Cultural research activity continues with the
        Southampton Cultural Education Partnership and a range of stakeholders invested in the
        City of Culture bid.

    20. Creative practice has seen partnerships with organisations supporting exhibition work
        such as Chicago’s Neubauer Collegium (Moreton) and media outlets including Al
        Jazeera and Channel Four (Alamouti). These ambitions of reach with stakeholders and
        beneficiaries is equally reflected in the postdoctoral successes contributing to
        parliamentary subcommittees, cultural initiatives with the Jamaican government,
        policing/surveillance in Scotland and articles published in The Conversation.

    21. Academic stakeholders are evidenced in the creation of the Screening Sex SIG - an
        approved scholarly interest group for the British Association of Film, Television and
        Screen Studies (BAFTSS), as well as symposia hosting for Media, Communication and
        Cultural Studies Association (MECCSA) and leading their Media Practice network event
        for 2020 (deferred to 2021) – itself focussed on research impact for 2027.

 Summary

    22. This UoA was central to the REF submission by the University in 2014, and this
        submission represents continued investment in growing the UoA at Solent. At the heart
        of the development over the past seven years has been the identification of the Cultural
        Politics and Production theme, enabling targeted growth in the areas of film and of
        culture in the arts. The UoA has enhanced the support for career development of
        research and researchers, building from a small base to develop a positive research
        culture for early career researchers and doctoral students, enabling the growth of
        research groups and fostering external collaborative relationships and building of strong
        networks. This is reflected in the threefold increase in the staff submitted within the UoA.




                                                                                              Page 6
