Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 14

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research Highlights
 During the current REF period we far exceeded our strategic aims of
    (i)     increasing the number of research-active staff: resulting in a >75% rise, with
            positive spin-off of more than a third of the UoA’s academic staff to new UoA21;
    (ii)    increasing the quality of our published output: >95% of submitted outputs for UoA14
            are externally rated 3* and 4* for REF2021;
    (iii)   developing research with impact, in line with the University’s strategic aim: in 2019,
            one of the UoA’s Impact Case Studies won an inter-national First Prize for
            ‘Research with Impact’

 In addition, we successfully implemented strategic changes to enhance the research base by
     (i)     aligning our research and teaching strategies and internal structures, in the
             context of the University’s strategic aim of research-informed teaching, ensuring
             greater coherence between teaching and research, and through involving students
             in research publication;
     (ii)    increasing our postgraduate research cohort by offering bursaries for research
             Masters students;
     (iii)   developing a more balanced research structure: moving from one internationally
             recognised Research Centre to three Research Themes that encompass the
             research aspirations of all the UoA’s staff.

 Unit context and structure
 UoA14 is based in the School of Natural and Social Sciences, which includes academic staff
 across a wide range of cognate disciplines. At the start of the current REF period, UoA 14 was
 expanded to include Social Sciences staff, to foster and generate greater research activity
 through integrating research support and co-publication with Human Geographers. So
 successful was this strategy that the number of active researchers in the UoA with REF-able
 publications increased >75% between 2014 and early 2019.

 Our submitted cohort in UoA14 includes Academic Staff with substantive posts in Biology,
 Geography (Physical and Human), Ecology and Environmental Science. The UoA’s academic
 staff posts are primarily financed by Teaching, and so most submitted Academic Staff are on
 Teaching and Research contracts, with two fractional appointments on Research-only. During
 the course of the REF period our research activity was re-structured internally so that it more
 closely aligned with the taught programmes, to provide recognisable identity for academic staff,
 MSc and PhD students. Our UoA’s research is now focused formally into three Research
 Themes within the UoA: Changing Environments; Applied Ecology and Biology; Social
 Vulnerabilities, and these will prevail through the next REF period.

 Internal Funding
 Across the University, following competitive bids in 2014–5, six interdisciplinary Research
 Priority Areas (RPAs) were identified as centres of excellence, receiving significant internal
 investment (>£100k p.a.) to enhance research and impact capacity and to solicit competitive
 research bids. Our UoA received QR research funding through its 50% participation in one of the
 six RPAs: ‘Environmental Dynamics and Governance‘ (EDG; the other 50% comprises the
 Countryside and Community Research Institute, entered in REF2020 as UoA13).The RPA

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotes interdisciplinary projects with significant and measurable impact, nationally and
 internationally, as evidenced by our UoA’s prize-winning research-impact entry to the Green
 Gown Awards (see below). The UoA also has access to the Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF) through the RPA.

 Research Excellence
 Our UoA incorporates research that has been conducted under the external marque of the
 ‘Centre for Environmental Change and Quaternary Research’ (CECQR), which has been
 leading innovative, international research in Changing Environments since 1995 and since
 2010 on the biotic impacts of climate change in Applied Ecology and Biology.

 The external success of this Centre over decades (reflected in being singled out for praise in
 RAE2008; in leading EU-financed research; and in high-quality, REF-submitted publications)
 prompted our 2019 move to re-balance the UoA’s external promotion of our international
 research excellence across the whole UoA. Henceforth, our three Research Themes will be
 used for both internal and external advancement of our research.

 Research Management and Administration
 Within the university, research administration is supported by a Research Development Office
 that oversees specific elements of research policy and practice: the training programme for
 research supervisors; the processing of research student applications; registration and training
 of PGR students; processing of research project forms; Research Ethics training; and allocation
 of supervisory and examination teams. Research Ethics approval is overseen within the School
 by a dedicated member of staff who requires independent scrutiny of research proposals by
 senior academic staff, with their recommendations sent to a Research Ethics Committee. The
 UoA is led by a Coordinator (Chambers), who works closely with that office and with line
 management of academic staff (vested in Toms).

 Research Strategy
 The university’s Strategic Plan mandates teaching to be research- and practice-informed, to
 enhance the student experience. Following successful international scientific coordination from
 UoG (by Chambers, through CECQR) of a 1.4M Euro EC-Framework project, it became clear
 from the EU-Referendum result of 2016 that the leading of future EC-funded research would
 become increasingly challenging, and despite initial Government assurances over Horizon 2020
 participation, might be ruled out post-2020 if the UK only had 3rd country status. The UoA is also
 not eligible for formula-funded Research Council studentships. Recognising these two
 constraints, we deliberately embarked on a radical, 6-point research strategy for the UoA that
 aligns with the university Strategic Plan and involves maximising the return from guaranteed
 (QR) income, accessing GCRF, and focusing income generation on international excellence in
 geochronology. We sought to maximise the research base by inclusion of the full diversity of
 researchers into the enquiry process, integrated according to their skills and abilities. The 6-point
 research strategy involved
     (1) increasing the number of REF-able research-active staff in the UoA: from 2014 (11.10 fte
         submitted);
     (2) maximising the quality of publication output from academic staff through internal pump-
         priming of research projects: compared with REF2014, in which 55% of submitted outputs
         were rated below 3*, External Review for REF2021 (including by experienced ex-sub-
         Panel Member) indicates >95% of our UoA14 REF2021 submitted outputs are ≥ 3*;
     (3) collaborating with other HE institutions internationally, e.g. in China (Chambers), Africa
         (Lynch; Toms), Norway (Scott), in specific projects, with the international collaboration

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        and combination of expertise designed to ensure subsequent high-quality publication
        output;
    (4) internal student (UG, Masters and PhD) involvement in academic staff research,
        including embracing wider, citizen-science projects (notably in Applied Ecology and
        Biology, led by Goodenough and Hart);
    (5) internal and external funding of research in collaboration with non-academic applied
        partners to maximise research impact (notably Impact Case Study 1, led by
        Goodenough and Hart);
    (6) internal funding of Research Fellow, research students (Masters and PhD), and research
        assistance (for Geochronology), with a view both to maximising high-quality publication
        research output (e.g., Research Fellows: Patrick and Jarman) and to ensure continued
        external research income, especially through our world-class Geochronology facilities.

 As illustration of (2): in the 5 years from 2014–19, a combined total of 25 internal awards, all
 under £5k, were made to Academic Staff; at least half of these resulted in published papers
 rated by our external assessors as minimum 3*, and several contributed toward PhD
 completions, including a PhD by (six) published papers. For (6), internally funded research
 assistance has ensured smooth operation of our Geochronological (esp. Luminescence)
 Laboratories, led by Toms, which over the REF period have had research income of >£500,000
 involving research collaborations on five continents.

 Research Impact Strategy
 Our UoA conducts pure and applied research, but with an emphasis on the latter. Our research
 impact strategy involves (i) co-publishing with contract funders and with collaborating HEIs; and
 (ii) working with collaborative partners to ensure that research is genuinely applied in real-world
 situations. For the current REF, we initially identified five areas that provided candidate Impact
 Case Studies (ICSs), of which only one was a development of an area submitted for REF2014.
 In finalising our selection for the current submission, we have targeted (a) a timely, tightly
 focussed and vital piece of research (led by Goodenough and Hart) that has profound
 implications for the survival of the declining white rhino and the critically endangered black rhino;
 and (b) the Human Geographers’ research within a cross-disciplinary Social Vulnerabilities
 Research Group (led by Lynch) on using social science research to facilitate more effective
 policy intervention and support for ‘at-risk’ groups (led by Scott and Lynch).

 The success of our Research Impact Strategy is evidenced by the winning of First Prize in the
 2019 international EAUC UK and Ireland Green Gown Awards across all subject areas and all
 entered HEIs for ‘Research with Impact’ (Goodenough/Hart: ICS1 re African rhinos).

 Future Research Strategy
 Our current strategy has produced excellent results, been sustainable, and therefore is intended
 to continue, with focused enhancements. This means using future QR research funding in
 targeted project support, each with a clear pathway to publication and to research impact. The
 three research themes—Applied Ecology and Biology (AEB); Changing Environments (CE);
 Social Vulnerabilities (SV), which were established internally since REF2014 and became
 external-facing from late-2019—will continue as the new structure through the next REF period.
 Research collaboration with contract funders and end-users will be increased, as this is seen as
 the best way to ensure high research impact. The Unit will continue to ensure that its research is
 conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, with recourse to
 the University’s Research Ethics Committee for guidance in any specific instances not obviously
 covered by existing guidelines.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Having formulated three Research Themes (AEB, CE, SV) for promoting the excellence of our
 research, we intend to develop all into world-leading centres of excellence. Amongst areas of
 focus are (i) in AEB, the optimisation of wildlife survey, developing from our ICS1; and the
 acknowledged international excellence of our research into bird and ant behaviour; (ii) in CE,
 new applications of Geochronology; research into ice extent, past and present; and research into
 Natural Flood Management, to form a new ICS; (iii) in SV, policy-informing research into
 wellbeing and into vulnerable communities.


 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy has been to increase the numbers of Academic Staff, and to grow the
 research activity in the UoA. The emphasis in our UoA has been on permanent appointments,
 rather than fixed-term. We protect the teaching load of newly appointed staff to ensure their
 research activity and research development, through mentoring, support groups and monitoring.
 So successful was this strategy during the current REF period that by early 2019 the total REF-
 able staff within the widened UoA had increased by >75% from the number submitted in
 REF2014, to 20, the majority being 1.0 fte. The decision was taken to split the UoA, spinning off
 more than a third of the staff into a new submittable UoA21, in line with the University’s strategic
 aim of submitting more UoAs to REF2021 than in 2014. From 2021, we will foster and mentor a
 University initiative in Biomedical Sciences, with cross-fertilisation into AEB and SV, following
 the model we used so successfully for Social Sciences.

 Over the current REF period, two promotions to existing staff within UoA14 have been made to
 Professor (Goodenough: Biology; Toms: Physical Geography), in recognition of research
 achievements and to enhance research leadership. There have been new appointments in
 Biology (O’Connell: Ecology; Stones: Microbiology), Human Geography (Bennett: Population
 Health and Aging) and Physical Geography (Clarke: Fluvial Geomorphology). We have
 increased the proportion of fte for a female member of staff (Webb), previously on Maternity
 Leaves (two), for which no claim is made; a new professorial appointment (Hill) is female,
 helping towards redressing the previous M:F senior imbalance in the UoA to the current 2.2:2 at
 31/7/20, with the 0.2M retiring in Spring 2021.

 Academic Staff
 We now have a research leadership team of five Professors and a Reader; a staff cohort in
 UoA14 (as submitted) with a gender balance that in the current mid-REF period (excluding
 UoA21) was almost equal, but is now 4.8F: 7.4M, and an age profile that extends from early-30s
 to post-65. All academic staff are on permanent contracts, except for two post-65s, both on
 fixed-term 0.2 fte; one of these has been Professor in Physical Geography at the university since
 1994. He (Chambers) will in 2021 become Emeritus; another Professor in Physical Geography
 (Toms) was appointed in 2018, demonstrating that our succession planning for leadership in
 research ensures resilience, stability and future direction into the next REF cycle. In addition to
 the School staffing, and included in our UoA submission, is a new Professorial appointment
 (Hill) to the university in a central leadership role, whose research is so closely aligned to our
 Changing Environments theme that her research activity is being fully integrated within the
 UoA. Senior UoA14 staff have the top and second-highest GoogleScholar citation scores for the


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 whole university, and the highest h-indices: Healey (Emeritus: h-index 45); Chambers (h-index
 43 at staff Census date).

 Staff Development
 A new feature since REF2014 has been the support given to staff for writing-up research,
 including a monthly Writing Group: annual one- or two-day Writing Retreats away from campus
 for Human Geography and for those Social Science colleagues now in UoA21; for Physical
 Geography/ Environmental Science/Biology; and for the whole Unit. Until the coronavirus
 shutdown, we ran in-house, whole-UoA ‘Shut-up-and-Write’ communal sessions, for writing
 research grant applications and drafting research papers. Specifically within Human Geography
 and Social Sciences, the group (led by Lynch) conducted research plan reviews, one-to-one
 advice, and research mentoring, plus detailed critique of draft research papers and grant
 proposals. All this activity latterly went online-only, using Microsoft Teams, during coronavirus
 restrictions. There is a School-wide Early Career Research Network (ECRN) that hosted monthly
 development sessions led by established researchers, and a seminar series to showcase and
 disseminate staff research and to promote research collaboration. All of the above are resourced
 by QR funds, via EDG, to promote REF-related activity, and the result has been an outstandingly
 successful increase in fte submission in this REF from 11.1 to 19.8, split between UoA14 (12.2
 fte) and UoA21 (7.6 fte).

 Research Management
 The UoA embraces the new Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 (Revised Sept 2019), and adheres to its principles concerning Environment and Culture,
 Employment, and Professional and Career Development. Annually, all staff have a mandatory
 Staff Review and Development session, which for academic staff includes a research focus that
 reviews past achievements and identifies research priorities and targets for the coming year(s).
 There is six-monthly monitoring of individual staff progress to achieve research outputs, with
 scrupulous input to the institutional Research Repository, for which additions are overseen daily,
 with details incorporated in spreadsheets sent at regular intervals to the UoA Co-ordinator.

 The UoA Coordinator reports on a three-monthly basis to University Research Committee on
 progress in (a) overall shape and health of the UoA, including staffing and Equality issues; (b)
 publications and other outputs; (c) research impact, impact strategy and progress with Impact
 Case Studies; (d) research student progress; (e) research income and other financial metrics; (f)
 overall REF targets. These reports are copied to the RPA Co-ordinator, who provides an overall
 summary of progress against budget received by the RPA, which in our case funded research
 activities in two of the university’s UoAs (now three). The shared learning that results from this
 reporting enhances focussing of research and the allocation of internal funding against receipt of
 internal bids.

 Research Students
 Research students form a growing cohort within the UoA, researching projects that are linked
 closely to academic staff expertise and research interests. From whole- or half-funding three
 PhD researchers in the early part of the REF period from QR funding, the UoA switched in the
 latter period to part-funding MA/MSc-by-Research students, with projects closely allied to staff
 research. This resulted in a doubling of the number of part-funded research students, and
 increased the overall research activity in the UoA. There is, in addition, a small number of self-
 funded research students.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Overseeing the postgraduate experience is a dedicated member of staff (Wood) who ensures
 that PGR students are integrated within the School; he organises events and fortnightly
 Research Seminars (latterly online) and is a direct link to the central Academic Development
 Unit’s administrative function, which coordinates the research training programme for the
 postgraduate cohort. The UoA places emphasis on ensuring that research is not confined within
 theses, but is also disseminated by attendance at international conferences, and published in
 international, peer-reviewed literature. Co-publication with supervising staff is encouraged; this
 emphasis starts with final-year undergraduates with selected dissertations, and continues with
 taught Masters students, such that there is already an expectation upon research students
 (Masters and PhD) that their research will be co-published. Indeed, one of our internally funded
 research students in 2019 successfully submitted for a PhD by six peer-reviewed publications in
 international journals—a route hitherto unused.

 Research students have the same entitlement as academic staff to computing and other
 resources, and follow a rigorous training programme, with taught elements in their first year on
 research philosophies and research methods. These are informed by and align with the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. Research students have the opportunity for external
 training courses relevant to their research topic. All PGR students have a minimum of two
 supervisors; the supervisory team must have two supervised successful completions at (or
 above) the sought degree level; an external advisor (for example, in topic-relevant Government
 Agency or NGO) may also be appointed. The university came 6th nationally in the latest
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), which is an excellent achievement.

 Research supervisors undertake mandatory university training for supervision, and are
 responsible for encouraging high-quality output from postgraduate research; Bennett and Hart
 contribute sessions to university-wide PG research training, and Clarke contributed externally to
 the NERC Windsor Workshops for PhD students nationally.

 Table of Doctorates awarded
             2013/14   2014/15        2015/16     2016/17     2017/18      2018/19     2019/20
  PhD        1         3              1           1           2            0           4
  Prof.      --        -              -           -           -            -           -
  Doc.


 Equality and Diversity
 The Vice-Chancellor in 2019 made a formal commitment to the AthenaSwan Charter. The
 University embraces all its principles in contributing to gender-equality issues, including STEM
 subjects in our UoA, and features (unusually, for UK HE) a xx.15 start-time for all room-booked
 meetings and teaching timetabling, and no lectures before 09.15, in recognition both of child-
 care commitments, and ensuring more sustainable commuting for staff and students after the
 morning peak. Equal opportunities and diversity training is mandatory for all new staff;
 recruitment and selection training is mandatory for all sitting on an interview panel (one of the
 actions in our Gender Paygap Action Plan); and Unconscious Bias training is a requirement for
 leaders in the REF process.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Compared with REF2014 (none) the UoA has two female professors, comprising half of its full-
 time professors; [Profs] Goodenough and Hill are members of the University’s Women
 Professors’ Group, which is intended, inter alia, to work towards gender equality in pay in the
 university by encouraging more professorial applications from women, to redress gender
 imbalance in senior academic positions elsewhere in the institution and to be role models and
 mentors for others. There is a university-wide Women’s Network, to support female academics.

 The UoA is mindful of the requirement to ensure equality with respect to persons with protected
 characteristics, to allow them to research effectively; testament to our success in this is the
 outcome that, over the REF period, three female academic members of staff obtained research
 positions at pre-1992 HEIs, showing that their research was developed here to more than
 equivalent standing in the sector.

 Academic staff on fractional appointments have access to the same research support as full-
 time staff, and a rigorous work allocation model (WAM) ensures they are not allocated duties
 disproportionally. Early-career academic staff have the guidance of a senior mentor and have a
 protected teaching load in initial years. The age-range of our research students has extended
 from 23 up to 67, in a diverse cohort. The University has achieved Level 2 of ‘Disability
 Confident’ and is actively working to reach Level 3, which would identify us as a Leader. Within
 the UoA we have made adjustments to enable academic staff with various disabilities to use
 workstations effectively, including free provision of computer spectacles, back-support office
 chairs, and wrist- and foot-rests. The School initiated safeguarding of identified vulnerable staff
 during initial stages of the coronavirus outbreak, permitting them to work exclusively from home,
 well before a university shutdown.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our QR income (of c. £100k p.a., via EDG) has been targeted to enhance research activity, the
 quality of research outputs, and increasing the significance and reach of research impact. In the
 current REF cycle, a Research Fellow (Patrick), PhD by publications (Jarman) and multiple
 small research grants to staff, successfully exemplify the success of all three aims. Much of our
 external income has been won through collaborative partnerships, including a BA/Leverhulme
 small grant (through UoA21).

 Key grant wins
 In theme Social Vulnerabilities, research partnerships with Scott won total grant funding of
 £927,000 [>£37k to UoG] from the Norwegian Research Council in 2016, £30,000 [>£3.5k] from
 the Director of Labour Market Enforcement (DLME) in 2018 and £9,825 [£3.2k] from DLME in
 2019. These projects underpin Impact Case Study 2. Lynch collaborates with Bangor University
 and Cranfield in a £50k ESRC project.

 In Changing Environments, Toms has >£500k in luminescence research projects; Chambers
 had in-kind support of >£40k from NERC for biomarker analyses.

 In Applied Ecology and Biology, most research is underpinned by in-kind support: Research
 Impact Case Study 1 benefited from c. £60k on-the-ground support from the Nkombi Volunteer
 Programme; citizen-science research led by Hart on spiders (a £10k app), flying ants (£4.5k)
 and wasps (Royal Entomological Society grant £6k; supplemented by in-kind support of 5000

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hours, plus £2k facilities, NHM); Goodenough’s research on bats (Ecotricity: £4k; Grassroots
 Ecology: £1.4k) and starling murmuration (Royal Society of Biology: £1.5k); Wood’s sea-bird
 research, from the RSPB.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The UoA is located in the East Quad (QU) at Francis Close Hall Campus, with all academic staff
 co-located in offices on the first floor. Laboratory facilities are conveniently positioned on the
 mezzanine above, the top floor, and on the ground floor. The suite of facilities was purpose-
 designed to enable our research; the range of kit and technical assistance is tailored to ensure
 maximum return in quality of outputs and research impact.

 Description of infrastructure and facilities is presented below by Research Theme area, but
 multi-purpose kit (e.g., furnace; balances; Total Station) and some other items are shared to
 make maximum use of facilities. These include a Furnace/Atomic Absorption Spectroscopy
 Laboratory (QU109b) and a Specialist Computer Laboratory (QU024). During the long vacation,
 it is possible for research (principally Masters) students also to make use of space for thesis
 research in teaching laboratories, which include a Biosciences Teaching Laboratory (QU027),
 Environmental Sciences Laboratory (QU109), Environmental Sciences Field store (QU109a) and
 Microscopy Teaching Laboratory (QU210).

 Changing Environments
 Research Labs: Gamma Spectroscopy Laboratory (QU018); Geochronology Preparation
 Laboratory (QU106); Research and Dissertation Laboratory (QU107); Palaeoecology and Water
 Quality Laboratory (QU108); Geochronology Analysis Laboratory (QU226).

 Prime amongst the laboratory suite listed above are the Cheltenham Geochronological
 Laboratories (QU018; QU106, QU226), housing state-of-the-art luminescence dating kit,
 including Risø TL/OSL readers and Freiberg LexSygSmart Luminescence System, using a
 90Sr/90Y beta source. For field-collection there is a portable Gamma-Spec. The Laboratories

 resulted from a University Investment Fund bid; they opened formally in March 1997, with kit
 more recently upgraded and expanded to two active Risø readers, supported by both Research
 Technician time and a Research Assistant. Toms leads the luminescence dating research,
 which through international collaboration, funded by NERC and EU, inter alia, seeks to uncover
 the timing of past environmental changes and human evolution, dispersal and occupation. The
 facility is supported by kit in QU018, which includes an Ametek high-resolution Gamma
 Spectrometer, with a High-Purity Germanium (HPGe) detector and research grade electronics,
 used to establish the background radiation that a sediment sample has been exposed to over
 time.

 QU107 houses a Malvern Mastersizer 2000-series that measures particle size and distribution of
 clasts in soils, sediments or other media, and is currently enhancing research impact through
 PhD research on river-bed sediment in conjunction with the Environment Agency.

 The Palaeoecology and Water Quality Laboratory (QU108) provides a fume cupboard for
 hydrofluoric acid digestion of lake and soil samples, plus pollen preparation facilities of peat
 samples in a positive-pressure laboratory to reduce contamination. Water quality is assessed
 using a continuous segmented flow analyser that includes an auto sampler with auto-analyzer
 control and evaluation software (AACE); it is used for chemical analysis of water and soil


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 samples to ppb, and is currently enhancing research impact in PhD research in conjunction with
 CCRI and the Environment Agency in analysing nutrients in farm soils.

 A Total Organic Carbon (TOC) and Total Nitrogen (TN) Analytik Jena Multi N/C 3100 Analyser
 determines total carbon content and total nitrogen content in aqueous samples and total carbon
 in solid samples by thermocatalytic digestion in the presence of a special catalyst, with
 measurement capability from ppm to ppb; it is currently used in a staff research project
 contributing towards the BIFoR Free-Air Carbon Dioxide Enrichment (FACE) project, analysing
 soil carbon and microbial processing of C and N within soils and soil water. The lab also houses
 a ‘River in a Box’ River Model (Little River Box Company—EMriver EM2 system) to mimic in situ
 river sediment, to model river channel and bedform characteristics (by Clarke).

 Applied Ecology and Biology
 Research Labs: Molecular Biology Laboratory (QU017); Animal Behaviour Laboratory (QU019);
 Biosciences Laboratory (QU025); Biosciences Dissertation Laboratory (QU025a); Biosciences
 Preparation Laboratory (QU026).

 We have a custom-built invertebrate Animal Behaviour Laboratory (QU019), housing various
 species of tropical ants, with set-ups that allow investigation (by Hart) of foraging trail dynamics
 and responses to changes in temperature. Research-quality microscopes and imaging
 equipment support this and other research work. Linking directly to Impact Case Study 1, the
 UoA has a suite of thermal imaging equipment (Flir T620 and i7 Thermal Imaging Cameras),
 software and related expertise. Field equipment supports research impact activities that include
 terrestrial and aquatic invertebrate sampling, small-mammal trapping, bat surveying, water
 quality assessment, environmental and ecological impact assessment, bird surveying and
 African savannah and wildlife survey. Labs are supported by dedicated technical support, a well-
 appointed balance room, a furnace room and several customisable lab spaces for specific
 projects.

 Recent investment since 2017 in a containment level 2 (CL2) laboratory space for work with
 Hazard group 2 pathogens, along with licensing, to create genetically modified microorganisms,
 facilitates microbial research led by Stones. Molecular and Microbiological Preparation and
 Analysis research equipment in QU017 includes 2 x PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) Thermal
 Cyclers and 1 x Real Time PCR Thermal Cycler for amplification of DNA molecules; Jenway
 Genova Nano Micro-Volume Spectrophotometer, for measurement of concentration and purity of
 nucleic acid and protein samples, and the density of bacterial cell cultures; BioRad Gel Doc EZ
 Imager for automated digital imaging and analysis of electrophoresis DNA gels; Biolog OmniLog
 and Microstation for rapid automated/manual incubation and identification of aerobic bacteria;
 Walker Class II Microbiological Safety Cabinet for the safe handling of pathogenic materials,
 whilst avoiding potential airborne contamination; Nuaire Glacier -86 Degree UltraLow
 Temperature Freezer, used for the long-term storage of temperature-sensitive molecular and
 microbiological samples.

 Social Vulnerabilities
 The principal internal tools used by researchers in this theme are the specialist computer
 facilities, which include Geographical Information Systems to produce and analyse digital maps
 portraying the location of hotspots of social vulnerability, with statistical analysis using SPSS and
 R.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Field Kit Enhancing Research Impact
 In addition to the purposing of laboratory facilities for research impact referred to above, field kit
 has been specifically purchased to that end. A recent acquisition is an unmanned aerial vehicle
 (UAV: a DJI Inspire Quadcopter), currently used for dual purposes: (i) in a field-survey project
 with Gloucestershire Wildlife Trust to survey river channels pre- and post-installation of natural
 flood defences (Clarke, in Changing Environments; and (ii) to survey seabird populations on
 Skomer and Skokholm with the RSPB (Wood in Applied Ecology and Biology). Digital Field
 Survey Equipment (specifically a Leica Viva GS16 Differential GPS RTKplus and Smart link
 compatible GNSS receiver with CS20 controller, and compatible Leica Flexline TSO2 Plus Total
 Station) supports enhancement of research impact and is currently supporting the Environment
 Agency Project (in Changing Environments).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Introduction
 The UoA’s three Research Themes—Changing Environments, Applied Biology and
 Ecology, and Social Vulnerabilities—exhibit a wide range of collaborations internally and
 externally. We reference examples from those themes within the major sub-headings for this
 section: Research Collaborations and Partnerships, highlighting also Relationships with
 Key Research Users and Beneficiaries; and Contributions to the Research Base,
 Economy and Society.

 A new feature in our UoA from 2019 has been the deliberate funding by bursaries of five
 research Masters students, with their projects tied to research users, research- and practitioner
 collaborations and networks in some of our research areas of focus. Current projects include
 optimising nocturnal wildlife surveying, with Wildlife Trusts; Natural Flood Management, with
 links to the Environment Agency and Local Authorities; minimising people trafficking;
 international generational equity in housing; researching policy advancement in wellbeing and
 vulnerable communities.

 The rationale here follows from our deliberate alignment of teaching and research: research
 activity is imbued from the outset, from undergraduate dissertation, through postgraduate
 (taught) theses, to research Masters and PhD, including PhD by publication—all potentially
 working on co-publishing their results with academic staff and end-users. The payback in the
 most successful instances is threefold: effective provision of research assistance to academic
 staff; development and enhancement of our research portfolio; and maximising research with
 impact. The linkages with end-users and practice organisations means that these projects
 facilitate pathways to impact; the in-kind and financial support from such organisations means
 that these studentships are CASE-like in character, with similar benefits.

 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 External collaboration with other Universities, Research Groups and International agencies is a
 particular feature of the UoA’s research. In many of these external collaborations, research
 funding has been in the first instance to other institutions in the research consortia, but the
 participation of researchers from the UoA has enhanced the research excellence in the
 collaborations, networks and partnerships.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For example, in Social Vulnerabilities, Scott’s £37k collaboration in a near £927,000 project
 with UC Davis (USA) and NTNU (Trondheim) has leveraged international comparators for
 country-specific case studies (see Impact Case Study 2). Similarly contributing to ICS2, Lynch
 collaborates with a wide international conspectus of researchers, including at Fourah Bay
 College, Sierra Leone; University of Otago, New Zealand; University of Hyderabad, India; Arava
 Institute, Israel; and Stellenbosch University, South Africa. He collaborates in research with
 Bangor and Cranfield Universities on urban water, sanitation and health, and with the University
 of Bath in social and policy studies. Bennett’s research on ageing involves productive
 collaboration with researchers from a range of institutions internationally, including UNED
 (Spain), the University of Limerick (Ireland) and the UK Open University.

 As examples of international collaborations in both the Changing Environments and Applied
 Biology and Ecology theme areas, the Centre for Environmental Change and Quaternary
 Research (CECQR) is linked internationally in a range of research consortia, covering, inter alia,
 peatland research, palaeoecology, luminescence dating, ancient tree and landscape study.
 These have resulted in a number of landmark, multi-author research papers, in for example
 Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta (on global peat-specific temperature pH calibrations), Nature
 Geoscience (on recent drying of European peatlands)—for which the EU ACCROTELM 1.4M
 Euro project, led by Chambers, was crucial in providing site data from Finland, Estonia and the
 UK—and Journal of Ecology (setting the research agenda for palaeoecology). International
 research on sweet chestnut origins and dispersal involved multiple collaborations led by Jarman
 with, inter alia, the Future Trees Trust; IRET (Italy) and CNR (Italy); Universities of Greenwich
 and Warwick; Historic England; and 93 individual researchers. This resulted in six research
 papers in international journals, including in PLOS One and Tree Genetics and Genomes, which
 has set the research and practice agendas for others (see later sub-section on Policy Advice for
 External End-users).

 In the Changing Environments theme area, Clarke is involved in NERC-funded research with
 the British Antarctic Survey, Cambridge, and the University of Newcastle into glacial change in
 the 21st century in Antarctica (which has resulted in two multi-author publications); and in alluvial
 fan dynamics, with Utrecht University. Toms, who heads the Cheltenham Geochronological
 Laboratories, is involved in research consortia through applying luminescence dating to solve
 research questions in environmental change and into human origins and evolution. These
 research links include academics at the universities of Leicester, Reading, Southampton,
 Sussex, Winchester, and EMM Consulting, Australia. Webb is involved as a stakeholder in a
 multi-institution project—CHERISH (Climate Change and Coastal Heritage)—involving her
 leading the palynological study of Skomer and Skokholm Islands.

 New professorial appointment Hill contributes to the Changing Environments research of the
 UoA. Hill researches into aspects of geoecology (chronosequences of ant nest mounds from
 glacier forelands and succession in alpine vegetation) and landscape change (Schmidt-hammer
 exposure-age dating to understand regional Holocene chronologies and morpho-dynamics of
 small rock-slope failures, snow-avalanche impact craters, sorted stripes and cryoplanation
 terraces) in the arctic-alpine environment of the Jotunheimen mountains and neighbouring regions
 of western and central southern Norway. She also undertakes methodological research such as
 developing an index of the degree of rock-surface micro-weathering based on Schmidt hammer
 R-values. Hill undertakes this research in collaboration with colleagues from across the UK
 (Swansea University, Ulster University, University of Manchester, University of the West of

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 England Bristol), Europe (Julius-Maximilians University Würzburg, University of Vienna) and the
 USA (University of Kentucky).

 In Applied Ecology and Biology, there is a particular strength in research in avian species, and
 during the REF period, Research Fellow Patrick enhanced that strength through collaboration
 with the University of Oxford on a range of aspects of seabird behaviour. Goodenough
 collaborates nationally and internationally on applied ecological research, focused on developing
 maximally effective survey protocols (acoustic monitoring, thermography, automated computer
 processing of digital imaging, use of indicator species) and informing conservation and
 management strategies (birds, land mammals, bats, butterflies, woodland and grassland flora).
 An ornithological researcher at the outset, Goodenough is part of a pan-European research
 group involving 80 researchers from 60 institutions in 20 countries that has resulted in multiple
 high-impact publications in the REF cycle on the biotic impact of climate change of birds at a
 continental scale. She has also researched collaboratively in southern Africa on grassland and
 wildlife management. O’Connell’s collaborative research with University of Brighton is on the
 causes of changes in bird species diversity; his international collaboration with the Smithsonian
 Institute is on development of conservation capacity building metrics; his collaboration with the 5
 Gyres Institute in the USA is investigating the role of sea plastics on global seabird extinction
 risk. Wood coordinates long-term studies of seabirds on Skomer Island, to understand
 environmental influences on population dynamics, such as climate change, with colleagues from
 the Universities of Oxford, Glasgow, Liverpool and Cork. Wood also works on microplastics in
 marine environments, while Stones, a recent appointee, researches various aspects governing
 gut health from ingested environmental material, including host–pathogen interactions and
 immune responses during inflammatory bowel disease and cancer. Stones undertakes this
 research in collaboration with partners from the UK (University of Birmingham) and USA
 (University of Texas Houston).

 Links to other UoAs
 A strength of the Unit is its interdisciplinarity, not merely across the Unit, within and between the
 three Research Themes, but also within one of the University’s six Research Priority Areas
 (RPA: Environmental Dynamics and Governance [EDG]), which now includes UoAs 13, 14, 21.
 The expertise provided by researchers from UoA 14 here has been crucial to project success.
 For example, Clarke’s Changing Environments collaboration with UoA13 in flood management
 has resulted in a successful PhD completion, three research papers, joint grant proposals for EU
 H2020, NERC and ESRC, and a joint conference for Natural Flood Management practitioners,
 hosted at UoG. Lynch’s leadership and mentoring of staff over the REF period in Social
 Vulnerabilities has led to co-authored publications submitted in UoA21; and in 2020 a
 successful UoA21/UoA14 BA/Leverhulme research grant application.

 Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences
 A particular research strength of our international Research Centre (CECQR) in the Changing
 Environments theme area has been its leading of research with end-users into the recent
 vegetation history of moorlands and blanket bog, with a view to informing effective conservation.
 A research studentship here was part-sponsored by the Yorkshire Wildlife Trust to investigate
 sites in North Yorkshire, which has led to three research publications (co-authored with the end-
 user) in international peer-reviewed journals, while a multi-site study with Natural England led to
 a co-authored publication (including Chambers and Webb) that included an assessment and
 evaluation of the effectiveness of a range of applicable palaeoenvironmental techniques, which


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other researchers and practitioners can now follow. Users of this CECQR research include
 Natural England, for moorland management and restoration, and Cyfoeth Naturiol Cymru
 (Natural Resources, Wales), for blanket bog conservation and management.

 New appointee O’Connell came from an applied research background and in Applied Biology
 and Ecology he has successfully built upon a wide research network in leading the
 development and running of a major recent international conference ‘Capacity Building for
 Conservation’ (2019), held in London, which had participation of delegates from 51 countries,
 majoring on direct engagement with conservation managers and practitioners.

 In Social Vulnerabilities, Bennett’s work has been featured in blogposts for Understanding
 Society and Worklife. She is a Member of the International Network on Transnational Families,
 which conducted two workshops (St Andrews; Maastricht Universities) on similarities and
 differences in the effects of family migration across world regions, which resulted in a Special
 Issue of Population, Space and Place. She was a team member on two consultancy projects for
 the United Nations Population Fund Eastern Europe & Central Asia Office, on progress towards
 the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing in the region; and gave an invited seminar at
 the International Gender Studies Centre, University of Oxford.

 Also in Social Vulnerabilities, Lynch engaged end-users in the Greater Hyderabad
 Metropolitan Authority, India, on Rural–Urban Sanitation Transformations. He has given Keynote
 presentations at the Interdisciplinary Research for Food & Water Security, Bilateral Early
 Careers Researcher Workshop, American University of Cairo, Egypt; and a Keynote and 1-day
 field trip at the Interdisciplinary Research for Food & Water Security, Trilateral Early Careers
 Researcher Workshop (UK, South Africa, Egypt), Stellenbosch Institute of Advance Studies
 (STIAS). In communicating research to a wider public audience, he is co-Editor of The
 Routledge Handbook of African Development (50 chapters; 700 pages).

 Esteemed Roles in Relationships with User Audiences and Enhancement of the wider
 Research Base
 As part of the UoA’s contribution to Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and
 Audiences, staff hold editorships of both academic and professional journals, and have other
 senior roles. For example, Goodenough is Associate Editor of Bird Study and (during the REF
 period) of Microbial Ecology; she is a STEM ambassador. Hart is on the Council of the Royal
 Entomological Society and Chairs their Outreach and Development Committee, Editorial Board
 member for Insects, former Editor-in-Chief of Ecological Entomology, and continues as
 Associate Editor. Wood is Associate Editor of Ibis: International Journal of Avian Science.
 Chambers is Associate Editor of The Holocene, and until 2020 was also an Editor of Mires and
 Peat, and Associate Editor of Biodiversity and Conservation. Bennett co-edited a Special Issue
 of the International Journal of Ageing in Developing Countries on the Madrid International Plan
 of Action on Ageing. O’Connell was Editor of Ecological Informatics proceedings in 2015, 2018
 and 2019; he is Associate Editor for the journal Ecological Solutions and Evidence, and is editing
 18 papers of Conference Proceedings, to be published in the International Journal of
 Conservation, aimed particularly at the engagement of conservation managers and practitioners.

 Clarke was Co-organiser of the 2015 Alluvial Fan Conference in Christchurch, New Zealand.
 She contributed to the wider future research base by being Coordinator of the Windsor training
 workshop for 1st-year PhD students, involving an audience of c. 30 research students annually


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from across Europe. She gave Keynote talks in 2015 on alluvial fans at the Binghamton
 Geomorphology Symposium at Buffalo University, New York, and at the 5th International Alluvial
 Fans Meeting, Christchurch, New Zealand. She led the Fixed-Term Working Group, funded by
 the British Society for Geomorphology, which ran conference workshops and research focus
 groups.

 Bennett won an ESRC bursary award for the National Centre for Research Methods Training,
 and participated in research training sessions in Sweden. Lynch, with attendees Bennett and
 Clarke, co-led the Newton-funded Early Career Research Workshop in Stellenbosch (2016);
 Lynch and Bennett contributed to the UK ‘Parliament for Researchers’, by the Parliamentary
 Office for Science and Technology in 2019. Throughout the REF period, Chambers has been an
 active member of the national CROS/PIRLS* Steering Committee, and he helped devise the UK-
 wide 2020 CEDARS* survey, both as Steering Committee member and as a Principal
 Investigator pilot tester.

 *CROS: Careers in Research Online Survey; PIRLS: Principal Investigator and Research
 Leaders [Survey]; CEDARS: Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research
 Survey.

 Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Policy Advice for External End-users

 Chambers was chosen to pilot the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
 (BEIS) survey of UK researchers on the impact on research of COVID-19 (May 2020), after
 which essential amendments were made before its release.

 In Changing Environments, Clarke‘s collaborative Natural Flood Management monitoring in
 the south-west Midlands (£20k funding awarded; with HLF bid submitted subsequently) informs
 Local Authorities and the Environment Agency on how best to reduce flood risk.

 Using expertise from both the Changing Environments and Applied Biology and Ecology
 research themes, results from an innovative, multi-proxy study into the status and Eurasian
 origin of sweet chestnut in Britain and Ireland (Jarman, with Chambers and Webb) informs the
 National Trust, Historic England and national conservation agencies about seven identified
 landscape types that currently contain sweet chestnut; and advises forestry organisations as to
 the suitability of sweet chestnut for future planting, including for example in the extensive
 Midlands Forest.

 In a similar combination of expertise across the same two theme areas, Webb is involved in
 Forensic Science applications of palynology, which have wider applications for society in
 ensuring successful prosecutions for criminal activity. Our CECQR Research Associate, Prof.
 Pat Wiltshire, is the world’s leading researcher and practitioner in Forensic Ecology, having
 herself pioneered and established that sub-discipline internationally, and contributes crucial
 evidence in high-profile murder cases.

 In Applied Biology and Ecology, close collaboration with and training of end-users (by
 Goodenough and Hart) in wildlife reserves has resulted in the introduction of remote measures


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for better detection of poaching, and thereby to ensure more effective conservation of white
 rhino in South Africa and Botswana and black rhino in Namibia (see Impact Case Study 1). In
 addition, research (through CECQR) on pied flycatcher and other bird species (by
 Goodenough) has informed RSPB and Natural England on effective bird nest-box siting and
 orientation. Working in collaboration with the Royal Society of Biology, Hart, and latterly, Hart
 and Goodenough have developed a nationally recognised strength in applying citizen-science
 techniques to ecology. A BBC series, fronted by Hart, resulted in collaboration with York
 University to produce a position paper on invertebrate ethics, enhancing the wider research
 base.

 With O’Connell and Goodenough, Wood advises on seabird monitoring methods and policy,
 locally for Wildlife Trusts and nationally for JNCC’s Seabird Monitoring Programme; he led
 international workshops on the use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in seabird monitoring
 (based on UoG-funded work with Clarke) and is co-lead for the World Seabird Union’s workshop
 on citizen science approaches. Funding from JNCC and Natural Resources Wales has permitted
 development of innovative survey methods in acoustic survey in collaboration with the
 Universities of Oxford and Cardiff, revealing historical changes in island seabird populations to
 inform evidence-based decisions on conservation status.

 In Social Vulnerabilities, collaborative research has been conducted (by Scott) with UCL and
 LSE in two projects for the Director of Labour Market Enforcement (DLME), focussing on the
 scale and nature of non-compliance in the UJ labour market. Scott has also collaborated in a
 Norwegian Research Council project on global labour in rural societies. These research projects
 are, respectively, designed to inform Governments regarding labour market standards and
 protections, and migrant labour recruitment and integration, both having important bearings for
 economy and society.

 Communication of Research Findings to a wider Audience, and encouraging Public
 Engagement
 Public engagement and science communication has developed as an important theme within the
 UoA, led by Hart who is Professor of Science Communication. Research work by him,
 Goodenough and Wood has led to a great deal of media coverage over the reporting period
 across news platforms, including citizen science, conservation, climate change and seabird
 ecology. Hart is a regular presenter for BBC Radio and during the period he has written and
 presented more than 15 documentaries, seven of which were based on his research. He also
 presented the global BBC World Service science magazine programme Science in Action for
 four months during which research in the UoA was covered several times. Hart also has a
 “Science Hour” slot on BBC Radio Gloucestershire that has run monthly since 2006 and
 highlights research within the UoA. Research from the UoA has also featured, via Hart, in events
 at Cheltenham, Edinburgh and the Northern Ireland Science Festivals, the Malta Science
 Festival, the New Scientist Live event and the A-Level Live events. Hart, Goodenough and
 Wood are regular speakers to local and national interest groups. The UoA also has close links
 to schools locally and nationally, and several members of the group are involved in school
 curriculum enhancement visits. Hart’s Instar feature on development of the sub-adult stage in
 insects engaged 24,000 schools.

 Working with researchers in CEH Wallingford, in 2020 Hart co-hosted a one-day online event to
 contribute to a “hack-a-thon”, funded and facilitated by the British Ecological Society. This


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allowed 25 citizen science projects from across the world to share data and to co-author a paper
 outlining a framework for understanding citizen engagement in different project stages. Hart also
 co-hosted an online conference (c. 100 attendees) with CEH Wallingford and the British
 Ecological Society where marketing, design, motivation and engagement academics and experts
 from the commercial sector linked with citizen science researchers from across the UK to
 develop more effective engagement strategies.

 Nationwide studies of ants, spiders and starlings resulted in considerable media attention (BBC
 ‘Most Read’ stories, Radio 4 Today and PM, Radio 1, Radio 2, 5 Live, Countryfile, most national
 newspapers and many local radio stations) across the reporting period in addition to highly rated
 research papers. Researchers in Applied Biology and Ecology also used Twitter mining to
 investigate the possibility of using social media to study phenology—research that was reported
 by the BBC and was a ‘Most Read’ story. Hart has been working on a study of wasp abundance,
 with University College London, which attracted considerable media attention and which led to a
 BBC Radio 4 and World Service series written and presented by Hart on the ethics of
 entomology.

 Overall
 In REF2014: “The subpanel noted areas of particular strength in the reconstruction and dating of
 environmental change in various environments, the impacts of environmental change on bird
 populations, and some areas of human geography”; of these, all but human geography were in
 our Research Centre (CECQR). Over the course of the REF period we have moved from this
 one external-facing, internationally recognised Research Centre (CECQR) that co-researches
 and co-publishes with end-users, to three internal- and external-facing Research Themes
 (Changing Environments, Applied Biology and Ecology, and Social Vulnerabilities), each,
 separately or together, engages with end-users at the outset of research, and develops clear
 pathways to impact. Our latter strategy of funding Research Masters bursaries has enhanced
 both our research capability and the significance of our research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships, including relationships with key research end-users and beneficiaries. Based on
 External assessment, our research output has strengthened markedly. The great advantage of
 our having an in-house Professor of Science Communication is that our research achieves a
 quite outstanding reach to a wide audience, nationally, internationally and globally.




                                                                                          Page 16
