Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 17 – Business and Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction: Context and aims of the unit


 Part of the School of Business, Economics and Informatics (BEI), this unit comprises two
 Departments, Management (MAN - established 1992; now the largest Department in the
 College) and Organizational Psychology (OP - established 1962; the longest standing
 specialized OP Department in the UK). Our distinct foci and expertise unite in the common aim
 of conducting socially responsible research to serve the public good aligning to Birkbeck’s
 mission of inclusion and BEI’s commitment to “produce high quality research that is theoretically
 informed, socially and practically relevant, and used to engage with key communities to generate
 academic, business and social value” (BEI Research Strategy 2021-26, p.3).

 Our unit has grown to 55.1 FTE (full time equivalent) academics from diverse disciplines, from
 30.1 FTE in REF 2014 (section 2.1). We publish our work in leading journals and engage widely
 beyond the academy. Since 2014, our academics have published more than 350 peer-reviewed
 articles, 40 book chapters and 13 books.

 Responding to criteria of academic excellence, our research demonstrates knowledge
 exchange, impact, critical thinking, plurality of approaches and global reach.

 1. Our research has impact. We facilitate change in organizational practice sharing our
 evidence-base with policymakers, practitioners and users through Research Centres and
 Groups (section 1.2) and our active role in policy networks, practitioners’ forums and
 professional associations (e.g. Innovation Caucus, Progressive Economy Forum, Affinity Health
 at Work) as well as in collaboration with national and international governmental organizations
 (e.g. BEIS, NHS, College of Policing, section 4.1). We work strategically with partners from
 industry, government and the third sector to build long-term relationships (section 4.2). Our
 impact case studies have emerged organically out of links with practice and policy, specifically
 longstanding engagement with trade unions, voluntary sports organizations, and national/
 international policy makers. Academic staff play an active part in current debates through
 various media (section 4.3).

 2. Critical thinking. We challenge mainstream norms and institutional structures to reflect
 changing contexts and evolving society structures. We critique current practices in executive
 rewards (McDowall, Yu), whistleblowing (Phillips), labour exploitation within international value
 chains (Kumar), precarious work in the arts (McDowall) and gender issues in marketing (Hein,
 Whiting). Our early career researchers (ECRs) are actively involved in this work in line with the


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 College’s wider goal of fostering ECRs research profiles. Our research generates impact on
 policy and practice: for example, Hein’s work on marketing with the UN’s PRME (Principles for
 Responsible Management Education) group on gender equality has influenced management
 teaching and therefore business practices around the world.

 3. Plural approaches. We encourage a wide range of methodologies as a central pillar of our
 commitment to academic freedom in research. We foster dedicated expertise in systematic
 review and meta-analytic methodology, underpinning publications in topical research areas
 including mindfulness, coaching (Lai) and wellbeing at work (Cox, Teoh, Kamau). We support
 plurality by affording colleagues autonomy in their research and practicing diversity when we
 recruit and nurture new talent, with support infrastructure including mentoring and signposting
 (section 2.2) and opportunities for pump-priming funding (section 1.3).

 4. Global reach. We benefit from rich networks in the UK and across the world evidenced by the
 international reach of the memberships of our Research Centres (section 1.2) and the
 professional networks of our academics (section 4.1).

 1.2 How research is structured across the submitted unit

 The unit’s two Departments operate autonomously but collaborate to create and sustain
 research structures that are mutually beneficial through scale efficiencies and research
 synergies.

 We have strategically grown (as a key objective in our 2014 REF environment strategy) through
 expanding and restructuring Research Centres, Research Groups and Subject Development
 Groups (SDGs) introduced in a previous assessment period to culminate in new clusters of
 expertise in this period (section 1.3).

 The unit’s six Research Centres and two Research Groups underpin the vitality of our research
 environment by organizing events for academic and non-academic communities (we
 conservatively estimate, over the period July 2013-July 2020, 130 seminars, 40 workshops, 5
 large scale international conferences, and 20 outreach events including book launches, film
 screenings, coaching seminars, training events, mentoring sessions), and dissemination through
 websites, blogs, newsletters and working paper series. We nurture interactions between and
 across Departments, with academics outside the College and external stakeholders, including
 alumni.

 These Centres and Groups are (ordered by foundation date):

    •      The Sports Business Centre – SBC (director: Hamil,
           http://www.sportbusinesscentre.com), founded in 1999, promotes research-led best
           practice in sports management through consulting, educational and public engagement
           activities comprising scholars from MAN and other Birkbeck departments and universities

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        in the UK and abroad (Nottingham, Loughborough, Queen Mary, Griffiths University,
        University of Michigan). It runs a successful seminar series and promotes one-day
        events and workshops (15 per year on average). SBC has strong industry partnerships. It
        runs the Executive Masters in Sport Governance (MESGO; http://www.mesgo.org/) in
        collaboration with the Universities of Limoges, Lausanne, Leida and Mainz, and has
        developed international partnerships to facilitate postgraduate student exchanges.

    •   The Centre for Innovation Management Research – CIMR (directors: Lawton Smith,
        Frenz, Rossi; http://www.bbk.ac.uk/cimr), founded in 2008, has members from MAN,
        Economics, Computer Science, Biology, and other national and international universities
        (LSE, BEIS, Essex, Kent, Manchester, Imperial, Lund, Amsterdam, Jena, State
        University of New York at Buffalo, and others). Since August 2013, CIMR has organized
        over 40 events (policy panels, workshops, research seminars, and conferences). CIMR
        hosts a successful Working Papers series with more than 45 working papers indexed in
        Repec (impact factor 2.03, more than 1,700 downloads since 2011). The editorial board
        of the journal Strategic Change (Wiley) is based at CIMR. In 2018 CIMR launched a
        formal partnership with the Kogod School of Business at The American University in
        Washington to promote joint research opportunities and develop PG student exchanges.

    •   The Centre for Sustainable Working Life – CSWL (director: Thompson;
        http://www.bbk.ac.uk/cswl/about-us) has historically translated wellbeing research into
        policy and practice through dissemination events (for example, an ESRC-funded seminar
        series on cancer at work) and international partnerships. CSWL has received support
        from Macmillan Cancer Support, the ESRC, NHS Grampian and UCAN (an Aberdeen-
        based charity for urological cancers). We are currently in the process of reviewing its
        name, scope and focus to more strategically synergise our expertise in diversity and
        wellbeing at work.

    •   The Centre for Political Economy and Institutional Studies - CPEIS (director: Andriani,
        http://www.bbk.ac.uk/cpeis/), founded in 2017, is interdisciplinary with directors and
        members from MAN, Economics, Law and Politics. CPEIS provides impetus to grow and
        strengthen the production of excellent research at Birkbeck on the governance of political
        and economic institutions, aligning with the unit’s core expertise in governance studies. It
        enhances research-driven education provision having facilitated the creation of a new
        interdisciplinary programme building on the expertise of the four member Departments
        (the new MSc in Business, Political Economy and Society).

    •   The Responsible Business Centre – RBC (director: Boulota,
        http://www.bbk.ac.uk/research/centres/responsible-business-centre/) (formerly the
        London Centre for Corporate Governance and Ethics) was re-launched in 2019 bringing
        together a critical mass of MAN and external scholars who focus on how various social


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        and environmental issues affect businesses and vice versa. RBC is a member of the
        Network for Business Sustainability (NBS), a network of more than 150 sustainability
        research centres worldwide organizing more than 12 events since its re-launch.

    •   The Accounting and Finance Research Centre - AFRC (director: Mamatzakis,
        http://www.bbk.ac.uk/research/centres/accounting-and-finance-research-centre/),
        launched in 2020, aims to advance research impact by connecting researchers with
        practitioners in accounting and finance. Members hail from MAN and Economics, as well
        as other universities and corporations (including King’s Business School, QML,
        Lancaster University, University of Manchester, Montpellier Business School, Athens
        University of Business and Economics, SUNY, University of Texas). AFRC organizes
        research seminars and a thematic annual conference and regularly hosts visiting
        scholars. The Centre publishes a working paper series in accounting and finance.

    •   The Qualitative Research Group (lead: Whiting,
        http://www.bbk.ac.uk/research/networks/qualitative-research-methods-group/) is a
        community of practice to support the qualitative research of OP academics and PhD
        students. The Group hosts an annual ‘Methods in Action’ Day to which current doctoral
        and Masters students as well as alumni of are invited - over 100 attendees each year.

    •   The Marketing and Consumer Research Group (lead: Hackley,
        http://www.bbk.ac.uk/research/networks/marketing-and-consumer-research-group),
        launched in 2020, provides a platform for coordinating the research activities of our
        growing Marketing team. It explores marketing and consumption phenomena from a wide
        range of perspectives, drawing on socio-cultural, psychological, anthropological,
        organizational, managerial, feminist and literary traditions of research. Themes explore
        the implications of contemporary shifts in the digital and cultural economy for
        organizations, business practice and consumer welfare.

 All MAN academics are affiliated to one or more of eight SDGs (Accounting and Finance;
 Business and Management; Corporate Governance and Business Ethics; Human Resource
 Management; Innovation and Entrepreneurship; International Business; Marketing; Sports
 Management) organizing research-related initiatives to reach new audiences, grow the unit and
 stimulate innovation in areas not covered by Research Centres. For example, the International
 Business SDG plays a leading role in coordinating Birkbeck’s partnership with the South
 Western University of Economics and Finance in China (SWUFE), which has spawned a joint
 degree programme and several research collaborations (including SWUFE sponsorship of PhD
 students). It organizes conferences (19th McGill International Entrepreneurship Conference,
 2015) and workshops (Birkbeck/University of Essex PhD Workshops series, started 2017). The
 Marketing SDG organized the International Conference on Research in Advertising (ICORIA)
 2015 and a yearly Masterclass in Structural Equation Modelling for PhD students in and outside


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Birkbeck (since 2018).

 1.3 Research objectives achieved during the assessment period

 Five key strategic research objectives were identified in the REF2014 environment strategy.

    •     To improve the number of grant applications and our success rate.
    •     To increase the output and profile of the two groups that have recently expanded, namely
          Marketing and Accounting and Finance;
    •     To nurture our early career researchers and help them build their reputations as a
          number of older staff may choose to retire;
    •     To improve still further the reputation and impact of our Research Centres;
    •     To continue embedding research impact into our organizational culture.

 We have performed strongly against all five objectives. External research funding was 107%
 higher in this REF period than in 2014. The unit’s success rate in grant applications was 22%, in
 line with the College’s overall figure. The Marketing and Accounting and Finance clusters have
 expanded (by four and three staff respectively) and consolidated their research profiles through
 the establishment of a new Research Centre and Group. The re-launch of the Responsible
 Business Centre under a new Director in 2019 and the appointment of a new managing team for
 the Centre for Innovation Management Research in 2015 have resulted in an expansion of these
 Centres’ memberships and in more varied activities, and the existing Centres have expanded
 their profiles with new international partnerships. Two new Centres and a new Group have been
 launched to exploit research synergies in areas where our expertise and reputation are growing
 rapidly. Our impact-generating activities demonstrate how research impact is embedded into our
 organizational culture.

 We delivered the five objectives across the unit through: organizational restructuring, targeted
 research funding and new research initiatives, and improved policies and support structures.

 Organizational restructuring. There are currently six clusters of interdisciplinary themes with
 global reach, each of which is supported by at least one Research Centre and/or Research
 Group:

    •     Governance of business and socioeconomic institutions. This theme is addressed from a
          variety of perspectives including industrial relations, organizational science, sports
          management and accounting. Outputs relate to the governance of labour markets
          (Kumar, Teoh, Kamau, Kelly, McGumbrell-Cormick, Voskeritsian, Phillips), improving
          governance in the sports sector (Hamil, Rossi, Tacon, Walters) and online communities
          (Sibai), macroeconomic governance through work on social capital and corruption
          (Andriani), the political economy of austerity (Konzelmann), market regulation in relation
          to network monopolies (Guy) and intellectual property rights (Archibugi). The ongoing


                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        activities of the SBC and the creation of the CPEIS in 2017 provide a platform to further
        strengthen our profile in this area. Research outputs in this theme constitute about 20%
        of our current REF output submission, and two of our impact case studies build on
        governance-related research (Kelly; Tacon and Walters).

    •   Entrepreneurship and innovation. The unit carries out world-leading research on
        entrepreneurial co-creation (de Silva), innovation and economic recovery (Archibugi,
        Frenz), entrepreneurship and regional development (Lawton Smith), and innovation
        policy (Rossi). The CIMR (expanded under a new managing team since 2015 - Lawton
        Smith, Frenz and Rossi) coordinates research, dissemination and impact-generating
        activities in this field. Research outputs in this theme constitute about 15% of our current
        REF output submission, and two of our impact case studies build on entrepreneurship
        and innovation research (Frenz; de Silva and Rossi).

    •   Inclusion and wellbeing. We address this strategic theme across marketing, accounting,
        innovation and entrepreneurship, organizational psychology, human resource
        management and industrial relations. Examples include work on neurodiversity
        (McDowall), support for disabled and BAME innovators (Lawton Smith), challenging
        assumptions about older (Whiting, Drury) and migrant (Chatrakul, McKenzie-Davey)
        workers and cross-cultural communications (Houston). Gender issues are addressed in
        the context of consumer behaviour (Hein), toy marketing (Whiting), board composition
        (Boulota), entrepreneurship (McKenzie-Davey), academic careers (Lawton Smith and
        Hein / TRIGGER project – see 2.4 below), leadership and education (Iwowo), and
        workplace inclusion (Beauregard). Research outputs in this thematic area constitute
        about 20% of our current REF output submission. The momentum of this research has
        led to the formation of a new Centre and a new research group in the months following
        the end of the REF census period. The Diversity research group (lead: Beauregard) has
        been launched at the end of 2020, while the Centre for NeuroDiversity Research at Work
        (C4NRAW) (directors McDowall; Doyle), has been established in 2021. C4NRAW aims to
        support research on neurodifference at work to foster inclusive work practices and
        increase the evidence base for reasonable adjustments. The International Advisory
        Board brings together academics from across education, psychology, medicine and other
        fields with practitioners, users and PhD students to foster a rich community. Four
        postgraduate studentships are already funded through industry partnerships.

    •   Social and environmental business responsibility. This theme unites perspectives
        including governance, accounting, marketing, human resource management and
        organizational psychology. Output includes research on sustainable reporting (Yu),
        sustainable value chains (Yamoah), ethical consumer behaviour (Yeow), social
        innovation (Crisafulli, de Silva). We promote sustainable research methodology through
        use of publicly-available data sets. Emphasis on social and environmental responsibility

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        has led to the reorganization in 2019 of the RBC (formerly the London Centre for
        Corporate Governance and Ethics). Colleagues in MAN led the School’s successful
        application to the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME), sign-
        posting Birkbeck’s commitment to sustainability, responsibility, and ethics in teaching,
        research and thought leadership. This is an emerging area of expertise for the unit as
        evidenced by the fact that research outputs in this theme constitute about 10% of our
        current REF output submission.

    •   Since the REF2014, substantial clusters of expertise have consolidated in Marketing, and
        Accounting and finance, leading to the creation of the Marketing and Consumer
        Research Group (2020) and the AFRC (2020). Research outputs pertaining to Marketing
        and Accounting and Finance each constitute about 10% of our current REF output
        submission.

 Our REF output submission extends beyond these six thematic clusters, including excellent
 research in strategy, international business, project management, operations management, as
 well as in psychology, education, sociology and politics. One of our impact case studies
 (Dewberry) is rooted in research in psychology and assessment methods.

 Targeted research funding and new research initiatives. BEI supports research through an
 internal research grants scheme, introduced in 2013/14, funding seed research to turn startup
 research proposals into larger grants – supporting objectives 1 and 3. Two types of grants are
 available – small research grants (up to £2,000 – applications can be submitted throughout the
 year) and large research grants (up to £5,000 – £10,000 in exceptional circumstances – two
 deadlines per year). In this assessment period, 39 academics have received 54 research grants
 totalling £220,994. BEI makes available conference grants on application, which complement the
 unit’s generous conference allowance (£2,500 per year per person, up to 20% of which can be
 used for other research-related activities). Over the assessment period, 70 School conference
 grants amounting to £50,785 have been granted to 40 unit staff.

 The College has a newly-created (2018) Research Innovation Fund for projects up to £5,000. Yu
 received seed funding under this scheme to carry out research on greenwashing. Tacon
 received UKRI SEE PER Seed Funding (£2,498), while four grants were awarded from our
 institutional Wellcome Trust ISSF award for a total of £44,138.

 To foster a collaborative and output-focused research culture, supporting objective 3, the unit
 has introduced new targeted initiatives (aimed particularly at, but not limited to, ECRs):

    •   Weekly writing retreats and annual residential retreats open to academics, postdoctoral
        researchers and PhD students, about half are ECR/ new recruits.
    •   Initiatives to foster research collaborations. The ‘Enhancing research output’ (ERO,
        launched 2019) initiative (lead: de Silva) provides the opportunity to meet at regular

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        intervals to discuss potential collaborations and progress on joint papers, benefiting from
        feedback by external reviewers (editors of prestigious journals). 14 unit academics (11
        new recruitments, 3 ECRs) have participated in this initiative, with 18 papers currently
        under development.
    •   The Departments also fund specific training workshops on such issues such as How to
        Write a Case for Support and Impact for Grant-Writing.

 Improved policies and support structures. BEI has a local research support team including: a
 Research Development Manager; a School Impact Officer; a Communications and Engagement
 Officer; an Events Officer; and a Finance and Research Management team supported further by
 dedicated support from departmental administration. The Research Development Manager (role
 created in 2014) contributes to research strategy and strategic teaching programmes and works
 with other staff to provide support on external grant applications. The Impact Officer (role
 created in 2012) advises on evidencing and embedding research impact, working with the
 School Research Development Manager to identify early potential for high impact. The College’s
 Impact Officers regularly share best practice, for example in case study report writing. The
 Events and Communications and Engagement roles (created in 2018 and 2019 respectively)
 provide support for the organization of research events and the dissemination of research
 content e.g. through creation of videos and blogs as well as rapid transition to online delivery of
 research workshops and seminars during the pandemic. Additional experience, expertise and
 support have been provided at School level by part-time professorial appointments (Pettigrew to
 2020, Cox and Vidgen) mentoring junior staff.

 Streamlined procedures include policies to ensure robust grant applications (section 1.8) through
 review and feedback by internal or external specialists.

 1.4 Research objectives over the next five years

 Following a period of rapid growth (section 2.1), current focus is to maintain and build a
 sustainable research environment in a way which develops our aspirations as summarized in our
 strategic objectives:

    •   To enhance the reputation and impact of our Research Centres, and to maintain links
        with alumni
    •   To foster agility and innovation in existing and new Research Centres
    •   To enable our academic staff to conduct, publish and disseminate high quality research
    •   To support our academic staff to engage meaningfully with stakeholders in their research
        and wider publics to maximize knowledge exchange and engagement activities

  BEI’s new research strategy (2021) aims to maximize research income from traditional and non-
 traditional funders, set out in Objective 5:
    •   more targeted use of the internal grants system


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   prioritizing pump-priming grants for external funding
    •   enhancing the pre-submission evaluation process
    •   income generation from research to become a KPI for our recruitment and performance
        review processes
    •   building capability to access funding from a more diverse range of funders.

 Our 6th Objective is to mitigate the impacts of the Covid 19 pandemic on our colleagues and
 students through initiatives including:

    •   sustaining of college level promotion procedures to ensure career trajectories
    •   ongoing support of research applications
    •   extended bursaries (on merit and application) for PGR students
    •   encouraging colleagues to apply to the college wide COVID19 fund to buy out teaching
        time or fund RA time to support data analysis and write up.

 1.5 Impact objectives achieved during the assessment period

 The unit’s REF 2014 impact strategy identified five key objectives:

 1: To continue to support academics’ research through the provision of sabbatical leave and
 support for conference presentations. This has been achieved through more effective
 implementation of our sabbatical policy (section 2.3) and a generous conference allowance
 (section 1.3).

 2: To embed the concept of research impact in Research Centre, Department and School
 decision-making. Research Centres are now required to reference the impact of their research in
 their annual reports. Impact discussions are embedded in all seminars organized by the
 Departments and by Research Centres. Applicants for internal and external grants must show
 how they will communicate their findings to academic and non-academic audiences, and (when
 appropriate) how they will work with key stakeholders in the research.

 3: To continue to offer financial support to promote research impact. in 2013/14, BEI introduced
 an Impact Grants scheme (worth up to £,5000, two deadlines per year). So far 17 academics
 have received 16 impact grants totalling £60,853. These have been used to fund, among others:
 workshops and symposia to connect with policymakers, industry and other users of research;
 initiatives to translate our research for specific users (e.g. policy briefings aimed at specific
 government units) and the wider public (e.g. a graphic book on the impact of stadium
 regeneration); coaching and mentoring sessions aimed at women scientists. Three of our
 submitted impact case studies have benefitted from impact grants.

 4: To continue to support Research Centres. Our existing Centres have been strengthened and,
 where necessary, reorganized, and three new Centres and two new Research Groups have



                                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 been formed (section 1.2)

 5: The School Impact Officer to continue promoting research impact by meeting with all staff
 regularly to embed impact strategies into research planning and identifying promising work likely
 to translate into case studies for REF after REF 2021 (section 4.2).

 1.6 Impact objectives over the next five years

 The unit’s mission is to contribute research with a strong social impact. We aim to benefit
 individuals and organizations and the economy and society as set out in these objectives for the
 next five years:

            o   To continue to utilise our Research Centres as vehicles to nurture relationships
                with stakeholders in our research through bringing together academics and
                practitioners to discuss research and potential impact. The success of this
                strategy reflects in our impact case studies which build on relationships with key
                stakeholders nurtured over long periods.

            o   To continue to require applicants for funding to articulate the wider societal
                benefits that could arise from the research as part of our internal approvals
                processes, even where not a funder requirement. By identifying potential
                stakeholders early on, researchers can tailor communications to build links, and
                they can be supported by the Impact Officer to develop relevant skills.

            o   To continue to provide financial support to our researchers to develop impact
                from their research.

 We have recognized that we need to better support our postgraduate students, typically working
 professionals with industry expertise and rich social capital. Many of our PhD students generate
 significant research impact of their own, for example, work on the Tottenham Hotspur stadium
 regeneration won a Birkbeck public engagement prize and resulted in a publication on a topic
 with broad applicability and impact potential.

 A second area for development is to sign-post and grow individual academics’ networks,
 commissions and consultancies as pathways to impact and knowledge exchange through
 relationships with relevant bodies.

 1.7 Support for interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinarity is at the core of our research. Our academics publish in a wide variety of fields
 including sociology, education, politics, law, nutrition, veterinary medicine, psychiatry, as well as
 publishing in multi-disciplinary journals (e.g. PlosOne, Nature, Complexity). Examples of
 interdisciplinary research include Archibugi’s work at the crossroads between law, politics and


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 economics, and Kelly’s research spanning politics, economics and management.

 The unit fosters interdisciplinarity through its Centres and Groups, and participates in initiatives
 designed to further internal collaborations with academic colleagues across and beyond
 Birkbeck. In this census period BEI launched the Birkbeck Institute for Data Analytics (BIDA), an
 internal research institute to facilitate cross-disciplinary research in data science to tackle topics
 such as big data, social media, computational intelligence and data analytics. Regular cross-
 disciplinary workshops are held to facilitate multi-dimensional discussions resulting in distinct
 projects, including joint work between Computer Science and MAN researchers in the area of
 Sport Data Analytics (sentiment analysis and topic modelling of NBA fans’ Twitter messages in
 order to better understand their predictive value).

 In addition, BEI has an initiative to promote collaborative bids between BEI School researchers,
 and since 2017, the College has offered funding (up to £2,500 per bid) to promote interactions
 between different Birkbeck Research Centres. The CPEIS, CIMR, LCGE with the Centre for
 Critical European Law, were awarded a grant to organize an event and a focus group to promote
 reflection on institutionalizing interdisciplinarity resulting in two applications for external funding
 and another in progress.

 1.8 Research standards and open research environment

 The College Ethics Committee oversees policies and practices relating to questions of research
 integrity commensurate with the College Code of Practice on Research Integrity which are then
 implemented and operationalised at the Unit level by the School Ethics Committee and the
 Departmental Research Ethics Officer. All allegations of research misconduct are dealt with at
 the College level addressed to the Chair of the College Ethics Committee (see research page of
 our website). For all primary research involving human participants academics complete an
 ethics form in line with the College Ethical Review Policy for internal and external grant
 submissions. The School’s ethics committee (chair: Drury) has representatives from all BEI’s
 Departments and reviews all non-routine research proposals to ensure robust safeguards and
 from 2017/18 has offered a dedicated intranet resource to support this as well as in person
 workshops.

 The College has created an open research environment through two open-access repositories:
 one for publications, the Birkbeck Institutional Research Online (Biron; https://eprints.bbk.ac.uk/),
 and another for data, the Birkbeck Research Data repository (BiRD;
 https://researchdata.bbk.ac.uk/). We expect all research outputs produced within the Unit to be
 lodged in Biron within 3 months of acceptance. Use of the open-access repositories has been
 promoted and repository librarians provide practical support, working with the Research
 Development Manager to ensure uptake on Biron. We support any valid approaches to achieve
 Open Access, including ‘green’ and ‘gold’ routes. When researchers apply for School funds to
 support gold open access, this is only granted if the publisher has a transparent cost structure

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 including transparent service costs.

 All members of the Unit are expected to treat any research data ethically and in line with relevant
 obligations or frameworks. Any questions about data openness are raised with the Departmental
 Ethics Officer and if necessary referred to the School Ethics Committee.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Our staffing strategy focuses on the recruitment, development and retention of excellent
 researchers. Over the assessment period we recruited 22 lecturers, 7 senior lecturers, one
 reader and 5 professors to strengthen our expertise in accounting/ finance, diversity, marketing,
 wellbeing. We replace senior departing staff with posts lower down the scale unless there is a
 strategic reason not to do so to refresh our research environment with new talent whilst
 maintaining our pipeline for succession planning purposes. We encourage flexible working and
 job sharing, with 15% of new recruits employed at less than 1 FTE. New appointments are
 gender balanced: 58% of appointed lecturers/senior lecturers and 50% of appointed
 readers/professors are women.

 Our demographic profile shows balance between senior and junior researchers, with a sufficient
 number of experienced researchers to cover key strategic and research management positions
 (14.4 FTE are Readers and Professors, 12 are Senior Lecturers) while offering the possibility to
 train more junior researchers to ensure succession (28.7 FTE are Lecturers).

 Research potential and research excellence are now a more explicit selection criterion for
 appointments, probationary reviews and promotions. As a result all our academics employed on
 research and teaching contracts (55.1 FTE) are included in this coming REF submission with at
 least one publication.

 2.2 Staff development

 Mentoring and training. A culture of mentoring includes formal and informal pathways and active
 peer support to ensure that the Concordat principles are enacted:

    •   new recruits are assigned an experienced researcher as mentor (usually a senior
        academic from the Department)

    •   the Research Development Manager meets all new staff in the first few weeks of their
        employment at Birkbeck, to raise awareness aware of the School’s strategy, expectations
        and resources and help explore future funding sources

    •   ECRs are assigned a ‘buddy’ (another, less recently recruited, ECR able to share their
        own experiences) for informal support and guidance



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff development is strengthened through personal involvement of the Executive Dean (ED)
 who makes himself available to provide personal mentorship, and targeted support for dedicated
 training and development. The unit staff undertake College training in diversity and equality,
 unconscious bias, recruitment, line management, research supervision, promotion, data
 protection, applying for funding, project management, open access, public engagement and
 knowledge exchange, aligned with the relevant policies and concordats. This provides a
 structure supporting informal coaching through mentorship within the Department. The unit
 conducts regular annual and ad hoc awaydays to support research capacity; and research
 seminars on dedicated topics or methodologies to support staff and PGR students (systematic
 reviewing, narrative analysis). All Heads of Department (HoDs) manage a fund that supports
 such activities catering to local and emerging need in a responsive way.

 Specific support for ECRs. The unit supports the career development of ECRs by balancing the
 opportunity for enhancing leadership skills (e.g. Departmental Ethics Officer, Head of PhD
 Programme, Chairs of SDGs and Directors of Research Centres) with commensurate workload
 to protect research time whilst ensuring a balanced portfolio to support future promotion
 applications as mutually agreed in early probation reviews. Such support has been important
 over the assessment period as many of our new hires were at the Lecturer level and making
 large grant applications for the first time.

 Support for career progression. To ensure professional and career development, the Academic
 Development Review (ADR) is an annual process where academics and line managers meet to
 (a) review performance during the past year and (b) set objectives across all four areas of
 service (research, teaching, engagement and administration). This process is instrumental for
 setting the expectation that all staff publish and apply for funding, supports career progression
 planning, and provides a mechanism for a researcher to identify proactive interventions which
 could improve their research such as training needs. It also reinforces that collaborations are
 encouraged.

 This approach has led to rapid promotions from Lecturer B through to chair level. During the
 period, 14 colleagues were promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 6 colleagues were
 promoted from Lecturer or Senior Lecturer to Reader (,and 3 colleagues were promoted from
 Reader or Senior Lecturer to Professor). The unit also funds academics to remain members of
 professional associations and regulatory bodies (e.g. several OP staff are legally registered
 practitioner psychologists). The principles of good employment are ensured throughout the
 employee lifecycle for all academics, starting from recruitment. All involved undergo unconscious
 bias and equalities and diversity training. The College is a disability confident employer to
 encourage diversity. Effective line management and training processes including regular
 leadership training for senior teams to sustain good practice and ensure that the unit nurtures its
 talent.



                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Transparency. The unit has developed fair and transparent local workload models reviewing
 relevant data each academic cycle to ensure parity and transparency. The College is currently
 undertaking a benchmarking comparison of teaching loads across Departments. It is using local
 work model data to inform future planning processes. This has taken account of the impact of
 COVID-19: all HEI institutions had to facilitate a rapid transition to digital education. HODs are
 monitoring workload to ensure that no individual is disproportionally affected.

 To ensure holistic talent and succession planning and to ease transitions for leadership roles,
 deputy positions have been introduced for several senior roles (ED, HoD). The recent
 appointment of Management’s HoD as School ED triggered a smooth transition of the Deputy
 HoD to HoD and slotting a new colleague into the Deputy HoD position. Research Centres have
 Deputy Directors, usually a more junior academic, to ensure continuity.

 Staff satisfaction. The unit staff report high levels of wellbeing at work and staff satisfaction.
 According to the latest staff survey (2019), 85% of School staff are satisfied working for
 Birkbeck, 86% are willing to recommend Birkbeck as a place to work, and 93% are proud of
 Birkbeck’s mission and ethos. A high proportion of staff (70% and above) are satisfied with the
 processes implemented to support staff performance evaluation and development (Capita, 2019,
 “School of Business, Economics & Informatics Report: Delivering quality survey, research and
 analysis solutions”).

 2.3 Creating a supportive research environment

 Our working climate supports academics to conduct frontier research across the world. We
 encourage all colleagues to take advantage of the sabbatical leave policy (one term’s sabbatical
 accrued for every nine terms of service, available to all staff including PT and fixed term) through
 the ADR process. ADs ensure that sabbatical goals are clear and aligned to the unit’s objectives.
 In Management, 34 sabbatical term were granted to 24 individuals; in OP, 11 requests were
 granted to 8 individuals. Based on staff headcount, 74% of eligible staff in the unit took at least
 one sabbatical term during the period.

 Periods of research leave have enabled colleagues to complete work on articles and on
 substantial pieces of work (for example, Konzelmann finalized her books Labour, Finance and
 Inequality: The Insecurity Cycle in British Public Policy and Austerity, and progressed the
 manuscript for her edited book Rethinking Britain: Policy Ideas for the Many; Kelly progressed
 work on two books, Contemporary Trotskyism and Comparative Employment Relations; Lawton
 Smith progressed her edited book Gender Science and Innovation), to initiate new collaborations
 in the UK and abroad (for example Sibai started a collaboration with Cass Business School
 leading to a paper recently submitted to Psychology & Marketing; Guy visited US institutions
 leading to collaborate resulting in a paper recently published by the Cambridge Journal of
 Regions, Economy and Society; Tacon visited UQAM and HEC in Montreal, Canada, initiating a
 collaboration leading to a paper published in the International Journal of Sociology and Social

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Policy).

 Most exchanges with business, industry, public or third sector bodies occur thanks to the
 activities of our Research Centres and Groups and our academics’ professional networks who
 are encouraged to seek opportunities for secondments with external organizations (for example,
 in 2015, Drury was seconded to BEIS, thanks to ESRC funding). External professionals from
 industry, policy and the third sector are invited to hold visiting professorships with our
 Departments. Visiting relationships foster interactions between visitors and academic staff to
 establish long-term exchange relationships (from visitors attending and organizing seminars and
 workshops, to guest lecturing in our modules, to developing joint bids).

 Impact, knowledge exchange, public engagement and dissemination of research is one of the
 key areas of performance discussed in the context of the annual ADR and are referenced as a
 criterion for progression under “engagement”.

 Direct incentives and reward schemes have been introduced to encourage research productivity
 and impact. BEI has an incentive scheme whereby academics who win external grants are
 rewarded with additional research funding to their own research accounts (8% of the awarded
 Directly Allocated costs, plus 8% of the awarded Indirect Costs, up to a ceiling of £3,000 per
 year). The College has introduced several prizes and awards to recognize and celebrate
 research excellence and public engagement including the Ronald Tress Prize for Excellence in
 Research by Early Career Academics (Teoh, winner, 2019, and Whiting, runner up, 2017) and
 the Birkbeck Public Engagement Awards, Birkbeck (Crisafulli, winner of the Collaboration
 Category, 2019).

 2.3 Research students

 The aim of our doctoral programmes is to impart critical thinking with relevance to practice,
 preparing candidates for multiple career paths. Many research students progress into industry
 roles, but several have embarked on academic careers (Stringer, Tacon, Teoh, Whiting). Recent
 MAN PhDs have gone on to take positions in government (ONS and BEIS), universities in the
 UK and abroad (Birkbeck, De Montfort University, London Business School, LSAE, Middlesex,
 Newcastle University, Southampton, UCL, Westminster University; Rochester Institute of
 Technology) as well as industry. In OP students have gone on to take on more senior and
 specialized roles with their sponsoring employer, as research fellows in the Bloomsbury network,
 work as independent consultants or have taken on academic roles in the Department (Kahn).

 Our research students are unique as the majority are mature, working and self-funded (in
 2019/20, 89% of research students in OP and 75% of research students in MAN were self
 funded). In line with its mission and strategic objectives the College supports a diverse PGR
 student body through targeted School-level bursaries (the Diversity 100 scholarship, launched in
 2020); OP are one of the first departments to have secured one of these bursaries, through a

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 competitive application process.

 Departments also receive one School-funded graduate teaching assistant every three years.
 The research student community remains vibrant: between the academic years 2014/13 and
 2019/20, 96 new PHD students have joined (67 MAN, 29 OP), and 46 have graduated (37 MAN,
 9 OP). This is a 44% increase compared to the previous REF cycle in which 32 PHD students
 had graduated.

 Many MSc students go on to embark on PhDs and pursue research collaborations with our
 academics.

 During the current assessment period, we spearheaded a Professional Doctorate in OP (led by
 Lewis/Yarker) creating a new work-based learning pathway for working people to develop
 research with direct impact to practice.

 PhD completions

                   2013/14     2014/15      2015/16   2016/17   2017/18    2018/19     2019/20
  OP Doctorate     0           2            0         0         2          4           1
  OP
  Professional
  Doctorate        0           0            0         0         0          0           0
  MAN              4           11           3         5         5          4           5
  Total            4           13           3         5         7          8           6



 Both Departments have invested in strategic initiatives to support PhD progression, improving
 monitoring of progress through more targeted MPhil upgrade and yearly review panels. We are
 also part of the College-wide ‘Research Track’ pilot programme which monitors student
 engagement online which has now successfully been rolled out across the College. There has
 been increased attention on the selection and training of PhD supervisors to ensure that less
 experienced colleagues are paired with someone with an established track record of supervising
 to completion on time; supplemented by additional staff as necessary. All supervisors undertake
 mandatory training.

 We support personal and professional development of PhD students through engagement
 events and workshops run by the PhD directors. Formal generic training in transferable and soft
 skills is provided at College level: internally, through the Birkbeck Graduate Research School
 (BGRS), and externally via the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network (a consortium of all the
 Graduate Schools in Bloomsbury who share access to training opportunities; staff from the unit,
 including McDowall, lead several every year on topics such as project managing your thesis, and
 health and wellbeing for PGR students). Such generic training is further strengthened through a
 dedicated annual PhD conference followed by a training day, both of which are facilitated and
 attended by senior faculty. We provide generous funding for PGR development through a yearly


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 conference allowance (up to £500 per year for conference participation; with a subsidy for
 international attendance on application). Early immersion in our research culture is encouraged
 through participation in the unit’s Research Groups and Centres, including Steering Group
 representation, weekly PhD seminars, monthly departmental seminars, and weekly writing
 retreats during term time. Writing groups, retreats and online discussion groups initiated by
 students have also enhanced our culture of support. Research opportunities extend to refugees
 through the College’s award-winning Compass project.

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 The unit takes a strategic approach to development and succession planning aligned to the
 College’s broader mission to inclusion through a range of institutional and College level activities
 and policies.

 Initiatives. The College is committed to working as an equal opportunities employer through the
 ATHENA SWAN charter at College and departmental level. It is also a member of the HR
 Excellence in Research scheme, the Stonewall Diversity Champion scheme, the Equality
 Challenge Unit and the Mindful Employer scheme. The College sponsors several targeted
 initiatives:

     •   the LEA Aurora programme following successful application (taken up by McDowall,
         three OP applications in progress)

     •   STELLAR HE, a dedicated BAME leadership programme;

     •   Birkbeck is a member of Women in Science Engineering (WISE) to encourage
         collaboration between industry and academia.

 Through proactive mentoring by the ED and targeted development initiatives, our School and
 unit have achieved good female representation on influential committees. The unit will be
 instigating new equality and diversity committees to further consider the representation of other
 protected groups.

 Policies. It is a current action point to make strategic appointments at senior level, maintaining
 Birkbeck’s reputation as an attractive place to work through active support for flexible working
 such as job shares (for example Yarker/Lewis). Staff who are new parents can apply to attach
 any sabbatical they are due to a period of parental leave to support their research. OP has
 developed a clear sabbatical policy which has been shared with other Departments in the
 College. In line with the College’s mission to increase diversity, many recent appointments are
 career-changers who came into academia from professional backgrounds such as advertising
 (Drury), accounting (Gamblin), law (Whiting) and consultancy (Marstand) as another valuable
 mechanism for fostering diverse skills and promoting a research culture that addresses real-
 world issues and generates impact. The unit is working towards gender balance in internal and

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 external events. Research Centres have committed to gender equality and diversity, by adopting
 an approach of gender balance in the composition of speakers at workshops and panels.

 Impact of our research on equality and diversity. The unit’s research has had important impacts
 on the institutionalization of better equality and diversity practices in the College. The TRIGGER
 project (£289,974; European Union, 611034; http://www.bbk.ac.uk/trigger/), aimed at increasing
 the number of women in those university sectors where they are underrepresented, played an
 important part in the recent renewal of the Athena Swan, where it was referenced as an example
 of good practice. The TRIGGER team contributed to the following: recommended to appoint
 knowledge exchange representatives at BEI and School of Science; was part the College
 Athena SWAN Self Assessment Team and Actions Sub Group; provided project updates and
 insights as a regular standing item at the termly College Equalities Committee; provided insights
 for the College Strategic Equalities Review Group (SERG) as part of the Staff Working Group.
 SERG findings highlighted the institutional benefits of improving coordination of staff/student
 equality actions; defined new Equality Objectives; and recommended new structures for the
 governance and management of equalities. TRIGGER actions will form a key strategic role in
 the Department of Management Athena SWAN application in 2020/21.

 In 2014 the TRIGGER team mapped mentoring initiatives within Birkbeck, which developed into
 a mentoring scheme specifically for women in STEM. This was broadened and offered to other
 academics, and the TRIGGER team, in conjunction with HR, organized the College’s Athena
 SWAN mentoring programme, led by the TRIGGER Research Fellow with the TRIGGER PI
 (Lawton Smith) as a mentor.

 The TRIGGER project ran a series of workshops for and organized by PhD students, who were
 also chairs and discussants, as well as networking events such as a facilitated engagement
 between Birkbeck staff and business leaders on “Embedding Equality”. PhD students workshops
 are continuing with support from BGRS, while continuation of networking events is now possible
 thanks to funding from Taylor and Francis. They complement other events run across the
 College to promote gender equality, such as “Women in Science” in Science Week and the
 annual Rosalind Franklin lecture.

 Lawton Smith was cited as one of the inspirational women working in the fields of regional
 studies and regional science for gender equality by the Regional Studies Association; she also
 won the Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence 2017 for her paper “The impact of
 female entrepreneurship on economic growth in Kenya” in the International Journal of Gender
 and Entrepreneurship.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income

 Funding for research in the unit comes mainly from external sources. We were awarded 26

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 externally funded grants (13 MAN, 13 OP) during the period, from 20 different funders, the most
 important of which in terms of income are the EU, the British Academy, the ESRC, the
 Leverhulme Trust and the UK Government (DWP, BEIS, Home Office). A few grants come from
 industry sources. As shown in REF 4b, expenditure on external grants in the period was
 £848,943. This represents a substantial increase (+107%) from the £410,842 reported in the
 REF 2014.

 The topics of the external grants reflect the breadth of our academics’ research interests- from
 inclusion and wellbeing to governance and entrepreneurship and innovation. Several grants
 align with the equality and diversity policy agenda, such as the TRIGGER project. Other grants
 investigate gendered toy marketing (“We have to buy my space shirts in the boy's section! A
 Business Ethics approach to gendered toy marketing”, British Academy, SRG 1819\190342),
 gendered leadership development (“Bring Back Our Girls: A Cultural Analysis of Gendered
 Leadership Development in Africa”, British Academy, SG17\1856) and how to promote
 opportunities for under-represented communities, including opportunities for disabled and BAME
 innovators (“Increasing participation of people with disabilities and people from BAME
 communities in business innovation”, ESRC/InnovateUK, GPR 14-234; “Addressing regional
 inequalities in innovation opportunities for BAME and disabled groups”, Regional Studies
 Association, FeRSA), and for people from under-represented backgrounds to take on leadership
 roles in theatre (“Diversity in Directing - Exploring new and emerging theatre directors from
 under-represented backgrounds.”, Regional Theatre Young Directors Scheme).

 Another prominent theme is wellbeing at work, with grants focused on opportunities and fairness
 for cancer patients in returning to work (“Social science perspectives on the working lives of
 those with cancer: psychosocial, organizational and economic”, ESRC, ES/M00189X/1),
 improving recruitment practices in the police and the defence sector (“The provision of managing
 sickness absence in small and medium enterprises phase 3 services”, DWP, ecm_7207).

 The promotion of good business governance is another theme, with grants focusing on
 improving labour market conditions and pay inequality (“Integrating climate smart agri-innovative
 technology adoption and agribusiness management skills to improve the livelihoods of
 smallholder cocoa farmers in Ghana”, GCRF QR; “End of sweatshops? China's labour scarcity
 and a rise in monopoly garment firms”, Leverhulme, ECF-2015-162).

 Grants about managing innovation are also prominent and topics have included the
 management of new technologies (“Innovation intermediaries and the Fourth Industrial
 Revolution”, British Academy, SRG18R1\180931), the effects of training and capabilities and the
 financing of innovation (“Exploring the link between different types of training and innovation
 outcomes”, BEIS, 1746802885).

 BEI support is crucial to the work of most of our academics, with almost 75% applying for one or
 more School grants. Some have successfully tapped into College schemes such as the

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 College’s internal Research Innovation fund, the institutional Wellcome Trust ISSF award, the
 Impact Seed Fund, the internal GCRF QR awards and College Research Centres funding
 scheme.

 3.2 Infrastructure supporting research and impact,

 Our infrastructure supporting research and impact was described in sections 1.2 and 1.3. In
 addition, BEI has created dedicated and newly refurbished spaces for research including the
 Graduate Research Centre and additional meeting rooms housed in the Clore Management
 Centre.

 This is used for initiatives including monthly departmental research seminars, weekly writing
 retreats and seminars hosting external speakers. We use College facilities to generate impact
 with workshops and seminars usually open to external stakeholders. Examples include
 executive education sessions and policy meetings, such as a meeting organized by CIMR and
 BEIS on developing policies for leadership in SMEs (2020), and a meeting of the HEBCI user
 group organized by CIMR and NCUB (2016). The ability to host these initiatives in our London
 campus is instrumental to fostering a research culture by encouraging widespread participation
 and creating direct connections with external stakeholders who are potential research partners,
 funders and users of our research. It is expected that we will be able to combine our use of
 these physical infrastructures with our expertise in setting up and delivering online events to be
 able to effectively organize events that combine in-presence and online participation.

 Thanks to the Birkbeck Library, academics are able to access a wide range of online databases
 and research resources (these include a Bloomberg terminal particularly used by our Accounting
 and Finance staff and students). Numerous software licenses, including packages for statistical
 analysis, for content analysis and for online survey design and delivery, are also made available
 for free to our academics (and to students who require this access); academics are able to use
 part of their yearly research allowance to purchase software as well as datasets they need for
 their work.

 Sustainability of our Centres and Groups. Centres and Groups have active national and
 international research partnerships, and busy schedules of events for the next academic year.
 Despite the pandemic, they have managed to continue their activities by engaging in online
 seminars, workshops and outreach events, and continue to disseminate research through their
 working paper series and journals. For example, since March 2020, CIMR has moved all of its
 activities online. It has launched the CIMR Debates in Public Policy online seminar series, with
 four very successful seminars held in Spring 2020 and more planned for 2020/21, as well as
 online workshops and events aimed at MSc and PhD students and the wider public (such as an
 online panel during the Bloomsbury Festival 2020). It is also launching CIMR Research in Brief,
 a series of video interviews and podcasts with the authors of CIMR working papers. CPEIS has
 launched a series of four online workshops on “Corruption, Rent-Seeking Behaviour and

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Informal Practices in Institutional Contexts” in collaboration with UCL and Loughborough
 University London. SBC has also launched an online seminar series. Partnerships with other
 academic institutions, charities and private companies, and membership networks spanning
 academia, government and industry (including alumni), provide opportunities for seeking
 external funding to support research, public engagement and knowledge exchange. The
 financial sustainability of the Centres is ensured by engagement in remunerated activities such
 as executive education programmes.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Arrangements and support in place for, and effectiveness of, research collaborations,
 networks and partnerships

 To encourage collaborative research and interactions between academics and non-academic
 audiences, the unit has introduced (and/or maintained) a number of initiatives at departmental
 level.

 The Departments sponsor initiatives such as:

     •    regular departmental research seminar series where unit staff and external academics
          are invited to present recent work
     •    weekly writing retreats for academic staff, and one residential (three-day) writing retreat
          per year
     •    occasional funding for seminars organized by Research Centres (e.g. a half-day training
          on Qualitative Comparative Analysis on 29 April 2019 attended by about 20 academic
          staff and PhD students); as well as initiatives to promote research collaborations such as
          ERO

 The unit has strategically aimed to enhance international collaboration, as evident in recent
 British Academy funding to support research in Nigeria (Iwowo) and visiting fellow schemes to
 foster collaboration with a German Institution (Drury, Fassbender). We encourage staff to use
 their sabbaticals to visit global institutions to develop collaborations, including in North America
 (University of Massachusset, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, UQAM, HEC), Europe
 (University of Athens, EM Lyon, University of Aix), Africa (Nigerian Defense Academy). The unit
 also welcomes visiting researchers from other institutions. In the period we have had visitors
 from, among others, Canada (University of Quebec), China (SWUFE), Denmark (Aalborg
 University), France (NEOMA Business School, Novancia Business School, OECD), Germany
 (University of Jena), Greece (University of Athens), Italy (University of Camerino), the
 Netherlands (Universiy of Amsterdam), Spain (Universidad Autonoma de Madrid), Sweden
 (Lund University), the US (Stanford). We also had visitors from UK universities (LSHTM,
 University of Westminster, Imperial College, Henley Business School) and policymaking bodies.

 Academics participate formally and informally in national and international research

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 collaborations. Our UK collaborators hail from universities (at least 70 different institutions
 including UCL, King’s, Brunel, Sussex, QML, Aston Business School and many others), learned
 societies (e.g. Academy of Social Sciences, Higher Education Academy, Royal Society for the
 Encouragement of Arts, Royal Society of Medicine, Society of Occupational Medicine,
 International Society for Coaching Psychology), government and public organizations, and
 industry. Collaborations with institutions abroad include partners in at least 24 different countries,
 of which the most frequent are the US (11 collaborations), France (6), Greece (6), Australia (5),
 Italy (5) and Spain (5). About 70% of our outputs and almost 90% of our REF submission are co-
 authored with researchers external to the College.

 Academics use their conference allowance to present at prestigious conferences globally. ECRs
 are particularly encouraged to participate at conferences and preference is given to them when
 we evaluate applications for funding. Our academics and PhD students have won more than 25
 best paper awards at prestigious conferences around the world (including Academy of
 Management, European International Business Association, American Marketing Association
 conference, British Academy of Management), and 8 of these have been won by ECR staff.

 The Research Centres and Research Groups are instrumental in promoting networking and
 collaborative research, as evidenced by the Centres’ international membership networks, which
 result in opportunities for joint seminar series, grant applications and research papers, and the
 more formal partnerships established by CIMR, SBC, CSWL. The recent creation of two new
 Research Centres and two new Research Groups will further increase the amount and reach of
 research collaborations carried out in the unit.

 4.2 Evidence of how staff interacted with, engaged with or developed relationships with
 key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 The unit’s focus on socially responsible research is directly aligned with our efforts to generate
 demonstrable benefits for society. Whilst our impact case studies mention some of our notable
 work in this area, there is deep knowledge exchange across the Departments’ research.

 The health service is a developing area of impact, overlapping with our research focus on work-
 life balance and wellbeing. In 2020, Teoh was awarded a British Psychological Society award for
 his work on working conditions and wellbeing for NHS staff, and he has already published in the
 BMJ this year on maintaining clinicians' wellbeing during the COVID-19 pandemic. Kamau has
 worked in partnership with a UK company to develop an intervention, available as both an app
 and a board game, that helps clinicians to manage workplace burnout and distress in use across
 multiple NHS trusts as well as the NHS Practitioner Health Service. Crisafulli has partnered with
 an NHS Trust to investigate patient experience within the public health sector.

 The unit is developing impact in the performing arts utilizing our expertise on diversity and
 inclusion, fostering strong relationships with professional bodies in the sector. McDowall,


                                                                                                   Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Gamblin and Teoh partnered with Parents In the Performing Arts (PiPA) to conduct research into
 the ways in which artists with caring responsibilities are affected by the sector’s unique working
 conditions. Subsequent dissemination work has already affected policy change in major arts
 organizations which sign up to the PiPA Best Practice Charter informed by the research. Whiting
 has been working in partnership with the Regional Young Directors’ scheme on the Diversity in
 Directing project, investigating the experiences of young theatre directors from underrepresented
 groups with the goal of influencing practice and ultimately improving diversity in a profession still
 dominated by white, middle-class men.

 Konzelmann’s work with the Progressive Economy Forum (PEF) and her recent publications on
 austerity have informed the UK Labour party, who adopted several recommendations made by
 Konzelmann and her colleagues in their manifesto for the 2019 election, and that are currently
 being developed for the post Covid-19 recovery plan. As part of her collaboration with PEF,
 Konzelmann initiated a new MSc in Governance, Economics and Public Policy, starting in 2020.
 De Silva’s ongoing relationship with the UK’s Intellectual Property Office has included a trade
 delegation visit to India in late 2019. McDowall and Gamblin, together with Birkbeck’s Institute
 for Criminal Policy Research, and UCL’s Jill Dando Institute for Security and Crime Studies,
 conducted a research project into evidence-based policing, funded by a Home Office Grant. Its
 recommendations have fed directly into the development of new standards for police education,
 particularly mechanisms for graduate entry into the profession. Trim’s work on cyber security has
 led to several South Korea-UK Cyber Security Research Workshops in collaboration with Soon
 Chun Hyang University, as well as a collaborative UK-South Korea research project funded by
 the UK government ("Increasing cyber security provision in the UK and Korea: Identifying market
 opportunities for SMEs", BIS - Global Partnerships Fund.

 Other researchers whose impact has extended beyond the UK include Yamoah. Working with
 research partners at the University of Kent and at Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and
 Technology (Ghana), he is training female Ghanaian cocoa farmers in agri-business
 management and marketing skills, offering them increased financial security and promising
 greater gender equality. Meanwhile Iwowo’s work on leadership development in Africa has seen
 her invited onto a Commonwealth Panel of Experts supporting the Special Committee on
 Gender and Economic Cost of Gender-Based Violence in the Commonwealth.

 The OP Department is part of a research consortium committed to disseminating current
 research directly to organizations and policy makers (Affinity Health at Work), led by two
 academics (Yarker, Lewis). To further support this goal, the UoA has recently developed a suite
 of professional doctorates with the explicit aim of enhancing cross-fertilization between research
 and practice.

 New hires during the assessment period have brought additional impact expertise. For example,
 Lewis and Yarker are currently funded by a DWP grant to develop a return-to-work toolkit for


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 those on long-term sick leave. Chalkias has been awarded several industry grants to develop
 models to manage risk in the insurance industry, and has recently won a UKRI grant in relation
 to risk sharing mechanisms to mitigate the financial consequences of Covid-19.

 The unit’s ECRs also demonstrate a strong interest in and instinct for impactful research. Aside
 from Teoh, Gamblin, Crisafulli and Chalkias, all mentioned above, in 2019 Schivinski’s work on
 gaming addiction drew media interest from across the world; Kumar is publishing on sweatshop
 labour in developing economies and is a well-established commentator on BBC Business and
 Sky News; and Sibai’s work on isolation in early-career researchers speaks to an under-
 researched problem that aligns closely with the unit’s existing expertise.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 The unit’s academics are active in many forms of public engagement and stakeholder
 engagement, and this facilitates and complements our impact.

 Outreach work. We frequently deliver lectures and talks to non-academic audiences; we
 estimate over 50 talks delivered to industry bodies, professional networks, and policymakers.

 Media. Our academics are regularly invited to speak on TV and radio. Examples are McDowall
 (has appeared several times on Women’s hour Radio 4 and on BBC World radio to discuss
 work-life balance), Beauregard (has been interviewed on flexible working by BBC Radio Five
 Live, BBC World News, Radio Yorkshire, Pirate FM, among others), Kelly (has given numerous
 radio and TV interviews on industrial conflicts and disputes including with BBC News, Sky News,
 BBC Radio 4, BBC Radio Kent, BBC Radio Wales, LBC), Lawton Smith (has appeared on BBC
 Politics Show to discuss her research on Oxfordshire). Archibugi regularly appears in Italian
 media (TV, radio, main newspaper) mainly in relation to his work on globalization and
 democracy. Our research has been featured in prominent news media including the Guardian
 (Kamau, Konzelmann, McDowall, Nielsen), the Financial Times (McDowall, Nielsen), the Daily
 Mail (Kamau, McDowall) Sunday Times Magazine, Grazia, die Welt, the Stage, as well as in
 professional journals like The Lancet, Physician (Teoh), Psychiatric Times, Medscape, British
 Medical Association News (Kamau), The Psychologist (McDowall), Social Europe (Konzelmann),
 Jacobin Magazine (Kumar), the Advertising Research Foundation (Crisafulli).

 Technical reports. At least 30 different reports have been produced for non-academic
 stakeholders, ranging from policymaking organizations to associations and industry.

 4.4 Evidence of the unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Our researchers contribute to the success and sustainability of the broader academic community
 through numerous service roles. These include journal editorships for at least 40 different
 academic journals (e.g. Research Policy; Work, Employment and Society; Journal of
 Organizational Behavior; British Journal of Management; British Journal of Industrial Relations;


                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Industrial Relations Journal), and board member and academic advisor roles for a range of
 academic societies (e.g. Academy of Learned Society for the Social Sciences, Academy of
 Management, Academy of Occupational Health Psychology, British Academy of Management,
 Cambridge Political Economy Society, Foundation for European Economic Development,
 International Labour and Employment Relations Association, Progressive Economics Group,
 European, Political Studies Association Regional Studies Association) and professional
 associations (e.g. BPS Committee on Assessment Centre Standards, British Psychological
 Society, British Standards Institute, British Universities Industrial Relations Association, Global
 Alliance of Marketing & Management Associations, Trade Unions Congress).

 Support roles for other academic institutions include participation in academic promotion and
 review committees, external examiner and PhD examiner roles (our academics have examined
 at least 75 PhDs at more than 49 different institutions, in the UK and abroad). Our academic
 staff make a further important contribution to academic citizenship through volunteer peer-
 reviewing activities for academic journals. We estimate conservatively that our academics peer
 review for at least 150 different journals. Each academic on average peer reviews for 5 different
 journals, and performs about 7 peer reviews per year.

 Colleagues also support the activities of governmental bodies and funding agencies. They sit on
 the advisory boards of agencies and they carry out research evaluation roles in the context of
 project selection committees in the UK (e.g. EPSRC, ESRC, National Teaching Fellowship
 Awards) and abroad (UNESCO’s Newton Prize, African Academy of Sciences, National Science
 Centre, Poland, The Knowledge Foundation in Sweden, European Research Council,
 Riksbanken Jubileumsfond, Sweden, Qatar National Research Fund, Swedish Research
 Council, Canadian Research Council, Islandic Research Council, Commonwealth Secretariat).

  4.5 Evidence of the unit’s responsiveness to national and international priorities and
 initiatives

 Our research focuses on timely and urgent societal problems. Many of our academics have
 initiated projects aimed at understanding the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic and develop
 mitigation strategies. Chalkias has responded to an urgent UKRI call for Covid-19 research,
 which has resulted in a grant (“Risk sharing mechanisms to mitigate the financial consequences
 of pandemic risk: Economic and social insurance solutions for the UK”, UKRI, ES/V009389/1).
 Mamatzakis has also responded to the UKRI Ideas to Address Covid-19 grant call, leading to a
 grant award on “Why do households repay their debt during Covid 19 crisis? Wellbeing and
 financial implications”. Crisafulli is researching the implications for companies’ CSR in times of
 pandemic and proposes a framework of the type of CSR strategies that could be undertaken.
 Rossi is working on a research project on the government’s use of crowdsourcing to respond to
 the pandemic (funded by a grant from NEOMA Business School, France, where one of the co-
 authors is based). Shields is working on a study of the productivity of women financial analysts
 during the pandemic. Other research is aligned with the priorities embedded in the Sustainable

                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Development Goals. For example Yeow’s research on consumer behaviour around single-use
 plastic (https://rethinkingethicalconsumerism.wordpress.com/ - funded initially by the Eastern Arc
 (consortium of Kent, Essex and East Anglia) and Helen Lawton Smith’s work with the OECD on
 upgrading the innovation infrastructure in numerous advanced and emerging economies (e.g. 4.
 OECD (2019), Local entrepreneurship ecosystems and emerging industries: Case study of
 Malopolskie, Poland, OECD Local Economic and Employment Development Papers).

 4.6 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Our researchers are held in high esteem by the academic community, as evidenced by
 numerous awards won and many invitations to deliver keynote lectures. We estimate that over
 the period considered they delivered more than 300 conference presentations, of which about
 5% were keynote lectures, and about 150 seminar talks. Among the external prizes and awards
 won by colleagues we mention the Market Research Society Silver Medal (Nunan), the CIPD’s
 Beardwell Prize for Impact to Practice (McDowall), the British Psychological Society Division of
 Occupational Psychology’s Practitioner of the Year Award (Lewis), and the British Psychological
 Society Division of Occupational Psychology’s Volunteer of the Year Award two years running
 (McDowall). Some of our articles were recognized for their academic and non-academic impact.
 This includes the Emerald Literati Network Award for Excellence (Iwowo, 2016), the
 Management Article of the Year Award from the Chartered Management Institute (Lewis, 2014),
 the inclusion among Elsevier's top 25 Business, Management and Accounting articles
 (Christoulides), and among the top downloaded papers in the R&D Management journal (de
 Silva, 2018-19) and most cited articles in the Journal of Organizational Behaviour (de Silva,
 2019).

 Our academics organise prominent conferences and workshops (we estimate that about 40 of
 these have been organized by individual academics over the period) and conference sessions
 (about 50). Additional events have been organized by Research Centres and Groups).




                                                                                            Page 26
