Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA26 Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Modern Languages and Linguistics UOA at the University of Reading is committed to
 socially engaged research in which the tools of linguistics and modern language studies are
 deployed to address complex real-world issues such as war and conflict, migration and
 intercultural contact, othering and discrimination, and the maintenance of healthy and
 prosperous societies. The Unit, through its affiliated Departments and Interdisciplinary Research
 Centres, and supported by the University’s structures, has created a vital and distinctive
 research environment to address these issues by:

    1.      bringing together a unique range of disciplinary perspectives, including
            sociolinguistics, psycholinguistics, literary and cultural studies, and by engaging with
            other disciplines to understand the contexts of language use across cultures.
    2.      building and nurturing collaborative relationships with external stakeholders in
            government, industry and the non-profit sector.

 We focus on addressing the historical origins of contemporary problems, the current factors that
 contribute to them, and the ways people within and outside of academia can work together to
 solve them through better understandings of language and culture.

 Strategy and structures
 The Unit includes colleagues from the Departments of Languages & Cultures (DLC) (formerly
 Modern Languages & European Studies), English Language & Applied Linguistics (DELAL), and
 the School of Psychology & Clinical Language Sciences (PCLS), representing a diversity of
 approaches to the study of language and culture that is much wider than our 2014 submission.
 The main rationale for widening the scope of the Unit was the recognition that an
 interdisciplinary approach, encompassing psychological and social understandings of language
 and culture, contemporary and historical perspectives on social problems, and empirical and
 interpretative approaches, would better serve our research focus in the current context of rapid
 social, political, cultural, and technological change.

 Interdisciplinarity is a key part of the University’s research strategy. As described in the
 Institutional Environment Statement (IES, Section 1), since 2015 our research activity has been
 structured around four interdisciplinary Research Themes and 35 Research Divisions. Each
 Division has a Research Division Lead (RDL), and each Theme is led by a Research Dean. The
 Unit’s research spans all four Research Themes: Heritage & Creativity, Prosperity & Resilience,
 Agriculture, Food & Health, and Environment.

 Our staff have leading roles in three of the University’s Interdisciplinary Research Centres
 (IDRCs):
    •       Centre for Literacy and Multilingualism (CeLM), established in 2013 and led by
            Serratrice since 2019.
    •       Centre for Book Cultures and Publishing (CBCP), established in 2018 and led by
            Heywood, La Penna, Wilson (English) and Walker (Typography).
    •       Centre for Health Humanities (CHH), formally established in 2018 with Jaworska
            and Gehrhardt (aka. White) on the steering committee.

 IDRC status provides administrative and communications support and additional funding
 opportunities from the University. Colleagues in the Unit are also involved in the interdisciplinary
 Centre for Film, Aesthetics and Cultures (CFAC, led out of Film, Theatre & Television).

 Since 2014 our research strategy, and the structures enabling it, have developed through a
 dynamic and reflective process designed to ensure that research is inclusive as well as

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cohesive, robust and flexible. Throughout the reporting period, research priorities have been
 developed in a bottom-up fashion, by colleagues working in ‘research clusters’. The role of
 clusters has been to facilitate discussion and collaboration, peer review and publishing, to
 facilitate grant applications and to explore areas of synergy with other clusters. These clusters
 were instrumental in developing, over time, the research programmes that helped to drive the
 formation of the Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IDRCs) supporting the Unit.

 Ideas generated through interaction in and across these clusters and the IDRCs have fed into
 the development of the Unit’s vision and strategy, which is reviewed annually in a collaborative
 process coordinated by the Research Division Lead. This bottom-up process of developing a
 strategic vision has been aided by the University structures; for example, Theme-led,
 communities of practice, incubator sessions, hands-on ‘sandpit’ events and seed-funding for
 early-stage projects.

 Research vision and areas of focus
 The work of the clusters has resulted in a vision that genuinely articulates our common
 aspirations to develop translingual and transcultural approaches to key problems in the modern
 world through both contemporary and historical perspectives. Three distinct but interrelated
 areas of focus have emerged and been supported through strategic hires, institutional seed-
 funding, and incentives for cross-disciplinary collaboration.

 1) Conflict, contact and migration
 Research in this area focuses on the relationship between language use and identities,
 ideologies and social cohesion in contexts of conflict, migration, displacement and
 discrimination. It builds upon the strong foundation established by work submitted in the last
 REF, including Footitt’s AHRC project on Language at War, and has been enhanced by a
 number of strategic hires of ECRs such as Capstick (who works on language and migration),
 Pilsworth (who works on cultural nationalism in Germany), Elston and McAllister (who focus
 on culture and nation-building in Latin America), and Aslan (who works on intercultural
 pragmatics).

 One of the most active groups in this area comprises researchers working on contemporary
 issues in migration and border studies (Capstick, Faloppa, Themistocleous, Treffers-Daller,
 Schröter). These scholars have been involved in a range of funded projects including the ESRC
 Network Grant ‘The protective role of language in global migration and mobility: Language
 policies and practices in refugee settings’ with colleagues from Education and Psychology; a
 British Academy grant on ‘Experiencing multilingual spaces in borderline communities affected
 by conflict’ (Treffers-Daller, Themistocleous); and the British Council-funded project on
 language and resilience in refugee settings which forms one of the Unit’s impact case studies.
 Another important aspect has been the role of translation and intercultural communication in
 situations of contact, which was the major focus of Footitt’s AHRC project ‘Listening Zones of
 NGOs’, on how issues of language and cultural knowledge affect the work of UK development
 NGOs.

 Another key area of investigation has been the representation of migrants in political and media
 discourse, particularly issues of othering, silencing, racism, and hate speech (Faloppa,
 Schröter). Faloppa’s work has resulted in opportunities to influence policy through his
 appointment as a member of the Council of Europe’s Committee of Experts on Combatting Hate
 Speech and his ongoing collaboration with Amnesty International. Colleagues have also
 explored how migrants themselves use media, both for interpersonal communication and as a
 means of resisting negative representations (e.g., Faloppa’s work funded by an ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Grant, and Capstick’s work on ‘migration literacies’, which formed the basis for his
 2015 monograph).

 Work on conflict, contact and migration is informed by a broader range of research on
 multilingualism and intercultural communication This includes Treffers-Daller’s research on
 multilingualism and language contact, part-funded by the Horizon 2020 Marie Curie’s

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Training Network ‘Multimind’, and her work on code-switching and identity in
 Cyprus, funded by the Centre for British Research in the Levant. It also includes work on the
 psycholinguistic dimensions of multilingualism (Aveledo, Serratrice). Work on multilingualism is
 supported by the presence of linguists who work in a range of languages including English,
 German, Italian, Spanish and Turkish, as well as international collaborations with colleagues
 working in Chinese, Hindi, Kurdish, Malay, Pashto and Telugu.

 Finally, historical perspectives on the intersections of language, nationalism and conflict are
 provided by scholars such as Leoussi, who has focused on national identity formation in Europe
 in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Pilsworth and Schröter, who work on political
 discourse in Germany, Wölfel, who works on representations of war in German cinema, and La
 Penna and Leavitt, on the cultural history of the transition from Fascism to the Republic in Italy.
 This historical perspective builds upon work in earlier historical periods done by long-serving
 colleagues who have recently left, including Leglu, who worked on multilingualism and
 translation in Medieval French and Occitan literature, and Tucker, who explored the writing of
 displacement and exile in the European Renaissance. This range of sites, languages, and
 contemporary and historical perspectives in the study of conflict, contact and migration has
 made the Unit an emerging centre of excellence in this area.

 2) Maintaining healthy and prosperous societies
 Our second strategic area of research focuses on how linguistics and cultural studies can
 contribute to healthy and prosperous societies through strengthening areas such as health and
 education. Much of this work focuses on language teaching and learning: Capstick, Cunnings,
 Daller, Furneaux, Setter, Tavakoli, Treffers-Daller have all contributed insights into how
 languages are learned and how language learning can be assessed, and the design of teaching
 materials for different kinds of learners. A unique feature of this strand of research, which has a
 long tradition at Reading, is the range of approaches represented – from sociocultural to those
 informed by studies in second language acquisition and psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic
 approaches. This research has been funded by grants from the British Academy, British Council,
 Leverhulme Trust, and Welsh Assembly. Much of it dovetails with work on conflict, contact and
 migration, such as, Treffer-Daller’s ESRC-funded work on multilingualism and multiliteracy in
 primary schools in under-resourced contexts (India), and Capstick’s work on language teaching
 and resilience in refugee camps. A number of projects are designed explicitly to contribute to
 building research capacity in linguistics and language education in lower- and middle-income
 countries, such as the Newton Mobility Grants secured by Aslan to train language teachers in
 Turkey to address issues of intercultural competence, and Setter, who trains university teachers
 in Malaysia in teaching and researching intonation.

 Researchers have also examined the role of language and discourse in health, business and
 professional communication. An important emerging research strength is Health
 Communication, including communication about health-related issues over the internet
 (Jaworska, Jones), language training and assessment for nurses (Daller), and the role of pan-
 European and governmental regulation in communication about health and food. A particularly
 notable contribution to this growing research area is the European Institute of Innovation and
 Technology (EIT Food) funded project on the communication of health claims about food in
 different European languages (Jones and Jaworska with colleagues from Food & Nutritional
 Sciences, Computer Science, Typography, overseas and industry partners as well as NGOs).
 Also contributing from a psycholinguistic perspective is Serratrice, who has worked on the
 impact of multilingualism on dementia in the Indian context; Setter, who has teamed up with
 colleagues from Psychology to study language impairment in children with Williams Syndrome;
 and Aveledo, who works on the impact of bilingualism on patients with Multiple Sclerosis.
 Research on language and health is also informed by historical perspectives on disease and
 disability (e.g., Gehrhardt’s work on the rehabilitation of wounded WWI veterans). Recently
 there has been growing engagement with the relationship between language and environmental
 issues (e.g., Waters’ work on the human experience of climate change in the Indian Ocean and
 Jaworska’s work on communication about climate change in corporate and professional
 discourse).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Work in these two areas has been strongly supported by the Centre for Literacy and
 Multilingualism, which has provided a forum to build internal collaborations as well as strong
 cooperative relationships with external stakeholders (see section 4), and has provided seed-
 funding for projects leading to successful external bids (see section 3). It has also benefited from
 colleagues’ involvement in the Centre for Health Humanities (CHH), which provides a forum to
 work with scholars in History, Literature Philosophy and Pharmacy. Finally, work in this focal
 area overlaps with all four of the University’s Research Themes – Agriculture, Food & Health,
 Environment, Heritage & Creativity, Prosperity & Resilience – and has benefited from seed-
 funding made available by the Themes as well as opportunities the Research Deans have
 provided for formulating interdisciplinary research agendas across the University (e.g., Jones
 and Jaworska’s EIT Food project).

 3) Transmission of knowledge and culture across time and space
 The third major focus is the material/technical means through which culture is disseminated and
 their political, economic and social underpinnings. Work in this area at Reading is distinctive in
 the breadth of its historical coverage. Much of it builds on the strong foundation of research in
 Medieval and Renaissance manuscript production and circulation established by scholars such
 as Leglu, Nasti, Tucker (a particular strength in our last REF submission). More recent
 developments have been in the areas of British and continental book history and publishing from
 the seventeenth century to the present (Heywood, La Penna, Simó-Comas), cultural
 production and dissemination in non-European contexts (Elston, Kumaraswami, Waters) and
 women in publishing (Elston, Heywood, La Penna).

 Work has also been strong where it intersects with the focal area of conflict, contact and
 migration in projects which explore the role of publishing, translation and cultural production in
 contexts of rapid political change. Examples include La Penna’s AHRC-funded work on
 translation and cultural production in the transition from dictatorship to democracy in Italy; Simó-
 Comas’ work on publishing and cultural policies during the transition to democracy in Spain;
 Heywood’s work on European children’s literature in the 1960s, supported by a Marie Curie
 fellowship; and Pilsworth’s BA/Wolfson-funded work on anti-Fascist publishing in the UK.
 There has also been important work on cultural production and political change in non-European
 contexts by scholars in Spanish and Latin American studies: Elston focuses on cultural politics
 and transitional justice related to the armed conflict in Colombia; McAllister explores the role of
 culture in recent Argentinian political history; and Kumaraswami studies post-revolutionary
 literacy and cultural policy in Cuba (partially supported by the Leverhulme Trust).

 There has also been a strong focus on cultural dissemination through newer technologies and
 their impact on language, communication and culture. Jones and Jaworska have explored the
 role of digital technology in the communication of health messages and the formation of health
 cultures online; Jones has researched the role of digital technologies in social activism; Aslan
 has researched the role of internet memes in cultural transmission and linguistic enregisterment;
 and Themistocleous has examined the impact of digital technologies on the translingual
 practices of Greek Cypriots.

 Work in the area of cultural dissemination is strongly supported by the Centre for Book
 Cultures and Publishing (CBCP). The Centre is supported by the University’s renowned
 Special Collections in book publishing and printing history. This focal area has also been
 supported by the £500k Collections Project introduced by the University to extend the research
 use of the University of Reading Special Collections (IES Section 4), and the Dean for Heritage
 & Creativity, who provides seed-funding for events and research that bring together researchers,
 practitioners and policymakers, such as La Penna’s 2019 Research Endowment Trust Fund
 award for her project on mapping translation in Reading’s British publishers archives.

 Vitality and sustainability
 Future strategic goals of the Unit are based on building on these structures and the strong
 interdisciplinary and inter-institutional relationships they have facilitated over the past five years.

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have identified research on migration as an area for investment. Over the past two years,
 with the support of CeLM, the Unit has brought together an international network of scholars with
 a broad range of disciplinary expertise to explore the relationship between the linguistic
 challenges faced by migrants and other social and material issues such as bio-psycho-social
 well-being, economic security, and media use. Further work in migration will also benefit from
 the MA in Migration Studies which has been recently introduced to the School of Literature &
 Language’s portfolio of MA programmes.

 Future work in the area of language teaching and learning will be enhanced by the Joint Project
 on Language Teaching and Assessment with the British Council (from 2019), which hosts
 seminars and grant-writing workshops, funds PhD students, and provides internships for
 undergraduate and postgraduate students interested in working in the area of language
 assessment. There are also promising developments in collaborations with lower- and middle-
 income countries. The work of Treffers-Daller in India, Aslan in Turkey, Setter in Malaysia and
 Capstick in countries affected by the refugee crisis will continue, along with new initiatives such
 as Tavakoli’s new project on language testing and economic development in Mexico (resulting
 from a British Council collaborative grant with the University of Guanajuato and currently funded
 by a TOEFEL CEO Assessment Grant). A range of opportunities for future research on language
 teaching presents itself following the recent merger with the Institution Wide Language
 Programme (IWLP), which has seen the addition of language teachers with expertise in Arabic,
 British Sign Language, Chinese, Modern Greek, Japanese, Russian, and which introduces
 opportunities to pair up teaching-intensive and research-active staff for collaborative research on
 language teaching.

 Research into language and health is a particular growth area, with Jones and Jaworska’s EIT
 Food project winning a third year of funding in 2021, and the same researchers also recently
 winning a grant from the British Academy special fund for COVID-19 related research. Along
 with Gehrhardt, they will continue to work with colleagues in the Centre for Health Humanities to
 identify areas where linguistic and historical/cultural approaches to health communication can
 inform each other. In the area of sustainability, bids are in preparation by Jaworska on ‘Trust in
 Sustainability Communication’, and Waters on ‘Creative, Community Responses to Landscape
 Change in Mauritius’.

 The newly established Centre for Book Culture and Publishing has generated an ambitious
 roadmap for future research in the areas of international publishing, gender and diversity,
 heritage and conflict, translation, reading and literacies and digital materialities – all areas that
 build on current strengths in the Unit. Practical steps will involve establishing agreements with
 leading research centres and archives overseas to spur collaboration. Connections have already
 been established with the Apice Archives in Milan (Italy), Deutsches Literatur Archiv Marbach
 (Germany) and the Centre for Digital History Aarhus (Denmark). The Centre has used the
 Collections Research Frameworks developed as part of the Strategic Collections Project to
 identify themes and topics relevant to external funding calls, and to continue to raise Reading’s
 distinctive profile through yearly international conferences (such as the 2019 Women in
 Publishing Conference) and public talks and exhibitions.

 The Centre already has over 15 PhD students and has attracted excellent post-doctoral
 candidates through schemes such as British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowships, Leverhulme
 Early Career Fellowships, and Marie Curie Individual Fellowships (including Bolchi, who is
 working on the reception of Virginia Woolf in Italy). Bids are currently in preparation for work on
 the translation of European post-war fiction, exploiting the rich publisher archives at Reading (La
 Penna), and on censorship in children’s literature (based on Heywood’s University Research
 Fellowship). The Centre aims to attract leading academics via schemes such as the British
 Academy Global Professorships and Leverhulme Visiting Professorships. These activities will
 continue to be supported with funding from the University as well as project-based support from
 the Heritage & Creativity Theme.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In summary, over the past five years our research environment has developed from a collection
 of organically formed research clusters into a stronger, more cohesive structure supported by
 major Interdisciplinary Research Centres and committed to making strategic investments in the
 three broad areas of research discussed above. The success of our dynamic and responsive
 strategy is evidenced by the number and range of funded projects (see section 3), the number of
 outputs published (496 outputs have been deposited in the University’s institutional
 repository, including 33 books and 30 edited collections during the reporting period), and the
 strong network of partnerships we have developed not just with other academics, but also with
 teachers, health workers, industry partners and development NGOs (see section 4).


 2. People

 Composition of the Unit
 The Unit has undergone considerable changes in its staff profile since REF2014, particularly the
 presence of more linguists in the Department of English Language & Applied Linguistics and the
 School of Psychology & Clinical Language Sciences. Another important addition is scholars in
 Spanish and Latin American Studies. These changes have led to a more comprehensive Unit in
 which scholars from multiple disciplines bring their expertise and perspectives to bear on the
 clusters discussed in section 1.

 There have also been changes in the career-stage profile of the Unit following the retirement of
 senior researchers (e.g., Footitt, Tucker) and mid-career researchers moving to other
 institutions (Leavitt, Leglu, Nasti). Most of these colleagues maintain strong research ties with
 the University. We have filled the posts with both early career and senior researchers in areas
 related to the strategic initiatives described in the last section. New hires in the area of linguistics
 include senior researchers (Jones, Serratrice, and Treffers-Daller who transferred to the Unit
 from the Institute of Education), and promising early and mid-career researchers (Aslan,
 Aveledo, Capstick, Cunnings, Jaworska). New hires in modern language studies include
 senior scholars (Kumaraswami) and early career scholars such as Pilsworth, Elston,
 McAllister, Gehrhardt, McKeane.

 Overall, the Unit currently comprises 27 staff (24.7 FTE), and has a healthy balance across
 Professors (26%), Associate Professors (33%) and Lecturers/Postdoctoral Fellows (41%). This
 balance, along with strategic relationships with senior researchers in other units via the IDRCs,
 has allowed us to maintain a strong system of research mentoring, both within departments and
 within the clusters described above. The stability of the Unit is assured by the high proportion of
 permanent contracts (96%, in comparison with 83% in REF2014).

 Support and mentorship
 Providing mentorship and training is a priority, reflecting the higher representation of Lecturers
 (up from 25% in 2014 to 41%) and Associate Professors (up from 25% in 2014 to 33%). All staff
 are teamed with a mentor in their department, and new staff also receive ongoing mentoring and
 support from colleagues in their research clusters. ECRs also benefit from annual research
 planning meetings with the Research Division Lead, grant-writing seminars within departments
 and affiliated IDRCs, as well as training on impact and the maintenance of impact logs. Early-
 career staff are also mentored to work towards their first external funding bid, either as PI or Co-
 I. Tailored training for grant-writing is provided by Research Services (RES), led by professional
 services staff and experienced academics, and providing opportunities for networking with ECRs
 in other disciplines. We are committed to creating a conducive environment for ECRs through
 the balancing of workload and the provision of regular research leave every three years (with
 opportunities to apply for research leave for special projects.

 The success of these measures is evidenced by strong presence of early and mid-career
 researchers in our submission as well as successes in external grant capture by ECRs (e.g.,
 Pilsworth’s BA/Wolfson Fellowship, Aslan’s Newton Mobility Grant, Themistocleous’ British
 Academy grants). Lecturer-level staff are well represented in the disbursement of internal pump-

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 priming grants, UROP fellowships (for undergraduate summer research placements), and
 institutional investments in research development. In 2020, for example, Capstick, was awarded
 over £30k from the University’s Research Endowment Trust Fund (RETF) for his participatory
 research project with refugees (see section 4). ECR and lecturer-level staff have also been
 successful in winning external recognition, such as Elston’s 2018 Montserrat Ordóñez Prize by
 the Latin American Studies Association for her book on women’s writing in Colombia and
 Pilsworth’s 2018 Camden House ECR Book Proposal Prize. Finally, the quality of the mentoring
 provided to ECRs is reflected in the number of successful promotions to the rank of Associate
 Professor. Over half of the Associate Professors returned in this submission have been internally
 promoted in the past five years, including Cunnnings, Faloppa, Heywood, Jaworska,
 Themistocleous, Wölfel.

 Diversity and inclusion
 The Unit is committed to promoting a diverse, equitable, vibrant and supportive working
 environment for all colleagues and benefits from University policies and programmes led by the
 Dean for Diversity & Inclusion and Human Resources, and the work of Diversity and Inclusion
 Officers situated within the Unit’s affiliated Schools.

 Like many other units focusing on language and linguistics across the sector, the Unit has a
 preponderance of female staff (74%). What is perhaps more notable is the prevalence of female
 colleagues in leadership positions: two of the affiliated IDRCs (CeLM and CBCP) are headed by
 women, the current Research Division Lead is a woman (as were the two preceding RDLs),
 school and departmental Directors of Postgraduate Research are all women, and both Heads of
 School are women (Literature & Languages; Psychology & Clinical Language Sciences).
 Approximately a third of the women staff in the Unit have participated in women’s leadership
 training, such as the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education’s Aurora Programme and the
 Springboard Personal and Works Development Training Course. Women have also been
 particularly successful in their applications for promotion to Professor during the reporting period
 (Furneaux, Kumaraswami, La Penna, Tavakoli, Waters). Over the reporting period the Unit
 has also sought to promote gender diversity by increasing opportunities for male staff. This is
 particularly true in DELAL, which, at the beginning of the reporting period was made up
 exclusively of women, but now has a more balanced gender profile (with Aslan, Capstick,
 Daller, Jones).

 Sensitivity to gender diversity is also reflected in our research, including Elston’s work on
 women’s writing in Colombia, and Simó-Comas’ project on women in Post-Franco Spanish
 publishing. In 2019, the CBCP organised its First Annual International Symposium on Women in
 Publishing, from which a major two-volume publication co-led by La Penna and Heywood is in
 preparation with Edinburgh University Press. Jaworska’s work on gendered representations in
 media and professional discourse led to her engagement with Ernst & Young in 2020, for which
 she, together with two colleagues from Economics, produced an assessment of diversity and
 inclusion in performance criteria and promotion procedures leading to changes in organisational
 policies.

 The Unit also has a strong, open presence of LGBTQ staff, some of them with considerable
 expertise in research into language and LGBT issues, which has helped to attract PhD students
 (Jones, for example, has had students working on LGBT issues in China and Cuba). Other work
 includes Setter’s research on transgender voices, carried out in collaboration with
 undergraduate student-researchers, which is reported in her 2019 book on the role of the voice
 in social life.

 The dominance of non-British (or recently naturalised British) staff (52%), and the Unit’s focus on
 international issues, helps ensure that it is attentive to the politics of both the global and the local
 and integrates the perspectives of often marginalised groups. We have also seen an increase in
 British BAME staff from 0% in 2014 to 8% in this submission. In addition, the merger with IWLP
 has brought in colleagues from Chile, China, Croatia, Japan, Libya, Russia and Serbia. The
 growing ethnic and cultural diversity has created a conducive environment for teaching and

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research that focuses on multiculturalism and inclusivity as well as on challenges such as
 informal and institutionalised discrimination (e.g., Capstick and Faloppa’s projects examining
 multicultural challenges in migration, Gehrhardt’s research on facial disfigurement, Jones’ work
 in a prison for foreign-national offenders, and Faloppa’s work on hate speech).

 The University developed a Code of Practice for REF2021 setting out principles of transparency,
 consistency, accountability and inclusivity in the identification of eligible research staff and the
 selection of research outputs. The UoA has followed this Code of Practice, paying due regard to
 Equality and Diversity issues in the construction of its submission. The University’s interim Equality
 Impact Assessment (2020) and bias analysis (2021) identified no statistically significant differences
 for protected characteristics in our selection. Diversity across a range of characteristics (gender,
 ethnicity, career stage, discipline) was taken into account in the selection of outputs: 30% of
 those selected are from men, and 70% from women, reflecting the gender ratio within the Unit.
 Outputs are evenly distributed across rank with approximately a third coming from Lecturers/
 Post-doctoral fellows, a third from Associate Professors, and a third from Professors. 17.5% of
 outputs are by BAME colleagues.

 Research students
 A vibrant and growing community of PhD students makes an important contribution to the
 intellectual culture of the Unit. The number of PhD completions has increased since 2014 from
 12 to 49, and enrolment continues to rise, especially in the areas of linguistics and translation.
 Quality has also increased: in 2019-20, 72% of new PhD students had achieved a Distinction for
 their MA degree (75% of those from UK universities,12.5% from US universities, and 12.5% from
 universities in other countries). DELAL in particular has been successful in recruiting PhD
 students from its own MAs in TESOL and Applied Linguistics. 70% of currently enrolled PhD
 students are fully funded, either by scholarships from their own countries or through schemes
 such as Horizon2020, AHRC’s South, West and Wales DTP, and the Felix Scholarship Scheme
 (for students from India and other developing countries studying at Reading, London, Oxford or
 SOAS). We are working to increase the number of Collaborative Doctoral Awards; a recent
 success being La Penna’s AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award on British military encounters
 with Italian civilians in cooperation with the Imperial War Museums. In addition, Capstick,
 Faloppa and Treffers-Daller all contribute to supervision of students with MultiMind
 studentships funded by Marie Curie ETNS Action. As with academic staff, an important feature
 of the PhD population is its diversity, with students from Europe, the Americas, Asia and the
 Middle East. In the current student body 83% are non-British, and 63% of those are BAME
 students. Over a third of our PhD students are mature students (age over 35 on entry).

 PhD students are supported by joint supervision, including a considerable number of
 collaborative supervisions across departments. PhD students are provided with funding to
 present their work at international conferences, and the annual PhD Conference in Language
 Studies, co-sponsored by DELAL and CeLM and organised by students, attracts PhD students
 from across the University. DELAL also publishes the annual Language Studies Working
 Papers, which is edited by a team of students. PhD students have also assumed other
 leadership roles. For example, Payne and Tomlinson (SWW DTP-funded students in German
 and French) led the university-wide Gender and Sexuality Network, and Romanzi (PhD Italian)
 directed the SWW DTP journal Question (2019, 2020). Our students actively engage with
 development opportunities to enhance their research skills and employability, including the
 Graduate School’s Researcher Development Programme which provides training in study skills,
 communication skills, open research and research integrity, funding and grant applications, as
 well as the Preparing to Teach programme, the PGR Leadership Programme and the PGR
 Women’s Development Programme.

 Most PhD students are given opportunities to teach if they wish, mostly leading seminars for
 first-year undergraduate modules, and receive mentoring in teaching from senior staff. Others
 work as research assistants and editorial assistants for journals. This work experience is seen
 as an essential aspect of their training. PhD students are encouraged to publish during their
 studies, and their work has appeared in a range of prestigious journals such as Annali

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d'Italianistica, Applied Psycholinguistics, English for Academic Purposes, International Journal of
 Corpus Linguistics, Modern Italy, Studi Secenteschi, Studies in Second Language Acquisition,
 System, and Tre Corone.

 The effectiveness of the support we provide is evidenced by the high rate of timely completions,
 with 90% of full-time students submitting within 48 months. Students who have completed their
 PhDs have gone on to find employment (including post-doctoral positions) in other Universities
 (including UCLAN, Reading, Tokyo, Zurich and the Scuola Normale Superiore di Pisa), or to
 return with promotions to institutions where they were previously employed (Imam Abdulrahman
 Bin Faisal University, Qassim University, University of Malawi). Others find employment in other
 sectors such as government, publishing and the non-profit sector.

 Post-doctoral and Visiting Fellows
 We have also hosted eleven Post-Doctoral Fellows, mostly associated with specific grants –
 Tesseur and Delgado, linked to Footitt’s AHRC-funded project, Ryder, associated with Jones
 and Jaworska’s EIT Food project, and Defilippi, associated with Faloppa’s Erasmus Plus
 project. Other Visiting Research Fellows have included Sullam (supported by the British
 Academy) and De Santis (supported by the British Academy/Accademia dei Lincei).

 Over the reporting period the Unit has welcomed 29 visiting researchers and research fellows
 from institutions such as Universidad de Havana (Cuba), Murcia University (Spain), University of
 Milan and Rome Sapienza (Italy), Universities of Ticino, Geneva and Zurich (Switzerland),
 Wasada and Kobe Gakuin Universities (Japan), and Guangdong University of Foreign Studies
 (China). These visiting scholars work in collaboration with and, in many cases, receive
 mentorship from staff at Reading.

 Research-led teaching
 The Unit is characterised by a strong tradition of research-led teaching. Research is at the core
 of DELAL’s respected MAs in Applied Linguistics and Teaching English as a Second Language.
 During the assessment period, three students from these courses have earned Commendations
 for their MA Dissertations from the British Council Masters Dissertation Awards scheme, and
 one was a winner (Dore, 2015/16). MA students are also given the opportunity to participate in
 research internships with the British Council’s Assessment Research Unit as part of the
 Department’s ongoing collaboration with the British Council.

 Research-based undergraduate teaching is supported by University initiatives to improve
 teaching and learning, for example Faloppa’s University Teaching and Learning Development
 Fund Award for his project: ‘From the classroom to the world: A student-led radio programme on
 language and migration’, or from outside organisations, such as Jones’ BAAL Applying
 Linguistics Fund project which engaged undergraduate students in conducting collaborative
 research with prisoners in HMP Huntercombe.

 A feature of our research culture is the strong presence of undergraduate students involved in
 staff research, mainly through the University’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities
 Programme (UROP), which funds summer placements for undergraduates to work with staff on
 research projects. This has included exploring topics such as voice and representation among
 transgendered individuals (Jones, Setter), health communication and food (Jaworska, Jones),
 food communication and sustainability (Jaworska), gender and health communication
 (Jaworska), and the linguistic landscape of Reading (Themistocleous), as well as working with
 archives in the University of Reading’s Special Collections, such as the Robert Dawson Romany
 Collection (Faloppa), the Archive of the Italian Refugees’ Relief Committee (La Penna), and the
 East German Archive, the largest archive of GDR material outside Germany (Wölfel). One
 student, who worked with Themistocleous on a UROP-funded project on attitudes towards
 multilingualism presented her findings at Westminster as part of the national Posters in
 Parliament Conference.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 The success of our research strategy is demonstrated by the steady rise in research income and
 an increasing diversification of sources. While funding still comes primarily from UK Research
 Councils (especially AHRC, ESRC, and the British Academy) and UK-based charities (e.g., the
 Leverhulme Trust), we have expanded to include the Welsh Assembly, British Council and
 European funders such as the Erasmus Plus Scheme, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, and the
 European Institute of Innovation and Technology (Figure 1).




 Figure 1. Research Income in the REF period by year and source

 The total value of research income during the reporting period was £1,307,305. Among the most
 prestigious projects have been Jones and Jaworska’s EIT Food project ‘Developing a digital
 toolkit to enhance the communication of scientific health claims’, with a total award over two
 years of over €1.2 million (shared across 4 institutions); Footitt’s AHRC project ‘The Listening
 Zones of NGOs’ (>£350k); Kumaraswami’s Leverhulme Trust Award (£160k) for, ‘Beyond
 Havana and the nation? Peripheral identities and literary culture in Cuba’; La Penna’s AHRC
 grant (£191k) ‘Mapping literary space: Italian intellectuals, literary journals, publishing firms
 1940-1960’; and Wölfel’s BA grant and Leverhulme fellowship for her research on GDR film.
 Staff have also been involved as Co-Investigators on a number of large grants led by colleagues
 in other units: Treffers-Daller and Faloppa are Co-Is on the €4m Horizon 2020 Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks grant (led by Marinis, PCLS);Treffers-Daller is
 Co-I on the £650k project ‘Multilingualism and multiliteracy: Raising learning outcomes in
 challenging contexts in primary schools across India’ (led by Cambridge); and Capstick and
 Faloppa were Co-I’s on the £131k ESRC Network Grant on ‘The protective role of language in
 global migration and mobility’.

 Colleagues have also been successful in securing smaller grants with potentially large societal
 impact. Tavakoli’s awards from the British Council have made a significant contribution to her
 research on language testing (Assessment Research Grant and Higher Education Link Grant,
 British Academy International Partnership Fund); Themistocleous’ research has the potential to
 contribute to efforts to address conflict in Cyprus (British Academy/Leverhulme grant
 ‘Experiencing multilingual spaces in borderline communities affected by conflict: The case of
 Greek- and Turkish-Cypriots in Cyprus’, Council for British Research in the Levant grant
 ‘Multilingualism and identity in Cyprus: Alternating and hybrid identity styles’ (with Treffers-
 Daller); and Faloppa’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Grant has helped him to develop his
 engagement on migration and hate speech (‘Media use and representation among migrants’).
 Jones and Jaworska’s British Academy Grant on the experience of Chinese students in the UK



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the COVID-19 pandemic builds on their previous work on intercultural, institutional and
 health communication.

 Infrastructure and support
 One of the biggest transformations since REF2014 is the role of the affiliated IDRCs in
 supporting funding bids and helping to develop a cohesive strategy for grant capture. Over 20%
 of CeLM’s budget is devoted to pump-priming grants for pilot studies leading to medium-size or
 larger funding proposals. CeLM pump-priming supported the ESRC Network Grant ‘The
 protective role of language in global migration and mobility’ (Capstick, Faloppa), the Multimind
 grant (Treffers-Daller, Faloppa), Serratrice‘s Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship,
 and Jones’ work in Huntercombe Prison supported by the British Association for Applied
 Linguistics. CeLM has also supported Tavakoli’s ongoing work with language test publishers.

 CBCP and the research clusters involved in its formation, have been responsible for national
 and international grant income from bodies including the AHRC, British Academy, Canadian
 Social Science and Humanities Research Council, Leverhulme Trust, the European
 Commission’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions, the Mayor of Paris, and Spanish Ministry of
 Education and Culture. Work on book cultures and publishing is supported by the University’s
 impressive Archive of British Printing and Publishing (designated by Arts Council England as
 an Outstanding Collection), which includes archives from the Lewis collections, the Hogarth
 Press, WH Smith, Cape, Weidenfeld & Nicolson, Mills & Boon, the Sutton databases, the
 Location Register of Twentieth-Century Manuscripts, and WATCH.

 Other support for grant development is available from the Research Dean for Heritage &
 Creativity, who since 2015 has provided over £107k in seed-funding, pump-priming and
 subsidised research leave for staff to work on applications or complete outputs. Water’s work on
 climate change in Mauritius, for example, was supported by this fund. The H&C Theme also has
 its own Grant Development College, which reviews major bids as they are in development.
 Colleagues in the Unit have also received pump-priming support from the Deans of other
 Research Themes: Jones and Jaworska’s EIT Food application, for example, was made
 possible by support from the Agriculture, Food & Health Theme.

 Support is also available from the Schools of Literature & Languages and Psychology & Clinical
 Language Sciences. Each has a School Research and Impact Committee, chaired by the Head
 of School, which includes Heads of Department, Research Division Leads, post-doctoral student
 representatives, together with Impact, Grant Support, and Research Development Managers.
 This School-level approach helps to prioritise collaborative and interdisciplinary potential among
 the different departments. These committees review and sign off on Research Division
 Operational plans, help to direct research expenditure within the Unit, and channel expenditure
 to high potential research and impact initiatives. The committees also review research leave
 applications and receive reports about the progress of external bids towards submission. The
 School Research and Impact Committees fund research expenses and conference travel though
 an annual allowance for all staff, and further funding is available for specific projects.
 Expenditure against individual research accounts is agreed with the RDL and Head of
 Department to make sure that the funds are spent optimally to support personal research plans.
 Staff can also apply to the University's Research Travel Grant for conference attendance,
 archive visits or impact activities. The University also offers generous funding for Open Access
 publications, including subventions for OA monographs (e.g., Waters 2018).

 A team of Research Development Managers in Research and Enterprise Services (RES) plays a
 central role in supporting efforts to secure external funding, disseminating calls, advising on
 appropriate funding, and assisting with the costing and preparation of applications. After grants
 have been secured, they provide advice and support for PIs about the management and delivery
 in association with the University’s Research Accounts Office.

 Support for impact planning and strategy is provided by the Unit’s Impact Lead (Faloppa) and
 RDL (Jaworska), who work with the Impact Development Manager for H&C to identify and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 highlight the impact potential within individual projects. The University established an Impact
 Support Programme in 2016 (see IES, section 2.3), which provides funding, planning, and
 timetabling support for impact case studies, and projects with future impact potential.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The three research areas that the Unit is involved in – conflict, contact and migration, building
 healthier, resilient and prosperous societies, and the transmission of knowledge and culture –
 cannot be adequately addressed from within the disciplinary silos of languages and linguistics or
 even from within the confines of academia. Indeed, a distinguishing characteristic of work in
 languages and linguistics at Reading is the willingness of researchers to venture into territories
 usually associated with other disciplines (such as business and economics, design, food
 sciences, geography, health, and meteorology and climate science) and centrally involving ‘real-
 world’ actors. Not surprisingly, then, our research activities depend on our strong track record
 and structures of support for interdisciplinarity and inter-institutional collaborations as well as
 collaborations with a range of non-academic stakeholders.

 Interdisciplinary and inter-institutional networks
 As demonstrated above, interdisciplinary collaboration is strongly supported on all levels, via the
 University’s interconnecting Research Themes, the IDRCs, and the strong ties we have
 established with colleagues in other departments based on joint degrees and doctoral
 supervisions. Projects in the area of migration have involved collaboration among multiple
 Schools within the University as well as with overseas academic institutions, governmental
 bodies and NGOs from Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Projects focusing on education and
 healthcare have been equally interdisciplinary and inter-institutional, a good example being
 Jones and Jaworska’s EIT Food project in which an interdisciplinary team from Reading works
 together with the Technical University of Munich, a UK NGO (British Nutrition Foundation), and a
 Canadian tech start-up (Foodmaestro).

 Work in publishing and book culture benefits from collaborations with international libraries,
 galleries, museums, professional societies and organisations as far afield as Argentina, Austria,
 Cuba, France, Germany, Italy, Israel, Spain, Sweden and USA. Much of the networking that
 supports these collaborations comes from grants, such as La Penna and Heywood’s
 Leverhulme-funded international network ‘Diasporic Literary Archives’ (2012-14), with Yale’s
 Beinecke Library, the University of Pavia’s Centro Manoscritti and IMEC Institut mémoires de
 l'édition contemporaine. Examples of projects, exhibitions and public seminars/workshops made
 possible through these collaborations include La Penna’s AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award
 on British military encounters with Italian civilians (with the Imperial War Museums), Leoussi’s
 contribution to the major 2015 British Museum exhibition, ‘Defining beauty: The body in Ancient
 Greek art’, and Heywood’s curation of travelling exhibitions on children’s literature for
 Médiathèque Françoise-Sagan Children’s Library and The Swedish Institute for Children’s Books
 (2017-18).

 Collaborations with non-academic stakeholders
 We have also cultivated strong relationships with external organisations, individuals and groups
 working in our three focal areas. Particularly prominent are the relationships with NGOs such as
 those represented in the Unit’s impact case studies, i.e., Faloppa’s work on hate speech with
 Amnesty International and his advisory role for COSPE, and Capstick’s research used by the
 British Council, UNICEF and NGOs to design language programmes for refugees. Other
 examples include Footitt’s work involving DFID, Oxfam and Christian Aid, the ESRC-funded
 network ProLanguage with NGOs working with refugees, Gehrhardt’s ongoing collaboration
 with the charity Changing Faces, and Jones’ prison related work with the St Giles Trust.

 CeLM has a particular focus on public engagement and research outreach and has built strong
 connections with local organisations such as Mothertongue (a charity offering multilingual
 counselling), the Reading Community Learning Centre (which works with refugees), and
 Reading City of Sanctuary, to ensure that work at the University makes a contribution to the

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community. It also sponsors activities for the general public, such as multilingual storytelling in
 public libraries and International Mother Language Day events every February to promote the
 benefits of bilingualism and advise parents on how to help children maintain their mother tongue.
 Some of these activities are undertaken as part of Bilingualism Matters, an inter-institutional
 network that promotes dialogue between researchers and community members. Public-facing
 events in the area of language and culture are often supported by the Heritage & Creativity
 Theme, for example the Being Human Festival in November 2016 (Faloppa, Footitt), and the
 2016 Poetry Festival organised in collaboration with colleagues from English Literature (La
 Penna, Leavitt).

 Other outreach work has involved training and advice for language teaching practitioners.
 Tavakoli, for example, has provided workshops for teachers, teacher trainers and policymakers
 across the UK and in Iran. Capstick has recently authored an open online course (OOC)
 sponsored by the British Council and FutureLearn (Migrants and refugees in education: A toolkit
 for teachers), Jones and Capstick have delivered workshops in literacy training for staff and
 prisoners at Huntercombe Prison. Other outreach work includes Faloppa’s training for Amnesty
 International volunteers and Italian journalists on confronting hate speech and Elston’s work
 with London-based Colombian associations.

 Colleagues also work with government officials and policymakers. Faloppa has recently been
 appointed as Independent Expert to the Council of Europe’s Committee of Experts on
 Combatting Hate Speech. Capstick has served as Invited Fellow at the Microsoft-funded
 Salzburg Global Seminar Series on Multilingualism, which formulated a statement that has since
 been adopted by UNESCO. Footitt and her team presented the findings of their ‘Listening
 Zones’ project to Members of Parliament in June 2018, and their executive summary
 ‘Respecting communities in international development: Languages and cultural understanding’ is
 quoted in AHRC policy papers as an example of research excellence (e.g., 2019 AHRC Delivery
 Plan).

 Staff work closely with the University Press Office to raise language and cultural issues with
 local and national audiences. Faloppa’s research on hate speech, for example, achieved high
 media exposure in Italy (RAI TV, La Sette TV, RAI Radio 3, and Italian national newspapers)
 and Europe (National Swiss Radio, France 24). Jones and Jaworska’s work on food
 communication has been featured in the Daily Mail and live interviews with BBC and affiliates.
 Simó-Comas contributed to Radio Nacional de España documentary celebrating Sampedro’s
 significance as a writer and as a thinker. Setter has a significant media presence as an expert in
 phonetics and pronunciation, with over 35 media appearances since January 2018, including on
 local and national BBC radio, The Guardian, the Mail on Sunday, The Conversation, Talk Radio
 Europe, and the ‘Talks at Google’ YouTube channel.

 Impact of and response to COVID-19
 The COVID-19 pandemic constitutes precisely the kind of problem which our research strategy
 is designed to tackle. We responded to the crisis quickly by developing new protocols for
 conducting research in the context of social distancing, reconfiguring the priorities of ongoing
 projects, and launching new initiatives to explore the impacts of the pandemic on health and
 media communication, migration, hate speech and intercultural communication, and by working
 with the University to understand how the pandemic has impacted the research capacity of
 different staff.

 Examples include Capstick’s redesign of his RETF-funded project on multilingual teams, voice
 and representation, to focus on how migrants and refugees draw on their current networks to
 read, write and share information about COVID-19 and how they go about extending these
 resources by using translation, mediators and brokers; and Jones and Jaworska’s recent
 successful bid to the British Academy Special Research Fund for COVID-19 about the
 communication challenges of Chinese students in the UK during the pandemic (with Birmingham
 University and the UK Council for International Student Affairs). At the beginning of the
 pandemic, colleagues in DELAL established a network of health communication researchers

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from China, Hong Kong and the UK to discuss ongoing projects and ideas for collaboration.
 Work is disseminated through the network’s blog, and a collection of contributions has been
 selected by Cambridge University Press as the first volume in their new Elements in Applied
 Linguistics series.

 Contribution to the vitality and sustainability of the wider disciplines
 We play an active role in scholarly bodies across our different disciplines: Waters is President
 of the Society for Francophone Postcolonial Studies; Jaworska is Secretary of the Forum for
 Germanic Studies; Schröter is Convener of the panel on Linguistics and Language Learning for
 the Association for German Studies in Great Britain and Ireland; and Faloppa is UCML
 representative for Linguistics. Colleagues also sit on grant review panels, including the AHRC
 and Irish Research Council (La Penna), Global Challenges Research Fund (Jones), Finnish
 Academy (Jones), Austrian Science Fund (Schröter), Swedish Research Council (Schröter),
 and Swiss National Science Foundation (Jaworska, Jones).

 Researchers in the Unit have taken the lead in organising conferences both in Reading and at
 other institutions. Events organised around the topic of book cultures and publishing have
 included: Sara Kofman’s Philosophy (2019, McKeane); Women and Publishing (2019, La
 Penna, Heywood); Translation and Professional Reading Practices in Publishing in Italy and the
 UK (2019, La Penna, Sullam); Listening Zones of NGOs (2018, Footitt, Tesseur); Childhood
 and Nation-Building in Argentina (2018, McAllister); The Making of Hispanic Literatures (2016,
 Kumaraswami, Simó-Comas); several workshops and conferences on biblical reception and
 Word and Image in Medieval Manuscripts (2014-2016, Leglu, Nasti); Mapping Literacy Space
 international symposia in collaboration with Manchester (2014, La Penna); Diasporic Literary
 Archives project international conferences in collaboration with the National Library of Trinidad
 and Tobago and Yale’s Beinecke Library (2014, La Penna, Heywood).

 In linguistics, we have organised the following conferences: Social Media and Gender in Saudi
 Arabia (2018, Jones); Annual Conference of the European Second Language Association
 (EuroSLA) with over 300 delegates (2017, Treferrs-Daller, Tavakoli); BAAL Language and New
 Media Special Interest Group (2017, Jones); BAAL Testing, Evaluation and Assessment Special
 Interest Group (2016, Tavakoli); Corpus Linguistics in the South #8 (2015, Jaworska); Big
 Social Media: Interdisciplinary Analytics (National Research Workshop) (2015, Jaworska);
 International Conference on Multilingualism in the Digital Age (2014, Jaworska,
 Themistocleous).

 Conferences at other institutions co-organised by Reading academics include ‘Cultural
 Mobilisation’ (University of Amsterdam, 2018, Leoussi), the 2018 annual conference for The
 Association for the Study of Ethnicity and Nationalism (ASEN).

 Members have been active in delivering plenary addresses at international conferences:
 Jones has given 14 plenary addresses in Asia, Australia, Europe, and the USA, and has been
 invited to give a plenary at the 2021 American Association of Applied Linguistics Conference; La
 Penna has given keynotes in Germany, Italy, Spain, Switzerland; Schröter has been a keynote
 speaker at conferences in Germany, Italy, Sweden; Serratrice has given 9 keynotes, including
 at the Conference on Multilingualism, University of Leiden; Treffers-Daller has delivered
 keynotes in Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, and the plenary address at the 22nd
 Symposium on Theoretical and Applied Linguistics in Greece; Waters has delivered keynote 7
 addresses in Australia Belgium, France, and Poland including the Annual Sonia Marks Lecture
 in Australia.

 Journal editors and advisers: Research leadership by members of the Unit is also
 demonstrated by their roles as editors and members of editorial boards of important journals in
 the field: Bulletin of Contemporary Hispanic Studies (review editor: Kumaraswami); GFL:
 German as a Foreign Language (open access) (co-editor: Schröter); The Italianist (senior editor:
 La Penna); Journal of Corpora and Discourse Studies (open access) (co-editor: Jaworska);


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nations and Nationalism (founding editor: Leoussi); Writing and Pedagogy (editor-in-chief:
 Jones).

 Editorial board memberships include: Bilingualism: Language and Cognition (Treffers-Daller);
 Journal of the International Phonetic Association (Setter); Journal of Second Language
 Pronunciation (Setter); Journal of War and Cultural Studies (Gehrhardt); International Journal of
 Bilingualism (Treffers-Daller); Language in Society (Jones); Language Learning and Technology
 (Jones); Health, Risk and Society (Jones); Letteratura e Letterature (La Penna); TiconTre:
 Teoria Testo Traduzione (Faloppa).

 Over the past five years, in line with its growing academic reputation, especially in areas such as
 linguistics and book publishing, and with its growing focus on ‘real-world’ problems, the Unit has
 become increasingly outward looking. The strong network of relationships it has built will help to
 support future research and outreach. The most important relationships we have cultivated,
 however, are with the everyday people caught up in the issues that we research, the migrants
 and refugees, prisoners, parents and patients, the journalists, teachers and students whose lives
 we hope, have been improved in some small way by our socially engaged orientation to
 research.




                                                                                            Page 15
