AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Arts University Bournemouth

 Unit of Assessment: 32

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Research Strategy and Structure in UOA 32

1.    The work submitted under this UOA is that of researchers predominantly based in
      the School of Art, Design and Architecture. Researchers are aligned to four specialist sub-
      group areas: illustration and graphic design; textiles, fashion and dress; materials
      and design; and fine art and drawing. The unit also includes work from our researchers
      in photography who are based in the School of Media and Performance but whose outputs
      fall mainly into art and design. At AUB research is led by the Dean of the Graduate School
      and Research, supported closely by the Vice-Chancellor Paul Gough and his academic
      leadership team.

2.    Although all AUB academic staff are eligible to be returned to the REF, many academics in
      the UOA are active creative practitioners. In accordance with our code of practice and
      academic pathways we applied an additional filter to determine significant responsibility for
      research resulting in 47% of those eligible in this UOA to be returned. Reflective of this our
      UOA submission includes 48% of staff being returned employed on fractional posts and
      10% employed on fixed term contracts. The UOAs base currently consists of nine
      professors/associate professors, 24 senior lecturers and seven lecturers including six early
      career researchers (ECRs).

3.    For REF 2014 AUB returned just 16 staff (12.1 FTE) to one UOA 34 (Art and Design). For
      REF 2021 we will return 40 staff (29.83 FTE) to UOA 32 alone and make a separate return
      to UOA 33. Staff were eligible for submission based on having a primary responsibility for
      research in their contract, determined by their choice of an academic career pathway that
      explicitly includes research. These pathways are based on the Academic Career
      Framework, instituted in 2016, and allow staff to determine their career pathway aligned
      with their areas of expertise and discipline strength.

4.    The university’s (and therefore the UOA’s) broad research strategy for the period was
      focused on growing the research environment (staff and activity), embedding impact in our
      research and developing our PGR offer. We believe we have made excellent progress in all
      three areas:

      •   Our commitment to the strategy to grow the research environment has resulted in the
          recruitment of an increased number of PhD-holding academics in the unit. More
          significantly, AUB has actively supported existing staff through the application,
          registration and the successful completion of doctorates. Consequently, doctoral holding
          staff has risen by 22% during the period and we have appointed our first post-doctoral
          researcher.

      •   The strategy to embed impact in our research activities has resulted in many different
          types of beneficiaries and engagement with a wide range of partners. These activities
          have also had significant geographic reach from Waring’s work with the local council
          and community partners, to create a new public artwork re-energising Anthony Caro’s

                                                                                             Page 1
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           work on Poole Quay; Hunt’s work on the design legacy of iconoclastic textile designer
           Lucienne Day with the Lucienne Day Foundation and Gough’s work on Australia’s
           heritage and war art supported by the Australian Research Council Discovery
           Project Grant. We have been successful in attracting external funding, seeing a 153%
           increase, including achieving our first AHRC research network.

       •   The strategy to grow our PGR community has also been fruitful. We have successfully
           supervised three practice-based PhD students to completion in this period producing
           original work in art and design. We have seen a twofold increase in staff with experience
           of supervision; fivefold increase in experience of supervision to completion and a
           sevenfold increase in the number of staff with experience of examination. Over the
           period the unit has offered one fully funded studentship in drawing (‘Discarded garments
           in motion: exploring female affect in narrative film through contemporary drawing
           practice’) and three fees only bursaries in drawing and materials including one that
           explored the influence of plastics on architectural modelmaking.


Research objectives, plans and how we facilitated impact in the unit in the past five years

5.    In addition to the broad strategy discussed above we had a number of clear and specific
      objectives during the period, these were: to develop research groups, to enable ECRs to
      flourish, to increase impact reach beyond traditional academic boundaries and to build a
      Research/Knowledge Exchange pipeline.

6.    Once again progress has been significant, with research groups quickly developing as
      pivotal structures to support the growth of research. There are several research groups in
      the School, some are nascent but others have gained traction over the period of
      assessment. Our main areas of strength in disciplines under this UOA include the
      Materials Group (formerly Design in Plastics) who held an international conference
      Provocative Plastics in 2015, a drawing research group - Transformative Matter, Material
      Trace who will contribute to the Trinity Bouy Wharf Drawing Prize, 2020, and a group
      researching the occult in visual arts known as the Black Mirror Network who have set up a
      peer reviewed journal of the same name. Research groups are led by members of the
      Professoriate. The university has supported the establishment of new groups with staff
      proposing new academic themes. This approach to nourishing the ecosystem has
      supported the establishment of new groups in emerging areas such as Digital Coding and
      Cognitive Arts.

7.    Notably, research groups are active beyond their membership, for example in 2020 the
      Materials Group hosted a symposium Materials: The stuff of research. The drawing
      research group staged Mechanical Human Matter in 2019. Activity under the UOA has
      also been greatly enhanced by strategic investment in our infrastructure. In 2017, the newly
      constructed award-winning Drawing Studio, the first of its kind to be built in the UK this
      century, enabled the university to make a successful application for an externally funded
      post of Professor of Drawing. With core funding from the Linbury Trust, the successful post-
      holder, Bowen, set up and led the new drawing research group Transformative Matter,
      Material Trace into which the university successfully recruited new doctoral students,
      including one examining ‘Layered visions in the teleorama: constructing sites of ruination
      through contemporary drawing practice’.

8.    Research groups also have significance in attracting and supporting ECRs (discussed
                                                                                             Page 2
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      further in the next section) enabling them to attach themselves to more experienced staff
      and to test their ideas and work in a relatively safe environment. As outlined in our
      institutional statement we aim to support ECRs, including those coming from less traditional
      progression routes, consequently we have reviewed our funding schemes to enable ECRs
      to attend or present their work at conferences, including Lund (Craft History Conference,
      UCA, 2016) and we have engaged academic skills staff to support academic writing and
      drawn on senior research staff as mentors.

9.    We believe that during the period of assessment we have also met our aim to increase
      impact and reach beyond traditional academic boundaries: Lambert’s work around
      understanding the value of plastics has transformed the development of workforce skills in
      heritage collections enabling the correct identification, curation and interpretation of plastic
      objects. Gough is regularly interviewed for international media (ABC, BBC Radio 4, Radio 5
      Live, print and online news media, etc.) to share his knowledge of the work of the artist
      Banksy; Wenham-Clarke’s photographic project on the Portland Stone quarry workers
      was exhibited as part of the B-side Festival (2016); his work on urban gypsies was
      published in Marie Claire, CNN Style, USA, and news.com.au (Australia) in 2019, and his
      work on genetic conditions was exhibited to law makers at the National Assembly in
      Edinburgh (2020).

10.   There is significant interplay between research and knowledge exchange (KE) and this has
      been proven to be instrumental in facilitating a Research/KE pipeline between the university
      and industry in the local region, leading to innovative, collaborative research projects such
      as Conrad’s Design out drowning with the RNLI (2019).

Research objectives, plans and how we will facilitate impact in the unit five years forward

11.   As noted in the institutional Environment statement, the arrival of a new Vice-Chancellor,
      Gough (2020) has heralded the development of a new University Strategy which includes a
      new Research and Knowledge Exchange Plan. Of the three key ambitions of the Strategy,
      the first is to achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers within the ten-year lifetime of the
      Strategy i.e. by 2030.

12.   To achieve this ambitious target, our Research and Knowledge Exchange Plan will
      expand and deepen research with relevant aligned professions and industries in the UK
      and overseas. The application of our specialist technical knowledge in model-making,
      future fashion technologies and diverse modern materials will be developed through
      adventurous schemes of knowledge transfer and exchange. Drawing on our unique
      archives and collections in materials such as plastics we will accelerate interaction with
      material scientists, environmentalists and industrial designers.

13.   In 2021 our Innovation Studio will open (the build having been delayed by COVID-19). Built
      using a £1.2m investment from the ERDF to support research and innovation projects with
      industry and a further £1.4 million from the Dorset Growth Deal, the Studio will support start-ups
      in the region. Drawing on our unique assets as a Maker Culture underpinned by bespoke
      infrastructure and equipment and informed by the disruptive possibilities of Industry 4.0, we will
      establish a Lab 4 Creative Technologies (LCT). This will physically and conceptually fuse our
      workshop expertise and other spatial assets with the Innovation Studio to create a Creative
      Technologies House, which will aim to accelerate our collaborative works across design,


                                                                                                Page 3
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      innovation and technology. New appointments at professorial level and through industry
      fellows in 2021 will further develop the Lab's research activities and supervision. These
      initiatives are seen as key mechanisms to provide pathways to impact for our research, and are
      a major plank of the new AUB Strategy.

14.   Incremental, planned growth in higher degree supervision, a higher percentage of staff with
      research credentials and professional recognition, and a record of successful PhD
      completions will support the attainment of research degree awarding powers (RDAP).

Approach to interdisciplinary research

15.    Central to the university’s revised Values, (innovative, collaborative and connected) we are
       passionate in our belief that creative disciplines can contribute significantly to other
       disciplines. Our REF 2021 return demonstrates creative arts’ direct engagement with
       diverse subjects such as illustration with cultural geography (Edwardes’ co-edited book
       Non-Representational Theory and the Creative Arts), finance & anthropology (Rosamond)
       and radio-active waste disposal (Weir). The work of MoDiP cuts across a number of
       disciplines from design history and museology through to material science and
       sustainability. Our documentary photographic practice crosses genetics (Wenham-Clarke),
       embroidery and sport (Ellison) and war (Lloyd Lewis). Bowen’s work brings together fine
       art, botany, marine archaeology and archival studies, whilst Jones explores cognitive
       linguistics and graphic design (‘The book as a tunnel’, 2014).

Progress towards opening research and open access in UOA 32

16.    We have encouraged staff to make their outputs publicly available wherever possible but
       open access remains challenging for practice-based research where research methods can
       involve the collection and use of a huge number of ‘found’ and curated visual artefacts. The
       REF has proved a catalyst for changing the processes of research administration as well as
       individual researcher behaviours. The Research Office delivered a number of sessions on
       open access compliance to academic staff in the UOA. The importance of compliance has
       been reinforced with academics on an individual basis for new starters, when applications
       are made for research funding or when submitting work to the AUB Research Repository.

17.   Nevertheless, it is the case that practice-based research is often disseminated via
      exhibition that is free to public access for example, Bowen’s work After Hortus
      Malabaricus, shown at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Edinburgh (2020), or Gough’s
      research-grant funded exhibition at Domain House, Melbourne (2019). The university
      website repository system enabled practice-based research to be uploaded and has been
      further populated and made complete by uploading our REF contextual information to a
      new research repository AUBREI, from summer 2020. Encouraged to make their work
      available via online platforms such as Academia, ResearchGate and other sites, our
      researchers are keen to make their research openly available wherever possible in order to
      realise impact. For example, Lambert’s A Curator’s Guide to Plastics and Identifying
      Plastics Toolkit was published as a free web resource so that the materials could be
      accessed by heritage staff anywhere in the world, many of whom are often working in small
      heritage organisations with modest budgets, often without access to scientific expertise.

Ensuring a culture of research integrity


                                                                                             Page 4
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
18.   Work submitted under this UOA has been created within a culture of research integrity.
      During this period of assessment, we have set strategic goals to advance our
      understanding of research ethics across the board, from those undertaking research to
      those giving research ethics approval. We have achieved this through a number of
      initiatives such as the new role of School Ethics Adviser introduced in 2015 with a remit to
      support, review and ‘pre-approve’ all proposed research projects and research funding
      applications. This has been a key development in raising everyone’s understanding of
      ethics as the School Ethics Adviser is able to draw on specific discipline expertise to
      support staff, but will know when to refer more complex projects (such as, for example, the
      use of actual text messages in a fine art research project) to Research Ethics Committee
      for wider discussion. These new roles have proved to be a very useful conduit between the
      School and the Central Committee.

19.   We have also reviewed our training to raise awareness of ethics and our ethical approval
      processes amongst academic researchers. For example, all course leaders were required
      to confirm that course teams had completed the in-house ethics refresher training module.
      This module was tailored to the types of scenarios that creative practitioners are likely to
      encounter rather than relying on off-the-shelf packages more suited to science/social
      science research. Our graphics team devised a library of customizable forms to aid staff
      when seeking ethical approval and also visual representations of ethics approval
      processes.

20.   We have ensured that professional standards from our creative disciplines are adopted in
      research. To support Global Ethics Day 2019, the unit held a symposium and series of
      events led by staff and designers and artists to explore the role of ethics in an
      interconnected world and confront the issues that creatives face, such as our photographic
      staff working with young people and our design staff exploring projects on circular design.

 2. People

Staffing strategy, development and recruitment

Working Environment

21.   AUB is committed to the provision of a working and learning environment founded on
      dignity, respect and equity where unfair discrimination of any kind is treated with the utmost
      seriousness. The comprehensive HR Plan for the period made explicit reference to building
      research capability but also significantly to:

      •   Embed fairness and transparency within reward and recognition practices

      •   Improve employee engagement through fair and transparent practices/processes

      •   Implement wellbeing practices to balance duty of care aspects of Health and Safety

22.   Staff with diverse personal, cultural and societal backgrounds in the UOA have been able to
      expedite their research in an atmosphere of support and encouragement. Equality and
      diversity are considered from the point of application to join the AUB community as an ECR
      to becoming an experienced researcher. This is evidenced in our recruitment policies, in
      staff training opportunities (for example E&D training and training to support the REF
      process), our wider HR policies on staff conduct and behaviour, (Equality at Work Policy,

                                                                                             Page 5
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      2016).

23.   During the period several research policies were reviewed to confirm they were fit for
      purpose and robust in terms of E&D, these included: internal funding schemes for research
      leave and financial support; Professorial awards and ECR support.

24.   These reviews resulted in the following changes:

      •   Internal funding criteria was reviewed to ensure funding schemes were fully cognisant
          of the needs of those on permanent part-time and fixed-term contracts and for those with
          protected characteristics. The outcome of this was that part-time staff could take blocks
          of research leave or time in addition to their existing contracts.

      •   Changes to the criteria for the Professorial awards were revised to take account of
          recommendations from the Equalities Committee to better accommodate academic staff
          with a disability.

      •   We have reviewed our funding schemes to enable ECRs to present their work at
          conferences, engaged academic support staff to support their academic writing and
          used senior research staff as mentors.

25.   Researchers have attended mandatory workshops on topics such as inclusivity and
      diversity and mental health awareness. They have also engaged in a number of
      opportunities for training and development including online resources such as unconscious
      bias training, also mandatory.

26.   The university prides itself on being a caring community where mental health and well-
      being is discussed and openly supported. All staff in the UOA have access to an AXA
      resource which, where required, arranges free, face to face confidential counselling
      sessions. PGR students also have access to excellent mental health support at the
      university. In February 2020, in recognition of the excellent work being done to better
      support students, AUB was top of a league table for mental health first aid provision in UK
      universities. AUB has trained many academic staff in a Mental Health First Aid two-day
      course that is also offered to graduating students as part of an employability training
      programme.

Development of our academic staff

27.   The sustainability of research within the UOA rests with the recruitment and development of
      our academic staff. The period has seen a strategic review of staffing, with significant
      investment in this area. The HR Plan 2014-19 included the following key aims:

      •   to strengthen academic staffing with a focus on academic leadership resulting in the
          appointment of two new deans;

      •   to introduce progression routes for academic staff, to review and strengthen the
          processes for awarding professorial posts, resulting in five promotions to the
          professoriate in the period;

      •   to reward research and academic leadership and to consider performance expectations
          at all academic levels, achieved through a revised appraisal and recognition scheme.

                                                                                             Page 6
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


28.   Reward and recognition in the UOA has been achieved through AUB’s Academic Career
      Framework (ACF). The ACF was introduced in 2017 with the intention of aligning AUB
      academic staff contracts and contract expectations with other similar institutions and
      recognising contribution wherever it is made (research, teaching, leadership, etc.). The
      ACF was also designed to reward excellent teaching, research and knowledge transfer that
      contributes to the institutional strategy to meet Teaching, Research and new Knowledge
      Excellence Frameworks. We recognise that there are a number of new staff working
      towards research and the ACF is flexible enough to give staff the option to change
      pathways at their annual review meetings. We expect this to facilitate even more staff to
      choose a research pathway over the next period as they complete their PhDs.

29.   Primary outcomes of the Academic Career Framework have been as follows:

      •   to open up the existing hierarchy of career progression beyond that of managerial roles;

      •   to consolidate a base of new academics through the introduction of the role of Early
          Career Academic for staff including those from creative industry backgrounds who want
          to move into HE teaching and research;

      •   to increase the number of members of the Professoriate within the UOA. Membership of
          the professoriate rose: Full professors by 60% and associate professors by 50% during
          the period. These include staff whose work rests primarily in practice-based research
          (Shepherd) as well as those who undertake more historical research (Rose).

      •   to extend the range of experienced and established academics through new Associate
          Professor and Professor roles. The new Associate Professor and Professor job
          descriptions include research leadership which explicitly encompasses the mentoring
          and support of less experienced colleagues.


Succession planning and career progression

30.   Of the 16 staff who were returned to the unit in 2014, at least half remain with us and are still
      research active and included in the 2021 return. Numbers for the 2021 return are now 40, a
      significant increase on 2014. More importantly a number of senior staff with significant
      international profiles have joined the university, for example: Gough, as Vice-Chancellor
      brings extensive research experience and international knowledge to AUB and a Professor
      of Drawing, Bowen, brings substantial expertise in research activity and external funding
      including a Leverhulme Research Fellowship.

31.   AUB is securing a pipeline of new researchers through various routes: we have former
      doctoral students, (one of whom started with us as an undergraduate, Lund) who are now on
      the teaching staff and entered in this unit; we have Associate Professor roles with a route to
      application for full professorship (Hardie, Shepherd); and as demonstrated below we have a
      career framework that enables staff to move from ECRs/Early Career Academics to senior
      lecturers and beyond to professors (Wenham-Clarke).




                                                                                               Page 7
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for appraisals and career planning

32.   AUB has implemented a unique and innovative means of capturing staff Research/KE
      intentions and activities through a bespoke on-line appraisal system. During the period the
      Research Manager and HR department worked closely with software developers to extend
      the simple on-line appraisal screens to include the recording of Research and KE outputs.
      This includes logging events/exhibitions and their impact and reach which historically has
      been difficult to capture, (for example the number of people attending a private view). The
      AUB Research Manager has access to an overview of only those sections of the staff
      reports and can compile a database of publications, activities, audience numbers etc.

33.   The existing appraisal system also enables staff to input their career planning, for example,
      a plan to apply for a professorship. Then, in the context of the annual staff appraisal
      meeting, the content of the on-line form enables a formal commitment to future intentions
      on the part of the academic and a return commitment to support time, funding or staff
      development on the part of the line manager.

34.   The explicit and formal inclusion of individual research and KE plans and outcomes has
      done much to raise the awareness and understanding of institutional plans and activities.
      As part of the dynamic ecosystem of the university, research and KE are seen as priorities
      in a way they may not have been in the previous period of assessment.

35.   The Research Office supports contract arrangements, patents and links to the university
      knowledge exchange activities. It has delivered and facilitated a number of workshops
      aligned to the UOA: PhD by Publication (external Professor), REF Portfolios (Chair of UOA
      32), international linkages (through our Partnership Plan), and bid writing workshops
      (externals supporters and facilitators with experience of presenting bids to the AHRC) to
      name a few.

Supporting and developing researchers in the unit

36.   AUB has a commitment to the continual professional development of staff in this UOA. This
      commitment is evidenced by the opportunities offered to staff to undertake in-house and
      external training.

37.   ECRs are provided with an experienced mentor for the duration of their probationary period.
      ECRs were invited to attend a Vitae Researcher Development Framework event in
      conjunction with Bournemouth University to support their career planning.

38.   Notably, a number of academic staff who have joined the university with creative industry
      backgrounds have been supported to study for PhDs, for example Jones, (2017) and
      Edwardes (2016) and have gone on to conduct highly productive research projects.

39.   For a number staff who are primarily creative practitioners within the UOA, a key challenge
      has been the lack of historical opportunity to practice writing. To meet this challenge AUB
      has appointed a tutor to support staff, in particular ECRs, to develop their academic writing
      skills. Participation in a wide range of initiatives such as writing ‘boot camps’, ‘get writing’
      lunchtime drop-in sessions and a series of writing workshops has been instrumental in
      empowering staff in their writing for traditional journal publication and in support of their
      creative outputs.

                                                                                               Page 8
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Sharing Research Expertise in the unit

40.   Staff in the UOA have presented their research work to colleagues either to seek guidance
      or by way of sharing considerable experience - for example, Worth has led sessions on
      Writing for publication. AUB hosts an internal annual research conference with open
      attendance for all those interested in research (including PGR students) and staff in the
      UOA contribute regularly on various subjects aligned to their research. For example,
      focusing on the dissemination of research: Rosamond - The Future-oracular: prediction,
      divination and the politics of certainty and Weir - Perpetual uncertainty: Contemporary art in
      the nuclear anthropocene, or on topics such as research methodologies: Bowen -
      Navigating creative practice through research methodology, Lambert - Design history with
      visual analysis. In 2020, the conference led by Gough, The ecology of research, moved to
      a virtual setting, and without the physical limitation of space, more staff were able to attend.

Time to research

41.   A key enabler of research is the ability to set aside and plan time effectively. All academic
      staff are allotted 20% of their work time for research activity including fixed term and part-
      time posts. During the period, work scheduling for academics was reviewed and organised
      into trimesters that covered the entire calendar year, aligned to the annual leave cycle. This
      seemingly minor reconsideration of the shape of the academic year had a significant impact
      on staff who were able to use the summer trimester as a block of time to concentrate on
      research.


42.   Attendance and presentation at conferences has always been key for making contacts,
      developing networks and testing ideas. AUB has a funding mechanism for staff in the UOA
      to engage with national and international conferences and exhibitions. For example: Larkin
      attended Euoracademia and Shepherd showed his paintings at Volta in New York, 2017.
      Many staff have been funded to present at conferences: Gough presented at numerous
      historical conferences linked to the commemorative events for the centenary of the Great
      War (Macedonia, New Zealand, Ypres in Belgium as well as London and Paris, as he
      transitioned to the new role in AUB in late 2019).

Research student culture

43.   The period has seen a significant growth in the ambition and scope of our research student
      body. The first PGR students were recruited under a partnership agreement with University
      of the Arts London (UAL) in 2012. Since REF 2014 we have established a steady pipeline
      of new students successfully confirming to PhD. We have achieved our first three
      completions under this UOA primarily in practice-based subjects focused around fine art
      and design. A further five students have successfully upgraded to PhD. The partnership
      with UAL went through successful interim reviews in 2014 and 2019, and a full review in
      2017 when we agreed a cluster of new KPIs: the experience of supervision to completion,
      completion rates and experience of examination. These are monitored through our
      Research Degrees Committee (RDC) and by UAL.

44.   We have used modest QR funding to offer one fully funded studentship in the period in the


                                                                                              Page 9
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      area of Drawing supervised by the Professor of Drawing and attached to our new Drawing
      Studio and research group. Other internally funded opportunities, i.e. part-time fees-only
      bursaries are also aligned to our research groups including two for design in the
      Plastics/Materials research group and linked to our Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP).

45.   We have also actively sought external funding partnerships. We were successful in
      securing a student bursary from the John Lewis Partnership (JLP) for research aligned to
      the JLP archive and linked to our Dress History/Textiles Research group.

46.   In 2019 we re-energised our growth strategy for PGRs by establishing a Graduate School
      as a viable pipeline for PhD candidacy and to meet our strategic intention to double our MA
      provision. Within the UOA we have validated new postgraduate courses in Design and
      Innovation, Digital Fashion Innovation and Master of Research. All three masters courses
      build on existing opportunities, strengths and expertise in the UOA. MA Design and
      Innovation will be housed in the new Innovation Studios co-funded with the Dorset Local
      Enterprise Partnership. MA Digital Fashion Innovation is built on significant and externally-
      recognised expertise in pioneering digital pattern-cutting and MRes Arts will prepare
      students directly for doctoral study with an aim to increase the number of those wanting to
      pursue PhD study at AUB.

Support for PGRs - skills development and career preparation

47.   Under the partnership agreement with UAL, PGR students must attend three block weeks
      of research degree training held at UAL during their first year of study. Costs for attendance
      are met by AUB. The university also supports students to attend bespoke training events
      targeted at key progression stages (registration, confirmation and completion). Students are
      encouraged to be active members of our research groups, attend research workshops
      focused at academic members of staff, including the RKE seminars, and attend the
      university’s annual research conference. More recently students are invited to attend the
      Graduate School lecture series and engage in our KE workshops.

48.   In recognition of the challenge of being part of a small community of research degree
      students, where each student may be at a different stage of their doctoral studies, we have
      made an allowance of £500 available to support those students in their skills development.
      This has facilitated access to bespoke training, networking and conference attendance.
      Students have also engaged in diverse activities such as attending the V&A Architectural
      models research network; Arts in society conference, Lisbon, 2018; and Thinking drawing
      1960 to now held at the Courtauld Institute of Art, 2019.

49.   Staff in the unit have contributed to internal PGR symposia including Lambert on object-
      based research, De Bruijn on visual research methods and Wenham-Clarke on ethics.

50.   A desire to engage in not only the practices of wellbeing but also with the discourses of
      wellbeing, is demonstrated in research practice too. The university was successful in
      securing Research England funding with Bournemouth University for a project to explore
      PGR student transition and wellbeing with a particular focus on induction. This research
      has resulted in a better awareness of the challenges of study at doctoral level and changes
      to our induction processes and ongoing monitoring for PGR Students.



                                                                                           Page 10
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for PGRs – supervision

51.    We recognise that the growth of our research degree provision is contingent on increasing
       the number of staff who can supervise. In line with university strategic aims, the number of
       staff with experience of supervision to completion in the UOA has been increased through
       several new strategic senior appointments: in 2016 Mclening Dean of Art, Design and
       Architecture joined AUB and in 2020 Paul Gough became the new Vice-Chancellor. We
       have been proactive in seeking out funding opportunities that would allow us to recruit at
       professorial level securing funding from the Linbury Trust to appoint the new Professor of
       Drawing who had the necessary PhD completions (Bowen). The strategy to increase the
       number of staff holding doctorates has increased by 22% in the period creating a clear
       pathway to growth in the numbers of supervisors available in the future.

52.    These key senior supervisors have enabled us to build capacity by guiding the supervision
       process so that staff new to supervising gain valuable experience. The period also saw a
       strategic move to include additional experienced internal supervisors on PhD supervision
       teams across the university wherever possible. In this way we are building the number of
       individuals with the necessary completions to lead supervisory teams.

53.    External advisers are appointed to give specific advice, usually of a technical nature, where
       required. All AUB supervisors must successfully complete a 20-credit PGR supervisory
       training unit delivered through UAL when they are appointed to supervisory teams.

54.    Staff have also taken up opportunities to supervise at other institutions (Shercliff,
       University of Bath: Gough, Australia and New Zealand) which brings additional expertise of
       processes and approaches to supervision to the institution. Numbers still remain modest,
       however, and the growth of staff with supervision to completion remains a priority.

55.    Similarly, we have grown our capacity in doctoral examination. The UOA has seen a
       threefold increase in staff with experience of examination including Jones (Winchester,
       Portsmouth); Frith (University of Ancona, Italy), Mclening (Aston); Gough (Australia, New
       Zealand, UK).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Using our facilities, estate and learning spaces to support research and research impact

56.    AUB has always operated a policy to invest strongly in its estate and facilities. The reasons
       behind this are two-fold: 1] to ensure that students of all levels have access to industry
       standard work environments and can learn the necessary skills sets for professional
       practice and 2], to support technically innovative creative practice and research by the
       whole community. Although facilities are notionally looked after by one School or another,
       they are in reality shared across disciplines, a good example of this is the film and
       photographic equipment which is accessed by the whole university although its ‘home’ is in
       the School of Media and Performance. The facilities referred to throughout this section are
       genuinely available to support research in the UOA.

57.    Since the last REF research activity in the UOA has benefitted directly from a £28 million
       building programme to create new studio spaces. The building programme included

                                                                                            Page 11
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      refurbished photographic studios and dark rooms, a new high-end large-scale digital
      printing system, a new industry-standard digital screening room and an extension of the
      Gallery space. Further investment was made in equipping our fashion studios with cutting-
      edge digital resources including LECTRA and CLO pattern cutting software; refurbishing
      our graphics studios to provide a dedicated ‘maker’ space housing up-to-date software and
      hardware; and a new dedicated letterpress and book binding department.

58.   Investment in our well-equipped workshops has been enhanced with successful bids from
      European Structural Investment Funding (£1.2million, 2016-22). This has allowed
      investment in the equipment supporting research in the unit for a digital fabrication lab which
      includes 5-axis and 3-axis machining, CNC routing and SLS 3D printing facilities and
      additional laser cutters.

59.   A new Innovation Studio, attached to the digital fabrication lab will open in 2020 bringing
      graduate start-ups onto the campus to research, innovate and prototype. New facilities include a
      Large Object Scanner: a precision 360° scanner capable of building a detailed digital avatar of
      any object, including the human body. It can be used for prototyping and production in clothing
      design & manufacture; a Digital Loom for Technical Fabrics enabling rapid-prototyping; and a
      Waterjet Cutter which allows precision cutting and engraving of almost any material, including
      metal, rubber, glass, ceramics and synthetics.

60.   In addition to technology and workshop facilities to enable research, the university has
      invested in contemplative and contextualising spaces to exhibit, view/handle and interact
      with the outputs of creative art and design and research:

      •   CRAB Drawing Studio. In 2018, the university built the first dedicated Drawing Studio
          to be constructed in the UK for more than a century. Designed by the respected British
          architect Sir Peter Cook RA (an AUB alumnus), this was the first Cook / CRAB building
          to be commissioned in the UK. The Drawing Studio won an RIBA National Award and
          achieved a World Architecture Federation nomination.

      •   MoDiP. The Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP) is the only accredited museum
          dedicated to design in plastics in the UK. With some 10,000 artefacts in its collection
          and over 9,000 digitised artefacts, documented by 26,203 images it is the world’s
          largest and best quality database of design in plastics. It is noteworthy that MoDiP and
          its objects have inspired and/or shaped the content of research in three PhD projects in
          the period ranging from poetry to product design. In the summer of 2018, MoDiP moved
          to a new, bespoke location with new exhibition cabinets to allow permanent and
          changing displays and increased storage facilities. A much larger communal space has
          facilitated public engagement activities more effectively. The appointment of an
          Engagement Officer has ensured the maximum exploitation of the resource both within
          the university and beyond. As reflected in our impact case studies, the Museum has
          played an international role in contributing to understanding around the preservation
          and care of plastic objects within heritage collections around the world.

      •   Gallery. The Gallery is a unique, commercial standard exhibition space where work by
          staff and students can be shown but also significantly, has been able to showcase work
          of high-profile artists such as Morag Myerscough and the renowned architect Zaha
          Hadid. The prestigious touring exhibition of drawing, the Trinity Buoy Wharf Drawing
          Prize (which featured work by AUB PGR students), was held at TheGallery (2018). AUB

                                                                                              Page 12
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          practitioner researchers in this UOA such as Shepherd (Black Mirror, 2017), McLening
          (Zaha Hadid Architects: Evolution, 2018) and Hunt (Lucienne Day, 2016) have been
          able to disseminate their research through exhibition, talks and workshops with Hunt’s
          Lucienne Day exhibition moving on to tour internationally.

      •   AUB Library. Investment in digital and print based library resources for research has
          seen a 194% rise in the number of ebook subscriptions over the period alongside
          traditional key resources such as Arts Bibliographies Modern. A number of
          subscriptions to new e-databases such as Material Connexion and Building Design
          online, support our design and architectural staff and student researchers. The library
          has established an artists’ book collection and most recently, in 2020, a new materials
          library, which includes a collection of new and innovative samples including ceramics,
          plastics, glass, paper, metal and timber. Bespoke software allows users to scan in QR
          codes to open an information sheet for each material. This resource will directly support
          the AUB Materials research group in investigating applications of current and future
          materials in design and manufacture including the influence of bio-inspiration. To
          increase research potential, Stojkovic was granted £5k from the Japan Foundation
          (2020) to purchase Japanese photobooks for the library.

      •   Archives. Since 2014 AUB has developed an archives policy to support the creation of
          archives and collections at the university where they have the potential to make a
          significant impact on our research environment. The unit has acquired the Thorp
          Archive, a unique architectural modelmaking resource charting the history of the first
          architectural modelmaking company, which links also to the AUB Hooton Pagnell textile
          archive. A ‘paper library’ has also been established emphasizing the importance of
          paper in creative processes. These include not only papers from major European
          handmade paper makers, but also those from Japan, China, India and Nepal. In
          addition, it houses rare examples of papers held in the personal archive of John Purcell
          and which were commissioned by international artists including Frank Stella, Howard
          Hodgkin and David Hockney.

Using funding to support research and research impact

61.   An increase in research and KE income was one of the strategic aims of the RKT Plan
      2014-18 and 2018 onwards. Research income across the assessment period stands at
      £261k having risen from £100k returned to REF 2014.

62.   The unit has successfully secured its first AHRC Research Network (Shercliff - £30k,
      20019-21) led by AUB in partnership with Nottingham Trent University and Derby Museums
      to explore participatory textile making.

63.   Lambert has had particular success in applying for and achieving additional external
      funding for MoDiP to enable some exciting high-quality research to take place including the
      following awards:

      •   The Museum, Galleries and Collections Fund (HEMG) (Lambert £76,625 per annum for
          six years 2017 – 23)




                                                                                          Page 13
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      •   Arts Council of England funding for Symbiosis (Lambert Museums Resilience Fund,
          £36,400 from October 2016 to 31 March 2018) and Plastic Vanitas (Lambert £14,936,
          2014)

      •   Arts Council of England Subject Specialist Networks grant - Confronting plastic
          preservation (Lambert, £9,900 2014 -2019)

      •   W-rap/Polyphonic w-RAP / Synthetica (Lambert £14,548 + £14,225 = £28,773, 2018-
          20) (Synthetica has Arts Council National Lottery Project Grants funding with additional
          support from the Cultural Hub)

      •   Art Fund Curatorial grant (Lambert £14,450) for a partnership project between the
          Plastics Subject Specialist Network (PSSN) and the Dress and Textile Specialist
          Network (DATS) to explore synthetic garments and fastenings. The British Plastics
          Federation, Plastics Historical Society and Horner’s contributing additional funding of
          £1k, £350 and £500 respectively.

64.   Other examples of external awards are:

      •   Funding from the Linbury Trust to support a new post of Professor in Drawing (Bowen,
          £55k, 2017-20)

      •   Beeson was awarded a prestigious Research Fellowship from exhibitors Stiftung Hans
          Arp and Sophie Taeuber-Arp based in Berlin (Beeson, £1,200, 2019).

      •   The unit was also successful in a bid to Research England for catalyst funding to
          improve support for students transitioning to PGR. This was achieved in partnership
          with Bournemouth University (£2,756, 2018-19).

      •   Wenham-Clarke secured £5k to support Our Human Condition, (Genetics Society,
          2019)

      •   Granell’s project A Machine Aesthetic was supported by Arts Council England (£5,790,
          2014)
      •   Waring was awarded Heritage Lottery/Arts Council funding for Sea Music in
          partnership with Poole Borough Museum (£1,800, 2017)

      •   Gough’s recent interdisciplinary work with military and cultural historians was
          supported by a major Australian Research Council Discovery Grant ($310,000) with
          outputs realised since his appointment to AUB

      •   Bowen secured a Leverhulme Research Fellowship of £39,747 (2017) to support
          Sensing and Presencing Rare Plants through Contemporary Drawing Practice

65.   In most cases, the outputs from these awards lead directly to impact. For example,
      Symbiosis explored models of industry engagement with a view to helping small specialist
      museums, whatever their industry focus, to develop workforce skills in this respect. One
      outcome from the research was a collaboration between the Poole boat builder Sunseeker
      and MoDiP to develop a guide to the plastics materials used in boat building, demonstrating
      the essential part played by this varied group of materials in the manufacture of these
      luxury products. The findings of the research led to the development of a generic guide to

                                                                                            Page 14
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          support small specialist museums in working with industry.

66.       The Global Challenges Research Funding awarded to the university (2017 onwards) has
          been used entirely by this unit to support collaborative projects with the RNLI aiming to
          ‘design out’ drowning. Staff from the AUB Fashion department developed production
          instruction sheets and manufacturing manuals for high-volume throwlines to be used at sea
          in Bangladesh, using software by their industrial partner Lectra™. AUB also tested how the
          maker manuals and videos for low-volume throwlines were used in country in Zanzibar,
          Tanzania, in particular how the instructions and semiotics were interpreted by local makers.
          Work in this area of applied research in design technologies will help underpin the forward
          strategy around creative technology (see 3.0 Future Strategy).


Using infrastructure to support research and research impact

67.       Management of research at unit level is through the Dean of the School of Art, Design and
          Architecture and individual researchers are managed within subject/course groupings.
          Professors in the unit report directly to the Dean.

68.       Staff in the unit are supported centrally by:

          •   An RKE Office, that extends expert guidance on grant applications, internal funding and
              advice to senior unit staff on research policy

          •   A university Marketing Team that supports the dissemination of research and offers
              public engagement opportunities related to research in the unit

          •   A highly skilled team of IT specialists who have facilitated the setting up of the
              university research repository as well as upskilling unit staff in the use of digital
              resources

          •   Subject-based technicians to support practice-based research such as photographic
              print technicians

          •   Dedicated subject librarians

69.       The period has seen a number of infrastructure developments that have had a direct impact
          on research in the unit:

      •   A new appointment of KE Manager (2016) with a specific remit to support bid writing and a
          new administrative post (2017) in support of post award funding

      •   An Innovation Outreach Manager

      •   A Digital Communications Officer and Senior Press Officer

70.       A major initiative during the period has been to restructure the university Marketing Team to
          substantially enhance the digital marketing capability of the team. This has led directly to an
          increase in the exposure of the unit’s research to the public. For example, Wenham-
          Clarke, invited to speak on BBC Radio London (2019): Gough on BBC Radio 4, Five Live,

                                                                                                      Page 15
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      etc. (2020).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

71.   As is evident from many examples already mentioned – our Global Challenges Research
      Funded projects in Zanzibar, for example - the work of researchers within the unit is
      collaborative, interdisciplinary, and engages with diverse publics and communities. We aim,
      and succeed, in making a positive contribution to economy and society whilst responding to
      national and international priorities and initiatives.

72.   For example, our research conducted into design is particularly linked to materials and
      materiality. Lambert and the work of MoDiP have played a significant role in raising public
      awareness of the value that objects designed in plastics has contributed to modern life,
      reflecting the value of plastics e.g. PPE equipment in the fight against COVID-19 (2020)
      balanced against the challenges that the use of plastics poses for modern life i.e. micro
      plastics in the food chain. Innovative online exhibitions including Being me: plastics and the
      body (2020) highlighted how products made from plastics have shaped modern life from
      prosthetics with life-like qualities, supporting amputees both physically and emotionally,
      whilst Revolution: environmentally conscious design in plastics (AUB, 2019) highlighted
      how plastics can help prevent environmental damage. Lambert’s w-Rap project addressed
      the paradox of plastics through the unusual fusion of museum and light opera, working with
      composer Karen Wimhurst and engaging with school children and shown in public
      performance venues including the Lighthouse, Poole (2018). Synthetica was performed as
      part of London’s Tête-à-Tête opera festival (2019). MoDiP’s contribution to the debate
      about the value, or otherwise, of plastics contributed to the BBC R4 documentary series on
      the future and past of this most commonplace, and controversial, material (2019).

73.   Lambert spearheaded the Provocative Plastics Conference (AUB, 2015) bringing together
      designers including Sebastian Conran, and artists and scientists from six countries to
      explore all aspects of this controversial material. The preservation of plastics poses
      significant challenges for the heritage industry. Lambert sits on the international Board of
      Complex a five year, EU funded project led by University College London’s Institute for
      Sustainable Heritage contributing museum expertise alongside that of scientists (e.g.
      National Physical Laboratory) in partnership with chemical engineers (e.g. Lacerta
      Technology Ltd) seeking to find a new way of exploring plastics degradation that will help
      museums with their care. Leading the Plastics Specialist Subject Network, which brings
      together museums, private collectors and universities, Lambert also obtained funding (Art
      Fund, 2020) for collaborative activity with the Dress and Textiles Specialist Network to
      explore synthetic textiles and fastenings in heritage collections.

74.   Sustainability similarly features in the work of Mclening (Eco car, 2016) and Jones and
      Conrad have both contributed to collaborative projects with the RNLI under Design out
      drowning exploring how semiotics and low-cost buoyancy aids can address drowning in the
      third world. Hunt’s work on the designer Lucienne Day in conjunction with the Robin and
      Lucienne Day Foundation led to the reissuing of Day’s iconic fabric designs, exhibited at
      Kidderminster Carpet Museum and Dublin Castle. Gough’s research into street art, graffiti,
      and Banksy is regularly quoted and called upon in the academic and popular media and
      press, as is his research into commemoration, remembrance and heritage of memorial
      sites.


                                                                                            Page 16
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
75.   Hardie’s work on design education led to an invitation to sit as an expert peer-reviewer for
      the Netherlands Initiative for Education Research, established to reduce the gap between
      scientific research and educational practice. Hardie was also appointed as a member of the
      Council for Higher Education in Art and Design (CHEAD) Research Alliance Strategy Group
      (2020).

76.   The research conducted by our photography staff, particularly in documentary photography,
      with a strong exhibition record, has drawn public attention to some of the challenging issues
      of our times. Forster’s work with the Salvation Army drew public attention to dying, death,
      loss and bereavement, (God has no favourites, winner, BJP Photography Portrait of Britain
      Award 2018). Wenham-Clarke told the personal stories of siblings in which one or more
      has a genetic condition. Working with a wide number of charities Our Human Condition
      raised public awareness of social issues relating to genetic medical science through a show
      at the OXO Gallery, London, 2020, and the Scottish Parliament, 2020, (winner, BJP
      Photography Portrait of Britain Award 2019; Honorable Mention, International Photographic
      Awards 2020 - Deeper Perspective category).

77.   Similarly, photographic work in the unit has visually captured regional identity from
      Ellison’s images of the embroidered garments of wrestlers in the Lake District (North:
      Fashioning Identity, Liverpool, 2017); and shepherding (Herwick Common, 2018) to work
      conducted more locally including Wenham-Clarke with images of the islanders of Portland
      (The rock above and below, B-side Arts Festival, 2016) with large scale images displayed
      on bill boards and bus shelters.

78.   An invited member of the international creative practice-led research network, LAND2,
      hosted by the Universities of Leeds and Dundee, Lloyd Lewis’s work also explores places
      that are out of bounds from public gaze, including an unused nuclear war bunker (Code
      name: Burlington, 2017). Photographs from the project are held in the permanent collection
      of the Imperial War Museum. Other work explored the nature of the Anthropocene, (Dead
      Trees, winner of the Purchase Prize Award, 2016) and was exhibited at the National
      Eisteddford, Wales.

79.   Stojkovic’s work on photography and surrealism in1930s Japan, led to key note invitations
      which included the Hasselblad Foundation, Gothenburg (2019).

80.   The work of fine artist researchers in the unit engages within and across subject disciplines.
      Founded by Shepherd and Noble, Black Mirror Network is a collaborative project between
      AUB, Plymouth College of Art and Design, the Fulgur Press and New York University
      Steinhardt to explore ways in which the occult and the esoteric have been at the heart of art
      practice. Noble co–organized the interdisciplinary conference: Visions of Enchantment:
      Occultism, magic and visual culture (Cambridge University, 2014); both co-edit the Black
      Mirror journal. Bowen collaborated with the herbarium at the Royal Botanic Gardens,
      Edinburgh (RBGE) to realise an exhibition (Hortus Malabaricus, 2020), including work from
      a residency in northern Kerala at the remote Gurukula Botanical Sanctuary, India. The
      project included an interdisciplinary micro-conference (Sensing and presencing the
      imperceptible, 2020) to celebrate RBGE’s 350th anniversary bringing together visual artists,
      botanists and poets. Weir was invited to participate in a Nuclear Culture Roundtable:
      Design for the deep future, (Het Nieuwe Institut, Rotterdam, 2019) which brought together
      artists alongside sociologists, scientists and nuclear agencies to consider strategies of
      dealing with nuclear waste. He also co-edited a special issue of the International Journal of

                                                                                           Page 17
AUB UOA 32 Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Creative Media Research, Digital Ecologies: Fiction Machines, exploring how fictional
      methods can be used to rethink and renegotiate our relationship with current and future
      technologies. Gough’s exhibitions in Melbourne also resulted in colloquia, journal papers,
      and an edited book (2019-20).

81.   The unit demonstrates novel research affiliations demonstrated in the work of illustration
      staff led by Edwardes. For example, the fusion of art and human cultural geographers is
      seen in collaborative research undertaken by Edwardes and Boyd (University of
      Melbourne) culminating in an edited book (Non-representational theory and the creative
      arts, 2019); Larkin’s work on illustration in the built environment. Innovative work from
      ECRs in this field include text-based enquiry on reportage and illustration (Cariolle and
      Roberts) which explored the portrayal of refugee camps; and Lardner’s subversive work
      on skateboarding, mistakes, risk and drawing and creative strategies. Illustration staff have
      contributed to regular colloquia including Varoomlab, (AUB, 2014) and CONFIA, Europe
      (2020).

82.   Innovative work on social practices of making is being undertaken by the AHRC funded
      research network Stitching together (2018-20) led by Shercliff in partnership with
      Nottingham Trent University (Twigger-Holroyd). In partnership with Derby Museums the
      Network uniquely brings together researchers in geography, politics, and psychology with
      professional textile makers and community groups. COVID proved a catalyst for innovative
      methods of dissemination including a ‘creative research methods’ chat on Twitter, captured
      on Wakelet which allowed diverse audiences from across differing timezones to engage.
      Shercliff has co-edited two special issues of the Journal of Arts and Communities (2020) to
      disseminate project findings. Worth has produced a series of books and articles related to
      the history of fashion commerce and merchandising.

83.   Work of our art historians links to commercial practice in the ‘art world’. Notably Rose’s
      work on largely unknown women sculptors working in the early part of the last century and
      Rosamond’s work on the arts market economy. Gough’s widely published research on
      John and Paul Nash, and Stanley Spencer, has been achieved in partnership with the
      National Trust UK and major collections in Australia. Many AUB staff serve on editorial
      panels for journals (Gough: International Journal of Heritage Studies; Critical Military
      Studies; Journal of War & Culture Studies) and as readers for major internal presses
      (Gough: Routledge, Ashgate).

84.   Gough’s record of leadership in research assessment (as chair of the UK and Hong Kong
      RAE and AHRC panels; membership of assessment panels in Europe, Australia and New
      Zealand: HEFCE research funding panels) is complemented by a regular pattern of keynote
      addresses to cultural history and art history research conferences and colloquia in UK
      (2014), Turkey (2015), Belgium (2016), New Zealand (2017), Macedonia (2018), Australia
      (2019) and publication projects in the UK from 2020 onwards.




                                                                                           Page 18
