Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Summary 2014-20
 Reading has strengthened its long-standing reputation over the cycle by pioneering innovative
 ways of thinking and working collaboratively. To these ends, we have taken two specific actions:

       We have created three new Research Clusters which offer trans-historical platforms for
        all researchers within the UOA - Archives, Texts, and Materialities; Creativity; and
        Identities.
       We have taken a leading role in developing inter- and cross-disciplinary research.
        Specifically, we have led the establishment of three new Interdisciplinary Research
        Centres which promote exciting opportunities for research which crosses boundaries
        and genres, including in digital research. These are the Samuel Beckett Research
        Centre, the Centre for Book Cultures and Publishing, and the Centre for Health
        Humanities.

 We have enhanced the reach and efficacy of our research, engagement, and impact events
 through the evolution of these Clusters and Centres, which have also enriched the environment
 for collaborative projects and partnerships, and current and future applications to external funding
 sources.

 Through restructuring and recruitment, we have taken the opportunity to embed a freshly
 distinctive, sustainable culture. This is a culture which is now more attuned to our strengths in
 archival recovery and analysis, in cultural, gender, and racial identities, and in creative
 publication and creative approaches within critical and cultural debates. We are at the
 forefront of digital presentation of scholarly editions through our collaborations in national and
 international partnerships, whilst across our work sustaining focus upon the materiality and
 aesthetics of the text.

 Our collegial environment, peer mentoring, and work-in-progress advice through the new Clusters
 and Centres has produced a more intense and supportive context for completion of major outputs.
 Our output selection has been made from a pool of 30 single-authored monographs and
 scholarly editions, as opposed to 20 in 2014 – now over one monograph per staff FTE. This
 advance is a consequence of our annual planning and support mechanisms, and their connection
 to the improved University infrastructure put in place during this REF cycle – particularly within our
 Heritage and Creativity Research Theme (hereafter H&C).

 Staffing: With innovation, diversity, and sustainability in mind, we have proactively diversified and
 rejuvenated our profile through a strategy of recruiting staff earlier in their careers (Abram, Byrne,
 Clanchy, Harris, Scholar, Shamma, Skuse, Wilson). These new colleagues research through the
 perspectives of race, gender, migration and medical history. In several areas, their work intersects
 with that of new colleagues who have arrived through our additional recruitment in Creative
 Writing. This latter aspect of our strategy signals our ambition to develop existing potential as a
 prominent part of our research and impact in the future. We have also in this cycle significantly
 harnessed the emphasis on creativity which runs across several aspects of our activity.

 The vibrancy and sustainability of the Clusters informs our staff planning. We have recruited
 colleagues to all our Clusters since 2014: ‘Identities’ 1 FTE; ‘Archives, Texts, Materialities’ 2 FTEs;
 ‘Creativity’ 2 FTEs, including 2x0.5 FTE. We have also seen recognition of outstanding research
 and impact leadership through the promotion of two colleagues to Personal Chairs, and six to
 Assistant Professorships.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduates: We are ambitious in our recruitment of postgraduate students and have improved
 our levels of successful completion. As with our Staffing, our postgraduate student body now
 displays considerably more diversity in terms of gender, race, and age-range than previously,
 together with a higher proportion of overseas students. We have successfully supervised to
 completion 34 PhDs across this period, in comparison with 23 last time.

 Income: We have sustained our levels of external income at £900k+. At the same time, we have
 diversified our sources of funding. We have also across the cycle put in place through our new
 infrastructure a fresh system of bid support, which we are confident will enable us to raise our
 income levels in the next REF cycle. Through the contexts and new structures delineated below,
 we have received over £80k investment from competitive funding schemes in the University
 for our research initiatives, partnerships, and impact activities. These funds have been
 instrumental in building sustainability into our environment through the Clusters and Centres.

 As signalled above, our positive progress has happened in two defined ways:

 1.2 Research Clusters
  In 2015 we reorganised disciplinary research around three Research Clusters to ensure critical
 mass, provide basis for partnership and collaboration, and to implement specialised mentorship.
 These are trans-historical groups, planned both to foreground the distinctiveness of colleagues’
 ambitions, and also to mirror new institutional support foci where appropriate. Each Cluster has a
 designated Leader whose activity is recognised through workload planning. Each has a dedicated
 funding stream from our School (see 1.5) which has averaged £15k p.a. across this cycle. Cluster
 Leaders are responsible for audited annual planning and delivery of research and impact activities.

 In each Cluster we have achieved positive, attentive, and supportive environments, some of which
 specifically link to our local infrastructural resources, including the rich archives held at the
 University of Reading’s Special Collections. Our Clusters provide intellectual space for sharing of
 work in progress; for development of new collaborative projects; partnerships; funding bids and
 mentoring; and delivery of informed advice, and best practice.

 Each individual member of staff belongs to one (and in a few cases, two); our postgraduate
 students attend and present at the dedicated seminars, workshops and events most appropriate
 to their area of study.

 Two distinctive features run across all of our Cluster activities. These are a focus upon archival
 and textual recovery work, and an emphasis upon diversity and gender. Examples of the ways
 in which our research combines both elements are Abram’s work on Black British Women’s
 Theatre, with its concern to gather and archive unpublished and ephemeral materials; and
 Robinson’s role in the acquisition for Special Collections of the archive of the neglected mid-
 twentieth century poet, Mairi MacInnes, which underpins an edition of MacInnes’ writings.

 Specific activities planned and co-ordinated from each Cluster, 2015-20, are included in Section
 4. Here we describe the drivers behind them:

 Archives, Texts, Materialities (Leader P Bullard)
 Work in our largest Cluster is underscored by recovery research that derives from conflict zones,
 and from writers whose work has been hitherto overlooked within cultural heritage. The Cluster’s
 activity has involved providing specialist expertise and close collaboration, for instance, with
 Sutton’s war-zone recoveries, beyond his initial involvement with the ‘Caribbean Queer’ AHRC-
 funded project (-2014); work which has recently been supplemented by colleagues’ interests in
 migrant and refugee writing outlined below. Researchers are active in discovering and
 disseminating original contexts of textual publication through history.

 This strand of our research has benefitted greatly from the £500k University Collections Project
 supported by the University Strategic Fund. We have received three Fellowships for teaching buy-
 out towards external funding bids via this route (P Bullard, ‘Tangible Histories’, 2017; Carville,

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Dying Well: Beckett, Writing and the History of Care’, 2018; Wilson, ‘Publishing Class’, 2019).
 These Fellowships support dedicated training and development towards the creation of future
 research- and engagement-leaders. We have also received substantial postgraduate bursary
 support for our students from the Collections Project, including most recently for a thesis on
 ‘Beckett and the City’, (2017-20).

 Our commitment to staff sustainability around Digital Humanities and archival work is exemplified
 by our winning funds from H&C for R Bullard to attend the Oxford Summer School in 2018; and
 H&C pump-priming funding to support BA and Leverhulme postdoctoral applications from Davies
 (2017, 2019).

 Creativity (Robinson)
 Our collaborations around creativity involve research towards our own practice; research into how
 creative approaches can reanimate the archive; and also how creativity works to alleviate
 conditions for those in a variety of traumatic contexts, including migrants, refugees, and those
 affected by Covid-19 (Shamma, Clanchy).

 The Cluster has principally led collaborations through the Reading Literature Festivals (2014-
 17), supported by monies from Arts Council, England (£7k p.a.), the University Arts Panel (£5k
 p.a.) and H&C. Since 2017, the Festival has evolved into annual themed collaborations with the
 Oxford Brookes Poetry Centre, and the International Poetry Studies Institute, University of
 Canberra, which has produced Special Issues of papers and creative work for the online journal
 Axon, edited by Matthews and Robinson (2018-20).

 Creativity provides a thread through much of our experimental research activity, as evidenced by
 the Creative Fellowships programme at the Samuel Beckett Research Centre; and the
 collaboration in the Health Humanities Centre, exploring the role of creativity in articulating ‘Stories
 of Aging’; and our work in asylum migration studies (see 1.5 b)).

 Identities (Cheyette)
 Our work in this Cluster is characterised by a shared concern to re-consider racial, ethnic, LGBT,
 and gender interconnections through research which aims better to understand the historical
 underpinnings of current social and cultural conditions. Particular focus in the Cluster is on LGBT
 rights (Lesnik-Oberstein, Stoneley), and upon connections between Black British and Jewish
 Identities (Abram, Brauner). Historical perspective is evidenced in work such as Cheyette’s study
 of the Ghetto. The Cluster is also a significant energiser behind partnerships which disseminate
 new research around archival holdings to local communities, including work with Berkshire
 Records Office and Reading Gaol.

 The Identities Cluster has provided the impetus for our prominent interest in writing and
 commemorative agency in refugee and asylum contexts, which involves the gathering of stories
 from Middle-Eastern camps and encouragement towards creativity as a way to articulate trauma.
 This aspect is exemplified by Clanchy’s educational research engaging creativity with migrant, and
 asylum support partners, captured in the 2020 Orwell prize-winning Some Kids I Taught and What
 They Taught Me (2019). Also prominent is Shamma’s archiving of poems from camps in ‘Lost
 and Found: A Digital Archive of Testimonies of Displacement’ (2019), and in the project outcome
 from her BA Award, the Summer Showcase ‘Refugee Tents: Here and Now’. Shamma’s project
 was selected as a BA highlight event at ‘Being Human’ 2020.

 1.3 Interdisciplinary Research Centres
 Our Early Modern Research Centre (Director O’Callaghan), involving colleagues in History and
 Politics, is now well-established, through its biannual conferences and projects. The Centre is
 pivotal in generating international partnerships and external funding (see 4).

 We have additionally spearheaded interdisciplinarity since 2014 through our leadership in the
 establishment of the new Research Centres in the last 4 years, providing significant energies and
 support for digital, theoretical and methodological innovation. Over 50% of colleagues are

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 members of these Centres. Under the recent University-wide review of its Centres portfolio, our
 Beckett, Book Cultures, and Health Humanities Centres were recognised by becoming three of
 the institution’s ten bodies with ‘Interdisciplinary Research Centre status. This will bring additional
 investment, against approved plans, from August 2020. Our Centres each host dedicated
 international research and impact events, which include one-off major conferences alongside
 regular academic and public engagement activity.

 These Centres, each led by staff in English Literature, include colleagues from a range of other
 disciplines and departments outlined below, ensuring sustainability but also expansion of capacity
 and the potential for fresh interdisciplinary collaboration and partnership. Our leadership of the
 Centres also demonstrates our commitment to career development and research training (see 2.1
 below). The Centres have also been successful in attracting both internal and external funding
 (2.3 and 2.5). Each Centre receives £1k p.a. from each participating department, was granted £5k
 on inauguration in 2020, and has access to targeted competitive University funds for
 interdisciplinary research.

 The activities and outputs from each of these Centres are characterised by an experimental
 approach to Digital Humanities, and they have created path-breaking and sustainable international
 partnerships and collaborations in this area. For example, Wilson, Co-Director of the Centre for
 Book Cultures and Publishing History, acts as co-director for a transatlantic collaboration, the
 Modernist Archives Publishing Project (hereafter MAPP). This facet of our Centres’ work has been
 acknowledged by funding and awards such as the bi-annual Prize for ‘Bibliography, Archive, or
 Digital Project’ from the Modern Language Association in 2018, for the Beckett Digital Manuscript
 Project. This collaboration with Trinity College, Dublin, the University of Antwerp and the Harry
 Ransom Centre, is co-directed by Nixon, a colleague in our Samuel Beckett Research Centre.

 The Centre for Book Cultures and Publishing History includes colleagues from Modern
 Languages and Typography. Supported by the University’s renowned and accredited Collections
 in book, publishing and printing history, the Centre is distinctive for its multilingual and
 multidisciplinary focus, and keen emphasis on women’s engagement in publishing and printing.
 The Centre is attentive to the politics of the global and the local, the central and peripheral, and
 integrates study of marginalised writers and readers. Researchers in the Centre have shared
 interests in the materiality of text and image (analogue and digital), in how digital methods can
 enhance scholarship, and the ways in which books are produced, distributed and read in global
 contexts today and in the past. Several interwoven themes underpin the Centre’s work:
 International publishing; Gender and diversity; Heritage and conflict; Translation; Reading and
 literacies; and Digital materialities. Activities in the Centre are underpinned by the fortnightly
 ‘Archives and Texts’ Seminar Series, with its lively website.

 The Centre for Health Humanities (Director Mangham, with co-Directors in History) includes
 colleagues from Applied Linguistics, Archaeology, Modern Languages, Pharmacy, and
 Psychology. The Centre showcases and promotes a distinctively holistic and interdisciplinary
 approach to the study of health and wellbeing, encompassing the study of a variety of states,
 stages, and conditions, from permanent disability to ‘perfect recoveries’. The Centre boasts
 unusual breadth in both chronology and geography, covering health in historical, national, and
 global contexts, from medieval England to modern Asia. It makes full use of the University’s
 collections and resources, and specifically the Cole Collection of Zoology and Early Medicine.
 Work has evolved through four interrelated themes: Bodies, Minds, Sickness; Colonial Medicine;
 Monsters and the Monstrous; Life Transitions. The Centre runs a regular seminar series; it works
 closely with artists, doctors, and museum professionals, with the Berkshire Record Office, the
 Hunterian Museum and the Gordon Museum of Pathology in London. Notable ongoing projects
 include the partnership with Royal Berkshire Hospital on ‘Stories of Ageing: Patient Experience
 and Patient Care’

 The Samuel Beckett Research Centre (Director Matthews) was founded in 2017 with
 participation of colleagues from Philosophy, Fine Art, Modern Languages, and Film, Theatre, and
 Television. Based around the University’s world-leading Beckett archives, work by staff has

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 included major scholarly editions of unpublished Beckett works, and archive-informed inter- and
 cross-disciplinary writing and impact activity about Beckett’s collaborations and aesthetic
 development. Our impact has included research outcomes studying Beckett’s relationship with
 specific actors, his interests in visual art and music, and his interactions with European heritage.
 The Centre has attracted over £290k external private sponsorship during its early existence,
 for scoping postdoctoral research towards bids, for its Creative Fellowships (inaugural Fellow
 Eimear McBride), and for postgraduate studentships. Besides its fortnightly seminar series, the
 Centre’s primary external-facing activity is its annual international ‘Beckett Week’ programme of
 events, public workshops, and conferences. This includes activities instigated and hosted by our
 postgraduates, mentored by the Centre Director, which have led to significant outputs edited by
 our students (see 2.5 (c)).

 1.4 Impact
 As evidenced in our description of Cluster activities, collaboration with non-academic partners
 forms a central aspect of our planning, including work with community groups, hospitals, refugee
 agencies, public records offices and museums in the UK and Europe. Our projects are each
 developed through early consultation with these partners, and seed-corn funding for workshops
 and other events is granted by Clusters specifically on the evidence of such interaction. Examples
 of projects which have recently received mentoring and internal funding include: Abram’s training
 events around representations of sexual violence (with £2k support from H&C, alongside Identities
 Cluster funding); and Carville’s ‘Dying Well’ project which considers, through Beckett’s work, the
 role of creativity in palliative care, partnering with hospices and clergy organisations.

 Our strategy has been to embed and realise the impact potential within all of our projects from
 their outset. To this end, impact planning, support, and strategy are managed at several levels: a)
 Mangham, the Impact Lead, works closely with Brauner, the Research Division Lead (hereafter
 RDL) to ensure that annual Cluster Plans highlight the impact within projects; b) Cluster funding
 acts as the conduit for impact support monies for individuals and collaborations (e.g. from Archives
 (Bullard, £1k p.a. for the ‘Land and Landscape’ public seminars at the Museum of English Rural
 Life, 2018-)); c) Annual Personal Research Plans (PRPs) request information about the impact
 element of projects, with a view to tailoring internal support and enhancing future external bids.
 Colleagues are encouraged to use rota leave to pursue the impact related to their research;
 Hutchings is a recent example of someone whose Impact Case Study has benefitted from so doing
 (2019).

 Impact planning is, through these routes, fed into School, and H&C, strategy and management
 mechanisms. The former provides workload-planning teaching relief for Case Study Leads (100
 hours p.a.). H&C provides seed-corn monies to develop specific projects which highlight Impact.
 Examples include Matthews (£3.5k, 2017-18) and Hutchings (£3k, 2019). The University’s Building
 Outstanding Impact Support scheme (BOISP), under which we are supported by a dedicated H&C
 Impact Officer, has provided £35k support for our current Case Studies, and £3k for future
 collaborative work (Clanchy, for her work around Covid, and Shamma for further work on poetry
 within refugee camps).

  1.5 Unit Context
 a) Our UOA, which is congruent with our English Literature Department, sits within the School of
 Literature and Languages, a three-department structure. School-level management, including
 discussions between each UOA’s research leaderships, enables the firm emphasis upon cross-
 and interdisciplinary research which distinguishes our approach. The School’s Research and
 Impact Committee meets twice per term, chaired by the Head of School and including in its
 membership our University H&C Theme Officers for Impact and Research Development. The
 presence of these colleagues sustains dialogue between our plans and institutional priorities and
 support, whilst consistently updating University knowledge about our activities and ensuring
 planned resource for them.

 This Committee signs off on research expenditure from Personal Research Allocations (2.1), and
 strategic expenditure to support impact and new project initiatives. Crucially, it receives reports
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from our Cluster Leads about events which have taken place, and develops against plans. The
 Committee, further, receives reports about the progression of external bids towards submission,
 and reviews outcomes with PIs. Through this reporting and reflection process, individual and
 collegial activity, impact potential, bids, and our external links and exchanges are discussed and
 monitored, and best practice shared across UOAs.

 b) English Literature is integrated in the University’s H&C Research Theme, comprising nine Arts
 and Humanities departments, and led by a Research Dean. As part of the investment in creating
 a step-change around research, our UOA has been provided with a supportive and nuanced
 context which facilitates interdisciplinarity, fosters leadership, planning and development
 (particularly for earlier career colleagues), and supports our Centres and Impact with mentoring,
 and seed-corn project funding. Our distinctive digital archival research and dissemination has
 greatly benefitted from external consultancy advice provided through the H&C Digital Humanities
 Project. Investment is made against an annual review process involving discussions between the
 RDL and our Dean. H&C also has dedicated Research Communications Officers, who support
 online, blog, and press dissemination.

  1.6 Strategy for the next five years
 The reorganisation of our research structures has enabled us to ensure a sustainable future which
 embeds the following principles: the increasing importance of collaboration, interdisciplinarity, and
 partnership; the opportunities for innovation afforded by digital technologies; further extension of
 impact and public engagement across all of our research, individual and collaborative; increasing
 the number of PGRs and PDRAs to create an evolving and exciting environment; and, crucially,
 supporting colleagues earlier in their careers to become leaders in their field. To meet these
 objectives, we will:

 RESEARCH
    Sustain and extend high-quality, innovative individual research through i) the annual
      PRP process; ii) through mentoring and peer-review processes now established in our
      Clusters; iii) through co-operation with the University’s Research and Enterprise Services
      (hereafter RES).
    Enhance significantly levels of external funding. We are confident that the quality of our
      external bids has been strengthened from the previous iteration through the strands of
      planning and advice which we have now fully embedded in our culture. We will develop
      our planning and process further in this regard by benefitting from input through the H&C
      Grant Development College (see 3 (a)), and from the support provided by the H&C
      Digital Humanities Project pump-priming schemes.
    In line with this, we will further deploy possibilities afforded by new technologies and
      social media in our activities and bids. The collaborative platforms described above
      suggest advantages derived from foregrounding digital scholarship in each of our future
      projects. Emergent examples would be the AHRC-funded extension of MAPP, and an
      online exhibition of posters relating to European productions of Beckett.
    Expand collaboration with museums, and place-based research. Further ongoing
      examples include P Bullard’s collaborations with the Museum of English Rural Life,
      Mangham’s with the Cole Collection; and Morrissey’s and O’Callaghan’s work on Donne
      and on networks at Lincoln’s Inn and the Inns of Court.
    Expand our work on Identities and diversity; further innovation includes upcoming
      events on ‘Authenticity’ (co-hosted by a postgraduate, Giambona), and work from Walsh
      on the African Writers Series in the Heinemann archives at the University’s Special
      Collections.
    We will extend the benefits of international partnerships. Our experience of building
      links with colleagues in the UK, Europe, Australasia, and North America provides a basis
      for further projects. We have achieved considerable partnership funding success already
      with the Australian Research Council (O’Callaghan); through continuing co-editorship of
      journals and conference panels (e.g. Brauner’s collaboration with Shostak on Philip Roth
      Studies, ‘Roth@80’); and the Henslowe Diaries and Beckett Digital Manuscript Projects

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (see 4). Such projects, including the imminent extension of MAPP, will enable us further
        to expand our collegiality and influence.
       We will increase our PGRs i) through focused funding applications, and by encouraging
        our best MA students to consider PhDs with us; ii) add to and nurture PhD student
        numbers through continued participation in the AHRC SWW Doctoral Training
        Partnership, and through other funding/bursary opportunities, including the Felix
        International Studentships (a funding stream available to Reading, SOAS and Oxford to
        encourage high-achieving students from developing countries), and sponsorships such
        as that for the Samuel Beckett Research Centre (see 2.5).

  IMPACT
     Further to embed impact from the outset in all activity, individual and collective, through
      i) the annual PRP; ii) annual planning processes for Clusters and Centres, as a required
      aspect of their activities; iii) as a trialled feature of all external bids through pre-submission
      and online events.
     Further to resource the Clusters and Centres to develop innovative impact and public
      engagement activities; models include Wilson’s ongoing ‘Class Matters’ initiative, funded
      by the RETF (see IES); a project to foster working-class fiction (see 4).
     We aim further to embed diversity issues in all of our impact. This will be achieved on the
      model of Shamma’s Making Home Away, a digital archive chronicling the creation of the
      concept of home for refugees in Syria alongside academic study of contemporary migrant
      poetries. Supported by a BA grant, the website will be published in 2021. This has led to a
      follow-on project through a Leverhulme Research Fellowship, ‘When We Talk About Home’
      (2021-2).
     We will continue to expand the experimental deployment of creativity within our impact,
      as evidenced by the Health Humanities and Beckett Centres’ current projects around
      creativity and care, or Clanchy’s continuing work which has already resulted in England:
      Poems from a School (2018).
     Seek to increase and diversify our sources of impact funding, particularly through
      sponsorship for our Centres and the collaborative possibilities from our Clusters.
      Stoneley’s success in securing support from the Heritage Lottery Fund (Identities), or P
      Bullard’s and Robinson’s with Arts Council England (Archives; Creativity), suggests that
      our new contexts for impact and engagement will provide models for obtaining future
      support beyond the Research Councils.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 We believe that staff development around research requires an individually-tailored approach
 within a responsive and sensitive environment. All colleagues receive a 33% allocation under
 workload planning for research.

 Support and mentoring both from within the UOA and from H&C have brought possibilities for
 rapid academic growth within our environment. The RDL is included on all recruitment panels to
 ensure the viability of short-listed applicants’ plans, their synergy with our areas of research
 interest, and the potential for Cluster enhancement. During our induction process, the RDL plans
 a programme of personal support for new colleagues. As part of our probationary procedures, we
 allocate a research mentor (usually the relevant Cluster Leader). Staff at earlier career stages
 benefit through probation and beyond from training and mentoring schemes around project
 management and leadership which are run from the H&C Theme; they receive teaching relief and
 can bid competitively for funding to support their first external bid. Further encouragement is
 provided by the annual University Research Theme award for Best Publication from early career
 researchers.

 All staff are required to produce PRPs annually, covering publications, bidding, and impact
 activities across the next year, together with longer-term thinking; each colleague is required and

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported to bid externally every three years. These Plans, reviewed at a meeting with the RDL,
 link individual activity to the UOA’s strategy and vision. They then form part of the portfolio within
 our annual Personal Development Review process. This calibrated planning, mentoring, and
 auditing enables staff development support at all career stages and levels to be attuned to
 individuals’ needs, whilst also consistently reviewing contributions to broader groupings and
 strategy.

 All colleagues receive an annual £500 development allowance for research expenses and can
 apply for further funding as required from School Research Committee. Expenditure against this
 allowance is agreed with the RDL and HOD. Staff can also apply to the University Research Travel
 Grant Sub-Committee for additional support.

 2.2 Research Culture
 The conversations in our Centres and Clusters are supplemented by various UOA-wide events,
 including outside speakers, and regular lunchtime ‘work in progress’ seminars. We organise the
 latter on a rota basis: colleagues present, and receive feedback, in a friendly and supportive
 context. PhD students are encouraged to attend, and to present in their Third Year. (Seminars
 have moved online to ensure continuity during the Covid crisis).

 Postdoctoral Researchers make a significant contribution to our culture and are treated equally
 with permanent staff. They have termly progress meetings with the RDL. PDRF/PDRAs have
 benefitted from our Centres (eg Skuse (Early Modern); Bailey and Davies (Beckett Research
 Centre); Burke (Health Humanities)). The School Research Committee has postdoctoral
 representation, and all postdoctoral researchers have an annual review with the HOD to ensure
 that their working conditions comply with the Local Concordat. Our success in providing mentoring
 and development opportunities for postdoctoral researchers is evidenced by Pollard, who
 completed ‘Lyric Economies’ (AHRC, 2012-2015); and Sperling, ‘British and Irish Poetry
 Publishing 1960-2010’, (Leverhulme, 2012-2015). The former subsequently obtained a permanent
 post at Exeter, the latter at QMW.

 2.3 Research Leave
 All staff on Teaching and Research contracts are entitled to one term’s leave in nine against a
 department rota. An application outlining the proposed research during leave periods is submitted
 to the School Research Committee for advice and approval. It is required that these plans include
 external funding bids, and colleagues are encouraged to consider using leave for bid-writing, or to
 undertake significant impact and public engagement activity. Reports detailing activities achieved
 during leave are submitted to the Committee so that progress can be monitored. Colleagues on
 funded leave have termly progress-meetings with the RDL. Leave gained through bids is treated
 as additional to leave-time normally offered.

 In addition to dedicated leave, workload timetabling is geared to ring-fence one ‘research day’ per
 week during term-time; in response to Covid-19, the School has encouraged the instigation of two
 ‘email-free’ days weekly during non-teaching periods, further to protect research.

 2.4 Career progression
 We view the creation of our Centres and the development of our Clusters as opportunities for
 staff progression and promotion. For example, Mangham, founding Director of the Health
 Humanities Centre, was a mid-career researcher who has recently achieved a Chair for his
 publications, and as recognition of his role in leading the establishment of the Centre; Wilson, Co-
 Director of Book Cultures, is a former holder of a BA Postdoctoral Fellowship at Reading (2013-
 16; £244k) who is now an Associate Professor and has gained AHRC funding to lead a major
 international project.

 At the annual PRP meetings, career progression and promotion are discussed. Any training needs
 are identified and subsequently met from dedicated School funding. Where colleagues have
 acquired sufficient research profile to be considered for promotion, mentorship is provided by an

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appropriate senior colleague. The University’s annual Promotion Scheme includes research and
 impact achievement, plans, and recognition, as one of its three compulsory measures. During this
 cycle, the University has promoted R Bullard, Cocks, Houston, Hutchings, Nixon and Wilson to
 Associate Professorships, and Brauner and Mangham to Professorships.

 2.5 Research students
 Under the support mechanisms for our PhD students outlined below, the successful completion
 rate within four years now stands at 100% (compared to an average 77% -2014) - a significant
 improvement, and also a rate that includes higher numbers supervised.
    a) Recruitment and Funding
 Recruitment of doctoral students is through networking, and through mentoring of candidates from
 our PGT programmes. Prospective applicants receive informed advice on their proposals. Offers
 are made on the basis of academic record, suitable references, the quality of the project, and
 relevance to our Centres and Clusters. Students continuing from MA constitute an important part
 of PhD recruitment, and benefit from university-funded fee-waiver scholarships (39% of the cohort
 on average since 2014).

 Our funded student numbers have grown across the census period (for example, via AHRC SWW
 DTP: Mills, Ryan). We have further diversified our sources of funding through encouraging
 appropriate students to apply for Felix International Scholarships, Commonwealth Studentships,
 and Collaborative Doctoral Award Schemes. We also benefitted from the University’s strategic
 investment in studentships for the PhD Programme in Collections-based Research, a RETF-
 funded initiative that was designed and directed from within our UOA.

 Our Centres are proving successful foci to attract monies to support postgraduate work; evidence
 includes the £250k bequest to establish the Mary Bryden PhD studentships at the Samuel
 Beckett Research Centre. These invested monies provide fees and maintenance support for one
 student every three years, on the basis that the project is structured around holdings at the
 University’s Special Collections.

 Two interdisciplinary Graduate Centres, in Medieval Studies and International Research in
 Children’s Literature, receive strong contributions and support from our students and staff. Both
 areas have recruited well and delivered an impressive range of completions across the period;
 see www.circl.co.uk and www.reading.ac.uk/GCMS respectively.

 The University runs an annual awards scheme for the Best PhD Researcher, and our UOA has
 won the best H&C prize twice in the past four years (Davies, 2017; Mills, 2019).

    b) Training and Review
 Every student has a First and Second Supervisor appointed before arrival, and undertakes a
 Learning Needs Assessment, which is updated annually, as appropriate training is put in place
 and audited. Students must consult regularly with their supervisors (4x per term if full-time),
 following the University Code of Practice on Research Students and Good Practice Guide for
 Supervising PhDs.

 The Annual PhD Review involves prior submission of written reports, and 5000 words of sample
 work; two reviewers outside the supervisorial team assess these at a one-hour meeting. These
 Reviews form progression points from the Probation Year (end of year One); and from MPhil to
 PhD confirmation of status (end of Two). Students submit an annual report in confidence
 assessing their experience of supervision; these reports are received directly by the School
 Postgraduate Committee, and any issues immediately addressed.

 While the most valuable training takes place between the student and their supervisory team,
 there are other significant layers of training and support provided. The University’s Graduate
 School runs generic training sessions, as part of its Researcher Development Programme, and

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 all students attend at least four sessions per annum. The Graduate School also organises an
 annual Postgraduate Conference.

 All PhD students are entitled to desk and computer access in the Graduate School; those
 undertaking teaching receive desk space in a dedicated Department office. Students are
 encouraged to undertake undergraduate teaching in their second year, after a programme of
 Graduate School training and shadowing of permanent staff in their first year.

    c) Student-Led Activity
 PhD students attend a twice-termly work-in-progress seminar series run by the Postgraduate
 Director. Our Clusters and Centres also provide additional opportunities for PGR presentation,
 publication, and networking. Examples include the postgraduate-organised seminar series on
 Beckett, and the annual international conference run by our PhD students during Beckett Week
 each Autumn. Davies and Bailey ran ‘Beckett and Politics’ in 2017, which has resulted in a
 conference volume from Palgrave (2020); Mehrabi ran ‘Beckett and the Ends of Literature’ in 2018,
 with a collection contracted to Peter Lang; Gambacorta co-hosted ‘Beckett and Italy’ in 2019.
 These events are supported by the Beckett Centre, together with £2k p.a. provided by H&C. Our
 students are also energetically involved in co-ordinating several other regular seminar series,
 dedicated to James Joyce, and Creative Writing (‘Longitude’), funded through the Clusters and
 with input from external speakers.

 We encourage and support all students to become research leaders; in this light, the initiative of
 the AHRC-funded Mills is representative: he is a postgraduate member of the Board of the British
 Association of Modernist Studies; he founded and edits its Modernist Review; he co-founded and
 edits the SWW consortium’s journal Question; and is an editor of the Journal of Wyndham Lewis
 Studies.

    d) Publication and Careers
 Our PhD students have been mentored to publish their work, both during their registration, and
 immediately afterwards. Notable journal issues containing work by our postgraduates, and
 published books, include Baird, Games and Gaming in Early Modern Drama (Palgrave, 2020);
 Baxter, Textual Practice 32.6 (2018); Blamires, Early Modern Literary Studies, 19 (2017); Burke,
 Romanticism and Victorianism on the Net 70 (2018); Davies, Samuel Beckett and the Second
 World War (Bloomsbury, 2020); Gledhill, Disability and Society, 32.1 (2017); Houwen, Review of
 English Studies 65.269 (2014; winner of the Ezra Pound Society best article award); Phillips,
 Unknown Translations (Scalino, 2016); Ravasi, Modern Fiction Studies 65.3 (2019); Simmons,
 The Country of the Larks (Bradt, 2019); West, Louisa May Alcott and the Textual Child (Palgrave
 2020).

 Former students who have obtained academic posts include Davies, Postdoctoral Fellow, ‘Harold
 Pinter Histories and Legacies’ (AHRC-funded University of Leeds project); Houwen, Tokyo
 Women’s Christian University; Phillips, University of Sofia.

 2.6 Equality and diversity
 Our supportive environment ensures equality through many of the mechanisms outlined above,
 including mentoring and leave provisions. The HOD operates a flexible working practice which
 allows workload adjustments to account for family and caring commitments; these include
 adjustments to rota leave to maximise the effectiveness of allocated research periods. PRPs and
 Development processes each take into account equality and diversity issues and put in place
 support mechanisms as necessary.

 We operate a ‘blind’ appointment process for new posts, and all involved in recruitment are
 required to undertake ‘unconscious bias’ training. Six out of seven recent appointments of
 colleagues at earlier career stages have gone to women, raising the overall balance female/male
 to 52%/48% against 44%/56% in 2014. Forty percent of the professoriat, after the last promotions

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 round, are female; our female professors include the HOD (O’Callaghan) and Head of
 Postgraduates (Lesnik-Oberstein). We have raised the non-British cohort amongst colleagues
 from 15% in 2014 to 24% today; we have also more BAME staff, from 8%/0% (British/ Non-British)
 in 2014 to 11%/20% now.

 Our PhD community has shown similar improvement around diversity: 11% of our UK students
 are BAME as opposed to 3% in 2014. 87% are now mature students over 25, an uplift of 7
 percentage points since 2013/14; 17% of students have declared a disability.

 As noted under 1.6, we are committed to increasing equality and diversity, including to address
 the gender imbalance amongst our postgraduate cohort, through targeted encouragement of our
 MA students to continue. Our ‘Identities’ Cluster is key to further promote equality and diversity,
 including in student recruitment. Notable work undertaken reflected in our outputs submission and
 environment includes focus on Black British and Jewish identities (Abram, Brauner, Cheyette),
 together with LGBT, women’s writing, ageing, and migration and asylum studies in connection to
 creativities. Our work on Queer Theory forms a thread through a range of research foci from senior
 colleagues including Brauner, Stoneley, and Lesnik-Oberstein. These interests are then reflected
 in colleagues’ personal and professional involvements within the institution, including prominent
 roles in the University’s LGBT Plus and BAME Networks.

 Our School has a Diversity Officer (Shamma) and Ethics Officer who reviews projects and external
 funding bids for their adherence to national protocols, against our Quality Assurance Manual. With
 regard to the REF 2021 submission, the University developed a Code of Practice setting out the
 steps to ensure it meets its responsibilities and adheres to the principles of transparency,
 consistency, accountability and inclusivity in the identification of eligible staff and the selection of
 research outputs. Our output selection process was carried out in line with the Code, and has
 aimed at optimisation for quality while being mindful of fairness. We have a transparent and
 uniform internal peer review process (ROSS) that treats all output forms and all types of research
 equally. All outputs are assessed through self and peer assessment; agreed scores are then
 reviewed by the output review group, and decisions about which to submit are based purely on
 the assessments carried out through ROSS. The University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment
 (2020) and bias analysis (2021) identified no statistically significant differences for protected
 characteristics in our selection.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 External: This REF cycle has seen a shift in UOA culture towards more collaborative research and
 leadership around external funding. There was a period of readjustment and reflection whilst new
 mechanisms and support were put in place, but we have a) sustained our income of over £900k
 during this iteration; b) diversified our funding sources; c) already seen amounts bid for
 quadruple, from £533k in 2017/18 to £1,987,000 in 19/20. Research spend had also risen
 substantially beyond mid-cycle, from £25k in 2015/16 to over £167k by 2018. Internal competitions
 have enabled experience of grant development and supported workshops to develop
 collaborations. Momentum is building with recent notable grant successes, including a major
 Leverhulme and an AHRC Networking Grant to Shamma (2020), and a BA award to Carville for
 ‘Room to Rhyme’, which received support within our Creativity Cluster, and also from H&C.

 Our Centres are fertile grounds for winning external funding: significant examples include Wilson,
 winning as Co-I CAN$240k for MAPP 2013-15 and 2018-23; and the award to Skuse, initially of a
 Wellcome Trust Postdoctoral Fellowship (2016-19; £146k), then of a full 5-year Wellcome
 University Lectureship. Skuse is a member of the Early Modern Research Centre and of Health
 Humanities who is mentored by O’Callaghan. We have also sought to diversify our sources of
 income through the Centres to include sponsorship; the prominent example being the £32.5k for
 Creative Fellowships and postdoctoral work won by the Samuel Beckett Research Centre (2017-
 19). This is an area we intend to expand in the next cycle, with a further £10k already promised,
 matched by University funding.

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Dedicated, Theme-specific support for external funding bids is provided by the Research
 Development team within RES. This team provides personalised advice and guidance around
 specific funding sources, from project conception through to development and funding. RES also
 disseminates Council calls. Expert technical advice for database generation and management is
 provided by the University’s Research Data Manager. Resource and advice are supplied by the
 Library towards open access publication in relation to grants, and also more generally. Financial
 support for open access publication is available through specific internal funding, as outlined in
 our Institutional Environment Statement.

 We have mentoring and peer review schemes for all bids against a defined timetable. Bids are
 initially discussed with Cluster Leads and shared with colleagues in the Cluster, as appropriate,
 and with the RDL. Major bids go through a review process from an interdisciplinary H&C Peer
 Review College of senior advisors.

 Internal: We have been successful in winning competitive funding within H&C schemes. Our
 new Centres have each received vital support to establish their programmes (£6.9k 2017-21).
 Seed-corn funding has been provided for external bids deriving from the Centres (Mangham, £2.6k
 2017 and 2020; Matthews £2.8k 2018-19). Extra support has been provided a) for colleagues
 completing important outputs or grant development whilst carrying extraordinary administrative
 burdens e.g. Morrissey, our Undergraduate Admissions Officer, £2k (2018); b) for buyout to
 produce public engagement projects (Mangham £7.6k 2016; Hutchings, £3k in addition to his
 Case Study work, 2019); c) for Conference support, such as for Wilson, £750 towards hosting the
 International Virginia Woolf Conference (2017) (along with £1250 from the Virginia Woolf Society
 and Penguin Random House); d) for exceptional circumstances such as £1815 as a contingency
 fund to support Shamma complete project outcomes affected by Covid-19. Support to develop
 future projects includes Stoneley’s £1.2k towards ‘Out Clubbing in London’, which explores queer
 subcultures from Wilde to Bowery.

 There have also been notable successes from colleagues and our Centres in winning support
 from University initiatives to provide buyout for completion of particularly significant and/or
 complex outputs through the 2020 Research Fellowships scheme: Mangham (£2.5k 2017) and
 Morrissey (£2k 2018). We were twice successful in 2019 in winning highly competitive Research
 Endowment Trust Open Fund monies to support development of external funding bids from our
 Centres: Matthews for postdoctoral support towards three projects from the Samuel Beckett
 Research Centre, together with impact and partnership funds to build collaboration with Trinity
 College, Dublin (£29.5k); Wilson £24.5k towards postdoctoral archival work to develop MAPP
 towards its major (successful) AHRC bid (2021).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our work is distinguished by our unique approach to archival research, partly made possible by
 our Special Collections holdings. Our outstanding archives include the world-leading Beckett
 Archive, and the Archive of British Printing and Publishing (most relevantly for us the Hogarth
 Press, Random House, W.H. Smith, Cape, Heinemann, Chatto & Windus, and Ladybird Books
 archives). Both the Beckett Archive and the Archive of British Printing and Publishing are
 designated ‘Outstanding Collections’ by Arts Council England. The Beckett Archive includes over
 600 manuscripts, correspondence, stage files, and production texts; the British Printing and
 Publishing Archive contains over 15,000 boxes of materials, together with records of the book
 trade in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.

 These and other collections provide a strong focus within our individual outputs, collaborative
 projects, and also our workshops, seminar series (such as ‘Archives and Texts’ and Beckett), and
 impact activities (see 4). Colleagues benefit immensely from the professional support and advice
 of designated archivists at Special Collections. These include the University Archivist, Baxter, who
 supports the Samuel Beckett Centre in organising pop-ups and international exhibitions (such as
 ‘Beckett in Germany’, Marbach 2017) and in facilitating the Creative Fellowships. The Principal


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archivist, Gould, supports and advises MAPP, including postdoctoral training; the project has a
 designated archivist (Clarkson), as does the Random House Archive (Corfield and Hunt).

 We are actively involved in enhancing institutional infrastructure and profile around our
 archival holdings. The RETF- and externally-sponsored postdoctoral Fellows at the Samuel
 Beckett Centre created new catalogues of the Archive’s ephemeral materials, including theatre
 posters and sound archives. Ryan has, as part of his SWW AHRC-funded PhD, produced
 annotated relating to our Beckett correspondence. Significant Beckett editions, including Nixon’s
 Echo’s Bones and forthcoming German Diaries, and Matthews’s Philosophy Notes, were
 significantly aided by consultation of materials in this archive. Recent further archival acquisition
 at Special Collections, in areas such as twentieth-century poetry, have been facilitated or
 generated by Robinson, and have underpinned edited publications such The Rilke of Ruth Speirs
 (with John Pilling, 2015).

 We have a strong record of deploying archival research as a feature of our teaching, from
 undergraduate work, where students can study modules such as Beckett, and Editing the
 Renaissance, through to a compulsory archives module at MA. We encourage coursework and
 dissertations that contain original archival research, and which also provide training for future
 postgraduate projects; more importantly here, the research of our postgraduates also displays
 distinctive reflection upon archival materials. We have successfully made applications to the
 University Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme to engage students in supporting
 our projects and encouraging their future research interests; recent beneficiaries have included
 MAPP, and Walsh’s work on the African Writers Series.

 All full-time staff have their own offices with access to appropriate computing facilities supported
 by the central IT structures. Temporary and post-doctoral staff have shared offices with personal
 computers. Additional equipment for research, including laptops and specialist software, is
 provided by department funding. The University Library has a ring-fenced annual budget to
 purchase materials (books, journals, databases) to support research on request; a designated
 UOA Library representative liaises on current and future research requirements

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We are committed to:
    extending public understanding of world-leading research, and of archives particularly,
       in ways that inform the economy and society.
    leading, collaborating and contributing to the research base to widen knowledge and
       maintain the highest levels of scholarship.

 Extending public understanding
 We have contributed to the economy and society through our non-academic collaborations.
 We have successfully pioneered the use of local archives as a focus for public engagement
 activities, deploying our knowledge to create events which bring the archives to a variety of
 audiences and user-groups. This includes, but is not limited to, the ‘Ladybird Books and Politics’
 exhibition and events hosted by Cocks at the Museum for English Rural Life and Reading Town
 Hall in 2019; the ‘Hogarth Press100’ activities and three-month public exhibition at the Town Hall
 orchestrated by Wilson in 2017. We have brokered collaboration with the collections at the
 Museum of English Rural Life (eg P Bullard’s ‘Writing the Rural’ seminar series, together with the
 Museum’s writer in residence, Johnson, 2019).

 We have also created strong collaborative partnerships with both Berkshire Records Office and
 Reading Gaol. Of note here are Stoneley’s successive collaborations around Oscar Wilde’s time
 in the Gaol, including the exhibition ‘Oscar Wilde and Reading Gaol’ (which received £5k Heritage
 Lottery Funding support), with Berkshire Records Office, 2014-15; his contributions to the highly
 acclaimed ‘Inside’ events by Artangel at the Gaol in 2016; and his exhibition of illustrated editions
 of Wilde’s ‘Ballad’, ‘Colours More Than Sentences,’ at the Berkshire Records Office and the

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Museum of English Rural Life, 2018-19. Matthews curated ‘Reading and the Rising’ at the Records
 Office, reflecting on the Irish writers from Easter 1916 detained at the Gaol, from April-June 2016.
 We have enhanced public understanding in national and international contexts through talks and
 events that have wider social impact including Abram’s Reading Black British Film Festival (2016);
 R Bullard’s ‘Robinson Crusoe 300 Jahre/Years’ exhibition at the City Hall, Germersheim (May
 2019); Cheyette’s ‘Dreyfus in the UK Then and Now’, University of Rome (February 2020);
 Clanchy’s ‘Listening to Young People’ to UNESCO/Pen Catala International Conference (October
 2020); Ioppolo’s ‘Henslowe, Alleyn, and Early Modern Theatre’ (March 2016) and series of public
 talks as 2019 Sam Wanamaker Fellow at the Globe Theatre; Lesnik-Oberstein’s ‘Neuroscience
 and Children’s Literature’ to the Irish Society of Children’s Literature (March 2014); Marshall’s
 ‘George Eliot at 200’ events at Senate House (November 2019); O’Callaghan’s ‘Law Sports:
 Revelling at the Elizabethan and Jacobean Inns of Court’, at the Inner Temple (March 2019);
 Walsh’s interval contribution on Kipling’s The Jungle Book, during the 2019 Proms season;
 Wilson’s 'Literature, Judges and the Book Society 1929-69' at Johannes-Gutenberg University in
 Mainz (November 2019) and ‘Writing home, Writing class’, Geffrye Museum of the Home, London
 (May 2017).

 Our partnerships around Digital Humanities have been instrumental in promoting and
 disseminating scholarship to broad publics. Aside from the projects mentioned above, for
 example, we would cite Ioppolo’s collaboration with King’s College, London (the Henslowe-Alleyn
 project); Morrissey’s place-making approach to John Donne’s sermons, with public events at
 Lincoln’s Inn (2015) and St. Paul’s Cathedral (2017); or the continuing Verse Miscellanies Online
 project (O’Callaghan, Project Director). Byrne’s co-direction of an online network, Crossing
 Borders in the Insular Middle Ages, alongside scholars from Zurich, Marburg, Lausanne and
 several UK institutions, points towards future innovative opportunities in this digital context.

 Our commitment to creativity as a driver to ameliorate social trauma includes, aside from the
 projects already mentioned, a new project pioneered by our Health Humanities Centre, which
 involves Clanchy conducting research into the possibilities of creativity to support those afflicted
 by Covid-19. Our future engagements with social issues-led research include Abram’s training
 events in collaboration with Trust House Reading and the Edinburgh Rape Crisis Centre around
 representations of sexual violence, supported by monies from the Identities Cluster; and Wilson’s
 ‘Class Matters’ which involves Reading Public Library, New Writing South, and publishers Holland
 House.

 Further collaborations promoting creative response to cultural heritage include Matthews’s
 collaboration with The Wordsworth Trust on a two-month exhibition at Dove Cottage, ‘Sounds of
 Wordsworth’, together with composer Paul Whitty in 2017 and as inaugural poet-in-residence at
 the Oxford Natural History Museum. We are active in support of local creative publishing through
 Robinson’s role as Poetry Editor of Two Rivers Press (2013-).

 Research Base
 Colleagues have fulfilled important roles nationally and internationally with regard to literary
 estates, including Nixon’s as Advisor to the Samuel Beckett Estate; Robinson’s as Executor for
 Roy Fisher with collaboration from the University of Sheffield.

 Alongside the collaborations mentioned previously, we have extended our influence and impact
 through our contribution to significant networks, such as Brauner’s around Roth, or Cheyette’s
 with King’s, Birkbeck, and Southampton on Jewish Identities. Such links bring international
 researchers to the University and support further events across the world. We have obtained
 significant numbers of Fellowships. The most prominent contributions include Hutching’s role as
 ‘Profesor Visitante’ at the University of Valladolid, Spain (2014 and 2020), working with local
 teachers and tourist guides; Lesnik-Oberstein’s Visiting Professorships at Ocean and at Shandong
 Universities in China (2018-20), discussing children’s literature research and teaching; Nixon’s
 Visiting Fellowship at the Deutsches Literaturachiv in Marbach (2015-16), towards his public
 exhibition on Beckett in Germany, and at Basel (2017-18); and Robinson’s Visiting Research

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professorship at Kwansei Gakuin, Nishinomiya, Japan, (2017 and 2020), including public events.
 The Early Modern Research Centre’s 2017 conference launched two long-term collaborations:
 ‘Early Modern Women and the Poetry of Complaint’ with colleagues at the University of Newcastle,
 Australia, and ‘Woe is Me: Women and Complaint in the English Renaissance’, with colleagues
 from Wellington, NZ. The former event and collaboration relate to O’Callaghan’s Australian
 Research Council project 2017-20; the latter received funding support from the Royal Society of
 New Zealand (£4.5k). International events from the Centre for Book and Publishing History
 have included the two-day symposium on ‘Women in Publishing’ (2019), and the hosting of the
 Virginia Woolf Society Conference (2017), which emphasised textual production.

 We work assiduously to support research through contributions to learned societies, and
 editorships. These include Abram’s period as Vice Chair for the Postcolonial Studies Association
 (2014-17); Byrne’s as Executive Committee member of the Society for the Study of Medieval
 Languages and Literature, and as editor-in-chief of Reading Medieval Studies; Lesnik-Oberstein’s
 membership of the editorial boards of Asian Women and Reproductive BioMedicine; Mangham’s
 as academic board member of Merope and Victoriographies; Marshall’s as Vice Chair and
 Executive Board Member for University English (2012-) (Marshall also serves on the REF Sub-
 Panel); and Nixon’s as President of the Samuel Beckett Society (2013-16). Editorships include
 Brauner’s Executive Co-Editorship of Philip Roth Studies (2014-19) and as Board member for the
 European Journal of American Culture (2010-); Nixon’s editorship of the Journal of Beckett
 Studies, (2013-); and Scott’s Co-Editorship of Symbiosis, (2014-), and as Reviews Editor of the
 London Magazine (2010-); Wilson’s board membership of Keywords. Several colleagues act as
 editors of major book series or editions: P Bullard, for instance, serves as Advisory Editor to the
 Cambridge Edition of the Works of Jonathan Swift; R Bullard is Founding Co-Editor for the CUP
 series ‘Elements in Eighteenth Century Connections’; Nixon Series Editor for ‘Elements in Beckett
 Studies’ (CUP). Matthews and Nixon are Advisory Board members for two Bloomsbury series,
 ‘Modernist Archives’ and ‘Historicizing Modernism’.

 We have served on a number of important Boards, Research Councils, and Committees,
 including the User Advisory Group for the National Archives (Ioppolo); as reviewers for the
 European Science Foundation and the Marie Curie Foundation (Lesnik-Oberstein, Stoneley); and
 as an Advisory Board Member for the ‘Virtual St Pauls Cross’ and the ‘Gateway for Early Modern
 Sermons Manuscripts’ (Morrissey). P Bullard and O’Callaghan serve on the AHRC Peer Review
 College; Lesnik-Oberstein has served on several AHRC panels during this REF cycle and received
 a Gold Award for her service to the Council (2016).




                                                                                            Page 15
