Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 8 (Chemistry)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of Chemistry (SoC) at the University of Leeds (UoL) is a major UK chemistry
 department conducting a wide spectrum of fundamental and applied research. The School’s
 REF2014 strategy included: recruiting high-flying researchers at all academic levels (12 new
 positions, £2.2M investment); continued excellence in winning individual research fellowships
 (10 major fellowships since 2014); increasing large research grant income (14 grants >£1M);
 investment in research facilities (£4.1M); and bringing its research through to industrial
 exploitation (7 operating spin-out companies). This strategy aligns closely with that of the UoL
 (see REF5a). Since 2014, staff in the SoC have published 1249 peer-reviewed papers (>19,600
 citations) and 11 patents.
 Research is structured into five sections which cut across the traditional chemistry divisions
 (Inorganic, Organic and Physical):
       Atmospheric and Planetary Chemistry (APC)
       Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry (CBMC)
       Computational Chemistry and Chemical Physics (CCCP)
       Crystallisation and Directed Assembly (CDA)
       Process Research and Development (PRD)
 These sections enjoy significant collaborations with researchers in the Faculties of Biological
 Sciences, Earth and Environment, Engineering and Physical Sciences, and Medicine and
 Health, as well as strong links with a wide variety of industries. This range of fundamental and
 applied research activity is one of the most distinctive features of the School.


 1.1 Research Strategy
 Research in the School is overseen by the Research and Innovation Committee, which is
 responsible for strategic planning, galvanising new research initiatives, new instrument
 acquisitions and management of the various research and analytical services. The five research
 sections are described below (names in bold type indicate staff returned within UoA8).
 Atmospheric and Planetary Chemistry: this section studies the entire terrestrial atmosphere
 from the surface to the thermosphere, as well as the atmospheres of other solar system bodies
 and the interstellar medium. Atmospheric science at Leeds is rated 8th in the world (Shanghai
 Subject Rankings 2019), and the SoC is usually in the top 3 UK Chemistry departments for
 NERC grant income. In several areas - field observations of tropospheric radical species,
 laboratory gas kinetics, chemistry of the mesosphere, and whole atmosphere global modelling -
 the section is world-leading. There are close collaborations with colleagues in the Institute for
 Climate and Atmospheric Science (ICAS) within the School of Earth & Environment, the
 Astrophysics group in the School of Physics & Astronomy, and the Priestley International Centre
 for Climate (Deputy Director: Plane (2016-2020)) which was created by the University in 2016
 with an investment of £10M (REF5a).



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 APC’s strength is to use the full spectrum of atmospheric chemistry research techniques.
 Observations include measurements of tropospheric radicals, and lidar/satellite observations of
 the terrestrial and Martian atmospheres. Laboratory studies include elementary reaction kinetics
 and photochemistry in the gas phase, aerosol formation, and heterogeneous chemistry.
 Theoretical work makes use of electronic structure calculations and the Master Equation Solver
 for Multi Energy-well Reactions (MESMER) to develop chemical mechanisms. Atmospheric
 modelling includes the Master Chemical Mechanism (MCM), and the Whole Atmosphere
 Community Climate Model (WACCM – a model from the US National Center for Atmospheric
 Research (NCAR), with substantial Leeds enhancements). The inclusion of four senior scientists
 from the NERC-funded National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS) (Blitz, Feng, Ingham
 and Whalley) in the section provides a substantial boost to the research portfolio.
 Two areas were highlighted in REF2014 for development. (1) Interstellar and Planetary
 Atmospheres. Major new laboratory programmes funded by the ERC (Advanced, Consolidator
 and Early career grants) and STFC to study radical reactions using laser photo-ionization
 coupled with time-of-flight mass spectrometry, a pulsed Laval nozzle reactor for reactions at
 ultra-cold temperatures, and a reactor for dissociative recombination reactions of ions. (2)
 Heterogeneous chemistry. Substantial advances have been made through NERC and ERC
 funding to develop novel techniques for studying the kinetics of ultrafine aerosol formation,
 growth and radical uptake.
 Since REF2014, two tenure-track University Academic Fellows (UAFs – see REF5a) have been
 appointed: Lehman, who has developed a highly innovative laser frequency comb instrument for
 high resolution spectroscopy and kinetics; and Stone, who specialises in experimental studies of
 Criegee intermediates. An important strategic addition is Marsh, who holds a joint position
 between the UoL and NCAR in Boulder, Colorado, and is a world leader in the development of
 whole atmosphere chemistry-climate models.
 Next 5 years: The Government’s Clean Air Strategy (2019) will provide significant opportunities
 for research in air pollution and human health, mapping well onto APC’s instrumental and
 modelling expertise and interests in emissions controls, combustion, the hydrogen economy,
 and indoor air pollution. We also plan to utilise the University Farm following significant
 investment (£4M, REF5a) for an atmospheric field observatory, and will continue to exploit
 GCRF funding in climate/atmospheric science. The field of exoplanet chemistry is expanding
 rapidly through new observations (e.g. ALMA, James Webb Space Telescope), which we will
 exploit through expertise in laboratory kinetics and whole atmosphere modelling, and links with
 the School of Physics & Astronomy.


 Chemical Biology and Medicinal Chemistry: this section’s vision is to understand
 fundamental biological mechanisms and to diagnose and treat disease. CBMC’s research is
 underpinned by expertise in synthesis of novel, diverse small molecules for drug discovery;
 rational drug design; protein-protein interactions; protein engineering and synthetic biology;
 nanoparticle diagnostics and glycoscience; and chemical proteomics. Interdisciplinary
 collaborations with the Faculties of Biological Sciences and Medicine & Health are fostered
 through the Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology (Deputy Director: Wilson (2012-
 2018), AS Nelson (2018-)). There are strong synergies with the PRD section in the area of
 bioactive small molecule synthesis and biotechnology and the CDA section in the area of
 targeted molecular delivery.



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Areas highlighted in REF2014 for development were: (1) Application of diversity-oriented
 synthesis to the creation of libraries of lead-like molecules for pharmaceutical discovery. AS
 Nelson led the review of all innovative chemistry within the European Lead Factory (impact case
 study 4). A spin-out company Redbrick Molecular was established to bring these new scaffolds
 to end-users. Major EPSRC-funded programmes have supported work on fragment and lead-
 oriented synthesis, and autonomous discovery of functional small molecules by activity-directed
 synthesis. (2) Novel chemical probes for understanding biological mechanisms and expanding
 the range of druggable targets. An EPSRC Programme Grant (Wilson) has delivered new
 experimentally-validated computational tools to predict hotspot-regions at protein-protein
 interfaces, alongside synthetic methods for structural proteomics. Work in chemical proteomics
 has been strengthened by appointment of Wright as a UAF. (3) Chemical/enzymatic
 modification of proteins for synthetic biology and industrial biotechnology. Two EU consortia led
 by Turnbull have developed synthetic glycobiology to re-engineer proteins for applications in
 diagnostics and drug delivery, while a major Industrial Biotechnology Catalyst project has
 delivered enzymatic methods for synthesis of glycomimetics. (4) Expand medicinal chemistry
 collaborations. The Cheney Fellowship Scheme (REF5a) has brought world-leading researchers
 to Leeds, enabling major international collaborations in tuberculosis drug discovery (Chibale,
 Cape Town; host: Fishwick), phenotypic screening (Waldmann, MPI; host: AS Nelson) and
 protein-protein interactions (Hall, North Carolina; host: Wilson). Work on blood anticoagulants
 has led to spin-out company Lunac Therapeutics (Foster) to take a drug into the clinic (£5.8M
 venture capital/Biomedical Catalyst funding).
 Next 5 years: CBMC members provide leadership in all four Astbury Centre research themes:
 The Dynamic Interactome (Wilson), Enabling Tools for Biological Discovery (Wright, AS
 Nelson), Communication at Cell Membranes (Turnbull) and Host-Pathogen Interactions
 (Fishwick). Substantial investment in the Astbury BioStructure Laboratory (£17M) and Wolfson
 Imaging Centre (£750K) will open new opportunities for structure-based drug design, and for
 investigatng dynamic biological systems in living cells. Having established the Rosalind Franklin
 Institute (RFI) Next-Generation Chemistry theme, AS Nelson is now Head of High-Throughput
 Molecular Discovery; UoL has established a formal partnership with RFI in autonomous
 molecular discovery which will be supported by 2 new UAF appointments (one based at
 Harwell). This partnership will accelerate work on interactions of intrinsically disordered proteins
 through a recent £5.4M BBSRC sLoLa award (Wilson). We plan further major investment in
 mass spectrometry equipment and expertise to support our growing programmes in chemical
 proteomics, which will also benefit from LeedsOmics that provides opportunities for collaboration
 with the Alan Turing Institute. We will tackle the global challenge of antibiotic resistance in
 collaboration with Professor Chibale (Cape Town) who leads one of the few fully-fledged drug
 discovery capabilities in Africa.


 Computational Chemistry and Chemical Physics: this section covers research in
 experimental and theoretical chemical physics. On the experimental side, velocity map imaging
 spectrometry has continued (Whitaker) and new directions are 2D terahertz spectroscopy and
 frequency-comb spectroscopy, achieved by appointing Burnett and Lehman (primary home in
 APC), respectively, as part of the REF2014 strategy. On the theory side, work includes: the
 application of novel methods of quantum dynamics for treating a large number of quantum
 degrees of freedom to simulate nonadiabatic chemical dynamics and intramolecular energy
 transfer (Shalashilin); developing efficient methods of classical dynamics which greatly extend
 the time scales of molecular dynamics (e.g., for the terahertz spectroscopy experiments)

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Shalashilin); molecular collisions and quantum stereodynamics (Miranda); and computational
 biophysics (Auer). In 2020 the group was joined by de Leeuw whose group works on
 simulations of chemistry in condensed phases and on surfaces, often of geophysical and
 astrophysical significance.
 Next 5 years: Experimental work on 2D THz spectroscopy will continue in close collaboration
 with the School of Electronic & Electrical Engineering’s THz group. Computational methods of
 quantum dynamics will be further developed, in particular ultrafast photochemistry. Developing
 collaborations with medicinal and organic chemists will involve performing simulations of protein
 and peptide dynamics. A new femtosecond soft x-ray experiment with beam time at the DESY
 Synchrotron (Hamburg) will be undertaken in collaboration with the Helmholtz-Zentrum, Berlin.


 Crystallisation and Directed Assembly: the construction of high-performance materials with
 properties optimised for their function demands control of composition and structure over length
 scales ranging from the atomic to the macroscale, and often requires the construction of
 materials with hierarchical structures. CDA addresses this challenge, with expertise spanning
 the full breadth of the topic. Biomolecular self-assembly is a key focus of the work on soft matter
 systems, where injectable hybrid hydrogels offer a promising treatment of back pain and in
 industrially-funded work hybrid vesicles are being used for drug delivery (Beales). Diverse work
 is carried out on hard matter and organic/ inorganic systems, encompassing crystallization,
 nanomaterial synthesis, supramolecular assembly and crystal engineering and nanocomposites.
 Topics range from fundamental research into crystal nucleation (Meldrum), the development of
 new classes of functional metallosupramolecular cages with entangled topologies (Hardie), and
 the first demonstration of the use of spin-crossover compounds as room-temperature coolants
 (Halcrow), to topics with immediate industrial applications such as the development of
 hierarchical inorganic aerogel materials for flow chemistry (Menzel, collaboration William Blythe)
 and fusion energy applications (Menzel, collaboration with AWE).
 The diversity of the group supports innovative research collaborations, as exemplified by a
 project exploiting the principles of lipid self-assembly to develop novel toxicity detection
 platforms within microfluidic flow systems (AL Nelson and Beales). This formed the basis of the
 HISENTS HORIZON 2020 project and subsequent SABYDOMA project which is working with 6
 companies to bring the technology through to commercialisation.
 Research is supported by several University-wide research centres and their cutting-edge
 analytical facilities. The new Bragg Centre for Materials Research promotes interdisciplinary
 materials research, supported by dedicated PhD studentships and new UAF appointments. The
 Leeds Centre for Crystallization (Director: Meldrum) brings together the internationally-leading
 expertise in crystallisation at the UoL. Members of CDA also collaborate closely with the iPRD,
 particularly in the area of flow chemistry. Research at the chemistry/biology interfaces is
 supported by the Astbury Centre, including multi-scale modelling, evolving biomolecules to
 control material synthesis and nanomedicine (overlap with CBMC).
 The REF2014 strategy was to broaden expertise in materials chemistry, which has been
 achieved through 2 new UAF appointments: Chamberlain’s research on functional
 nanomaterials and heterogeneous catalysis complements existing expertise in homogeneous
 catalysis, while Menzel’s research is industry-facing and focuses on inorganic nanostructures
 and hierarchical materials. Both have built substantial groups and brought new expertise in
 functional inorganic material and academic and industrial collaborations to the School.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Next 5 years: The Bragg Centre (Section 3) is a major new initiative that will bring many new
 opportunities to CDA by supporting existing research and fostering new collaborations. New
 opportunities for materials characterisation will be provided by the new Bragg Building (£96M
 investment, REF5a), which will offer a central location for new and existing analytical facilities
 including electron microscopy, scanning probe microscopy, XPS and a state-of-the-art
 cleanroom. The new EPSRC-funded Flo-XL facility in Chemistry will facilitate in situ analysis of
 crystallisation mechanisms and the synthesis of functional materials, and create new academic
 and industrial collaborations. New opportunities include the PoLNET3 network arising from the
 EPSRC Physics-of-Life grand challenge, and application of technology developed by coupling
 sensing platforms to continuous production lines for managing environmental pollution, climate
 change and the present pandemic. Large initiatives in the context of renewable energy vectors,
 and CO2 capture and storage are expected to provide major opportunities for functional
 inorganic materials research over the next 5 years.


 Process Research and Development: research at the chemistry/chemical engineering
 interface is delivered through the Institute of Process Research and Development (iPRD). This
 was established in 2008 as a collaborative venture with the School of Chemical and Process
 Engineering (SCaPE) through a £2M University investment to underpin two chair-level
 appointments (Blacker, Muller, with >30 years’ combined industrial experience) and two
 associate professors (Nguyen, Bourne), in order to build on strengths within the SoC in
 synthesis and catalysis and within SCaPE on particle technology/processing (Muller, Bourne
 returned in UoA 12).
 PRD performs research aimed at providing innovative, economic and sustainable solutions to
 problems in the fine chemicals, pharmaceutical and novel materials industries. Work in this area
 is facilitated by a fully operational process laboratory (Section 3) believed to be unique in the UK
 university sector. The group operates a balanced portfolio of basic research (RCUK- and EU-
 funded), translational research (Innovate UK) and client/product-specific work
 (contract/consultancy-funded). Engagement with industrial partners is managed through an
 Industrial Club comprising 12 companies from the UK, EU, China, India and Switzerland, with
 interests from pharmaceuticals to equipment manufacture.
 The REF2014 strategy was to expand focus to include process intensification through
 continuous technologies; closer integration with particle technology; and the processing and
 utilisation of sustainable feedstocks. The closer integration with particle technologies proposed
 at REF2014 led to the establishment of the £670K AstraZeneca Centre for Manufacturability at
 Leeds (see Section 4 on impact; outputs currently embargoed for commercial reasons).
 Expertise in continuous technologies has, inter alia, underpinned the development of
 autonomous reaction optimisation technologies (Bourne, Blacker; Impact Case Study 2), led to
 the commercialisation of ‘fReactor’ miniaturised CST reactors (Blacker; see below) and
 development of continuous electrochemical reactors (Willans, Nguyen). Advances in the use of
 sustainable feedstocks include the development of platforms for safe continuous oxidative
 biotransformations (Blacker) and the commercialisation of personal care products derived from
 food waste (Rayner, Impact Case Study 3). Novel catalytic technologies have been developed
 and commercialised (Marsden, McGowan, Blacker).
 Next 5 years: Extensive cross-campus collaborative expertise within iPRD will be further
 strengthened by creation in 2019 of a unified Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences. We
 will continue to leverage this in the development of novel continuous reactors and processes,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 particularly in meeting the needs of emerging areas such as flow biocatalysis and non-traditional
 product processing (e.g. polymers). As “Industry 4.0” becomes a priority for companies, we will
 exploit our leading position in autonomous optimisation platforms and cognitive manufacturing,
 strengthened by recent major RCUK awards (including a partnership with IBM to develop new
 algorithms). Both align with the recently awarded EPSRC CDT “Molecules to Product” (Deputy
 Director: Blacker) hosted at Leeds.


 1.2 Impact Strategy
 The School actively supports the embedding of impact throughout the research process from
 inception to delivery. At the very earliest stages, we support project co-development with end-
 users through a variety of mechanisms, including facilitating consultancy (all staff are entitled to
 perform 12 days of consultancy per year by right, with the potential to extend with HoS
 agreement); hosting sub-discipline-specific industry “clubs” and advisory boards (e.g. iPRD and
 Astbury Centre), with regular thematic meetings leading to proposal (co-)development; and
 extended secondments and placements, both outgoing (e.g. Rayner, 50% FTE secondment to
 spin-out C-Capture 2017-1818 – Impact Case Study 1; Bourne, RAEng Industrial Fellowship
 2015-16, Senior Research Fellowship 2019-, both with AstraZeneca – Impact Case Study 3) and
 incoming (e.g. workers from Ono Pharmaceuticals, Biome, Esseco and AstraZeneca to iPRD).
 Once collaborative or commercially-relevant projects are established, the Faculty of Engineering
 and Physical Sciences has three dedicated R&I Development Managers who provide expert
 advice on potential sources of support for different impacts e.g. for activities to be costed in
 research grant applications or to access funding such as RCUK Impact Acceleration Accounts.
 These can provide staging funding to drive research outputs towards market. Examples include
 the EPSRC IAA funding facilitating commercialisation of patented hydrogen transfer catalysts
 (Marsden, Blacker, McGowan) and ERC/STFC IAA funding to Plane for NOx catalyst
 commercialisation. Alternatively, the funding has been used to provide project support for major
 collaborative ventures such as the £670K AstraZeneca Centre for Manufacturability at Leeds,
 wherein AZ partnered with the iPRD to apply Leeds expertise in product processing and
 characterisation to develop science-led solutions to common problems in pharmaceutical
 manufacture.
 The R&I Development Managers provide a conduit to the Commercialisation team within
 Research and Innovation Services at Leeds, who provide support and funding for patenting,
 commercialisation and spin-out development. Recent successes include C-Capture, a company
 exploiting novel low-energy CO2 capture technology developed at Leeds by Rayner with a
 current turnover of >£1M pa (Impact Case Study 1); Keracol, a sustainable personal care
 products company which markets products through international brands such as Marks and
 Spencer and Estée Lauder, as well as their own Dr Craft product range (Rayner – impact Case
 Study 2)); and Redbrick Molecular, a new spin-out jointly owned by Leeds and the University of
 Sheffield, which commercialises bespoke building blocks for drug discovery (Marsden, AS
 Nelson – Impact Case Study 4)). The 2019 opening of the £40M NEXUS business engagement
 facility (REF5a) supports not only the growth of University spin-outs (e.g. Keracol is now located
 there), but also incoming businesses seeking to collaborate with the University.
 Impact is also derived from non-commercial platforms such as software, open-access tools and
 databases. MESMER (https://www.chem.leeds.ac.uk/mesmer/introduction.html) is an open
 source programme developed in the SoC for kinetics simulations and is used by groups
 worldwide, with >6000 downloads since 2014 (Blitz and Seakins). Shalashilin (with Martinez at

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stanford) has contributed the Ab Initio Multiple Spawning module method to the MOLPRO
 quantum chemistry package. The LLAMA program (https://llama.leeds.ac.uk/) has been
 developed by AS Nelson and Marsden as an open access web-based tool for the creation and
 analysis of virtual compound libraries for drug discovery, with ~950 users worldwide (>20
 countries) from industry and academia (>30 companies/research institutes; >100 Universities).
 Next 5 years: We will continue to encourage colleagues to develop impact from their work
 through expert support in proposal development, facilitating co-creation of projects (e.g. through
 pump-priming consultancy and short-term projects), supporting researcher mobility, and buy-out
 of time for impact-related purposes. Specific opportunities include our leading positions in
 cognitive chemical processing, chemical biology (including probe molecules), sustainable
 technologies and atmospheric composition studies.


 1.3 Open Research Environment and Research Integrity
 Staff in the SoC are required to deposit author-accepted versions of papers in the White Rose
 open access repository (>92% compliant since April 2019). There is also funding available
 through the UoL Library for making UKRI-funded papers “gold” open access. SoC policy is for
 data on which research papers are based to be deposited in a secure, backed-up facility e.g. the
 UoL Library data repository https://archive.researchdata.leeds.ac.uk/ for data-sets up to ~1 Tb
 and the PETAL (Petabyte Environmental Tape Archive for >1 Tb data-sets). Making data open
 access is an important aspect of research integrity/replication. In addition, all first-year PhD
 students in the SoC take a short course in “How to keep a lab notebook” which covers open
 access and integrity, as well as University-level training in research ethics.
 2. People


 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 At the heart of the development of all staff is the Staff Review and Development Scheme
 (SRDS), www.leeds.ac.uk/hr/development/srds.htm. SRDS helps staff achieve their full potential
 by providing a two-way review of progress, identifying key objectives, providing constructive
 feedback, and identifying and planning appropriate development (REF5a). All staff are expected
 to go through probation if they have not already done so for their current or similar role. Early
 career members of staff have a reduced teaching load (typically starting at 60%, ramping up
 over 5 years). Their research progress is mentored on a regular (at least quarterly) basis through
 meetings with a designated senior member of staff.
 In the SoC, all research grant applications are reviewed internally by two independent members
 of staff. Proposals to EPSRC are then formally evaluated by an internal panel of 4 members.
 NERC proposals are evaluated before submission by a University-wide panel. Staff are required
 annually to enter onto a database their planned grant applications over the following 18 months,
 to ensure workload support for major applications. The implementation of these plans is then
 reviewed during an Annual Academic Meeting between each staff member and the Head of
 School, Director of Research & Innovation, and Director of Taught Student Education. The
 meeting is also used to examine the staff member’s workload balance including specific
 research-related matters e.g. success with PhD student recruitment, research facilities, and
 timely production of research outputs.
 The age distribution in the School reflects a vibrant, well-balanced department (33% of staff are
 under 45), guided by a cohort of more experienced colleagues (57% are 45-60, and 10% are

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 over 60). During the REF period, one permanent staff member moved to the U. Sheffield, and 12
 new staff have been added across the 5 research sections.
 Current staff are listed below according to their primary research section (section leader
 underlined). Many staff contribute to the activities of other research sections, significant
 examples are described elsewhere in this document. The letters in parentheses denote status [P
 = Professor, R = Reader, AP = Associate Professor, EO = Experimental Officer, L = Lecturer, SL
 = Senior Lecturer, RF = Research Fellow, UAF = University Academic Fellow, * = Emeritus
 Professor].


 APC Staff summary: Blitz (RF), Heard (P), Lehman (AP), Marsh (P), Plane (P), Seakins (P),
 Stone (AP), Whalley (RF). New staff: Lehman, Marsh, Stone. Currently there are 13 PDRAs
 and 12 PGRs.
 CBMC Staff summary: AS Nelson (P), Fishwick (P), Foster (AP), AS Nelson (P), Sergeeva (L),
 Taylor (P), Turnbull (P), Warriner (SL), Webb (AP), Wilson (P), Walco (L), Wright (UAF), Zhou
 (P). New staff: Foster, Taylor, Walco, Wright. Currently there are 22 PDRAs and 45 PGRs.
 CCCP Staff summary: Burnett (UAF), de Leeuw (P), Miranda (L), Shalashilin (P), Whitaker (P).
 New staff: Burnett, de Leeuw. Currently there are 5 PDRAs and 5 PGRs.
 CDA Staff summary: Ansell (SL), Auer (L), Beales (AP), Bushby (P), Chamberlain (AP),
 Halcrow (P), Hardie (P), Kee (R), Kulak (EO), Meldrum (P), Menzel (AP), AL Nelson (P),
 Thornton (L). New staff: Chamberlain, Kulak, Menzel. Currently there are 14 PDRAs and 35
 PGRs.
 PRD Staff summary: Blacker (P), Marsden (P), McGowan (P), Nguyen (L), Rayner (P), Willans
 (AP). Bourne (AP) and Muller (P) are returned through UoA 12. Currently there are 9 PDRAs
 and 28 PGRs.


 Support for interdisciplinary research. In addition to encouraging participation at senior level
 through the University-wide Astbury and Priestley Centres (Section 1), there are 5 joint
 appointments (ca. 50:50) with other Schools: Marsh (Physics & Astronomy); Blacker, Dr
 Richard Bourne, Dr Sean Collins, Professor Frans Muller and Nguyen (Chemical & Process
 Engineering).
 Study leave arrangements. While there is no automatic study leave entitlement, staff are
 encouraged to apply for personal fellowships and we have a good track record of success during
 the REF period:
 ERC Advanced Grant Fellowships (Meldrum and Plane).
 ERC Early Career Fellowship (Wilson).
 EPSRC Leadership Fellowship (Meldrum).
 EPSRC Established Career Fellowship (AS Nelson).
 EPSRC Fellowship (Burnett).
 Marie-Curie Individual Fellowship, ERC Early Career Fellowship (Lehman).
 Additionally, Bourne (50% SoC, returned through UoA12) held RA Eng Industry (2015-16) and
 Senior Research (2019-) Fellowships, and de Leeuw an AWE William Penny Fellowship (2014).

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Flexible/remote working. In the last 5 years, 9 members of staff have made formal flexible
 working requests which have all been granted. Advertised posts include wording to encourage
 applicants who would require flexible working or job share arrangements. The School also
 supports informal requests for flexible or remote working arrangements e.g. approving requests
 for one day a week to be kept free from timetabled teaching activities to allow for a research day.
 For the benefit of researchers at all levels, research seminars are organised within core working
 hours (10 am - 4 pm).
 Career pathways for part-time staff. Policy in place to encourage part-time staff to consider
 splitting/sharing major leadership roles, in order to gain leadership experience which is important
 for promotion.
 Research support for staff with caring responsibilities. A policy is in place to allow staff or
 research students with caring responsibilities to apply for funds to support childcare costs
 associated with attending conferences/training events (e.g. the SoC paid for Wright’s partner to
 accompany her with young baby to a conference).
 Support for staff returning from leave. A policy is in place to support staff taking planned
 family leave to arrange suitable cover for their research activities and to allow momentum to be
 maintained (Wright and Willans have benefitted). This includes providing support to
 researchers in the section, undertaking experimental work and preparing data/first drafts of
 papers and grant applications. There is an option for fixed-term cover to be extended beyond an
 individual’s return to allow them to focus on rebuilding research activity before resuming
 teaching and administrative duties. Individuals returning to work from either family or ill health
 leave can apply for additional funds from the SoC to support registration fees/travel/childcare
 costs associated with research activity.
 Rewarding research success. Additional workload release is available for any individual with
 more than 40% of their time externally funded. Individuals performing exceptionally across the
 breadth of their roles can be recommended for a salary increase or one-off payment.


 2.2 Post-Doctoral Research Associates
 There have been 165 PDRAs in the School of Chemistry between 2014 and 2020, of which 11
 have been Marie Curie Fellows. All new PDRAs employed in the School receive a
 comprehensive induction and are subject to a probationary period, which provides structure and
 support to establish and work towards a set of objectives, identifying any training and
 development needs. Once the probationary period has been successfully completed,
 researchers join the SRDS Scheme (see above). The UoL offers a wide range of training
 activities through its Organisational Development and Personal Learning service. This includes a
 suite of courses developed specifically to support early career researchers (e.g. applying for
 funding, academic career skills, introduction to academic leadership) as well as more general
 courses (e.g. developing digital practice, writing skills, using social media, organisation and
 personal effectiveness, project management). We offer PDRAs teaching opportunities (including
 lecturing), and support for HEA accreditation. Coaching and mentoring happens informally
 through the research sections in the School, but there is also a mentoring programme run across
 the University where researchers can be matched with a mentor from outside of their subject
 area to provide career guidance.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3   Postgraduate Research Students
 The SoC recognises that PGR students make a major contribution to the research programme of
 the School and University. We have ambitious plans to increase the number and enhance the
 quality of our postgraduate intake, against the prevailing funding and demographic trends of
 declining PGR provision, by increasing numbers of international PhD students. Currently, the
 number of registered PGRs in the SoC is 97. These students are funded by EPSRC (29), NERC
 (8), STFC (1), University and SoC Scholarships (17), industry (2), overseas sponsors (22), ERC
 (5), Charities (4), BBSRC (4), MRC (3) and alumni donations (2). This diverse range of funders
 is regarded as an important strategic strength. Currently, a further 20 PGRs are registered
 outside Chemistry but supervised primarily by SoC staff (these students are funded by
 NERC/BBSRC/MRC DTPs or EPSRC CDTs that are housed in other Schools at the UoL).
 During the REF period the School has been a major stakeholder in graduate programmes within
 the University including the Astbury Centre’s Wellcome Trust 4-year PhD programme; the
 BBSRC-funded White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (with York and Sheffield); five EPSRC
 CDTs (Molecules to Product, BioEnergy, Complex Particulates, and Soft Matter & Interfaces 1 &
 2); and NERC SPHERES and PANORAMA DTPs. 17 studentships have been collaborative with
 industry.
 Recruitment. Studentships are advertised on the School of Chemistry website and
 FindaPhD.com. An Open Day is also held in January each year. All applicants are interviewed
 by a panel of three members of staff drawn from at least two Sections to maintain a common
 standard of admission. A written report on the interview performance informs the final admission
 decisions, which are taken by the Director of Postgraduate Studies.
 Training, Support and Monitoring. The University’s new Graduate Record of Achievement and
 Development (GRAD) electronic system records all aspects of a PGR’s career, from admission
 through to final examination, ensuring a consistent experience for all PGRs. This includes
 student training plans, which are first agreed with the supervisor within one month of starting,
 then continuously updated by the student during their programme of study as required. GRAD is
 also used to record supervision meetings and training courses attended; at least ten minuted,
 one-to-one supervision meetings per year are mandatory for each student. PGRs are required to
 submit the following pieces of work during their degree: a literature report after 4 months; a
 transfer report, which is examined by a viva voce exam after 11 months; and two further
 research reports at 22 and 34 months. Submission, examination (for transfer) and provision of
 student feedback for these milestones are also undertaken through GRAD. Students are
 interviewed one-on-one by the Progression tutor during each year of their degree to monitor
 general progress. Students present a poster in year 2 and give a talk in year 3 at the School’s
 annual postgraduate conference, where prizes for best talk and poster (voted by both students
 and staff) are awarded. The School has an excellent record of successfully delivering PhD
 training: the completion rate of PhD students during the REF period has averaged 93%, with
 100% of those submitting within 4 years of registration (cf. with 85% in the REF2014 period).
 All PGRs have the opportunity to engage in mentoring and teaching through involvement in
 undergraduate practical work demonstration and final year, MChem, project supervision. In
 addition, PGRs are expected to hone their communication skills by disseminating their research
 at departmental seminars and international conferences, with many winning awards for their
 contributions.




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 Three members of the Equality and Inclusion committee sit on the School’s Management
 Committee, where decisions about all aspects of research, funding, rewards and leadership are
 made. Two members of the E&I committee also sit on our Rewards Committee.
 Seven members of the academic staff are female (3 are Professors). The gender balance has
 remained 16% female, although 33% of UAF appointments during the REF period have been
 female. At postdoctoral level the balance has increased from 29% female in 2014 to 43% in
 2020 (consistently 1-2% higher than the Russell Group benchmark), and that of research
 support staff has increased from 15% to 40%.
 The PGR gender balance has been (393)% female over the REF period. Offers to female PGR
 applicants have increased from 27% to 51%, reflecting an increase in the quality of applications
 received. This has coincided with changes to our on-line marketing material placing greater
 visualisation of the engagement of women in chemistry
 (https://physicalsciences.leeds.ac.uk/info/4/school_of_chemistry).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 School Level
 The total research income between 2014 and 2020 is £37.5M, averaging £5.7M per annum.
 Major grants (>£1M):
 EU “Synthetic biology of carbohydrate-binding proteins: engineering protein-carbohydrate
 interactions for diagnostics and cell targeting” (£3.6M – Turnbull)
 EPSRC Programme grant “Crystallisation in the Real World: Delivering Control through Theory
 and Experiment” (£2.5M - Meldrum)
 EPSRC Programme grant “Integrated computational and synthetic tools to drive the discovery of
 orthosteric protein-protein interaction inhibitors” (£2.2M – Wilson, AS Nelson)
 ERC Advanced grant “Dynamical Control of Mineralisation” (£2.0M - Meldrum)
 ERC Advanced grant “Cosmic Dust in the Terrestrial Atmosphere” (£1.9M - Plane)
 ERC Early career grant “Highly Instrumented Low Temperature Reaction Chamber” ( £1.5M –
 Lehman)
 EPSRC Leadership fellowship “Crystallisation in Confinement - A Biological Perspective” (£1.9M
 - Meldrum)
 EPSRC Platform Grant “New Strategies for Controlling Crystallisation” (£1.4M - Meldrum).
 EPSRC Established Career fellowship “Autonomous Discovery of Functional Small Molecules”
 (£1.2M – AS Nelson)
 EU “HISENTES” (£1.2M – AL Nelson)
 EPSRC Fellowship “Dynamics, Control and Energy Transfer at Terahertz Frequencies” (£1.1M –
 Burnett)
 EPSRC “Cognitive Chemical Manufacturing) (£2.0M – Bourne, Chamberlain, Muller)
 EU “European Lead Factory (EUC²LID)” (£1.0M – AS Nelson)


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BBSRC “Deciphering the function of intrinsically disordered protein regions in a cellular context”
 (£5.4M - Wilson)
 EPSRC Strategic Equipment bid “A Platform for Chemical Probe Identification and Optimization
 Facilitating Interrogation of Biological Mechanisms” (£1.5M – Warriner, Wilson, Wright).
 Research within the School is underpinned by 8 support staff including 6 research officers. The
 principal instrumental services - 6 NMR spectrometers (up to 600 MHz, and cryoprobe
 capability), 4 mass spectrometers, X-ray crystallography, optical spectroscopy, electron
 microscopy, thermal analysis, particle size analysis, robotic liquid handling, a biological
 chemistry suite, and HPLC - are each operated by a senior technician or research officer who is
 also responsible for the training of postgraduate students and PDRAs. The “core” equipment
 was replaced in 2013 with a £1.4M grant (£1M from EPSRC, £400K from the university). The
 electronic and mechanical workshops (2 technicians) provide general repair services but, more
 importantly, they design and build a range of instruments, primarily for the APC and CCCP
 sections. All support staff are encouraged to keep abreast of new developments by attending
 courses and conferences.
 The University has also funded a Priestley Centre Chair in Comparative Planetary Atmospheres
 (£230K, shared with Physics & Astronomy, Marsh) and 6 University Academic Fellowships
 which are 5-year tenure track appointments (£2M).


 3.2 Research Section Level
 APC have five very well-equipped laser laboratories (a total of 280 m2 divided into 14
 experimental bays). There are world-leading facilities for studying neutral, ion-molecule, particle
 nucleation, heterogeneous and photochemical reactions relevant to the atmospheres of Earth
 and other planets. These include a large collection of pulsed nanosecond lasers, time-of-flight
 and quadrupole mass spectrometers, a frequency-comb spectrometer, a surface science UHV
 chamber, pulsed Laval nozzle reactor, grating, cavity and Fourier transform spectrometers, a
 Meteoric Ablation Simulator and ultra-fine particle sizing equipment. The HIRAC atmospheric
 chemistry simulation chamber operates over a wide range of temperatures and pressures, with
 unique in situ radical detection. There are also wet chemistry facilities for inorganic & organic
 astro- & geo-chemical research. Since 2014, the UoL has provided £400K funding for high
 performance laser systems. APC also has a block grant for cosmic dust analysis at the Diamond
 I08 Scanning X-ray Microscopy beamline. An extensive range of field apparatus is available for
 the detection of radical species by laser-induced fluorescence (the FAGE technique, which
 operates from ground/ship-based and airborne platforms). The section is also an extensive user
 of the MCM, which was developed in the SoC and which is internationally recognised as the
 leading computer model of organic reactivity in the atmosphere, as well as the MESMER
 program for kinetics simulations (see above). APC has 120 dedicated cores on the university’s
 massively parallel High Performance Computers, which are used to run whole atmosphere
 chemistry-climate models such as WACCM for the terrestrial atmosphere and the LMD-Mars
 model for Mars.
 CBMC has excellent infrastructure for research at the interfaces with biology and medicine:
 three biological containment laboratories (Category 1 and 2) equipped for genetic manipulation,
 protein expression, purification and biophysical characterisation; a suite for the synthesis and
 purification of small molecule libraries; a small molecule screening facility, with dehumidified
 ligand storage; Hamilton 8 channel and 96 channel robotic liquid handling;

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fluorescence/luminescence/absorbance high-throughput screening in 384-well plate format. The
 section additionally benefits from its participation in the Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular
 Biology which provides access to all major structural biology and biophysical techniques. Recent
 major institutional investment in the £17M Astbury Biostructure Lab provides us with access to a
 suite of electron microscopes including two Titan Krios instruments for high resolution cryo-EM
 and tomography with facilities for correlative fluorescence/EM microscopy and time-resolved
 EM; protein NMR spectroscopy facilities at 600-950 MHz; and binding analysis instrumentation,
 including surface plasmon resonance, isothermal titration calorimetry, microscale
 thermophoresis, and a suite of 10 mass spectrometers optimised for protein analysis including
 ion mobility and HDX/FPOP footprinting. These facilities are transforming our ability to study
 small ligands binding to very large and very dynamic macromolecules, including studies in living
 cells.
 CCCP has access to the Leeds THz Photonics Laboratory, one of the largest, best-equipped
 university THz research facilities in the world, which includes: eight optical bench-based
 systems, with five femtosecond oscillator-based pulsed imaging and spectroscopy systems,
 including ultra-broadband, pump-probe, and both freespace and guided-wave apparatus; and
 QCL-based imaging and spectroscopy systems. The facility also includes an 8 mK cryogen-free
 dilution refrigerator, with fibre-optic and microwave access, 1.2 K optical access cryostats,
 including cryogen-free systems, and magnetic fields up to 12 T. Research also benefits from:
 two state-of-the-art MBE growth chambers focused on III-V semiconductors; and a
 nanotechnology class 100 fabrication facility (which will soon be upgraded as part of the new
 Bragg Centre). CCCP has a laser laboratory of 83 m2 equipped with a number of femtosecond
 and nanosecond lasers, a very high resolution velocity map imaging spectrometer, and a
 frequency comb spectroscopy system, together with a newly refurbished computational office
 suite of 72 m2. The computational group is among the biggest users of the University’s High
 Performance Computer facilities, and also has a dedicated cluster designed for efficient ab initio
 quantum dynamics calculations.
 CDA is supported across a number of laboratories, with a range of analytical equipment
 including Raman microscopy, BET, TGA and DSC, DLS, an electrochemical analyser and a
 FEG-SEM with integral EDX, as well as synthetic laboratory suites and a single crystal X-ray
 diffractometer with a micro-focus dual wavelength X-ray source. The section also makes
 extensive use of the School NMR suite and accurate mass ESI-MS, and has been supported by
 a block allocation grant at the small molecule crystallography station I19 at Diamond. There is
 also access to significant additional instrumentation through the Royce Institute (REF5a). A new
 facility has been established through the award of a £1.1M EPSRC Strategic Equipment Grant in
 2019: Flow-Xl- A New UK Facility for Analysis of Crystallisation in Flow Systems. Flow-Xl uses
 X-ray diffraction and Raman spectrometry to study crystallisation in flowing plugs or continuous
 flow, enabling users to conduct in situ studies of crystallisation mechanisms and pathways with
 unprecedented reproducibility and time resolution. Essential access to electron microscopy
 facilities is provided through university centres located in Engineering and Biology. The well-
 established LEMAS Centre (4 academics and 6 support staff with over 400 users) in SCaPE
 houses 2 TEMs, including a new £2.4M analytical cryo-TEM optimised for low dose analysis, 7
 SEMs and a new £1.2M cryo-FIB-SEM. Powder XRD is available in the Schools of Chemistry
 and Chemical Engineering. The two state-of-the-art Titan Krios microscopes in the Astbury
 Biostructure Laboratory are equipped with direct electron detectors (DED) for high resolution
 imaging and electron tomography of samples under cryogenic conditions. The SQUID
 magnetometer in Physics is used to investigate the properties of spin-crossover compounds.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elemental analysis (ICP) is available in Earth Sciences, and in Engineering there is a powder
 diffraction offering hard and soft X-ray photoelectron (XPS) with X-ray emission spectroscopy
 (XES), and sample characterisation with environmental control.
 PRD is based around a fully operational process laboratory (originally established through a
 £4.5m investment from the Regional Development Agency and the European Regional
 Development Fund 2009-2012). The laboratory houses a wide variety of pilot-scale batch (up to
 50 litre) and flow process scale-up equipment (including a 10 bar trickle bed reactor, continuous
 polymerisation, continuous electrochemistry, and continuous liquid-liquid extraction), much of
 which has been developed in house (e.g. ‘fReactors’ for small-scale continuous batch
 processing, now commercialised with Asynt; 53 units sold worldwide in 22 months). A broad
 range of analytical techniques have been introduced since 2013, including real-time mass
 spectrometry, normal and near IR, ultrafast (U)HPLC, and NMR. Most distinctively, five self-
 optimising reaction platforms have been funded which include novel reactors, novel analysis
 methods and novel algorithms, many of which have been developed in conjunction with industry
 (e.g. AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, IBM). The lab operates to the highest standards of safety
 with a dedicated laboratory manager responsible for the running of the facility. Process
 development work has assisted several companies towards commercial manufacture of
 products (see section 2).


 3.3 Sustainability
 Chemistry at Leeds, which is one of eight Schools within the Faculty of Engineering and Physical
 Sciences, is amongst the most research active and vibrant Schools within the University. The
 University has made clear its intention to continue strong support for the School, both near and
 medium term. In particular, as part of a continuing programme of major capital investment in the
 Faculty which most recently has included the creation of the Sir William Henry Bragg Building to
 house the School of Physics & Astronomy and the School of Computing (£96M, due for
 completion in late 2020), the University is planning a major building and refurbishment
 programme for the School of Chemistry (starting in 2022). The re-developed School of
 Chemistry, which will be adjacent both to the Bragg Building and the major Engineering Schools
 within the North-East quarter of the University campus, will create a world-leading integrated
 campus for Engineering and Physical Sciences (REF5a). This physical infrastructure will
 facilitate and build upon the already existing very strong research links between the Chemistry
 APC, CCCP and PRD sections and the Schools of Physics & Astronomy and Chemical &
 Process Engineering, which includes significant collaborative research grant portfolios as well as
 joint appointments (3 research Chairs, 2 associate professor/lecturers, and 2 University
 Academic Fellows).
 Additionally, the University continues to underline its commitment to maintaining an
 internationally-leading profile in structural molecular biology/science at the biology-chemistry
 interface, with the £17M capital investment in the Structural Molecular Biology suite within the
 Astbury Centre (see above and REF5a). As a major stakeholder School within Astbury (e.g.
 substantial joint grant portfolio with members of CBMC), the School of Chemistry is set to benefit
 greatly from this investment and, as part of the current planning towards the major refurbishment
 of the School, will be taking full advantage of the opportunity to create an integrated international
 centre of excellence for science at the chemistry-biology interface.
 High Performance Computing is essential for activities in the APC and CCCP sections, such as
 global atmospheric modelling, electronic structure theory calculations and molecular dynamics.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University has invested over £1.5M during 2019 in the latest HPC cluster at Leeds, which
 provides a Linux-based service with 5960 standard compute nodes at a clock rate of 2.0 GHz.
 Planned investment in HPC over the next 5 years is planned to exceed £1M pa.
 A particularly exciting future development that is set to cut across all five research sections is the
 development of Artificial Intelligence (AI). The SoC is set to take a leading role in this area, both
 within the UoL and externally through the University’s partnerships with the Alan Turing and
 Rosalind Franklin Institutes (REF5a), and is planning major investments in both staff and
 infrastructure.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Academic Collaborations
 The SoC supports visits from potential research collaborators in two ways. First, staff can bid
 against an International Academic Mobility Pump-priming Fund to cover travel and
 accommodation costs for visitors. Second, each staff member is allocated 12 “visitor months”
 every two years, where the costs of office space, IT and library access for the visitor are covered
 by the SoC.
 During the REF period there have been 72 visiting academics (35 of whom stayed longer than
 6 months and 37 for between 1 and 3 months). 32 visitors were from Asia, 25 from Europe, 6
 from South America, 5 from North America and 4 from Africa.
 49% of papers published by SoC staff during the REF period had international co-authors from
 the following countries (number in parentheses): US (168), Germany (138), France (71), China
 (61), Spain (38), Italy (32), India (28), Japan (24), Switzerland (20), and rest of the world (220).
 48% of papers had UK authors outside Leeds, and only 25% of papers were authored solely at
 the UoL. 10% of papers involved collaborations with corporations.


 Significant collaborations are listed below by research section.
 APC: Leading involvement in NERC-funded atmospheric field campaigns with multiple UK
 collaborators e.g. AIRPRO (Heard, Whalley). ERC Advanced project CODITA involved 9
 partners in the US and 3 in Germany (Plane). NERC INFAMOS development of novel
 atmospheric spectroscopic probes with Oxford (Heard, Seakins, Whalley). Chemistry around
 AGB stars via the AEROSOL ERC project with Leuven and Queens Belfast (Heard, Plane). EU
 EUROCHAMP chamber network (Seakins). Professor Heather Lewandowski (U. Colorado,
 Boulder) spent 6 months at Leeds supported by the UK-US Fulbright University of Leeds
 Distinguished Chair award.
 CBMC: EPSRC programme grant POPPI on perturbation of protein-protein interactions (led by
 Wilson, Nelson) with Bristol. Coordinator of ERASynBIO consortium “SynGlycTis” and H2020
 MSC-ITN “synBIOcarb” (Turnbull) with partners in 5 EU countries. Chair of COST Action
 CM1102 “MultiGlycoNano” (Turnbull) with ~60 participating groups from 21 countries. European
 Lead Factory consortium with ~30 partners from academia and pharma (Nelson, Marsden).
 Royal Society-funded collaboration on antibiotics discovery with Professor K. Chibale, Cape
 Town (Fishwick).
 CCCP: Collaboration with Imperial, Bristol and Cardiff within an EPSRC programme grant on
 “Chemistry and Mathematics in Phase Space CHAMPS”; NSF/EPSRC-funded international


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with Stanford U. to develop new methods of quantum dynamics and their
 implementation (Shalashilin).
 CDA: Collaboration with UCL, Warwick and Sheffield within an EPSRC programme grant on
 “Crystallisation in the real world”, and Bath, Nottingham and Strathclyde on the EPSRC Strategic
 Equipment Grant “Flow-Xl: A New UK Facility for Analysis of Crystallisation in Flow Systems”;
 participation in EU-FP7 collaborative research project (SMILEY) (Meldrum). COST action
 CM1305 “Explicit Control over Spin-states in Technology and Biochemistry” (Halcrow).
 European COST action TD1308 “life-ORIGINS” work group leader (Kee). EPSRC project “An
 integrated biophysics approach towards realisation of a new class of membrane-active
 anticancer therapies” with Sheffield, Durham and York (Beales). HORIZON 2020 grants
 HISENTS (AL Nelson, Beales) involving 11 international partners, and SABYDOMA with 19
 international partners (AL Nelson). Collaboration with Sao Paulo State University under a
 FAPESP funded research visit, leading to subsequent EPSRC funding (Beales).
 PRD: Significant activity within the EPSRC Catalysis Hub (co-I Blacker in Phases 1 & 2);
 EPSRC Dial-a-Molecule network (co-I Marsden in phases 1 & 2).


 4.2 Research Collaborations with Research Users
 The School has been particularly successful in building projects with industry:
 Funded directly or jointly with Innovate UK: Centre for Manufacturability Design (AstraZeneca -
 Blacker); CelluPAT and OPTOMS (Innovate UK/Fiberight - Blacker, Bourne); MSW-IndUK
 (BBSRC/Innovate with UK partners Fiberight, AMT, Defiant Renewables, S.Amit&Co., ICT,
 NEERI and VIT - Blacker); Ligpoly (Innovate UK/Biome - Blacker); HMF-Scale (Innovate
 UK/Biome - Blacker) with a patent application for a bioprocess to make sustainable and
 biodegradable polymers.
 EU-funded industrial collaborations include: IMI European Lead Factory consortium (7 large
 pharma companies and 10 SMEs - AS Nelson, Marsden, Foster); IMI Sustainable
 Pharmaceutical Chemistry (CHEM21) consortium (partners GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Orion,
 Bayer, Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi - Blacker, Marsden, AS Nelson), TASPPI ITN (5 industrial
 partners - Wilson).
 Industrial collaborations with the following SMEs: Reaxa (TSB); YProtech (TSB); Critical
 Processes (TSB); DyeCat (TSB); Avantium (TSB); Specialty Glycans Consortium funded by
 BBSRC/Innovate UK Industrial Biotechnology Catalyst (partners GSK, Prozomix, Carbosynth,
 Dextra, Ludger); SynBIOcarb EU Marie Sklodowska-Cuire ITN (partners GlycoSeLect, Elicityl,
 GLYcoDiag, enGenes) (co-ordinated by Turnbull).
 Industrial funding of PhD students: AstraZeneca (13 CASE), Novartis (1 CASE), Pfizer (2 TSB, 1
 KTS), GlaxoSmithKline (2 CASE, 1 KTS), Syngenta (TSB, 1 CASE/CDT), Imerys (CASE), Bod
 Ayre (TSB), Body Shop (TSB), Knauf (IUK), Nestle (1 CASE), Syngenta (0.25 FTE), AMT (IUK),
 Biome (1 CASE), Fiberight (2 PhD), YPT (1 CASE), UK Met Office (1 CASE); Atomic Weapons
 Establishment (1 CASE), William Blythe Ltd.(1 PhD); Redbrick Molecular (2 CASE).
 EPSRC-funded collaborations with the following industrial project partners: Astex, AstraZeneca,
 Domainex, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson Matthey, Novartis, Syngenta, NI Cancer Research
 (Blacker, Chamberlain, Marsden, AS Nelson, Nguyen, Wilson); Redbrick Molecular
 (Marsden, AS Nelson); Sterling Pharma solutions, Asynt, Concept Life Sciences, Dr Reddy’s
 (Blacker, Nguyen); IBM, Promethean Particles and Swagelok (Chamberlain).

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Leadership and Recognition in the Academic Community


 Major Research Awards and Prizes
 Elected Member of Academia Europaea (2017), Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales (2016)
 (de Leeuw)
 RSC Environment Prize (2017) (Heard)
 RSC Interdisciplinary Prize (2017) (Meldrum)
 European Federation of Medicinal Chemistry UCB-Ehrlich Award (2018) (AS Nelson)
 EGU Bjerknes Medal for Atmospheric Science (2017); elected Fellow of the American
 Geophysical Union (2017) and Fellow of the Royal Society (2020) (Plane)
 Shell Springboard Award (2016) and Business Green Award, Breakthrough of the Year (2019)
 (Rayner, company C-Capture)
 RSC Norman Heatley Award (2016) (Wilson)
 ACS Infectious Diseases Young Investigator Award (2019) (Wright)


 Plenary/medal Lectures
 24th International Symposium on Gas kinetics and Related Phenomena, York, 2016 (Blitz)
 RSC Faraday Discussion Meeting, Cape Town, 2017; 7th conference of the Federation of
 African Societies of Chemistry, Gaborone (Botswana), 2019; National Conference on Materials
 Physics, Bengaluru (India), 2020 (de Leeuw)
 14th International Conference on Molecular Magnetism, St Petersburg (Russia), 2014 (Halcrow)
 13th International Conference on Materials Chemistry, Liverpool, 2017; Royal Australian
 Chemical Institute Inorganic Chemistry Meeting, Wollongong, 2019 (Hardie)
 US Department of Energy - Chemical Sciences, Washington DC, 2016 (Heard)
 6th European Conference on Crystal Growth, Varna (Bulgaria), 2018; 9th International colloids
 conference, Barcelona, 2019 (Meldrum)
 52nd International Conference on Medicinal Chemistry, Caen (France), 2016 (AS Nelson)
 UCB-Ehrlich Award Lecture, XXV European Federation of Medicinal Chemistry International
 Symposium of Medicinal Chemistry, Llubljana (Slovenia), 2018 (AS Nelson)
 6th EuCheMS Chemistry Congress, Seville (Spain), 2016 (Nguyen)
 Vilhelm Bjerknes Medal Lecture, European Geosciences Union, Vienna, 2017 (Plane)
 International Conference on Chemical Kinetics, Ghent (Belgium), 2015 (Seakins)
 Joint Iberian meeting on Atomic and Molecular Physics, Barcelona, 2017 (Shalashilin)
 29th International Carbohydrate Symposium, Lisbon, 2018 (Turnbull)
 Ischia Advanced School of Organic Chemistry, Ischia (Italy), 2014 (Wilson)




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal Editorship (editorial board member or guest editor)
 Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics; Advances in Biomembranes and Lipid Self-Assembly
 (Beales)
 Synthesis and Catalysis (Chamberlain)
 Scientific Reports (Fishwick)
 Journal of Chemical Biology and Drug Design (Foster)
 CrystEngComm; Supramolecular Chemistry (Hardie)
 Atmospheric Chemistry & Physics; Atmospheric Measurement Techniques; Chemical Society
 Reviews (Heard)
 Journal of Atmospheric and Solar-Terrestrial Physics (Marsh)
 MRS Bulletin; International Materials Reviews; Chemical Society Reviews (Meldrum)
 Journal of Atmospheric Chemistry (Plane)
 Atmospheric Measurement Techniques (Whalley)
 ChemistryOpen (Willans)
 Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal; Sensors (Zhou)
 SoC staff are advisory editorial board members for a further 12 international journals.


 Committee Membership (Learned Societies, International Scientific Councils)
 Society for Molecular Imprinting (Ansell)
 EU Softcomp network for self-assembling and biomimetic systems (Beales)
 IOP Molecular Physics Group (Lehman)
 Consultant to Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery Programme (Fishwick)
 SCI Fine Chemicals, Society of Chemical Industry (Foster)
 RSC Supramolecular and Macrocyclic Chemistry Group (Hardie)
 RSC Faraday Division Council (Heard)
 President of the Astrobiology Society of Britain; Chair, RSC Coordination and Organometallic
 Chemistry Interest Group (Kee)
 RSC Spectroscopy & Dynamics Group; IOP Molecular Physics Group (Lehman)
 International Commission on the Middle Atmosphere (President), Scientific Committee on Solar
 Terrestrial Physics (SCOSTEP) (Marsh)
 RSC Dalton Division Awards panel (McGowan)
 Materials Research Society, Board of Directors; RSC Prize Committee (Meldrum)
 Chemistry theme lead, Rosalind Franklin Institute (AS Nelson)
 EGU Atmospheric Sciences Medals panel chairman; AGU Macelwaine Medal committee (Plane)
 RSC Gas Kinetics Group (Seakins)



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RSC Carbohydrate Interest Group (Chair) (Turnbull)
 RSC Chemistry-Biology Interface Division Council (Webb)
 RSC Applied Catalysis Group (Willans)
 RSC Chemical Biology and Bioorganic Group (Wilson)
 RSC Carbohydrate Group (Zhou)


 Funding Panel Membership
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship panel; EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team; Royal Society
 Challenge Grants and Newton International Fellowship panels; NSF and DoE panels (de
 Leeuw)
 ERC Starter Grant PE5 panel; Royal Society Newton International Fellowships Committee
 (Hardie)
 NERC Discovery Science and Independent Research Fellowship panels chair (Heard)
 International Funding Panel Member, NASA Exobiology Programme (Kee).
 EPSRC Capital and Equipment Strategic Advisory Team, Strategic Equipment Panel (Marsden)
 EPSRC Responsive Mode and Programme Grant panel chairs (Meldrum)
 EPSRC Healthcare Technologies Strategic Advisory Team, EPSRC Physical Sciences panel
 chair, CRUK programme grant panel (AS Nelson)
 UK Space Agency Aurora Science panel; ERC Advanced Grant PE10 panel (Plane)
 ERC Starter Grant PE5 panel (Hardie)
 NERC Discovery Science; EPSRC Responsive Mode; NSF and DoE panels (Seakins)
 IBCarb BBSRC Network in Industrial Biotechnology, Newton International Fellowship Physical
 Sciences Committee (Turnbull)
 Royal Society Newton Fellowships and Research Grants (Biological) panels (Webb)
 STFC Life Science panel (Whitaker)
 EPSRC strategic advisory team (physical sciences), Inaugural New Horizons panel and
 Responsive Mode panel; EU Marie Curie Fellowships panel (Wilson)




                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scientific advisory board membership:
 UK Catalysis Hub (Blacker)
 Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery Programme (Fishwick)
 UK National Crystallographic Service (Hardie)
 UK Met Office Space Weather Research (Marsh)
 Scientific Advisory Board, Plateforme Intégrée de Criblage de Toulouse; Chemistry theme lead,
 Rosalind Franklin Institute (AS Nelson)
 Scientific Advisory Board, Max Planck Institute for Chemistry, Mainz; National Center for
 Atmospheric Research, Boulder (Plane)


 Leadership of International Programmes
 Leader, International Space Science Institute International Team on “Quantifying Hemispheric
 Differences in Particle Forcing Effects on Stratospheric Ozone"; Co-leader, SCOSTEP Working
 Group on “Trends in the MLT"; International Space Science Institute Team on “Quantifying
 Hemispheric Differences in Particle Forcing Effects on Stratospheric Ozone" (Marsh)
 Chair, Innovation working group of the EU Nanosafety Cluster (AL Nelson)
 Leader, Chemical Transformation Cluster of EPSRC CO2Chem network (Nguyen)


 Scientific Conference Leadership
 Chair, Royal Society Theo Murphy meeting on “The artificial cell: biology-inspired
 compartmentalization of chemical function” (2018) (Beales)
 Theme Chair, Goldschmidt Conference 2017 International Program Committee (de Leeuw)
 Chair, Whole Atmosphere Modelling Workshop “Developments in the context of space weather”,
 Tres Cantos, Spain (2018); Chair, 12th International Workshop on Layered Phenomena in the
 Mesopause Region (2015) (Marsh)
 Chair, British Association of Crystal Growth (2014); Chair, Royal Society Theo Murphy Meeting
 on “Nucleation: past and future challenges for experiment, theory and simulation” (2016); Chair,
 Faraday meeting (2021) on “Understanding Crystallization in Complex Systems: Recent
 Advances and Future Challenges” (Meldrum)
 Chair, Gordon Research Seminar on Atomic & Molecular Interactions (2014) (Lehman)
 Chair, Royal Society Theo Murphy International Meeting on “Synthetic Glycobiology” (2018)
 (Turnbull).
 International Workshops on Aromatic Foldamers (Philadelphia 2016 & Seoul 2017) (Wilson)


 Patents
 ‘Catalysed Dye Systems’ (Rayner, McGowan). Australian Patent 2010268006 (2016),
 European Patent 2448545 (2016), Chinese patent 102470080 (2017), European Patent




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3111915 (2017). Describes a new system of hair dyeing which avoids particularly hazardous
 components used in current commercial systems; led to the UoL spin-out Dyecat.
 ‘Methods for the Capture and Release of Acid Gases’ WO2015/092427 A2,
 PCT/GB2014/053786 (2014), granted in US, EU and Japan. ‘Aqueous system for the capture
 and release of acid gases’ (Rayner). PCT/GB2018/052209 (2018). Describes the use of amine
 free, carboxylate salt-based CO2 capture processes; now being commercialised by UoL spin-out
 C-Capture (Impact Case Study 1).
 ‘Natural Hair Dyes’ (Rayner). Australian Patent 2010247136 (2016), Canadian Patent 2835316
 (2018), European Patent 2477597 (2018). Describes the use of natural anthocyanin-based
 colorants in hair coloration, now commercialised by UoL spin-out Keracol under their Dr Craft
 brand (Impact Case Study 3).
 ‘Personal care composition comprising a natural film-forming biopolymer and methods of making
 the same’ (Rayner). Australian Patent 2013369087 (2018), European Patent 2934682 (2018).
 Describes the use of natural biopolymers for use in hair care applications such as hair sprays;
 commercialised by UoL spin-out Keracol (Impact Case Study 3).
 ‘Metal Complexes’ (Marsden, McGowan, Blacker). PCT Int. Appl. WO 2017103623A1 (2015).
 Describes highly active and robust homogeneous catalysts for redox-neutral alkylation of
 amines for use in fine chemical synthesis. Technology licensed under royalty to Umicore N.V.
 ‘Heterocyclic urea compounds’ (Fishwick). PCT 9060515 (2015). Describes the invention of a
 new class of antibacterial agents for use in combating infections involving Gram-positive
 bacteria.
 ‘Modulators of androgen synthesis’ (Taylor), US Patents US 9072743 (2015), US 9375433
 (2016), US 9585887 (2017), US 9585890 (2017) and US 9808462 (2017); Australian Patent AU
 2013322612 and NZ Patent NZ 706067 (2017). Describes using the compound VAL401 to treat
 lung cancer, and pancreatic and prostate adenocarcinomas; the compound has successfully
 negotiated phase II clinical trials and is being developed by ValiSeek Ltd.
 ‘BIOSENSOR’ (AL Nelson). European Patent EP 2 176 654 B1 (2017). Describes the first
 genuine robust toxicity sensor which can be used in water and Pharma screening.
  ‘Provision of Microbacterial Growth in Sugar-Solutions’ (Blacker). Application W&R Ref:
 P753012GB - UOL 16016/GB/P1 (2019). Describes the automated control of microbial infection
 in sugar solutions derived from municipal solid waste.
 ‘Catalytic Converter’ (Plane). PCT Int. Appl. WO 2020148522 (2020). Describes a new low-cost
 catalyst for the removal of NOx in engine exhausts.


 Outreach Activities
 The School of Chemistry offers free-to-access MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) through
 FutureLearn. Five courses in Medicinal Chemistry (Willans, Foster, Taylor), Global Challenges
 and Chemical Products (Fishwick, Marsden, Rayner, Turnbull), Atmospheric Chemistry
 (Heard) and Planetary Chemistry (Lehman) have attracted a total of 103,075 registrations since
 2017, of which 43,300 are active learners
 (https://www.futurelearn.com/subjects/science-engineering-and-maths-courses/chemistry).




                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Superposition (https://www.thesuperposition.org/) is an open collective of science and arts
 people in and around Leeds who do creative work at the science/art interface (founded by
 Whitaker with an RSC grant). Beales commissioned a kinetic sculpture as part of EPSRC grant
 EP/M027929/1 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4WmQs6q6t0).
 The Astbury Conversation is a biennial international conference (since 2016) at the interfaces
 between chemistry, biology and physics, which embeds a public lecture, a public exhibition
 attended by >300 people, and a laboratory masterclass for Year 12 and 13 school students.
 Public lectures include: Cafe Scientifique (Beales, Hardie, Turnbull), Pint of Science (Beales,
 Lehman, Turnbull, Wilson), Bolton Lecture in Astronomy (Plane).




                                                                                          Page 22
