Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 17 (Business and Management Studies)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context and structure

 The Business School at the University of Aberdeen has been transformed since REF 2014. The
 quality, quantity and scope of research have all substantially increased, and the three distinct
 unit of assessment submissions of REF 2014 (UOA 16, Real Estate, submitted with the transport
 and environment group from the School of Geosciences; UOA 18, Economics; and UOA 19,
 Accounting, Finance and Business Management) are now combined into this single integrated
 submission.

 The School’s strategy is closely aligned with the University of Aberdeen’s new strategic vision,
 Aberdeen 2040, and its 1495’s historical and foundational purpose to remain “open to all and
 dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the service of others” (REF5a). A core element of our
 strategy has been accreditation, which we consider essential to the vitality and sustainability of
 the School and to the enhancement of its international profile. It is bringing research benefits by
 increasing our engagement with stakeholders and our impact. Initially, we targeted AACSB and
 EQUIS accreditations as a means of confirming our emphasis on high quality. The School is also
 targeting discipline-specific accreditations and, in recent years, has received reaccredited status
 and new accreditations (from the Energy Institute, Chartered Institute of Marketing and
 Chartered Management Institute). In 2020, the School became a signatory to the United Nations
 Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) to provide future leaders with the
 skills needed to balance economic and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

 In parallel with accreditation and PRME, our strategy has involved a substantial programme of
 organisational and cultural change to develop a more integrated and interdisciplinary approach
 to research, teaching and engagement. A key element has been focused staff recruitment to
 increase capacity and add depth to our research groups. As a result of its successful expansion
 of teaching and research activities, the School has grown significantly over the last six, and
 especially in the last four, years. The number of eligible full-time equivalents (FTEs) has
 increased from 55.8 (39.8 FTEs included in REF2014) in 2014 to 62.85. All are research active,
 but only 22.65 were in post at the last REF.

 The School comprises five disciplinary subject groups: Accountancy (ACC), Business
 Management (BM), Economics (ECS), Finance (FIN) and Real Estate (RE). Boundaries
 between the groups are deliberately permeable in research and teaching and in staff
 recruitment.

 The development and support of the vibrant and collegial research environment is a collective
 responsibility guided by the School’s Executive, with primary input from the School’s Director of
 Research (Montagna) who also sits on the University’s Research Policy Committee (REF5a).
 She chairs the School Research Committee (SRC), which co-ordinates the disciplinary groups’
 strategic research plans and policies, administers the strategic and equitable use of research
 funds, arranges a single all-disciplines staff seminar series, oversees co-supervision of PhD
 students and contributes to the development of interdisciplinary degree programmes. Open
 Access is promoted by the Committee with the support of the Sir Duncan Rice Library’s
 Scholarly Communications Service. The School’s research culture is further enhanced by the
 work of the School Ethics Officer (SEO) (Alawattage, and since 2017 Sales de Aguiar), who
 reviews research projects and advises on issues of research integrity, in line with the
 University’s Research Governance Framework. The SEO sits on the University Committee for
 Research Ethics and Governance in Arts, Social Science and Business (REF5a).



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 b. Research and impact strategy

 The Business School has a strong research focus at the heart of its mission:

     •   Powering change for better businesses and better lives through impactful research
         addressing global societal challenges.

 This articulates our commitment to research that addresses fundamental societal challenges.
 We draw these together under the concept of sustainability, which includes economic/financial,
 environmental, societal and institutional elements. The School’s research mission and vision
 reflect three of the priorities in our University’s Aberdeen 2040 (REF5a) vision:

     •   Sustainability and Global Challenges
     •   Interdisciplinary Research
     •   Partnerships

 To implement our institutional strategy and our accreditation programme, we aim to:

     •   be internationally recognised for leadership in interdisciplinary research on sustainable
         and socially inclusive transitions;
     •   be known for capacity building through collaborative innovation with stakeholders in the
         private and public sector, nationally and internationally;
     •   become a catalyst for developing new solutions by connecting change-makers,
         entrepreneurs and strategic thinkers in the world’s energy cities;
     •   provide an inclusive research environment that enables all researchers to achieve their
         potential;
     •   enable effective dissemination of and open access to research outcomes and data.

 Our approach has been to build on traditional disciplinary foci while extending beyond
 disciplinary boundaries to address interdisciplinary challenges. Thus, we have built critical mass
 and expertise in high quality disciplinary and interdisciplinary research and knowledge
 exchange.

 We are delivering this long-term and ambitious strategy through:

     •   attraction and retention of international scholars, who combine research excellence with
         an enthusiasm to support the School’s research capacity-building and enhance its
         international reputation;
     •   expansion of an integrated and vibrant PhD programme;
     •   engagement with public and private stakeholders.

 We have strengthened research in areas that address themes in energy, work, health and the
 global digital economy. These areas align with our institutional interdisciplinary priority themes
 and with several UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This has enabled us to engage
 successfully with the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), the Arts and Humanities
 Research Council (AHRC), the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and the Newton
 funding programmes.

 By mentoring, brownbag seminars and research workshops, we support staff to publish in top
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary journals and, through collaborations across disciplines within
 the school and outside (such as the Hutton Institute), have embedded an interdisciplinary
 approach to doctoral training. We have facilitated engagement with stakeholders and civil
 society organisations and, with Aberdeen as the only UK city in the World Energy City
 Partnership (WECP), we work to connect policymakers and business practitioners in WECP.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has a strong track record of achieving impact (Section 4). Our Impact Strategy
 should be seen in the context of our External Engagement Strategy, which focuses on two main
 areas: (1) community and business engagement to enhance our local, regional and worldwide
 research-based connections (such as the Scottish Government, Chamber of Commerce,
 Institute of Directors, OECD and the Oil and Gas sector); (2) promotion of public understanding
 of our research ideas and findings through public lectures, Business School Bulletins,
 Newsletters, Blogs and student placement/employment. In 2018, the School and Business
 Advisory Board (BAB), chaired by an external member, was established to support collaboration
 with industry and assist with research and course offerings.

 The expansion of the Business School has resulted in a more diverse researcher community,
 with many appointees taking up posts in the UK for the first time. This enhances the international
 nature of our research portfolio and increases opportunities for networking with colleagues and
 stakeholders internationally.

 The School has been developing a research environment that embeds and supports equality
 and diversity. It achieved an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2017 and is using the experience
 gained to ensure a welcoming and supportive environment for all researchers. This agenda is
 reflected in our research. For example, Bender, Sales de Aguiar and Haque, have carried out
 research on the impact of Covid-19 on gender and its implications for the implementation of
 Athena SWAN in UK Business Schools. Islam and Haque have obtained funding for a project
 on the development of post Covid-19 gender policies to end modern slavery and exploitation in
 the Bangladeshi garment sector and for an assessment of the impact of Covid-19 on corporate
 accountability for working conditions in global supply chains.


 c. Research areas and research centres

 Our research is consolidated in four main areas, which reflect our recent research achievements
 and our portfolio of intellectual contributions:

     •   Energy and the Environment
     •   Work, Society and Wellbeing
     •   Finance, Organisation and Governance
     •   Real Estate Market Analysis

 These thematic areas run through and link the research undertaken by the disciplinary groups
 and are supported by research centres, which also aid our impact and engagement strategy.
 There are four well-established specialist research centres:

     •   Aberdeen Centre for Research in Energy Economics and Finance (ACREEF);
     •   Centre for European Labour Market Research (CELMAR);
     •   Centre for Real Estate Research (CRER);
     •   Scottish Experimental Economics Laboratory (SEEL).

 As part of our research strategy, two new interdisciplinary centres will be launched in 2021:

     •   Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (CIE);
     •   Africa-Asia Centre for Sustainability (AACS).


 Energy and the Environment

 This interdisciplinary area is supported by ACREEF, which was launched in 2009 under the
 directorship of Kemp and draws on accountancy, economics, finance, management, real estate
 and broader collaborative networks across the University (such as with engineering, geo-


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sciences and law). ACREEF provides a focus for high-quality research and makes substantive
 contributions on energy and environmental issues to academic and policy debates in the UK and
 worldwide. It is a key contributor to the National Decommissioning Centre (NDC), a
 GBP38,000,000 partnership between the Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC) and the
 University of Aberdeen, as part of the Aberdeen City Region Deal (ACRD) (Abdul-Salem,
 Kemp, Gronwald), and to the institutional Centre for Energy Transition (CET) (REF5a), with
 collaborations on the decarbonisation of heating systems (Kiso) and, more broadly, in the
 development of its research agenda (Montagna, Rouaix, Vlassis).

 A key focus of investigation continues to be oil and gas, including financial simulation and
 econometric modelling of activity levels, the effects of taxation changes and third-party access to
 infrastructure (Kemp, Gronwald, Abdul-Sbalem, Jin). Increasingly, research has expanded to
 contribute to policy debates on energy transition from oil and gas. Research on the economics of
 renewable energy addresses issues such as the adoption and design of financial support
 schemes for renewable energy, capacity market design, emissions trading schemes and
 markets for carbon offsets and the economics of CO2 capture and storage (Kiso, Gronwald,
 Jin, Rouaix, Swierzbinski).

 This area of research is a clear example of our impactful achievements in economic,
 environmental and institutional sustainability through long-term collaborations with government
 and industry. Work over an extensive period by Kemp and Kasim has been influential in the
 development of UK fiscal policy in the North Sea Continental Shelf. Recent research informed
 policy on field allowances in the West of Shetland region. Kemp’s recommendations informed
 the revised Oil and Gas Authority’s (OGA) strategy to include commitments by the UK and
 Scottish Governments to Net Zero emissions and encouragement of investment in projects that
 advance the Energy Transition. Their research underpins two of the Impact Case Studies (ICSs)
 for this submission (REF3).

 Other research has focussed on the incentives behind international environmental policy
 coordination (Montagna, Vlassis). With colleagues in the School of Biological Science,
 Phimister has developed interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research (funded by GCRF,
 NERC, the Department for International Development (DfiD) and the Newton Fund). Projects
 explore the interrelationships between access to energy, food production and the governance of
 common resources in Ethiopia, land and soil degradation, and access to credit, energy, food and
 water in Sub-Saharan Africa. The GBP1,400,000 interdisciplinary NERC-Newton Funded
 CONTAIN project, led by the School of Biological Sciences, on how to improve the management
 of invasive species in Argentina, Brazil and Chile (Phimister, Abdul-Salam) is making a direct
 and substantial contribution towards the UN Sustainable Development target 15.8 to “reduce the
 impact of invasive alien species” and to “control or eradicate the priority species”.

 Research in social and environmental accounting (Islam, Sales de Aguiar, Haque,
 Whittington, Makerem, Osman) investigates the importance of, and reasons behind, corporate,
 social and environmental sustainability accounting and reporting.

 Work, Society and Wellbeing

 The Work, Society and Wellbeing area examines important 21st century public policy
 challenges. Originating in a long history of labour economics and business management
 research, work has explored how health and labour markets operate, advancing policy
 recommendations towards more efficient and equitable outcomes. Research has broadened
 from its traditional focus on empirical studies to cover theoretical analyses and to address the
 challenges that global developments pose on the ability of countries to implement independent
 policies. Researchers in this area benefit from the Centre for European Labour Market
 Research (CELMR), established in 2000 and directed by Theodossiou, which supports high
 quality and policy-relevant research and the development of national and international networks.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There are three overlapping sub-areas: Labour Markets, Health and Industrial Organisation and
 Technology.

 Projects in the Labour Markets sub-area include: inequality and the labour market (Battu,
 Bender, Skåtun, Theodossiou); macroeconomic and labour market effects of globalisation,
 shocks and austerity policies (Montagna, Theodossiou); the incidence, causes and effects of
 educational mismatch in the labour market (Battu, Bender, Montagna, Theodossiou); the
 impact of firm-specific factors on mismatch and other labour market outcomes (Bender,
 Montagna); and the impact of labour market institutions on labour market outcomes and
 workers’ wellbeing (Bender, Montagna, Zangelidis). Funding was received from the European
 Research Council (FP7) (Montagna), NORFACE (Montagna) and the ESRC (Bender,
 Theodossiou). Research on corporate accountability and modern slavery within the global
 supply chain (Islam, Haque) received funding from the AHRC and the CPA Australia.

 Projects in Health include education policies and migrants’ wellbeing (Aoki); the impact of labour
 and management practices on workers’ health and well-being (Bender, Montagna, Skåtun,
 Theodossiou, Zangelides), with projects funded by the ESRC (Bender and Theodossiou) and
 the ESRC Productivity Research Network (Montagna); and biomedical practices in cancer care
 and the development of a performative understanding of clinical work (Kazimierczak). Research
 at the interface between economics and psychology at both theoretical (Papi) and experimental
 levels (Bender, Papi, Theodossiou) contributes to and benefits from the activity of SEEL,
 under the interim co-direction of Papi and Watson (from the Health Economics Research Unit
 (HERU).

 Research in this area is impactful. Zangelidis’ work, with colleagues from HERU, on the uptake
 of free eye examinations in Scotland, has led to policy change, as reflected in an impact case
 study (ICS) (REF3). Research led by HERU on point-of-care coagulometers has resulted in the
 National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommending the technology (Scotland,
 Brazelli) (REF3). Skåtun co-authored a report for the Scottish Government Health Directorates
 on the effects of pay restraint on NHS Scotland staff groups. Montagna’s work on the labour
 market impact of welfare state policies resulted in her being a member of the Expert Network on
 Social Security, Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICe). Her work on the effects of
 globalisation on labour markets and productivity has resulted in a long-lasting engagement with
 the Government Economic Service. Testimonies were given to the Economy, Jobs and Fair
 Work Committee of the Scottish Parliament in an inquiry on the Scottish economic statistics to
 determine effective delivery and scrutiny of policy (Montagna) and on the inclusive growth
 performance of the Scottish Economy (Montagna, Zangelidis).

 In a development context, an interdisciplinary team led by Phimister, funded as part of the
 GCRF Equitable Resilience programme, is having direct livelihood benefits in Ethiopia by
 training and resourcing groups of landless people to undertake new productive activities in
 beekeeping and livestock management.

 The sub-theme of Industrial Organisation and Technology has been substantially expanded and
 strengthened by recent recruitment. Research addresses: the organisation and management of
 professionals (Allan); organisational control, autonomy in retail work and employee participation
 (Bilsland); negotiations and conflict between teams and individuals (Dowie); industry decision-
 making in health and the environment (Phimister); workers’ use of new technologies (Hislop);
 and the use of technology in risk and security (Tennakoon).

 Finance, Organisation, and Governance

 The sub-area of Finance focuses on theoretical and empirical research in Corporate Finance,
 Asset Pricing and Banking. It has attracted significant external research funding (Kling) from the
 European Research Council (FP7), ESRC, Newton Fund and Maava Foundation.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In Corporate Finance (Gymiah, Da Silva Fernandes, Jiang, Kling, Lee, McCann, Vu),
 research focuses on financial constraints from capital market imperfections (Da Silva
 Fernandes, Gymiah, McCann). Research on financial inclusion addresses financial constraints
 affecting individuals and smaller and medium-sized enterprises (Kling). Supported by an ESRC-
 NSFC project (Kling), several research papers have contributed to the literature on improving
 access to formal financial services. Other streams explore sovereign risks, credit ratings and the
 role of financial services (Vu, Jiang) and behavioural finance (Hvide).

 In Asset Pricing, researchers (Black, Papadimitriou, Zhao) explore links between financial
 markets and the real economy focusing on risk aversion, excess volatility, stock return
 predictability, asset allocation and insider trading. Recently published work considers the
 performance of US sector-specific and international mutual funds (Zhao with MacGregor and
 Schulz from the Real Estate Group). Research is being carried out on the impact of Covid-19 on
 US stock returns through its impact on supply chains (Jiang).

 In Banking, work is mainly on financial stability (Da Silva Fernandes, Jiang, Liu). Current
 research focuses on green finance, shadow banking in China and financing issues in China's
 Belt and Road initiative (Jiang). Linked to this is work on the collapse of Scottish banks
 (Canales).

 Under the sub-area of Organisation, research advances social and relational understanding of
 change at home and at work, including behavioural adaptation and the assimilation of new
 technologies into working practices. Areas include the management of change on managers’
 perceptions of job, career and organisation (Allan), the utilisation of contingent labour (Zhang
 and Hislop), performance management and resourcing strategies (Boyne) and how the
 boundaries of the firm are affected by changes in competitive forces resulting from technological
 complexity and globalisation (Montagna).

 One line of research takes an external, “looking in”, perspective on the strategic management of
 organisations, including: the strategy process, innovation, new product performance, spin-offs
 and new technology (Canales, Cai, Hu, Meyer, Shi, Zhang); and technology adoption and
 diffusion (Akhtar, Cai, Meyer). Another takes an internal, “looking out”, perspective, including
 employee engagement and participation (Bilsland); technology and work, mobile working,
 teleworking, knowledge management, artificial intelligence (Hislop); and analysis of science and
 technology and their interrelationship (Meyer).

 The sub-theme of Governance contributes to agency theory, managerial power theory, elites,
 social networks and disclosure. It covers both private and public sectors. Research examines
 factors influencing the quality of financial reporting and earnings management (Whittington,
 Makerem). The importance of financial regulations and the interplay between regulation and
 financial stability are studied in various country settings (Kling, Jiang). Other strands study firm
 policy and corporate governance (Bayat), corporate governance and diversification in emerging
 economies (Hu) and the management of university-industry technology transfer (Meyer, Hvide).

 Influential research has addressed public sector governance, strategy content, performance and
 improvement in public sector institutions (Boyne). Recent work was triggered by the Grenfell
 disaster and the failure of regulations (Sales de Aguiar and Liu, supported by a Carnegie Trust
 grant). Other strands examine accounting, governance and transparency within the public sector
 (Paterson, Jackson).

 This area will be expanded by the establishment of the interdisciplinary Africa-Asia Centre for
 Sustainability (AACS), under Khan’s leadership, which will undertake multi and trans-
 disciplinary research to forge new understanding and new ways of addressing critical
 sustainability and global grand challenges. Planned themes include sustainable
 entrepreneurship, international knowledge transfer and internationalisation of SMEs, emerging
 economies’ firms' CSR and sustainability practices and global supply chains.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several strands of research use big data analytics, network technology and operation
 management techniques (Khan, Akhtar). For example, big data analytics has been employed to
 address grand challenges such as Covid-19 (Khan) and the effects of Covid-19 on the renewal
 of underperforming state-owned enterprises has also been explored (Khan).

 A fast-expanding theme within this area is entrepreneurship, which includes work on innovation,
 commercialisation and academic entrepreneurship (Libaers, Khan, Hvide, Meyer, Shi, Parker,
 Wu, Zhang). Research on international entrepreneurship (Knight, Khan, Wu, Zhang) includes
 analysis of “born globals”, international alliances and joint ventures. Work on the economics of
 entrepreneurship addresses how risk preferences and beliefs affect entrepreneurship selection,
 performance (Hvide, Parker) and finance (Johan, Hvide, Parker, Wu).

 An interdisciplinary Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (CIE) will be established in
 2021. It will be a hub for the ecosystem of institutions that encourage entrepreneurship in
 Scotland and will interact with other Universities to develop teaching and research on
 entrepreneurship. CIE will work closely with Scale-Up, the Scottish-wide Entrepreneurship
 initiative supported by 15 Scottish Universities, in which the School has taken a leading role.
 Additionally, the School formed a regional University consortium which was awarded one of
 three winning bids to run a Scale-Up programme in Scotland. Unfortunately, this was cancelled
 because of Covid-19.

 Real Estate Market Analysis

 Research in this area is delivered through the Centre for Real Estate Research (CRER),
 established in 1995. CRER supports staff in the development of interdisciplinary activity and
 seeks to shape the international research agenda in real estate. An important part of the
 research examines commercial real estate space markets in the context of the economy and
 financial markets. A long-standing theme is the modelling of commercial property rents,
 vacancies and the analysis of development in major cities (MacGregor, Hendershott (now
 retired), Black).

 Another long-standing research theme is the interconnectedness of asset markets, the pricing of
 real estate securities and performance evaluation of managed funds (Hoesli, MacGregor,
 Schulz, Zhao and Gronwald). The most recent work examines US mutual funds, specifically
 real estate mutual funds and global real estate mutual funds (MacGregor, Schulz, Zhao). Other
 recent work has examined university building programmes and loan funding (Hutchison and
 McCann).

 A further theme is the analysis of housing markets and the statistical modelling of house prices.
 CRER has provided, since 2012Q2, the quarterly Aberdeen Housing Market Report, based on
 listing and transaction data provided by the Aberdeen Solicitors Property Centre (ASPC). The
 report was expanded in 2020 and now provides, in addition to quality-controlled prices,
 information on mark-ups and listing and transaction volumes. Since 2016, CRER has advised
 ASPC on a potential automated valuation service (AVS). Schulz and Wersing edited a special
 AVS issue of the Journal of Property Research, which will appear in the Summer 2021 issue.
 AVS in Aberdeen, Berlin and Switzerland are the topic of an ICS (Hoesli, Schulz, Wersing)
 (REF3). Expertise in the area has led to expert witness work (MacGregor). Other new work in
 the theme includes Swedish residential auctions (MacGregor, Wersing) and the demand for
 non-negative equity guarantees (Hutchison, MacGregor).

 The work in these three themes, and the international links in which it has resulted, formed the
 background to the editing of the Routledge Companion to Real Estate Investment by
 MacGregor and Schulz.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3B   2. People

 a.      Staffing strategy

 During the first half of the assessment period, REF eligible staff numbers fell by 31% (REF2014
 census date to May 2017). This was redressed by a substantial programme of investment that
 led to an increase in research and impact capacity, strengthening leadership in Accountancy,
 Finance and Business Management in particular. The recruitment and retention of high calibre
 researchers is now central to our strategy. Recruitment has enhanced the quantity, quality and
 range of our research and enabled us to power change through capacity building, leadership in
 interdisciplinary research and collaborative innovation.

 Appointments have included a mix of early career researchers, lecturers, senior lecturers and
 chairs, both traditional research academics and professionally focused appointments, resulting
 in a greatly enhanced, diverse and vibrant environment. As part of our strategy to identify and
 embed best practices from highly rated international Universities, part-time appointments have
 been made in Business Management, with more appointments planned.

 Our recruitment strategy:

         • Develops existing areas of strength in line with institutional and School strategies,
           drawing on and extending our interdisciplinary approach in: (i) health economics and
           healthcare management in collaboration with the Health Economics Research Unit; (ii)
           energy transitions and decommissioning, working with the Schools of Engineering,
           Geosciences and Law; (iii) finance and governance by further investment in staff who
           address the sustainability agenda highlighted previously.
         • Pursues further growth in Business Management to cover all main business school
           disciplines. Having made important leadership appointments (Akhtar, Canales, Hislop,
           Khan, Wu, Zhang), alongside more junior appointments, during this REF period, we plan
           further investment in business analytics, finance/fintech and marketing.
         • Builds on our strong impact track record to further increase the School’s real-world
           impact. This will benefit from recent appointments (Akhtar, Khan, Smith, Storm) of staff
           with expertise in developing Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP), knowledge
           exchange projects and research-informed executive education programmes to broaden
           the impact of our activities.

 b.      Staff development and research support.

 Our strategy focuses on raising aspirations, mentoring by experienced researchers and
 enhancing collaboration. A strong research ethos is embedded in the School’s organisation,
 structures and processes to ensure that staff have the support, time and resources to engage in
 high quality research.

 The School Research Committee (SRC) oversees the support of research activities. It meets
 quarterly, is chaired by the School Director of Research (Montagna), and includes Discipline
 Directors of Research (Canales, Islam, Kling, Schulz), the Director of Postgraduate Research
 (Paterson), the Equality and Diversity Research Lead (Haque) and the School Ethics Officer
 (Sales de Aguiar).

 There is organisational and budgetary input from the School Administrative Officer. The
 Business Development Officer (BDO) from the University’s Research and Innovation Directorate
 attends the committee meetings to share information on research funding schemes and
 initiatives.

 The School’s workload model allocates 40% of academic staff’s time to research. In addition to
 teaching commitments, all committee roles are recognised as formal responsibilities within


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual workload allocations. To facilitate research activity, it is School policy that no meetings
 are held on Fridays.

 The School allocates an annual staff personal research allowance for research visits and
 conference presentations, pump-priming and seed-funding. This can be supplemented by
 competitive awards from the School Research Committee as well as from the University’s
 Grants Academy and pump-priming funds (REF5a). Funding is prioritised for Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs), and for attendance at high-profile events, such as those funded by the
 British Accounting and Finance Association, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland,
 the British Academy of Management and the Royal Economic Society.

 In addition to the formal support systems, informal support is provided through the collegial
 relationships among staff. The Discipline Directors of Research undertake yearly Research
 Review Meetings with research-active members of staff and others wishing to transfer to the
 teaching and research track. These are informal meetings, designed to provide a supportive
 context in which colleagues can discuss their research achievements and plans.

 Thirteen out of 14 submitted ECRs joined the School during this REF period. The School has an
 official mentoring scheme for ECRs throughout their probation period and an informal mentoring
 scheme thereafter. The scheme operates partly through annual research review meetings and
 through formal and informal meetings at the crucial stages of conception, grant application,
 publication and knowledge exchange development. ECRs are supported through formal
 reductions in teaching (50% reduction in the first year and 25% in the second year) and through
 light administrative loads throughout probation.

 For those beyond probation, prioritisation of research is facilitated through a sabbatical scheme.
 The School adheres to the University Policy on Research Leave for Academic Staff, which is
 designed to enhance the quality and range of research and knowledge exchange. Each
 researcher is eligible to apply for at least one semester of research leave out of eight. The period
 is usually one semester but can be one year. In recent years, the following staff have benefited:
 Bender and Vlassis (2020); MacGregor (2019); McCann and Whittington (2018); Bender and
 Montagna (2017); Theodossiou (2016); Hutchison, Phimister, Schulz, Skatun and
 Zangelidis (2015); Battu, Cai and Mauthner (2014).

 The Research and Innovation Lead (Islam) works with University Professional Services Staff in
 Research and Innovation, the Grants Academy, the Public Engagement for Research Unit, the
 Public Affairs Unit and the Development Trust to arrange an annual programme of workshops on
 funding opportunities in research and knowledge exchange (REF5a).

 Bi-annual School research “Away Days” are used to enable all staff to contribute to the review
 and development of strategy, to explore and build on existing synergies and to develop new
 areas of strength. Involvement is also enabled through monthly School Forums.

 The School’s Research Ethics Officer (Sales de Aguiar) supports compliance of grant
 applications with the University’s Research Governance Framework and funders’ requirements.
 She is a member of the Committee for Research Ethics and Governance in Arts, Social
 Sciences and Business, which oversees ethics training and compliance in these disciplines and
 works with colleagues on institutional policy and guidance for researchers. This includes ethical
 approval of research projects and extends to wider research conduct, including data
 management, data governance and protection, reproducibility, publication ethics and appropriate
 acknowledgement of researcher contribution (REF5a).

 The School Seminar Committee, with representatives from all disciplines, organises a weekly
 external speaker research programme as well as weekly internal brown bag research seminars
 for informal presentations of work in progress. Whenever appropriate, a small workshop with
 presentations from internal staff is organised around a keynote external speaker.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University follows the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 (UUK/RCUK). Within this context, the School, as part of the wider University, was awarded the
 HR Excellence in Research badge by the European Commission in recognition of its
 commitment to improving the working conditions and career development of research staff
 (REF5a).

 Professional development of all staff in the School is aided by the University’s Grants Academy.
 Support is provided in grant-writing, strategic career planning, business engagement and
 entrepreneurship, academic leadership skills and communication of research, encouraging
 researcher-led interdisciplinary collaborations across schools (REF5a).

 c.   Research students

 The School has a vibrant community of PhD Students, with 85 currently registered
 (Accountancy: 17; Finance: 11; Economics: 32; Management Studies: 21; and Real Estate: 4).
 This includes students on joint PhD programs with partner institutions, such as Curtin University
 (AACSB accredited). During the assessment period, 81 students completed their studies.

 The School’s Postgraduate Research (PGR) Director (Paterson) oversees PGR student
 training, monitoring, progression and welfare, with the wider support of the University’s Graduate
 school (REF5a). She chairs the School PGR Committee (PGRC), reports to the School
 Research Committee and has dedicated administrative support. The School has a PhD
 Examination Officer (Bracht) who sits on the PGRC. It provides financial support for national
 and international conference attendance and travel and for training and development.

 Our PGR strategy is to recruit and retain high-quality candidates. The current normal entry
 requirement for PhD study is a postgraduate master’s degree (not normally MBA) in a relevant
 area, showing clear potential for PhD study. Applicants who do not meet this criterion may be
 accepted onto an MRes programme with a view to transferring to the PhD programme on
 successful completion of the master’s degree.

 The School is a member of two ESRC-accredited Doctoral Training Partnerships. Economics
 research postgraduates are members of the Scottish Graduate Programme in Economics
 (SGPE) and those in ACC, FIN and BM are members of the Scottish Graduate School of Social
 Science (SGSSS; Business School link: Shi), an ESRC-accredited Doctoral Training
 Partnership.

 The recruitment strategy includes: identifying and nurturing students, with potential to undertake
 a PhD, from our own master’s programmes and from the SGPE, to which we are a major
 contributor; applying for ESRC studentships through the SGSSS (Kazimierczak, 2018);
 developing CASE studentships with ESRC and the Scottish Government (Montagna, 2013,
 Montagna and Bender 2014); international collaborations (such as a University-wide strategic
 initiative with Curtin University (Gronwald, Schulz); advertising competitive scholarship
 schemes through the Business School Scholarships and the University’s Elphinstone
 Scholarship Scheme; and advertising PhD research projects on findaphd.com.

 Every student has two supervisors, with junior staff gaining supervisory experience by being
 paired with senior mentors. Where appropriate, we facilitate cross-disciplinary supervision within
 the School, across the University and with outside partners.

 During this REF cycle, we have strengthened PGR training through greater coordination and
 standardisation across disciplines within the School. All PhD supervisors undertake a
 compulsory University PhD Supervisor Training course.

 The School’s doctoral training programme is closely aligned with the current ESRC
 Postgraduate Training and Development Guidelines.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each student and their supervisors devise an individualised programme of study and training.
 Compulsory generic training is provided by the central Postgraduate Research School, which
 oversees PGR provision across the institution (REF5a). Students also benefit from the training
 offered by the SGSSS, which includes a compulsory foundation in a broad range of social
 science research methods, basic research skills and broader capabilities, such as
 communication and leadership skills.

 Discipline-specific training complements this. As well as directed reading, each student takes
 one or more master’s level courses, normally during their first year. These include advanced
 methodological training in economic theory and econometrics offered within programmes outside
 the School (such as the MSc in Financial Mathematics) or by the SGPE. Performance in these
 courses is one of the criteria for progression at the end of Year 1.

 In addition, PhD students working in relevant areas, benefit from the training provision of the
 NDC Doctoral Training Programme. In-house advanced methodological training includes PhD
 Masterclasses featuring internal and external speakers on topics of interest to students and/or in
 response to specific needs identified by supervisors. Workshops have ranged from the theory of
 economic policy (Abul-Naga, Montagna), experimental methods such as randomised trials
 (Battu), policy evaluations (Battu, HERU staff, Scottish Government and Bank of England
 economists) to statistical/econometric methods (Phimister and honorary members of staff
 Pouliakas, Molana). An interactive workshop on designing research is run twice a year by Hvide.

 SGPE and SGSSS hold annual summer schools. In 2015, the School hosted the bi-annual BM
 Pathway Colloquium; and in 2019, the School hosted the Accounting and Finance Colloquium.

 From their second year, students have opportunities to obtain teaching experience by giving
 guest lectures or running tutorials and seminar groups, for which they receive appropriate
 training and support.

 Supervisors and PGR students complete twice-yearly progress reports and are responsible for
 reporting any problems to the PGR Director. The School, aligned with University processes, has
 a procedure to address inadequate progress, overseen by the PGR Director and involving the
 assessment of progress towards a clear set of targets.

 All PhD students are required to give at least one presentation a year within the School. These
 are organised formally as workshops and/or seminars and give students the opportunity to
 receive feedback, to build confidence and to develop transferable skills. Economics students are
 required to submit and present a paper at the annual PhD Conference under the auspices of
 CELMR, and are given feedback on their paper and presentation, which contributes to their
 annual progress report. All PhD students are encouraged to attend and present papers at the
 staff brown-bag lunchtime workshop and are expected to attend research seminars and staff
 workshops. By Year 2, students are supported in presenting their work at academic
 conferences.

 d.   Equality and diversity

 Recent investment in staffing across the School has led to a significant increase in the number
 of early career researchers and to increased ethnic diversity. On census date, 41.8% of staff
 declared a Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) background, which is significantly higher
 than the institutional average. Also, 43.3% of submitted staff are lecturers (including the 21%
 ECRs). Among these, 58% declared a BAME background (71% of ECRs), with many employed
 at a UK institution for the first time. Therefore, as well as a focus on induction and career
 development, our support for researchers is also on ensuring an environment that is free of bias
 of any kind. The University offers unconscious bias training, and we will engage fully with the
 institutional Race Equality Action Group and resulting plan.



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University has Investors in People status and meets the Athena SWAN bronze standards in
 its employment practices (REF5a). In 2011, the School achieved an Athena SWAN Bronze
 award, demonstrating its commitment to equality through a wide range of processes in learning
 and teaching, student and staff recruitment and career progression. The award was successfully
 renewed in April 2017. It is one of only 22 UK business schools with this award. The School’s
 submission was commended by the Equality Challenge Unit (ECU) panel for its “genuine
 commitment and honesty” in tackling equality and diversity (E&D). A dedicated Athena SWAN
 team, co-led by Dowie and Whittington, works to ensure that the Athena SWAN principles are
 embedded within the school’s activities. The University’s E&D team provides support with
 Athena SWAN actions and submissions.

 The School’s Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC), which includes student representation,
 has been proactive in organising and supporting a range of events designed to raise awareness
 on equality and gender issues. The EDC is co-chaired by Whittington, Haque and Bender,
 supported by a dedicated member of the administrative staff. The EDC reports to the School’s
 Executive Committee (SEC). E&D activities are a key component of the School Annual Plan,
 and a report on E&D activities is a standing item on the SEC Agenda. The School has appointed
 an E&D Research Champion to the SRC (Haque). The EDC organised a research workshop on
 gender issues (2019) and publishes a Newsletter.

 The EDC has formulated an Equality Action Plan (EAP) to establish E&D principles within the
 School. The EAP includes a progress review, recommendations and a revised action plan to
 apply for Athena SWAN Silver accreditation (planned for 2023-24). It has seven areas of action:
 promoting (gender) equality; student recruitment; attainment and progression; staff recruitment
 and induction; staff career progression; research; flexible working; and communication and
 governance. Each area has a “Champion” whose role is to achieve the action points by working
 with colleagues within the School and wider University. The Champions sit on the EDC and
 report progress. Work in support of E&D is formally recognised in our workload model.

 While the focus of our E&D work during the assessment period has been on gender, our future
 strategy is to extend it to all groups protected under the Equalities Act.

 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a.       Research Income

 Research income for this unit over the assessment period must be considered against a
 backdrop of significant staff turnover, restructuring and a large proportion of recently appointed
 ECRs. Most of the growth in research capacity took place later in the assessment period, and
 research awards have increased significantly. For 2018/19, the total value of awards recorded
 for the Business School was 2.5 times that of 2013/14, but it fell for 2019/20 because of Covid-
 19 restrictions.

 In light of the strategy set out in section 1, Research Council funding has increased towards the
 end of the assessment period, partly reflecting our strategic focus on Official Development
 Assistance (ODA) and GCRF. Our involvement with the NDC, and collaborative projects with
 HERU/HSRU and CET are expected to lead to further growth in UK government and industry
 funding.

 Grant acquisition is encouraged, monitored and supported through academic line managers
 and our Framework of Academic Expectations. Funding opportunities are disseminated through
 the Grants Academy, which also supports networking and scoping events for complex and
 challenge-based calls for applications. Development of applications within the School is
 supported by a BDO and Research Finance Accountants within Research and Innovation, along
 with a dedicated team that scrutinises contracts with funders, partners and sub-contractors to
 ensure that complex or international research commitments are delivered successfully (REF5a).


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KTI) at local, national and international levels, through the
 creation of strategic partnerships, is a key objective of the School, which has an effective
 communication strategy to increase the visibility of research and to disseminate research news
 and initiatives internally and externally. Our research budget includes an Impact Development
 Fund for pump-priming KTI activities through Impact Fellowships and workload incentives.
 Impact and public engagement activities are supported by the Impact and Knowledge Exchange
 team within R&I. During the assessment period, Zangelidis and Bracht received pump-priming
 funds to develop and demonstrate impact.

 Examples of some of the larger grants, from a wide range of public and private sources, are
 shown below for each research area. Many illustrate collaborations beyond the School, in the
 University, nationally and internationally.

 Energy and the Environment

 Demand from industry, government and economic development agencies for Kemp’s long-term
 analysis of oil and gas economics and markets is evidenced by repeated annual rounds of
 funding from a group of oil companies, Scottish Enterprise and Office of Chief Economic Adviser
 (Scottish Government) for a total of GBP816,400 over this REF period. His collaboration with the
 School of Engineering underpinned major funding on Capacity Building at Higher Education
 Institutions in Tanzania in Development of the Oil and Gas Sector, 2015-2018, European Union
 (EUR2,000,000).

 Phimister, Rouaix and Swierzbinski received funding for research on energy market design
 from the Energy Technology Partnership (GBP76,100) (sponsored by the Scottish Funding
 Council and the University of Aberdeen), to design “auction mechanisms in the energy market”.

 Over the current REF period, with colleagues in the School of Biological Science, Phimister has
 developed a range of interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary funded projects on:
     • reducing land degradation in Ethiopia (part of the GCRF Equitable Resilience
         programme: RALENTIR, PI: GBP997,500);
     • optimising long term management of invasive species affecting biodiversity using
         adaptive management (NERC-Newton, GBP1,400,000);
     • improving organic resource use in rural Ethiopia (IPORE) (ESRC-Nexus, PI:
         GBP150,000);
     • building resilience to drought in Ethiopia's Awassa region (BREAD, NERC-DfID:
         GBP237,700.

 Another project focuses on access to credit, energy, food and water in Sub-Saharan Africa
 (British Academy, Phimister, Abdul-Salam).

 In collaboration with the James Hutton Institute, Abdul-Salam, developed a work package on
 the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in farming within a project on soils and water
 management funded by the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board (GBP500,000). A
 collaboration with the School of Engineering (Phimister) led to the Leverhulme Trust Centre for
 Doctoral Training in Sustainable Production of Chemicals and Materials (GBP1,000,000).
 Theodossiou was part of a grant from the 7th Framework Programme, EU (EUR210,000) to
 examine parasite risk assessment in EU fish production value chains.

 Work, Society and Wellbeing

 Bender (PI) and Theodossiou’s research on performance-related pay and stress with co-PIs from
 Health Psychology, is funded by the ESRC (GBP461,000; 2018-2021).

 Montagna’s research on the effects of globalisation and the welfare state on labour markets
 received initial funding from the European Commission FP7 programme as part of a large


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consortium (“Welfare, Wealth and Work for Europe” EUR8,500,000 total) and, more recently,
 from NORFACE as part of their Welfare State Futures programme (Montagna PI, EUR850,000).

 Theodossiou received funding from the European Commission for developing HEI research
 capacities for the analysis of informal labour markets in Latin America (LATWORK,
 EUR970,000).

 Islam’s research on slavery has been funded by CPA Australia (GBP34,910, with the Australia
 National University and University of New South Wales) for a project on regulation of
 transparency and disclosures on slavery in global supply chains. Islam and Haque have
 obtained funding for a project on the development of post Covid-19 gender policy to end modern
 slavery in the Bangladeshi garment sector (AHRC, GBP139,018) and for a project assessing the
 impact of Covid-19 on corporate accountability for working conditions within global supply chains
 (GCRF Covid-19 Response grant, GBP98,214).

 Finance, Organisation and Governance

 The Finance group attracted external research funding for five large projects in the areas of
 financial stability (Jiang) and financial inclusion and sustainability (Kling). Funding sources
 included the Scottish Government, the NSFC (Jiang; GBP53,000), and the Newton Fund (Kling,
 GBP380,296). The ESRC-NSFC project (Kling) has focussed on the use of technology and
 regulation to enhance financial inclusion in China's financial system towards sustainable growth.
 Insights from this project were disseminated at workshops for the Third Bureau of Supervision of
 State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) and the China State
 Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC).

 Hvide is PI of a four-year project funded by the Norwegian Research Council (approximately
 GBP250,000) on the factors that affect the portfolio choices of individual investors. Cai received
 funding from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) for research on network
 embeddedness and firm innovation strategies (GBP38,000), on dynamic interactive innovation
 (GBP53,000) and on modelling innovation in an emerging economy (GBP55,890). A KTP project
 (Cai) aimed to bring a unique agile range of web-integrated tracking software to the oil and gas
 market using strategic business development planning and implementation (GBP127,614).

 Real Estate Market Analysis

 Work on “An Investigation of Hurdle Rates in the Real Estate Investment Process”, published in
 2017, was funded by the Investment Property Forum (IPF, GBP60,000). In 2020, this was one of
 nine IPF-funded studies that were chosen from the canon of all IPF research publications as
 being seminal in its potential or actual impact on property investment processes. Several other
 pieces of research were funded by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS),
 including “Bridging the Gap, Private investment in future infrastructure provision” (March 2020,
 Hutchison with collaborators, GBP10,500) and the use of distributed ledgers in real estate (Liu
 with Duncan and Chapman from Computing Science, GBP10,487). Following the Grenfell
 Tower fire, work on the governance of building regulations was funded by the Carnegie Trust
 (Liu with Sales de Aguiar, GBP9,956).


 b.   Infrastructure and facilities

 The University of Aberdeen supports the Business School through the provision of central
 administrative services, infrastructure, library services, information technology and student
 services (REF5a). Most of this is delivered through eight Professional Services directorates and
 the University of Aberdeen Development Trust (the latter incorporating Fund-raising and Alumni
 Relations). Posts within the following key Professional Services areas are dedicated specifically
 to the School: Academic Services and Online Education, Digital and Information Services,


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Estates and Facilities, External Relations and Marketing, Finance, People, Planning and
 Research and Innovation.

 To accommodate growing staff numbers, part of the School has moved to another building close
 to its original home. Reflecting its ambition, the University’s strategy is to build a state-of-the-art
 Business School, including a venue allowing the School to take business and community
 engagement to another level. Funding has been secured through the issue of a bond, and
 detailed planning is underway with the completion date delayed because of Covid-19
 restrictions. The School will also have a city centre presence through the University’s planned
 Marischal project.

 The institutional statement covers University-wide facilities (REF5a). Here, we consider only
 some specifics of the Library and IT and the School’s own specialist facilities.

 The Directorate of Digital and Information Services combines the Library, Special Collections
 and Museums and Digital Services and is responsible for implementation of new technologies,
 greater accessibility of information and appropriate training and development. Business School
 staff benefit from the central Technology Renewal Programme and receive a new computer
 every three years. The School benefits from central management of the University’s wired and
 wireless networks and server infrastructure.

 The School has a dedicated Information Consultant, who is a member of the University’s Library
 team. She liaises with the School and provides a wide range of support and guidance to staff
 and students.

 The School is home to the state-of-the-art SEEL, Scotland's first experimental economics
 laboratory. SEEL supports theoretical and experimental research that studies the decisions
 made by economic agents, both individually and within strategic interactions, with applications to
 diverse areas such as labour and health economics and markets design. SEEL further supports
 the School’s strong link to HERU by enabling novel experimental research to determine
 incentives and outcomes in health care provision. The interdisciplinary ESRC-funded project on
 performance-related Pay and Stress (Bender, Theodossiou, with the School of Psychology)
 uses the laboratory to conduct experiments to measure participants’ cortisol level responses to
 performance-pay.

 In 2018, the School introduced a new Bloomberg finance laboratory, giving staff and students
 access to real-time and historical data and analytics on investment decisions. Twenty terminals
 are in a dedicated laboratory in the University Library, located beside Datastream terminals,
 enabling the building of datasets of corporate financial and market information. They will be
 relocated to a dedicated laboratory in the new Business School Building.

 c.   Approach to enabling impact

 The School has a strong track record of achieving impact (Section 4) and its Impact Strategy lies
 within the context of its External Engagement Strategy, led by the Director of External
 Engagement (Hutchison), focussing on community, government and business engagement
 dissemination of research to wider audiences.

 The School BAB supports the implementation of the School’s strategic goals and assists with
 research and course offerings. The Board has eleven external members, all senior in their
 industries. Among them, is the Knowledge Transfer Adviser for the North of Scotland, reflecting
 the School’s ambition to greater KTP projects involvement.

 Our impact, knowledge exchange and external engagement activities are supported by a
 dedicated School team of external-facing professional services staff, which comprises the
 Business Engagement Advisor, the Marketing and Communications Officer, the Partnerships
 Officer and the Schools Engagement Officer. These roles help raise the profile of the research

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise within the School and assist in the development of collaborations. This support
 complements that offered by the central Impact and Knowledge Exchange Team. It runs Impact
 Clinics, led by professional services staff, to support staff who have potential or where their
 work has emerging impact. There is internal funding available to support impact development,
 overseen by the University’s Impact Officer. The Business Engagement Adviser supports
 partnership activities with companies, public bodies and not-for-profit organisations. A
 partnership between the School and the Aberdeen and Grampian Chamber of Commerce
 underpins a Business Breakfast series attracting expert regional and national speakers on topics
 ranging from leadership, technology and infrastructure and taxation, to trade and energy
 transition. Unfortunately, due to Covid-19, several planned activities had to be cancelled in 2020.

 Knowledge exchange and impact are embedded in the School’s research structures and culture.
 The School Director of Research (Montagna) oversees and implements the KTI elements of the
 School’s Research strategy and operational plan and supports KTI activities.

 In 2018, we introduced six-month Impact Fellowships that free up 10% of staff workloads for
 impact activities and are strategically allocated to high impact potential research areas. Two
 were awarded in 2019 (Zangelidis; Schulz and Wersing - shared) to support impact described
 in two ICSs (REF3).

 The Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU) (REF5a) has a “Public Engagement
 Enabling Fund” that supports research-led public engagement by staff and research students
 and provides details about external sources of funding for such activities. PERU also organises
 PechaKucha, a popular format that challenges researchers to present their work to a lay
 audience in 20 minutes, the May Festival and other activities; while the Public Affairs Unit
 assists with developing networks among policy makers within the Scottish Government and
 Westminster and other public bodies.

 d. Open Access

 The School is fully committed to open research, on the principle that publicly funded research
 should be freely accessible and reusable. The University’s Open Access policy supports the
 development of an open research culture and practices, including open access publications and
 open access to research data (REF5a). The policy includes both Gold (immediate open access
 available on publication) and Green (self-archiving) routes, the use of which is encouraged.
 Typically, pre-print versions of outputs are made available through the Aberdeen University
 Research Archive (AURA).

 The School Research Committee has also developed an Open Research policy, encouraging
 staff to enhance the visibility of their research. All publications are deposited in Pure (which is
 fully integrated with AURA). The School has a blog within its News and Events page and
 dissemination is strongly encouraged through publication in public forums such as The
 Conversation (Bender, 2017, Islam, 2018, 2020). We support publication through our Working
 Papers in Economics and Finance Series edited by Kiso; each paper has an ISSN number
 and is visible in AURA and the Social Science Research Network (SSRN).

 Data management and governance is supported through IT and library teams, which advise on
 the development and implementation of Data Management Plans. Publication of datasets is
 encouraged, and researchers in the Business School have published datasets on the
 institutional research portal as well as the UK Data Archive.

 The University’s and the School’s policies, strategies, infrastructure and resources are
 communicated to all staff on induction and through institutional email circulars, the monthly
 Business School Forum, annual Research Review Meetings, School research updates, School
 Away Days and the website.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 a.   Research collaborations, networks and fellowships

 Academic networks are crucial for the sharing of information and combining expertise in joint
 research projects. Researchers across disciplines have extensive national and international
 networks of collaborators as well as collaborations within the School. This is evident in the
 publications submitted. Only some of these extensive formal and informal, institutional, group
 and individual collaborations and networks are presented below.

 Energy and the Environment

 ACREEF’s links with the University of Stavanger have resulted in jointly-authored publications,
 with others in progress. Professor Osmundsen from Stavanger has recently visited us twice
 (2018, 2019) and delivered lectures to staff and students. Given the highly impactful nature of its
 research, ACREEF’s primary networks are with user communities, as described in the following
 section.

 An international research network supports the interdisciplinary work of Phimister.
 Collaborations with partners in Africa (Hawassa University (Ethiopia), International Water
 Management Institute (IWMI, Ethiopia), Southern Agricultural Research Institute (Ethiopia),
 Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (Ghana) and Makerere University
 (Uganda)) has led to six externally funded projects (ranging from GBP30,000 to GBP1,000,000)
 during this REF period. He also has extensive collaborations with South American institutions,
 as part of the NERC-Newton Funded CONTAIN project led by the School of Biological Sciences,
 which have led to five interdisciplinary research papers published in environmental and
 ecological science journals during this REF period.

 Gronwald’s collaborations with Beat Hintermann (University of Basel) and with Ngo Van Long
 (McGill University, Canada) both led to articles in Environmental and Resource Economics.
 Kiso’s collaboration with Ron Chan (University of Manchester) and Yosuke Arino (Institute for
 Global Environmental Strategies, Japan) and Jin’s with Nathan Balke (Southern Methodist
 University) and Mine Yücel (Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas) also led to publications.

 Paterson arranges Accounting for Society and the Environment (ASE) annual one-day
 conferences that attract international participants. ASE has received regular funding and support
 from the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA). As these events align with
 ASE focus areas, she was asked to act as lead co-editor in two special issues in Critical
 Perspectives on Accounting and British Accounting Review. Both the ASE network and the
 special issues have attracted international participants from around the globe.

 Work, Society and Well-being

 Members in this area have coordinated multiple pan-European projects on labour, health and
 well-being and the effects of globalisation. Montagna’s research on the interaction between
 globalisation and policy in determining labour market outcomes has led to collaborations with
 Holger Görg (Kiel Institute of the World Economy), Fredrik Sjöholm (Lund University) and the
 Osterreichisches Institut fur Wirtschaftsforschung Verein (WIFO) that have underpinned funding
 from the European Commission FP7 programme “Welfare, Wealth and Work for Europe”
 (EUR8,500,000 total) and the NORFACE Welfare State Futures programme (Montagna PI,
 EUR850,000).

 Bender is currently collaborating with Cynthia Bansak (St Lawrence University) and Mike Coon
 (University of Tampa) on the political economy of highly skilled workers. A paper is forthcoming
 in the Handbook of Labor, Human Resources and Population Economics, with more work in
 progress. He also collaborates on educational mismatch with John Heywood (UW-Milwaukee)
 and Kristen Roche (Mount Mary University).


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Papi has collaborated with Gerasimou (St Andrews) on bounded rationality research (with a
 publication in the European Economic Review) and with Mittone (Trento) investigating the
 economics of nudging (with articles appearing in Theory and Decision and Judgment and
 Decision Making).

 In his research on corporate accountability in modern slavery and workers’ rights, Islam has
 collaborated with Justine Nolan (Deputy Director, Australian Human Rights Centre, UNSW) and
 Jolyon Ford (ANU) and has attracted grants from Certified Practising Accountants (CPA)
 Australia. He expanded his network and collaborations by undertaking the guest editor role in
 the British Accounting Review’s special issue on Modern Slavery and the Accounting Profession
 (with Professor Roger Burritt, ANU and Dr Katherine Christ, UNISA).

 More recently, Islam (with Haque) expanded global collaborations with the sociology scholars,
 Abbott (University of Aberdeen Centre for Global Development) and Akhter (University of Dhaka)
 and a non-academic partner (Traidcraft Exchange NGO) on “The Impact of Covid-19 on Modern
 Slavery within the Global Supply Chains”, resulting in AHRC and GCRF research grants
 (GBP237,232). Islam’s work on corporate accountability and workers’ rights within global supply
 chains, through global collaborations (with Patten, Illinois State University; van Staden, AUT;
 Deegan, UTAS) has resulted in papers in high-impact journals including Accounting,
 Organisation and Society and Journal of Business Ethics.

 Finance, Organisation and Governance

 Involvement in networks is extensive. For example, Canales chairs the Strategy Process IG
 from the Strategic Management Society; Zhang co-chairs the International Business and
 International Management Special Interest Group at the British Academy of Management.

 Collaborations with significant research output or funding include Harvard University (Sikochi,
 Gyimah), University of Chicago (Meling, Mogstad; Hvide), Stanford University (Oyer, Hvide),
 Monash University (Becker, Hvide), Beijing University of Technology (Zeng, Jiang) and
 Chongqing University (Yao, Jiang). Formal networks with Nankai University (Tian, Kling) and
 Zhejiang University (Luo, Kling) have attracted research funding from the Newton Fund
 (GBP323,000, at the School of Oriental and African Studies).

 Chen is participating in a Horizon 2020 project (2020-2023) on cultural tourism, funded
 (EUR3,000,000) by the European Commission and including universities from fifteen countries.
 Zhang has a GBP10,000 Skills Acquisition Award from the British Academy Research
 Committee to examine “Acquisition of Quantitative Skills Research Awards”.

 In addition to academic collaborations, there are collaborations with policy-makers, NGOs and
 other stakeholders, including the Bank of England (Blasi, Kling), Central Bank of Ireland
 (Zekaite, Da Silva Fernandes), International Monetary Fund, Washington, D.C. (Turk-Ariss,
 Klein), and Standard Life UK (Murray, McCann).

 Real Estate Market Analysis

 Members are involved in all of the important national organisations (such as the RICS, the
 Society of Property Researchers and the IPF) and international organisations (such as the
 European Real Estate Society (ERES), the American Real Estate Society (ARES), and the
 American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association (AREUEA)). They regularly present at
 conferences.

 MacGregor edits the Journal of Property Research, and members of the group are on the
 editorial boards or review for the key field journals. Hoesli is a board member and past president
 of the International Real Estate Society (IRES) and the ERES. He is a recipient of the IRES
 Service Award (2020) and member of the Research Committee of the European Public Real
 Estate Association (EPRA). MacGregor is Past Executive Director of ERES. Hoesli and

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MacGregor are Fellows of the Weimer School of Advanced Studies in Real Estate and Land
 Economics in Florida. MacGregor is a Life Fellow of the Society of Property Researchers.

 This networking has led to many national and international collaborations and numerous joint
 authorships and funding awards as well as the recent publication of the Routledge Companion to
 Real Estate Investment edited by MacGregor and Schulz (with Green from the University of
 Southern California). MacGregor has published extensively with Hendershott (formerly of Ohio
 State and Aberdeen), Hoesli (Geneva and Aberdeen), Lizieri (Cambridge) and Schwann
 (Melbourne).

 Hutchison, MacGregor, Schulz and Zhao worked with colleagues at Cambridge on the IPF-
 funded hurdle rates. Hutchison has undertaken several collaborations with staff from Ulster
 University, including a report for the RICS (2020) on “Bridging the Gap, Private investment in
 future infrastructure provision”; and, with Koblyakova (Nottingham Trent University), Tiwari
 (University of Melbourne) and collaborators in Australia and Japan, has published three articles
 on mortgage demand and housing bubbles. Schulz and Wersing have long-term collaborations
 with Kolbe and Werwatz (TU Berlin) and have published extensively with them.

 b.   Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 The School has a strong track record of relationships with research users, beneficiaries and
 other audiences, reflecting our drive to ensure that our research is relevant and addresses
 societal needs.

 Within Energy and the Environment, Kemp has been a consultant on petroleum contracts and
 legislation to many governments, the World Bank and the United Nations and was a member of
 the Council of Economic Advisers to the First Minister of the Scottish Government until 2011. He
 is a member of the Scottish Energy Advisory Board to the Scottish Government and the Editorial
 Advisory Board of World Oil. Other examples of his high level of engagement during this REF
 period include membership of the Scottish Government’s Oil and Gas Expert Commission
 (2013-2014); his appointment by the New Zealand government to serve on its Petroleum
 Resource Allocation Advisory Group (2015); and his service as an expert witness to the Scottish
 Parliament on several occasions. In recognition of these activities, Kemp was presented with the
 Lifetime Achievement Award and induction into the Hall of Fame at the Press and Journal Gold
 Awards (2015).

 Within Work, Society and Well-being, Montagna was the Director of the Scottish Institute for
 Research in Economics (SIRE)/Scottish Government Policy Forum and has had a long-lasting
 engagement with the Scottish Government Economic Service, which has led to a recent ESRC-
 Scottish Government collaborative scholarship. Skåtun’s research (Section 1) has influenced
 policymakers in the US Congress and Senate. Montagna, Skåtun and Zangelidis sit on the
 Scottish Economic Society Council.

 Canales has played a lead role in the creation of Scale-Up Scotland, and the School won one of
 three places for a country-wide Entrepreneurship Programme competing with all 15 Scottish
 Universities. Though the programme was cancelled due to Covid-19, he took a leading role in
 the consortium to ensure that the programme could meet the needs of entrepreneurship
 education.

 In Finance, Organisation and Governance, an ESRC-NSFC (Newton Fund)-funded project on
 financial inclusion in China, led by Kling, has benefited from Co-Is involvement in policy-making
 in China (Dr Xinxiang Wen, Secretary General of the Monetary Policy Committee of the People’s
 Bank of China). A workshop for delegates from the Third Bureau of Supervision of SASAC was
 organised to discuss research findings (corporate governance). Research on green finance
 (Jiang, Kling) has benefited from collaborations with Moody’s and the UN Environment
 Programme (UNEP).


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In Real Estate Market Analysis, the group is actively involved in providing policy-relevant
 research for the property professions and government. The study An Investigation of Hurdle
 Rates in the Real Estate Investment Process (Hutchison, MacGregor and Schulz with Zhao
 from Finance) for the IPF (3a) is an example of the wider contribution of the Real Estate group.
 In 2020, this was one of nine IPF-funded studies that were chosen from the canon of all IPF
 research publications as seminal in its potential or actual impact on property investment
 processes.

 Another clear example of a wider contribution is the group’s research on the methodology of
 house price indices and automated valuation services (AVSs), which helps to improve
 transparency in housing markets (Hoesli, Schulz, Wersing). Based on this work, AVSs have
 been implemented in Switzerland and Berlin, and advice has been provided in Aberdeen (ICSy).
 The quarterly Aberdeen Housing Market Report (AHMR) is compiled by the CRER using data
 from the ASPC. The AHMR was also a topic at the Workshop on Local Governance in Scotland
 and Malaysia held in 2017 in Aberdeen, which brought together nearly 50 academics and
 policymakers.


 c.   Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

 Much of our research contribution and collaboration is aligned with UN SDGs (1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 10,
 13 and 15). We particularly encourage engagement activities with the Scottish Government,
 local councils and their economic development offices, local businesses, Scottish Chambers of
 Commerce and the Scottish Parliament. For example, the School was heavily involved in the
 development and application of the Aberdeen City Region Deal (ACRD), funded by UK, Scottish
 and local governments (MacGregor). Subsequently, staff have been involved in work for the
 NDC as part of the ACRD (Kemp, Gronwald).

 The School has been central to the development of Scottish-wide enterprise activities and in
 supporting local activities. It has recruited researchers who develop quality research in
 entrepreneurship (Johan, Knight, Libaers, Wu); knowledge transfer expertise (Smith, Storm)
 to interact with the Scottish entrepreneurship community; and leaders of entrepreneurial
 education as honorary professors (McEwan, from Elevator; Yule, long standing member of the
 energy industry and past chairman of the Aberdeen Chamber of Commerce) who have joined
 the School’s BAB and give lectures to students and the wider entrepreneurial ecosystem. This
 strategy underpins the new Centre for Entrepreneurship Research.

 Across the School, academic staff proactively pursue public engagement opportunities to share
 insights from research. Examples include Allan (on mission and employee engagement), Islam
 (contributions to “The Conversation”); Hislop (blog posts on climate change and technology),
 and Montagna (posting on the impact of coronavirus on society). The School’s research has
 featured in 85 policy documents over the last 5-year period. Examples include Skåtun’s work
 with the Scottish government’s Health Directorate and the interdisciplinary research by
 Hutchison in collaboration with the Law School on how countries manage land ownership,
 which informed the work of the Scottish Land Commission. Hvide’s work commercialisation of
 academic research has been featured in Science, The Wall Street Journal and The New York
 Times.

 Members of the School are extensively involved in academic journal editorial activities.
 Examples include:

 Editorships
     • MacGregor is editor of the Journal of Property Research;
     • Montagna and Skåtun are Joint Managing Editors of the Scottish Journal of Political
        Economy;
     • Bender is Associate Editor of the British Journal of Industrial Relations;
     • Hislop is Associate Editor of Work Employment and Society;

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Zhang is Associate Editor of the European Management Journal;
    •   Papadimitriou and Kling were Associate Editors for the European Journal of Finance;
    •   Islam is the chief guest editor role for the British Accounting Review’s special issue on
        Modern Slavery and Accounting Profession;
    •   Paterson is the chief guest editor in Critical Perspectives on Accounting and the British
        Accounting Review, issues on social impact accountability and transparency issues.

 Editorial Board memberships
     • Akhtar for Quantitative Risk Management;
     • Canales for Journal of Management, Long Range Planning and Journal of Management
         Studies;
     • Hutchison for the Journal of Property Research, Journal of Property Investment and
         Finance, Journal of European Real Estate Research;
     • Islam for Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal;
     • Johan for the British Journal of Management and Venture Capital;
     • Kling for the Asia Pacific Business Review;
     • MacGregor for the Journal of Property Investment and Finance, the Journal of Real
         Estate Research, the Journal of European Real Estate Research and the International
         Real Estate Review;
     • Schulz for the Journal of Property Research and Computational Statistics;
     • Zhang for Frontiers of Business Research in China.

 Some illustrations of wider activities and contributions are:
   • Montagna and Phimister provided the Angolan Ministry of Finance with macroeconomic
        modelling advice and debt sustainability analysis.
   • Kling was a member of the Socio-Economic Risk Panel, convened by the European
        Science Foundation, which conducts reviews for the AXA Research Fund, l’Agence
        Nationale de la Recherche and other international funding bodies.
   • Staff have provided written submissions and given evidence to Scottish Parliamentary
        Committees, such as the Economy, Jobs and Fair Work Committee’s enquiry on
        Economic Data (Montagna) and The State of the Scottish Economy (Montagna and
        Zangelidis).
   • Islam is a member of the European Accounting Association (EAA) Scientific Committee
        responsible for Social and Environmental Accounting and Ethical Issues in Accounting
        (2018-2021).
   • Islam made two parliamentary submissions (one on modern slavery and another on
        SDGs) to the Australian parliament. His industry research report (with Nolan and Ford)
        on regulating transparency and disclosure on modern slavery was published by CPA
        Australia (2019).
    • Islam’s and Haque’s research (with Deegan) was highly relevant in identifying the
        vulnerability of clothing workers during the Covid-19 pandemic and attracted media
        attention (Conversation, 2020).
    • Islam also published a professional article for the International Federation of
        Accountants (IFAC), highlighting public accountants’ due diligence in creating SDG
        transparency and accountability (IFAC, 2021).
    • MacGregor was an expert witness in two important property valuation cases, most
        recently in the Upper Tribunal (Lands Chamber).
    • Zhang is an Advisory Board Member of the Guangdong Leadership Empowerment and
        Organisation Development (LEO) Research Society (2019-present).




                                                                                           Page 21
