Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Durham University
 Unit of assessment: 21, Sociology
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Durham’s Department of Sociology comprises a community of 32 highly research-active
 academics who share a commitment to theoretically informed research that makes a positive
 difference to the lives of individuals and communities often regarded as ‘disadvantaged’ or
 ‘marginalised’. Since celebrating our fiftieth anniversary in 2014 and embarking on a
 thorough strategic review of our research strengths in 2015 we have been consolidating and
 developing our reputation for equality-enhancing research in four key areas of sociological
 inquiry: (1) Violence and Abuse, (2) Higher Education and Social Inequality, (3) Communities
 and Social Justice, and (4) Health and Social Theory. In each of these areas of research we
 are renowned for the world-leading quality of our research and its significant positive impact
 on government policy and professional practice, and for our engagement in a form of public
 sociology which actively challenges inequality and injustice.

 (1) Violence and Abuse (V&A) researchers at Durham (Burrell, Brown, Donovan, Gangoli,
 Hackett, Jobe, Johnson, King, Kong, O’Brien, Vera-Gray and Westmarland) are recognised
 globally for producing high quality, impactful research on various forms of interpersonal
 violence and abuse, most notably in relation to policing, judicial, public and voluntary sector
 policy and practice responses to domestic, sexual and honour-based violence. Durham
 Sociology leads the University’s interdisciplinary Centre for Research into Violence and
 Abuse (CRiVA) (Director: Westmarland; Deputy Director: Bows, Durham Law School) whose
 members meet weekly in a supportive, feminist, collaborative environment. CRiVA has held
 40 public events in this REF period attended by over 2,500 people including high numbers of
 practitioners, policy makers, and survivors of violence and abuse. Funded collaborations
 during this time include NSPCC, Durham Constabulary, Respect, Government Equalities
 Office, Northumbria Office for Police and Crime Commissioners, NICE, ESRC, and Rape
 Crisis. Flagship research projects include Project Mirabal - What do perpetrator programmes
 add to coordinated community responses? (Westmarland, ESRC and Northern Rock) and
 Harmful sexual behaviour in children (Hackett, NICE). Our research in this area has been
 highly impactful, generating two of our three impact case studies.

 (2) Higher Education and Social Inequality (HESI) researchers at Durham (Arday,
 Bacevic, Boliver, David and Gamsu) have made leading contributions to the study of
 socioeconomic and racial disparities in access to and experiences within ‘elite’ forms of
 higher education, and of their consequences for the reproduction of social inequality.
 Durham’s HESI researchers are highly regarded for their work challenging the vertical
 differentiation of UK universities (Boliver, David); the role of universities in knowledge
 production and their relationship to socio-political change (Bacevic); inequalities of access to
 higher education and to more prestigious universities in particular rooted in socioeconomic
 background (Boliver), type of school attended (Boliver, Gamsu), geography (Gamsu) and
 ethnic origin (Arday, Boliver); the impact of racism on the mental health of BAME university
 staff and students (Arday); and inequities in graduate destinations including entry into elite
 occupations (Gamsu, Boliver). HESI researchers within Sociology coordinate weekly
 research seminars and coffee meetups which bring together academic, postdoctoral and
 doctoral researchers from across the university within a supportive and collaborative
 research community. HESI researchers in the Department are members of the
 interdisciplinary Durham Evidence Centre for Education (DECE) (Director: Gorard, School of
 Education; Widening Participation lead: Boliver) and Durham is a partner institution of the
 Centre for Global Higher Education funded by ESRC and the Office for Students. Flagship
 research projects include Mapping and evaluating the use of contextual data in
 undergraduate admissions in Scotland (Boliver and Moreira, Scottish Funding Council),
 Evaluating the use of contextual data in undergraduate admissions, (Boliver, ESRC), and
                                                                                                    1
Fair Admission to Universities in England: Improving Policy and Practice (Boliver, Nuffield
Foundation). Researchers at Durham are widely recognised as sector experts on the use of
contextualised admissions to promote wider and fairer access to higher education and this
highly impactful work features as one of our impact case studies.

(3) Communities and Social Justice (CSJ) researchers at Durham (Banks, Charnley,
Crossley, Jobe, King, Kong, McKenzie, O’Brien, Orton, Smith) have a well-established
international reputation for methodologically innovative community-based participatory action
research, immersive ethnographic research within marginalised working-class communities,
and critical analysis of policy responses to social disadvantage and inequality. The
Department hosts the University’s interdisciplinary Centre for Social Justice and Community
Action (CSJCA) (Co-Directors: Banks with Russell, Anthropology; Deputy Directors: Kong
and Orton), which is well known internationally for work on the methodological and ethical
underpinnings of participatory action research (PAR) and for research collaboration with a
range of ‘experts by experience’ in the fields of poverty, debt, addiction, incarceration, poor
housing, end-of-life care, reduced public service and social welfare provision, and an
increasingly hostile immigration and asylum system. Through the CSJCA, Durham Sociology
staff have worked collaboratively with third sector organisations, prisons, local authorities
and social and community work professionals, regionally, nationally and internationally to
develop communities of practice. Flagship research projects include Imagine: Connecting
Communities through Research, (Banks, ESRC) involving 12 universities and over 40
community partner organisations in examining aspects of civic participation; Promoting
Financial Inclusion (Orton, William Leech Foundation), a PAR project focused on the role of
the church in helping to combat predatory lending, participatory research in Durham prisons
(King and O’Brien), and two national evaluation studies of social work training programmes,
Think Ahead Independent External Evaluation and Step Up to Social Work Longitudinal
Evaluation (Smith).

(4) Health and Social Theory (HST) researchers at Durham (Castellani, Clarke, Forrest,
Jackson, Jamie, Lawless, O’Brien, Moreira, Wistow and Yang) take a cross-disciplinary
interest in the study of health and illness including drug, alcohol, tobacco and e-cigarette use
(Castellani, O’Brien, Jackson); young people’s sexual health (Forrest); loneliness and mental
health (Yang); ageing (Moreira, Yang); dementia (Clarke); medicine adherence (Jamie); the
role of healthcare professionals and of patient organisations in the development and use of
new health technologies (Jamie, Moreira); and the geospatial distribution of and policy
responses to public health threats resulting from climate change (Wistow, Castellani,
Lawless) and COVID-19 (Castellani). HST researchers within the Sociology Department are
members of Durham’s interdisciplinary Wolfson Research Institute for Health and Wellbeing
(WRI); collaborate with the Centre for the Evaluation of Complexity Across the Nexus at
Surrey University and the Centre for Healthy Ageing at Copenhagen University; and are
partners in the multi-University Fuse Centre for Translational Research in Public Health.
Durham HST researchers are innovators in the use and development of case-based
complexity science methods to study health behaviours and systems, including qualitative
comparative analysis techniques (Wistow, Yang) and computational social science methods
(Castellani, Yang). Flagship research projects include Examining the policy context for
reducing health inequalities among children and young people (Wistow, NIHR), and the
development of Durham COMPLEX-IT, an R-studio software application which provides
policy-makers with free access to machine intelligence, neural network, and agent-based
modelling techniques (Castellani).

Review of strategic aims identified in 2014
In our submission to REF2014 we identified four strategic research aims for this REF cycle.
The first of these aims – to enhance output quality – has been pursued by encouraging
colleagues to focus on fewer, higher-quality writing projects (a shift in emphasis that is
reinforced by the University’s revised progression and promotion criteria); running a weekly
Department-wide Writing Oasis which provides dedicated time to write in a peer supported
environment; organising a series of writing workshops focused on particular aspects of
                                                                                                   2
output quality; and offering all colleagues the opportunity to obtain constructively critical
feedback on writing in progress from peers within Research Groups and the wider
Department as well as from external experts in the field.

Our second aim – to improve research income generation by increasing the quality of
research proposals – has led to the development of a more thorough and supportive process
of research grant development which includes Department-wide Research Ideas sessions to
provide feedback on early plans for new projects; faculty-wide Pitch to Peers workshops
which provide constructive critique of bids at first-draft stage; and the provision of detailed
and iterative written feedback on draft proposals from the Department’s Director of Research
and colleagues with strong track records of grant success within the Department’s Research
Groups.

Our third aim – to develop new areas of interdisciplinary collaboration within the
University – has resulted in numerous ground-breaking interdisciplinary research projects.
For example, V&A researchers have collaborated with colleagues in Durham Law School on
the study of image-based sexual abuse (Johnson), women’s experiences of the pornography
industry (Vera-Gray), sexual violence at festivals (King, Westmarland), the use of out-of-
court settlements in cases of domestic violence (Johnson, Westmarland), and victim-
survivors' perspectives on ‘justice’ (Westmarland). HESI researchers and colleagues in the
School of Education have collaborated on funded projects evaluating the use of
contextualised admissions to widen access to higher education in Scotland (Boliver and
Moreira) and England (Boliver). CSJ researchers have continued their cross-university
collaborations around the use and ethics of participatory action research through the work of
the Centre for Social Justice and Community Action, including collaboration with
Anthropology and Praxis, India on a Global Challenges Research Fund fellowship. HST
researchers have collaborated with Durham colleagues in Geography and Earth Sciences on
responses to natural disasters and climate change (Wistow, and Dominelli until 2018) and
with colleagues in the Mathematical Sciences on local modelling of COVID -19 (Castellani).

Our fourth aim – to develop our capacity for research impact and knowledge transfer –
has seen us successfully compete for funding to engage in a wider range of collaborative
research partnerships and knowledge transfer activities with research users in the public and
charitable sectors. CRiVA’s position as a major hub for engagement with research users has
been augmented by our leading role in the N8 Policing Research Partnership (Westmarland,
Brown), our launch of the Policing Domestic Violence Network (Johnson and Westmarland),
the creation of several Knowledge Transfer Partnership projects, and our engagement in
directly commissioned research for organisations that play a major role in responding to
violence and abuse including NICE and the NSPCC (Hackett). HESI researchers have been
supported to develop collaborative partnerships with a range of public and third sector
organisations championing equity in higher education, resulting in a range of joint research
projects, publications and public events with the Sutton Trust (Boliver, Gamsu), Runnymede
(Arday, Boliver), HEPI (Boliver), the Bridge Group (Boliver), the Centre for Labour and Social
Studies (Gamsu), Leading Routes (Arday), NERUPI (Arday, Boliver), and the Office for Fair
Access and its successor the Office for Students (Boliver). The CSJCA continues to serve as
an important base from which to develop participatory and collaborative research projects
including work with the Salvation Army, Hong Kong on a practice protocol for end-of-life care
(Kong); UK Christian organisations to develop community-based alternatives to payday
lenders (Orton) Low Newton Prison to develop women’s research (King, O’Brien); A Way
Out, Stockton to develop support for sex workers (Jobe); the International Federation of
Social Workers and British Association of Social Workers on ethical guidance for social
workers under COVID-19 (Banks). CSJCA members have also worked with the International
Association of Schools of Social Work to create a Disaster Intervention Toolkit used by
social work practitioners around the world to place community empowerment at the centre of
humanitarian aid interventions (Dominelli); and have undertaken commissioned research
such as the Department for Education (DfE)-funded evaluation of social work training
programmes (Smith). HST researchers have successfully sought Horizon 2020 Knowledge
                                                                                                  3
for Use funding to support the building better policies around work and well-being (McKie
until 2017); and produced and developed the BIOPICCC Toolkit comprising online resources
to assist local authorities, partner organisations, and community groups to engage in
planning around resilience to extreme weather events (Wistow).

Development of strategic research aims since 2014
Since REF2014 there has been a step-change in our level of research ambition. A post-REF
research review in 2015 and a wider review of our research and teaching portfolio in 2016
emboldened us to identify our core areas of research excellence and to begin a process of
strategic development and investment in these areas. This process has been facilitated by
the creation, in 2018, of the Department of Sociology and a separate Department of Sport
and Exercise Sciences in place of the previously amalgamated School of Applied Social
Sciences, and a corresponding decision to submit to the Sociology UoA in 2021 instead of
the Social Policy and Social Work UoA as in 2014 and 2008. Our revitalised ambition has
been to grow our reputation for discipline-advancing and equality-promoting research in the
fields of Violence and Abuse, Higher Education and Social Inequality, Communities and
Social Justice, and Health and Social Theory.

The natural turnover of academic staff coupled with University investment in our FTE has
afforded us the opportunity to make 15 outstanding new permanent appointments and to
host 2 outstanding ESRC postdoctoral researchers on a fixed term basis across our four
areas of research strength since 2014. Building on pre-existing research excellence in V&A
exemplified by Westmarland’s work on responses to domestic violence and Hackett’s work
on responses to sexual abuse, we have appointed new world-class researchers with
complementary expertise, specifically Brown (appointed as Associate Professor in 2016) on
policing and youth justice; Donovan (appointed as Professor in 2018) on interpersonal
violence within LGBT relationships; Johnson (appointed as Assistant Professor in 2018) on
image-based sexual violence and police responses to coercive control; Vera-Gray
(appointed as Assistant Professor in 2018) on image-based sexual violence and police
responses to coercive control; Burrell (ESRC Postdoctoral Fellow since 2019) on men and
boys’ engagement in the prevention of violence against women; and Gangoli (appointed as
Associate Professor in 2020) on honour-based violence. Building on Boliver’s ground-
breaking research on fair access and contextualised admission to higher education, we have
recruited three exceptional early career researchers Gamsu (appointed as Assistant
Professor in 2019) specialising in elite schooling and the geographies of access to higher
education; Arday (appointed as Assistant Professor in 2019) with expertise in issues of racial
inequality in higher education; and Bacevic (Appointed as Assistant Professor in 2020)
focusing on universities as sites of knowledge production. Complementing Banks’s
pioneering development of community-based participatory action research, Kong (appointed
as Assistant Professor in 2017) brings expertise in social work responses to intimate partner
violence; McKenzie (appointed as Assistant Professor in 2019) brings exceptional skills in
the ethnographic study of working-class communities; and Crossley (appointed as Assistant
Professor in 2020) brings a critical perspective on political representations of and policy
responses to poverty and inequality. Lastly, building on the expertise of Moreira in relation to
ageing and Yang in relation to loneliness and mental health, Wistow (appointed as Assistant
Professor in 2015) brings expertise in relation to policy responses to complex health
problems; Castellani (appointed as Professor in 2018) brings a global reputation for
expertise in application and development of complexity science methodologies in relation to
health; Clarke (appointed as Professor and Executive Dean for the Faculty of Social
Sciences and Health in 2019) contributes expertise in the study of those affected by
dementia; Jackson (ESRC Postdoctoral Fellow since 2019) specialises in alcohol use and
mental health; and Forrest (appointed as Professor and Principal of the College of St Hild
and St Bede in 2019) brings expertise in the study of young people’s sexual health.

Our ongoing aim is to continue strengthening Durham Sociology’s outstanding reputation for
conducting theoretically informed research that makes a difference in each of these four
areas. Our strategy for achieving this aim has five interlinked components. First, we are
                                                                                                   4
continuing to cultivate a strong sense of shared identity and common endeavour
among members of each research theme by co-locating research theme members in
adjacent offices and providing funds to support staff to come together regularly for research
themed seminar series, public events and research-focused away days. Second, we are
committed to supporting research theme members to collaborate on the development of
highly ambitious programmes of funded research which leverage the multiplicative
benefits of their combined substantive and methodological expertise. To this end, all
research themes are being supported by the central University’s Research and Innovation
Services team to develop large grant applications targeted at major funders including the
ESRC Research Grants and Research Centres schemes, with access to central University
seedcorn funding to support initial proof of concept work. The HST group is a particular
priority for development given the recent recruitment of Castellani who brings expertise in
the application of complexity science methods to the study of health and well-being, who has
received internal UKRI Strategic Priorities Funding to develop an interdisciplinary and cross-
institutional research collaboration around air pollution and cognitive health. Third, a major
priority for investment is in support for earlier career staff to develop their own track
records of successfully bidding for and delivering on major funded research projects.
In pursuit of this goal, ECRs are mentored by more experienced researchers to take on
significant roles as Co-Investigators on applications for large collaborative grants;
encouraged to take part in high quality workshops and training programmes delivered by the
RIS team to prepare them to lead major research projects from inception through to
management and successful completion; receive bespoke support from our Director of
Research and RIS to develop highly quality bids for early career research fellowships such
as the ESRC New Investigator Grants and Leverhulme Research Leadership Awards
schemes; and have priority access to our Departmental Research Incentivisation Fund for
small grants for pump-priming activities. Fourth, we are seeking to build on our excellent
track record of research impact on policy and practice and the lives of marginalised
individuals and groups. Our research centres CRiVA and CSJCA have established highly
effective networks for sharing research findings with research user communities and
organisations, especially in the North East region which has been hard hit by
deindustrialisation and the diminution of public and social welfare services. We will be
guided by these exemplars as we work to increase the local impact of our HESI and HST
research through the Durham-based research centres DECE and WRI. We will continue to
celebrate colleagues’ engagement as expert advisors to local and national government
bodies and third sector organisations and ensure that impact links are shared with
colleagues across the career span; and we will pursue opportunities to engage in global
policy networks not least in relation to global public health problems arising from climate
change. Finally, we are keen to enhance the international reach and reputation of our
research by increasing our level of engagement in international conferences, and in
international research collaborations building on pre-existing research links and opportunities
arising from Durham’s participation in the Matariki Network of Universities.

Section 2. People

Research active staff
The Department currently comprises 32 Category A staff members, including 12 Assistant
Professors (2 of whom work part-time), 8 Associate Professors (1 of whom works part-time),
and 10 full Professors (2 of whom work part-time), all on permanent contracts; and 2
Assistant Professors (Research) who hold fixed term ESRC Postdoctoral Research Fellow
positions in the Department (1 of whom works part-time). 11 Category A staff members have
left the Department this REF cycle, and there have been 15 new permanent academic
appointments. 7 staff members have taken periods of maternity or adoption leave since
2014, and 5 staff members are ECRs.




                                                                                                  5
Staffing strategy
All new permanent appointments have been strategically aligned with our four core areas of
research expertise: Brown, Donovan, Johnson, Vera-Gray and Gangoli (V&A); Gamsu,
Arday and Bacevic (HESI); Kong, McKenzie and Crossley (CSJ); and Wistow, Castellani,
Clarke, and Forrest (HST). All permanent academic recruitment has been undertaken by a
search committee which has overseen the process of searching for candidates and
longlisting and shortlisting applicants and has ensured that these processes have been
undertaken within the context of EDI benchmarks for the sector.

Staff development
All Category A staff have at least 29% of their workload dedicated to research and
additionally benefit from a University-wide entitlement to one term of research leave in
seven. Each staff member has a central allocation of GBP1,000 per annum to support
research-related activities such as attendance at conferences, in addition to the ten percent
of overheads on research grants passed on to PIs by the University. Our Departmental
Research Incentivisation Fund supports research pump-priming activity with priority given to
ECRs and new starters.

All research active staff are supported in their academic development and career planning
through membership of a research mentoring cluster comprising 3-5 colleagues at different
career stages working on similar themes. Research mentoring clusters meet twice annually
to offer feedback on planned, in progress and recently achieved research goals. The
Department’s Director of Research keeps staff informed about opportunities for research
funding and training, and is available to provide advice and guidance on research planning
to all staff on request and to newly appointed staff as a part of the induction process. Earlier
career researchers also have a personal research mentor, a promoted member of staff
working in a similar research area, who can provide advice and guidance on a day-to-day
basis. The development of newly appointed staff is supported and monitored by means of a
probation agreement lasting 3 years for those appointed prior to 2017, subsequently reduced
to 1 year following the implementation of a more rigorous academic appointments process.
All staff and especially ECRs are encouraged to take up opportunities for training including
that offered University-wide by the Durham Centre for Academic Development, for example
Research Leadership training. Since 2017 all colleagues are considered for promotion
annually and receive detailed written feedback on their CVs from the Departmental
Progression and Promotion Committee (DPPC) as part of the process and may meet with
the Head of Department to discuss next steps. 11 members of staff (6 women and 5 men)
have been promoted this REF cycle.

Postdoctoral Researchers and Teaching Fellows, regardless of contract type, are invited to
affiliate with one or more of the Department’s research themes, to be part of a research
mentoring cluster and obtain feedback on a personal research plan, and to submit their CVs
annually for feedback from the DPPC. Teaching Fellows are appointed as members of the
Board of Studies and Postdoctoral Researchers have a nominated representative. The
Deputy Director of Research meets with Postdoctoral Researchers formally several times a
year to discuss training and career development needs and opportunities. Postdoctoral
Researchers are encouraged to undertake training opportunities such as the University’s
Leading Research programme; to take on small teaching roles; and to become involved in
the supervision of Masters and Doctoral research dissertations, as valuable aspects of
career development. Postdoctoral Researchers are also frequently involved in the
development of new research grant applications in collaboration with permanent members of
academic staff, resulting in several successful bids in recent years (e.g. Banerjee, Powell,
Stepanova). Many of our Teaching Fellows and Postdoctoral Researchers have gone on to
obtain permanent academic posts at leading universities including Exeter (Banerjee),
Durham (Siddiqui), and Glasgow (Capsada-Munsech).



                                                                                                   6
Postgraduate researchers
The Department has over 60 active postgraduate researchers (PGRs) at any one time. We
use the term PGRs, rather than research students, to reflect their integral role within the
Department of Sociology – that of junior colleagues/researchers in training. They occupy
three large offices in the main building, with access to individual PCs, printers, phones,
photocopying and make good use of a shared kitchen, common room and meeting spaces.
The physical location means PGRs develop good peer support networks and have ready
access to staff on a day-to-day basis. Interaction with academic staff happens on a day-to-
day basis, with PGRs actively engaging with the Department’s four research groups and two
cross-department research centres (CRiVA and CSJCA). This engenders a sense of identity
and belonging as well as intellectual stimulation through regular meetings and seminars.

The Department’s core research groups are a crucial mechanism for the recruitment, and
support, of PGRs. Through promoting the Department’s research strengths, we encourage
applications from candidates whose research interests fit with our expertise, enabling us to
offer specialised supervision. As part of the Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral
Training Partnership (NINE DTP), the Department offers ESRC-funded PhD studentships in
three pathways: Sociology, Social Policy and Social Work; Children, Youth and Families;
Health, Well-being and Society. The Department coordinated the Sociology pathway in 2017
and 2019 and the Children, Youth and Families pathway in 2018, 2019 and 2020. In
addition, the University offers highly competitive Durham Doctoral Studentships (DDS)
annually for those ineligible for ESRC studentships, largely awarded to non-EU nationals.
Our PGRs also win a range of other scholarships, including national government awards
from many countries across the world (e.g. Chinese Scholarship Fund, Turkish Military,
Qatar State) and charitable foundations (e.g. Ustinov Foundation, NSPCC). During the
period 2013-2020, Sociology Department applicants won 49 studentships, including 27
ESRC and 2 DDS awards.

Each PGR has a supervisory team of at least two academic staff, who meet regularly to offer
support, guidance and monitor progress both formally and informally. Regular reviews take
place at 6, 9, 21, 33 months (or part-time equivalent) recorded on Departmental forms, in
addition to the online annual reviews required and monitored by the University. The 9-month
progression review is both rigorous and supportive, including a 7,000-word report, a
presentation to staff and peers as part of our annual PGR conference, and an independent
review conducted by two academics who are not supervising the PGR question. This may
result in further work being required, or progression to PhD not being allowed. In addition to
the supervisory team, PGRs are well-supported by a Postgraduate Research Co-ordinator,
who is readily accessible for day-to-day queries, including dealing with office
accommodation, extensions, concessions, funding issues; and a Director of Postgraduate
Research, who oversees all policies, practices and other matters. Above all, there is strong
peer support, enabled by office accommodation in the same building, an ethos of
collaboration, commitment to learning, curiosity about people’s intellectual passions and
concern for each other’s well-being. Alongside the formal termly Staff and Student
Consultative Committee, facilitated by the PGR Director, the active PGR community also run
their own multidisciplinary PGR Forum, which organises regular training (e.g. on research
ethics, the REF, and careers), social events and a weekly Research Slices session (PGR
research presentations and pizza). PGR representatives attend the Board of Studies and all
PGRs are invited to weekly Writing Oasis sessions and Department coffee mornings.

The Department runs the established and ESRC-recognised Masters in Social Research
Methods. PGRs may attend any of the specialist methods modules, in addition to accessing
the University-wide training by Durham Centre for Academic Development. The Department
has a PGR Fund, which allows them to apply for funding to attend relevant conferences and
training workshops outside Durham. Most colleges also have funds, and PGRs are
supported to seek other sources of funding in order to broaden and deepen their knowledge
and skills. There are annual NINE DTP and Faculty of Social Sciences and Health PGR
conferences, enabling them to present their work and respond to feedback. Groups of PGRs
                                                                                                 7
have also taken an active role in organising and supporting national/international
conferences held at Durham, including several British Sociological Association and Social
Policy Association conferences. PGRs also have the opportunity to undertake seminar
teaching, are included in the annual peer review of teaching process alongside staff, and are
encouraged to take the PG Teaching Certificate to prepare them for careers in higher
education if desired. Our PGR graduates go on to take up roles which contribute significantly
to the region and beyond including local third sector organisations (e.g. Armstrong, CEO of
Disability North; Shenton, Deputy CEO of Healthwatch Gateshead), national government
research roles (e.g. Soriano-Rivera) as well as academic destinations including prestigious
postdoctoral research positions (e.g. Burrell, Campbell, Gemar, Hart, Hanson, Kriznik, Lari,
Mateos-Gonzalez) and University lectureships nationally and internationally (e.g. Alderson,
Bows, Craige, Dodsley, Gaston, Griffin, McDowell, Musilek, Petersen-Wagner, Phillips,
Stockdale).

Equality and diversity
A deeply held commitment to all aspects of equality, diversity and inclusion drives much of
our research. These shared values strongly underpin the culture of the Department and we
take great pride in having created a welcoming and supportive environment. We are also
proud that our work is helping to drive advances in equality within the wider sector, for
example in relation to tackling domestic and sexual violence (Donovan, Westmarland,
Hackett) and promoting racial diversity and inclusion within higher education (Arday, Boliver,
Gamsu).

The Department has a particularly strong track record in relation to gender equality and
achieved an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2019. The gender balance of leadership
positions has improved markedly during this REF period. Previously there had been only one
female Head of Department in our fifty-year history whereas all our more recent
Departmental Heads have been women (McKie, 2014-2017; Westmarland, 2017-2019;
Donovan, 2019 onwards). Three of our four core research areas are led by women (Banks,
Boliver, Westmarland), and three of the five people in the role of Director of Research this
REF period have been women (Boliver, McKie, and Westmarland).

Since 2015/16, it has been University policy that members of staff who take a period of
parental leave are entitled to apply for a further term of research leave in addition to their
standard entitlement (6 women have taken up this entitlement this REF cycle). Staff with
caring responsibilities can request a temporary contract alteration to part-time status, or
request timetable flexibility or formal flexible working around caring arrangements, and the
University now allows provision in its expenses policy to reimburse the additional child or
other caregiver costs associated with attending conferences. Particular attention to the
needs of caregivers has been given during the COVID-19 pandemic.

We are committed to fostering diversity, representation and visibility beyond gender, and
already have a good level of diversity in terms of sexuality and social class background.
Together with colleagues in Anthropology we initiated a University-wide First Generation
Scholars Network to support students who are the first in their family to go to university. We
know that we are over-represented in terms of White European staff, and this is something
we are actively trying to change - for example by actively seeking high calibre BAME
applicants in recent recruitment cycles. We are committed to the principles of the Race
Equality Charter and have been undertaking work to decolonize our research-led curriculum.

Our portfolio of submitted outputs reflects the composition of the Department with respect to
gender and ethnicity, with comparable average numbers of outputs submitted by female and
male staff and by staff identifying as white and BAME.




                                                                                                 8
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income
Durham Sociology’s expenditure on funded research totalled just over GBP3,000,000 this
REF cycle, comprising a mix of grants from UKRI (35%), UK government (27%), UK charity
(17%) and EU (16%) sources. Funded research expenditure this REF cycle for projects led
by Violence and Abuse researchers totalled GBP863,109, with flagship research projects
including: What do perpetrator programmes add to coordinated community responses?
known as Project Mirabal (Westmarland, ESRC and Northern Rock); Harmful sexual
behaviour in children (Hackett, NICE); N8 Policing Partnership: Innovation and the
Application of Knowledge for More Effective Policing (Westmarland, HEFCE); and Changing
Gender Norms: Engaging with men and boys (Westmarland and Burrell, Government
Equalities Office/Department for Education). Funded projects led by Higher Education and
Social Inequality researchers totalled GBP682,968 this REF cycle, with flagship projects
including: Mapping and evaluating the use of contextual data in undergraduate admissions
in Scotland (Boliver and Moreira, Scottish Funding Council); Evaluating the use of contextual
data in undergraduate admissions, (Boliver, ESRC); Evaluating the fairness of admissions to
UK HE, (Boliver, ESRC); Fair admission to UK universities: understanding and improving
policy and practice (Boliver, Nuffield Foundation); and Life-Course Dynamics of Educational
Tracking (Boliver, NORFACE). Projects led by Communities and Social Justice
researchers were funded to a total of GBP941,599 this REF cycle, with flagship research
projects including: Imagine: Connecting Communities through Research, (Banks, ESRC)
involving 12 universities and over 40 community partner organisations in examining aspects
of civic participation; Promoting Financial Inclusion (Orton, William Leech Foundation), a
PAR project focused on the role of the church in helping to combat predatory lending; and
two national evaluation studies of social work training programmes, Think Ahead
Independent External Evaluation and Step Up to Social Work Longitudinal Evaluation
(Smith, Think Ahead and DfE). Funded research for Health and Social Theory researchers
this REF period totalled GBP231,408, with flagship projects including: Durham Complex-it, a
free R-Studio package for modelling complex systems from a case-based perspective
(Castellani), Material Imagination: Responsible Innovation in Living Materials Research
(Moreira, Royal Society) and Examining the policy context for reducing health inequalities
among children and young people (Wistow, NIHR).

During the REF period, significant proportions of our research-active staff have been earlier
career researchers, 7 took periods of parental leave, and more than half are recent
appointments. As outlined earlier, a key component of our current and future research
strategy is to facilitate the development of ambitious collaborative funded research projects.
For example, Castellani was awarded a Consortium Development Grant for GBP40,000 from
UK Prevention Research Partnership to progress a full proposal (due for submission in
December 2020) on cognitive health and air pollution in collaboration with members of the
HST research group and researchers across nine further universities. Investment in our four
core research themes has created strong working relationships between established staff
with track records of securing large grants and earlier career researchers navigating the
funding landscape for the first time. As such we expect to see our grant capture record
improve significantly in the coming years.

Research infrastructure and facilities
From 2016 onwards our research activity has been structured around our four core research
themes. Staff doing complementary research in each theme are co-located in nearby office
space to facilitate day-to-day interaction and meet regularly for research seminars and
events as well as more informal weekly meetups over coffee. Each research theme has a
recurring budget to meet the costs of these activities which include an annual research away
day which provides the time and space needed to engage collectively in horizon-scanning
activities. Throughout the REF-cycle we have regularly run Departmental research and
impact and engagement meetings that bring together expertise across the four research

                                                                                                 9
areas to explore ideas for collaboration. For example, in June 2020, we organised a series of
internal workshops on Doing Evaluation Research, Developing Collaborative Grant
Applications, and Developing Research Partnerships with Impact.

Our capacity to deliver high quality research, and to generate research impact, is supported
by the leading role and active involvement of Durham Sociology staff in Durham University
Research Centres allied to our core research themes, namely the Centre for Research into
Violence and Abuse (CRiVA) co-directed by Westmarland with Bows, Durham Law School;
the CSJCA co-directed by Banks with Russell, Anthropology, with Kong and Orton serving
as Deputy Directors; the Durham Evidence Centre for Education (DECE) directed by Gorard
in the School of Education with Boliver as Widening Participation research lead; and the
Wolfson Research Institute for Health and Wellbeing (WRI). Durham Sociology staff
including Moreira and Jamie have also benefitted from internal funding for health research
from the University’s Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS). Staff are well supported to
generate research impact through our Research Centres and this is augmented by the
Department’s Deputy Director of Research whose specific remit is to help colleagues
generate and evidence impact. In support of this, several PGR students are employed part-
time as Development Officers to work with impact case study leads to record impact
activities on impact timelines and upload related evidence to the University’s repository,
SharePoint. A Development Officer regularly monitors the Department’s impact email
address, to which all colleagues are encouraged to send impact-relevant information on an
ongoing basis, and where appropriate this is disseminated via the Department’s twitter feed
(@durhamsociology). All colleagues and especially potential impact case study leads are
supported to apply for ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards, and several awards have been
secured (Banks, Boliver, Jamie, Westmarland), including funding for Castellani’s COMPLEX-
IT app in preparation for the next REF cycle.

The breadth and depth of methodological expertise within Durham Sociology enables us to
play a key role in the development and delivery of research methods training across the
faculty of Social Sciences and Health. Durham Sociologists provide high quality training in
cutting edge qualitative and quantitative research methodologies via the University’s Faculty-
wide Masters in Social Research Methods, and contribute significantly to the newly founded,
University-wide Research Methods Centre, for example via the development and application
of complexity science approaches to social scientific research as exemplified by Castellani’s
development of the software package Durham COMPLEX-IT hosted on the DU website.
Durham Sociologists also regularly contribute to methodological training delivered via the
Durham Centre for Academic Development including a day-long training session developed
by Jamie for the Global Challenges Doctoral Training Programme in 2019. The Centre for
Social Justice and Community Action (CSJCA) is a major hub for research methods training
particularly in relation to participatory action research (PAR). During 2015-17 the Centre
hosted the Participatory Research Hub, funded by Durham ESRC Impact Acceleration
Account, with the aim of strengthening the infrastructure for high-impact co-produced
research within Durham University and community partner organisations. 345 people
registered with the Hub during its lifetime, with 36 events and training sessions attended by
1280 participants. The Hub supported several community-University research partnerships,
including two in the Sociology Department with Chilli Pepper Studios and Thrive Teesside.
Its 2016 report on Mapping Alternative Impact in participatory research made a significant
contribution to the literature at that time. CSJCA continues to offer a range of training in
PAR, including a very popular annual advanced 2-day course on PAR via the ESRC
Doctoral Training Partnership since 2015, training on PAR with policymakers, a termly PGR
Forum, an annual conference and other events every year on topics ranging from
participatory theatre to indigenous ethics. CSJCA currently delivers the ethics module on the
Global Knowledge for Change partnership online Mentor Training Programme hosted by the
University of Victoria, Canada.

Finally, Durham Sociology’s highly supportive and collegial culture is a vital component of
our research environment. Colleagues from across the Department come together regularly
                                                                                                 10
for a range of informal events including weekly Departmental coffee mornings for informal
chats, a weekly Writing Oasis morning providing dedicated time to write in a peer supported
environment, and periodic whole-Department events such as the Sociology in Action day in
2019 held at Durham Miner’s hall and the Sociology Sings Back residency in 2020 when a
protest songwriter was commissioned to write four songs based on the work of each
research area as a way of disseminating key research findings to non-academic audiences.
Many of our regular get-togethers as a Department and as members of Research Groups
continued in online form throughout the extended period of social distancing during the
COVID-19 pandemic, reflecting and reinforcing the highly collegial nature of our working
relationships with each other.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Durham Sociology’s research is highly impactful precisely because collaboration with the
users and beneficiaries of our research is central to everything we do. CRiVA provides a
major hub for engagement with research users in the field of interpersonal violence and
abuse. Collaborative working around professional responses to these issues has been
undertaken through, for example, participation in the N8 Policing Research Partnership
(Westmarland, Brown); leadership of the Policing Domestic Violence Network for academics,
police and other related practitioners (Johnson and Westmarland); and the initiation of
multiple Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) projects in collaboration with partners such
as Durham Constabulary (Westmarland). In November 2019, CRiVA Director Westmarland
was awarded the prestigious COMPASS award for work which has ‘significantly guided and
expanded efforts to protect survivors through advancing and evaluating accountable
perpetrator intervention research and programming’. Hackett’s research on children and
young people with harmful sexual behaviour has led to new policies and service delivery
frameworks and a paradigm shift in professional awareness and responses towards this
group of children, including publication of NICE guidelines and the development of an
NSPCC framework. In recognition, Hackett was elected Chairperson of the National
Organisation for the Treatment of Abuse for the period 2015-2019.

Research in the HESI theme has led to the development of a series of highly impactful co-
publications with key stakeholder organisations, including the Sutton Trust (Boliver, Gamsu),
Runnymede (Arday, Boliver), The Black Curriculum (Arday), Leading Routes (Arday), HEPI
(Boliver, Gamsu), the Centre for Labour and Social Studies (Gamsu), the Universities and
Colleges Union (Gamsu), the Office for Students (Boliver) and UCAS (Boliver). The CSJCA
has organised over 70 workshops, seminars and other events this REF cycle which bring
together researchers and research beneficiaries including social work professionals (Smith),
disaster relief agencies (Dominelli), local community groups (Banks) and Christian
organisations working on lending and debt support for those on low-incomes (Orton). Over
the last six years, CSJ researchers leading Durham's flagship Inside-Out Prison Exchange
Programme have developed a close research and development partnership with the three
local prisons, including Home Office and Big Lottery funded participatory research with two
prisoner-led Think Tanks (O'Brien, King, Phillips). In collaboration with local authorities,
partner organisations, and neighbourhood and community groups the HST research group
helped to create and refresh the BIOPICCC Toolkit comprising online resources to assist
with extreme weather resilience planning (Dominelli and Wistow), and the research was
extended to a collaboration with Public Health England focusing on the implementation of
extreme weather event guidance into local health and social care systems (Wistow).
Dominell’s Disaster Intervention Toolkit included collaborations with academics, policy
makers, practitioners and community groups in Sri Lanka and China in both the design and
ongoing dissemination. The HST group has also worked with research beneficiaries such as
young mothers’ in relation to health beliefs/behaviours, and breastfeeding (Jamie) and using
computational modelling approaches with the Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy (BEIS), the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra),


                                                                                                11
the Environment Agency (EA), and the Food Standards Agency (FSA) through Durham
COMPLEX-IT (Castellani).

Durham Sociologists’ commitment to a publicly engaged form of Sociology is evident from
the range of community and voluntary sector roles in which Durham Sociologists are
engaged. In connection with our work on responses to violence and abuse, Westmarland
serves as a board member of the North East Rape and Sexual Violence Network and is Vice
Chair of the Darlington and Co. Durham Rape and Sexual Abuse Counselling Centre;
Donovan is a board member for Wearside Women in Need (WWIN), an independent
domestic violence and abuse service for women and children, and serves on the steering
group for Call it Out (part of Sayit) an LGBT domestic abuse project based in Sheffield;
Hackett is a trustee of Adoption Matters, is adviser to the Children's Society, NSPCC and
Barnardo's on research projects associated with child abuse (Hackett), and was appointed
by the Secretary of State as Non-Executive Director of Doncaster Children's Services Trust;
Jobe is an academic member of North East Sex Worker Forum; and Burrell is a board
member of Changing Relations. Within the CSJ research group, Kong is a Trustee of Wai
Yin Society; Banks is board member for Durham Community Action and Trustee of the
Society for the Furtherance of Critical Philosophy; Smith is a board member for Humankind;
and Brown serves as an advisor to North Tyneside Council about current youth work
provisions and as a research Advisor to Newcastle Society for Blind People. Within HESI,
Arday is a Trustee of the Runnymede Trust and of the Racial Justice Network, and within the
HST group Wistow served as an advisor to the Joseph Rowntree Foundation around its
climate change research.

Durham Sociologists also collaborate extensively with national and international policy-
making bodies, including by means of appointment to significant advisory roles. Members of
the V&A research group have served as: Special Advisor to the House of Commons and
House of Lords Joint Committee on Human Rights for their Inquiry into Violence against
Women and Girls (Westmarland); Member of the Scottish Government’s Cross Party
Working Group to end Violence against Women and Girls (Johnson); Safeguarding Adviser
to the UK Collaborative on Development Research, a group of government departments and
research funders working in international development run by the Wellcome Trust (Hackett);
Member of the Advisory Board of the Home Office funded National Centre of Expertise in
Child Sexual Abuse (Hackett); Expert Adviser to the NICE Centre for Guidelines (Hackett);
Topic Expert for the NICE Public Health Advisory Board on Harmful Sexual Behaviour
(Hackett); Advisor to the Australian Royal Commission into Institutional Child Abuse
(Hackett); and Member of the Expert Advisory Committee on Perpetrator Interventions,
Royal Commission into Family Violence, Victoria Australia (Westmarland). HESI researchers
have served as invited members of: the Scottish Government’s Framework for Fair Access
Development Group (Boliver); the Scottish Government’s Access Delivery Group (Boliver);
the UK Council for Graduate Education’s Working Group on BAME Participation in
Postgraduate Research (Arday); and the Universities UK Advisory Board Member on Racial
Harassment in Higher Education (Arday). CSJ researchers have served as: member of the
Advisory Group on Social Work Education Research for the UK Government Department for
Education (Smith, 2018); International Advisory Research Fellow for the Centre for
Contemporary Spirituality, Tabor Adelaide, Australia (Orton, 2016 onwards); Consultant to
Intercultural Cities programme of the Council of Europe (Orton, 2016 onwards); Advisory
Board member for the Research School for Professions-Oriented and Practice-Relevant
Research (PROFRES), a network of Scandinavian Universities (Banks); and Advisory Board
member for Educational Research, Catholic University of Porto, Portugal (Banks).

Our research is not only responsive to national and international priorities and initiatives but
is also agenda setting in identifying new and under-researched problems and establishing
these as national and international priorities. Research in the field of domestic violence has
proved to be both nationally and internationally significant. Project Mirabal (Westmarland)
has changed the way that domestic violence perpetrator programmes are researched,
understood, commissioned, funded, regulated, designed and implemented across the world
                                                                                                   12
but particularly the UK, Australia and USA. Westmarland has worked to develop local
implementation of this national priority, for example, working closely with Durham
Constabulary in a Knowledge Transfer Partnership. Finally, Johnson has extended work in
this field through her work on coercive control. The Department’s expertise in sexual abuse
has set the agenda around sexual abuse perpetrated by children. Hackett’s work has
informed major public inquiries into child sexual abuse in the UK (the Independent Inquiry
into Child Sexual Abuse) and internationally (the Australian Royal Commission into
Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse) and led to the development of national
guidelines (by NICE), a standardised assessment tool (AIM3) and national operational
framework (NSPCC). The Department has made longstanding inequalities in University
acceptance rates for applicants from black and minority ethnic backgrounds relative to
comparably qualified white peers a much higher national priority (Arday, Boliver, Gamsu).
Research on the use of contextualised admissions to widen access to high-tariff universities
(Boliver and Moreira) has led the Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (UCAS) to
publish detailed admissions statistics annually and restore researcher access to individual-
level admissions data to ensure transparency. The work of CSJ researchers in relation to
debt in low-income households has supported national policies to better regulate high-cost
credit (Banks) and informed the activities of community and religious organisations seeking
to promote financial inclusion (Orton). CSJ research has also informed sex worker support
services (Jobe); end of life care (Kong); arts-based research practice (Kong); prison
education (King and O’Brien); social work training (Smith); international guidance on ethics
for social workers during COVID-19 (Banks); and Department for Communities and Local
Government policy (Banks). In the area of health inequalities we have responded to this
national priority through research on child health inequalities (Wistow) and Communities in
Control as part of the Big Local Initiative (Wistow). In the field of climate change adaptation
we are developing expertise in global challenges such as air pollution and cognitive health
(Castellani), socio-material boundaries of climate change resilience (Lawless); and extreme
weather event resilience planning for vulnerable groups (Wistow).

Durham Sociologists are engaged in a wide range of highly productive research
collaborations with other leading academics nationally and internationally. Within the V&A
group, key examples include Project Mirabal, a major six-year CRiVA research project
funded by ESRC and Northern Rock Foundation to investigate domestic violence perpetrator
programmes involving Professors Westmarland (Durham), Kelly (London Metropolitan
University), and Watts (London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine); involvement in
the N8 Policing Research Partnership as Deputy Director (Westmarland) and as leaders of
the People and Knowledge Exchange Steering Group (Brown and Westmarland) as well as
collaborative research with Dr Barlow and Dr Humphries at Lancaster, and Professor
Walklate at Liverpool on police responses to coercive control (Johnson). Other collaborative
projects within this research theme include: a project with colleagues in Sweden and Spain
entitled Why Do Some Men Take a Public Stand Against Men’s Violence Against Women?
(Westmarland); the NICE evidence review conducted in collaboration with colleagues at
Sheffield University (Hackett), and the Image-based sexual abuse project, conducted jointly
with colleagues at Goldsmiths in the UK and the Universities of RMIT, Monash and Auckland
(Johnson). Through HESI researchers, Durham University is a member of the ESRC funded
Centre for Global Higher Education, a research partnership of 15 UK and international
universities funded by ESRC, Office for Students and Research England (Boliver). HESI
researchers have contributed to an internationally comparative NORFACE LIFETRACK
research project on educational tracking in 5 European countries (Boliver) and are
developing collaborations through invited seminars, joint publications and joint funding
applications with colleagues at Uppsala and Stockholm Universities. CSJ researchers have
collaborated with colleagues in Sheffield, Huddersfield, Brighton, and over 40 community
partner organisations, on the Imagine: Connecting Communities through Research project
between 2013 and 2017 (Banks), and with colleagues at Bristol and Cardiff universities on
evaluations of fast-track social work education and early career development of social
workers (Smith); with colleagues in Newcastle, York and Hong Kong on ageing, end of life
care and civic protest (Kong); and colleagues across the world (USA, Canada and Europe)
                                                                                                  13
in the Social Work Ethics Research Group on ethical challenges during COVID-19 (Banks).
Within the HST group, Durham Sociologists collaborate in research: through the Centre for
the Evaluation of Complexity Across the Nexus (CECAN), which conducts policy focused
methodological research with colleagues at a wide variety of universities, including Surrey,
Leeds, Kings College, York, Newcastle, and University College London (Castellani); through
Fuse: Translational Research in Public Health, one of eight academic centres of public
health excellence funded by NIHR (Wistow); and with colleagues at Surrey University in the
UK and Kent State University and Concord Consortium in the US to develop COMPLEX-IT,
a new computational modelling software package that researchers, professionals in a variety
of service sectors and also policy evaluators can use (Castellani). HST researchers have
also worked with colleagues from Bristol and Queen’s University Belfast on research into
young mothers' health beliefs and behaviours (Jamie) and with colleagues at Copenhagen
University on Counteracting age-related loss of skeletal muscle mass – CALM (Moreira).

The Department has hosted a series of major conferences, seminars and events since 2014,
including the national Social Policy Association’s annual conference in 2017 and again in
2019. We have regularly held major academic events with a focus on cutting edge
developments in research methodology, including an ESRC-funded seminar series on
Method in the Social Sciences: An Interdisciplinary Approach (2014); and ESRC-funded
conference on Transformative Feminist Methods (2014); a Biographic Methods conference
(2015); the International Research Association conference on Mixed Methods (2016); a
Durham Institute for Advanced Studies conference on Methodological Approaches for
‘Ambivalent’ Research (2018); and a Participatory Research Ethics conference (2019). The
V&A research group hosted a major end of grant conference for the Mirabel project (2015);
an N8 Policing Research Partnership seminar on Evidence-based research and policing:
Developing the relationship (2017); two N8 Knowledge Exchange conferences on Co-
ordinated Community Responses to Domestic Abuse (2017) and Improving Policing
Research and Practice on Child to Parent Domestic Violence and Abuse (2018); the
National LGBT DVA Professional Forum to discuss collaborative research as part of the
ESRC Festival of Social Science (2019); the North East Conference on Sexual Violence
funded by Northern Rock Foundation hosted annually at Durham and now in its 13th year
(2014-2019); as well as many CRiVA events. The CSJ group hosted the Social Work Action
Network conference (2014); a conference on New Developments in Community Finance: 50
years of credit unions and where next? (2015); the Inside-Out prison education conference
(2015); a Sex, Gender and Sexualities research summer school (2015); Money Talks, the
Christian responses to debt conference (2016); the Leading Together in Growing Methodist
Churches conference (2016); and many other events hosted by CSJCA. The HST group has
hosted three ESRC funded seminar series on new psychoactive substances (2014-2016),
New Drugs: Drug Markets (2016); and Crossing, contesting and comparing boundaries
[2017]; an NIHR funded seminar on Complexities and Fluidities in Health (2018); and a
Sociology of Health and Illness Foundation funded Workshop on Building social science
research capacity in Lewy Body Dementia (2018).

Members of Durham’s Sociology Department are significant contributors to the wider
discipline of Sociology and the allied disciplines of Social Policy and Social Work. Staff in the
Department have served as editors of key academic journals in the field including the
International Journal of Social Research Methodology (Castellani), Practice (Smith), and
International Social Work (Dominelli, Hackett, Ioakimidis); and as editorial board members of
the Journal of Gender Based Violence (Westmarland), Trauma, Violence and Abuse
(Hackett), British Journal of Criminology (Smith), British Journal of Sociology of Education
(Boliver), Sociology (Arday, Boliver, McCormack), The Sociological Review (Gamsu),
Educational Philosophy and Theory (Arday), Sociological Research Online (Jamie),
Sociology of Health and Illness (Moreira), Dementia (Clarke) Complexity, Governance, and
Networks (Castellani), Contemporary Drug Problems (Measham), International Journal of
Drug Science, Policy and Law (Measham), Drugs and Alcohol Today (Measham), Australian
Social Work (Smith), Ethics and Social Welfare (Banks), Qualitative Research Journal

                                                                                                    14
(Hillyard), YOUNG Journal of Nordic Youth Studies (King, O’Brien) and Journal of Youth
Studies (O’Brien).

Durham Sociologists have co-edited journal special issues for Social Sciences (Boliver),
Education Philosophy and Theory (Arday), Higher Education (Arday and Boliver),
Biosocieties (Moreira), the International Journal of Drug Policy (O’Brien), Drugs: Education,
Prevention and Policy (O’Brien) and Frontiers in Sociology (Wistow); and have edited major
book series including Advances in Violence and Abuse Research (Westmarland for
Emerald), Studies in Race, Inequality and Social Justice in Education (Arday and Boliver for
Palgrave), Rethinking Community Development (Banks for Policy Press) and Complexity in
Social Science (Castellani for Routledge). Durham Sociologists have also published key
contributions to the advancement of social scientific methodology this REF cycle, with
publications including Researching Gender, Violence and Abuse: Theory, Methods, Action
(Westmarland and Bows, 2018); Participatory Research for Health and Social Well-being
(Abma, Banks et al, 2019); Ethics in Participatory Research for Health and Social Well-being
(Banks and Bryson-Miller); Innovations in Social Work Research: Using Methods Creatively
(Hardwick, Smith and Worsley, 2016); Categorical Data Analysis (Yang, 2014); Studying
Health Inequalities: An Applied Approach (Wistow et al, 2015); Data Mining Big Data: A
Complex Critical Introduction. (Castellani and Rajaram, in press); the translation into
Swedish of Social Research (David and Sutton, 2016); and the translation into Chinese of
Doing Social Work Research (Smith). A recent paper by Gamsu was awarded the
Sociological Research Online 2020 SAGE Prize for Innovation and Excellence.

Staff are well represented on the panels of major research funding bodies: numerous
members of staff are members of the ESRC Peer Review College (Donovan, Lawless,
Westmarland, Smith, Hackett, Moreira) or have served in a similar capacity for the Academy
of Finland (McKie, Moreira), National Science Foundation (Lawless, Moreira), UKCRP
(Wistow) and Wellcome Trust (Moreira). Staff members regularly peer review grant
applications for a range of research funders including the ESRC, AHRC, NIHR, Wellcome
Trust and British Academy. Most Durham Sociology staff are members of learned societies,
including the British Sociological Association (for which former Head of Department, McKie,
served as Public Engagement Director), European Sociological Association, International
Sociological Association, British Society of Criminology, European Social Work Research
Association, International Collaboration for Participatory Health Research, and the Social
Policy Association. In recognition of their significant contributions to the discipline, several of
our senior staff have been elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Boliver,
Castellani, Hackett, Smith).




                                                                                                      15
