Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure

A fundamental objective of Coventry University’s Corporate Strategy for 2021 was the achievement
of international excellence in chosen areas of research, delivered through 14 dedicated research
centres. The Centre for Trust, Peace and Social Relations (CTPSR) is the second largest of these,
and constitutes the University’s work presented in this Politics and International Studies submission.
Distinctively, CTPSR works outside faculty or school structures, reporting directly to the Vice
Chancellor’s Group. This provides clear focus and agility for our researchers, at all career stages,
enabling the development and delivery of high-quality research. CTPSR uses its relative
independence to express a distinctive identity, in terms of the research undertaken and the
approaches used. Since its creation in 2014, CTPSR has evolved into a truly transdisciplinary
community, drawing knowledge and expertise from disciplines across the social and behavioural
sciences, and extending through internal collaborations to arts and humanities, and health and life
sciences through an associate membership scheme. Its breadth and depth of intellectual and cross-
discipline engagement are consistently cited in the annual staff survey as key elements of the
Centre’s success and why it attracts and retains such highly qualified and motivated researchers.
This researcher-centred approach remains a key priority for the Centre, and we will continue to
enable colleagues to be open-minded in their focus, innovative in their approaches, and impactful in
their research activities. These principles have helped transform our ambitions and progress from
REF2014.

Politics and International Studies has grown substantially over this REF period, returning 52 (49.8
FTE) colleagues compared with 21 (18.7 FTE) in REF2014 and 14 in RAE2008. This includes 43
core members of CTPSR (who spend 100% of their time on research in CTPSR) and 9 associate
members, colleagues who spend up to 40% of their time on research but are predominantly teaching
focused in their respective schools. Associate members are treated as core members of CTPSR and
have access to the same resources, funding, and doctoral supervision opportunities as core
members. Expansion has been funded by significant institutional investment since REF2014, and as
new Coventry leadership sought to respond directly to the co-location in the UK’s only City of Peace
and Reconciliation. From 2014, CTPSR recruited 30 new academic colleagues in its first two years
of operation, including 19 ECRs, each offered permanent positions from the outset. This commitment
to longer-term development of research agendas eliminated job insecurity and was supported by
individual professorial mentorship and ECR development funds. The strategic investment also
allowed the recruitment of record numbers of doctoral candidates during the REF period with over
100 PhD enrolments and 56 completions, further demonstrating our commitment to developing the
next generation of talent in politics and international studies. As core policy, all CTPSR researchers
are provided with resources to develop their research ideas and questions through mentorship from
senior academics committed to enhancing research excellence, and enabling the co-creation of
research projects with individuals and communities who stand to benefit from the research through
CTPSR funding for workshops, sandpits and mobility. All staff and doctoral researchers are
encouraged to take an interdisciplinary lens, using innovative approaches and working with
colleagues from other disciplines who think in fundamentally different ways. Doctoral candidates

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
take these same approaches into the next stage of their career development, directly delivering our
commitment to impact on the future direction of politics and international studies, as well as on
society.

The research themes within the submitted Unit have evolved significantly since REF2014 to reflect
the new composition of our team, as well as the shift in global political and international studies
priorities and challenges. Specialisms are developed through five research groups, each managed
by a research group leader. At a strategic level, the research direction is set by the Centre Directorate
and implemented by a Centre Leadership Team, comprising the research group leaders, heads of
CTPSR’s postgraduate taught programs and postgraduate research, and the Director of CTPSR’s
City-University Initiative. Significant new resources have been invested in the five research groups
to allow for critical mass, the enhancement of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and to promote
interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary working within CTPSR, across the University, and with
academic and non-academic partners at the international level.
    • The Communities, Politics and Identities group focuses on the emerging challenges and
         human insecurities faced by diverse communities resulting from demographic change,
         strained social relations and rebalancing relationships between civil society and the state.
    • The Faith and Peaceful Relations group explores the role that religion and belief can play
         in achieving more peaceful and just societies, and the role of faith-based institutions in
         tackling poverty and violence.
    • The Global Inequalities and Development group delivers international development
         research in and with the global south through foci such as migration and displacement,
         drawing linkages between issues of poverty, inequality, oppression and colonisation.
    • The Peacebuilding and Conflict Transformation group investigates non-violent
         peacebuilding, and the protection and promotion of social justice, positive social relations
         and sustainable peace.
    • The Security, Vulnerability and Resilience group concentrates on sources of international
         insecurity including terrorism/counter terrorism, organised crime and gang violence, as well
         as how the nexus between land and sea impacts upon security policy and practice.

While these research groups are new within the submitted Unit, they have remained stable since
REF2014 as we seek to deliver on the ambition that our research is both world-leading and
sustainable.

CTPSR secured major new research resources during the reporting period with research across the
Unit greatly enhanced through the awarding of the £19million UKRI GCRF South-South Migration,
Inequality and Development Hub (MIDEQ) led by Professor Crawley, connecting our researchers
with 30 academic and non-academic partners in 12 countries. In addition, CTPSR was selected as
the first non-North American host of the Secretariat of the Academic Council on the United Nations
Systems (ACUNS), a global organisation designed to unite people active in the work, study and
support of the United Nations. These major initiatives have increased the mobility, connectivity and
collaborative opportunities for researchers at all levels within CTPSR and provided the Unit with
world-leading infrastructure at an international level.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

The main aim of our research and impact strategy is to produce high-quality and impactful research
using innovative methods. CTPSR’s strategy recognises that sustainability is important and therefore
plans activity over a five-year period, with ten-year goals also identified.

Managing, delivering and reviewing research strategy
Since the Centre’s establishment in 2014, its work has been governed by a five-year research and
impact strategy (updated in 2020) that is co-created with CTPSR colleagues, delivered through
Research Groups, and managed and reviewed by the Directorate (Executive Director, Director of
Research Excellence, Director of Research Development, and Director of Operations).The Unit is
led by the Director of Research Excellence in partnership with the directorate. The strategy is steered
by our Research and Impact Advisory Group (RIAG) that helps identify strategic priorities for
research development and funding, enables new dissemination pathways, and enhances
collaborative opportunities for our researchers internationally. RIAG meets annually and consists of
CTPSR Visiting Professors and senior leaders in policy and practice at the international level.

CTPSR has two staff-led committees that challenge and inform our research and impact strategy
and hold leadership to account. The Co-operation Committee nurtures and champions the values
and collegial culture of CTPSR, ensuring that all staff and students benefit from a conducive working
environment, appropriate for research, through effective integration of the strategy into working
practices. The Co-operation Committee makes recommendations to the Leadership Team for action,
and the Leadership Team, in turn, assigns responsibility to the Co-operation Committee for issues
relating to the working environment and where staff and student consultation is required. Our
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC) is a sub-committee of the Co-operation
Committee and ensures that EDI is central to our research environment. Validation of our approach
came with the achievement of an Athena Swan Bronze Departmental Award in 2020, the first
departmental award at Coventry University. CTPSR’s achievements since REF2014 are a
consequence of the performance of our people, and their continuing development is a priority
management action. These two committees, together with the Leadership Team, ensure that
challenges or barriers preventing colleagues operating at the highest level are identified and
removed, sensitively and proactively. The commitment and dedication of CTPSR staff is perpetuated
and rewarded by the collegiate, enabling research environment created since 2014.

At institutional level, formal reporting lines support the delivery of our research and impact strategy.
CTPSR is reviewed annually by the Vice Chancellor and the University Research Committee. Whilst
income and outputs provide the backdrop, the review primarily focuses on performance against the
Unit’s strategic objectives and how the University can support us in delivering the institutional
research strategy. In addition to the University Research Committee, the Executive Director of
CTPSR and the Unit of Assessment lead for Politics and International Studies also sit on the
Research Excellence Committee and the Postgraduate Research (PGR) Committee to facilitate two-
way exchange. These sub-committees of the University Research Committee are designed to
encourage interdisciplinary opportunities, develop researchers (PGRs and research staff) and
facilitate research and impact activities. The structure and approach of these committees provide
extensive support for the University research strategy.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Delivering the REF2014 Strategy and Objectives
A new and ambitious approach to research at Coventry was developed in 2013, implemented in
2014, and underpinned by substantial institutional investment (approximately £20 million per year)
in areas of strategic policy importance. The Research Excellence with Impact Strategy committed to
deliver the strategic objectives identified in the institution’s REF2014 submission, including
enhancing excellence and impact of Coventry University’s research and delivering economic, social,
environmental, cultural, policy-influencing or practice-enhancing impact (see REF5a).

The Unit’s strategy articulated in the REF2014 submission was reflective of research at Coventry
prior to the Research Excellence with Impact Strategy: To conduct research to enhance human
security and address the dynamic challenges facing society in a more effective and efficient manner.
Specific objectives were to understand the potentiality of diverse social groups in securing social
justice, mitigating security problems as well as peacebuilding; to deepen academic, public and third-
sector relationships in research; and to develop policy and practice linkages at the global level. A
further aim was to invest substantially over five years to support three transdisciplinary research
groups, namely ‘Trust, Transformations and Peace’, ‘Agroecology, Water and Resilience’ and ‘Social
Inequality and Social Justice’. Through its substantive and diverse activities, as articulated
throughout REF5b, incorporating research outputs, grants, end user and civic engagement, and
international partnerships, the Unit is confident that it has delivered, in full, the strategy and plans
set out in the REF2014 submission.

Since REF2014, the Unit has evolved from a core staff of 18.7 FTE (headcount: 21) submitted in
2014, to an internationally-focused Unit comprising 49.8 FTE (headcount: 52) with only five staff
returned in both REF2014 and REF2021. This transformative change is a consequence of
Coventry’s ambitious strategy for the development of CTPSR, underpinned by University investment
in CTPSR of over £20 million between January 2014 and July 2020. This investment signalled the
University’s recognition of the importance of Politics and International Studies within the University’s
research portfolio and was consistent with Coventry’s history of applied research in this field and set
against a shifting global political backdrop. The complexity of this context helped shape the
development and focus of CTPSR over its first six years and continues to define our strategy.

Linked to the University’s research strategy, CTPSR established six objectives to deliver a
sustainable, vibrant, and world-leading research environment in its strategy. These objectives were
designed to map against those highlighted in REF2014 and deliver the step-change envisaged. The
Unit has developed as a highly productive, intensive research community over the assessment
period, as evidenced under the headings of our six guiding objectives:

1. Identify research themes and concentrate research activity in areas where Coventry can make a
   substantial contribution

In line with the plans described in REF2014, a significant number of scholars were recruited, many
of them ECRs. These challenge-led appointments reflected our view about the core themes of
making the world a safer, more peaceful, and more resilient place. We were not prescriptive in the
advertising of these new posts, but instead presented broad themes that we knew would pose
significant policy challenges in the short and long terms. Those successful then helped shape and
consolidate our research interests and specialisms into five strong research themes where we felt
Coventry could make a substantial impact, encouraging adaptation to evolving global issues. Our
attention to issues relating to global migration, magnified since the 2015 Mediterranean migrant

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
crisis, is a powerful example. Our recruitment strategy was deliberate in developing both
multidisciplinary and transdisciplinary teams, underpinned by our commitment to EDI, and including
researchers at all career levels. The themes identified in REF2014 are included in our five current
research groups, with the exception of Agroecology, Water and Resilience, which evolved into a
separate research centre and is returned in UoA14 for REF2021.

2. Set indicators of performance which are realistic, achievable, and sustainable in both the current
   and future environment and which enable the Centre to remain accountable to its stakeholders

One of CTPSR’s greatest successes in the REF period is the research culture and community that
has been developed. Including colleagues in the co-creation of our research strategy has
transformed our performance since REF2014 and driven research activity at levels consistent with
high performing research centres in the UK and internationally. Researchers set annual objectives
relating to publications, research funding applications, project delivery, international partnerships,
teaching and professional development, and these feed into the Research Group annual plans
through which staff are held to account. Part of our approach has focused on developing international
partnerships through which ECRs – indeed all research staff – grow to bid for larger, more prestigious
funding with international collaborators, enabling greater impact. This approach has secured a
significant increase in research income during the REF2021 period, and a substantial growth in high
quality research funding. CTPSR’s accountability to stakeholders is predominantly achieved through
research impact. CTPSR took an early decision to coalesce impact around a number of core areas,
pump-priming these and developing the impact through a targeted pursuit of research funding and
collaboration. Consequently, the four impact case studies returned in REF3 have matured over a
longer period and will continue to be invested in over the longer term. This income has led to higher
quality outputs with over 18% of UoA19 outputs in the top 10% citation percentiles (field weighted,
average between 2014 and 2020, SciVal).

3. Build and foster an effective, inclusive, and credible research community and culture by
   recruiting, developing and managing individuals at all levels, including doctoral candidates,
   delivering an enabling and vibrant research culture

CTPSR is a deliberately multidisciplinary research community that has recruited international
expertise from across the social sciences (such as geography, politics, international relations,
security studies, peace, international development, and migration), humanities (including religion
and history), health sciences (psychology) and computer sciences (technology development and
geospatial intelligence). This has greatly enhanced the ability of CTPSR teams to think differently
and approach research questions in an interdisciplinary manner, unfettered by departmental
boundaries. The Centre designed its physical space to encourage such team working, investing in a
new building that provides dedicated workspace to actively promote dialogue, encourage
collaboration, and integrate administration and business development staff. Our workspace is set
out in a manner where there is no evident hierarchy and where researchers at all levels can engage
informally and develop synergies in their work. The space also allows for the co-location of doctoral
candidates to draw them into shared learning as core team members.

4. Grow our global footprint, collaborating with world-leading academic and non-academic partners

Significant funding was made available, open to any researcher (PhD through to Professor), to
develop initiatives with world-leading international partners to encourage research collaboration,

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enhance career development, enable greater collaboration in funded projects, internationally co-
authored outputs, and research impact during the REF period. Other CTPSR initiatives, such as the
RISING Global Peace Forum, have benefitted from approximately £1million investment through the
CTPSR core budget, enabling CTPSR researchers to host major international events connecting
academic and non-academic audiences in some of the most challenging environments for peace,
for example, Baltimore, Mexico City, Colombia, Indonesia and Belfast.

5. Create and support the research community to produce original, significant and rigorous
   research, and attract high quality external research funding

CTPSR’s research operations infrastructure provides effective and tailored one-to-one support for
staff, allowing researchers to focus on developing and delivering high quality research projects and
outputs, and providing them with access to expertise to enhance their success. New bid opportunities
are scrutinised and bid teams developed through monthly research development meetings, and
dedicated bid-writing support has significantly enhanced CTPSR’s success rate as ECRs have been
mentored and the confidence of more senior colleagues has grown to apply for larger and more
prestigious grants. In addition to a peer review process for grant applications, we have established
a systematic peer review process for publications, to enhance originality, significance and rigor. This
has provided ECRs with greater confidence to target top-ranking journals, while ensuring that they
target the most appropriate journal for their research. Publication review processes are open to all
staff (PhD to Professor). 33% of all outputs have been internationally co-authored (average between
2014 and 2020), and 51% of outputs are in the top 25% journal percentiles by SNIP (source: SciVal),
demonstrating our commitment to enhancing quality and reach.

6. Provide clear strategy, organization and leadership that ensures development, focus and
   sustainability to support research excellence and impact over the long term

CTPSR developed a forward planning regime led by the Executive Director, negotiated and agreed
with Coventry senior leadership, and delivered through research group leaders. This regime sets
five-year objectives that allow CTPSR researchers to have greater clarity of future expectations, and
enable a more sustainable longer-term approach to performance. A core part of this approach was
a systematic commitment to replacing staff who leave and ensuring that new recruits meet identified
staffing need. During the REF2021 reporting period, 100% replacement was achieved. We also
promoted an inclusive and participative governance structure, including two annual all-staff and PGR
away days, for team development, consultation and decision taking.

Moving from traditional social science contexts towards interdisciplinary approaches is often difficult
if it is not a strategic ambition. From its inception, CTPSR has promoted and encouraged a culture
where interdisciplinarity is a core consideration, facilitated by our recruitment strategy. We have
invested substantial resources in interdisciplinary PhD scholarships, including five scholarships that
require supervision across at least two research centres. Research staff have benefitted from a
CTPSR funding scheme to encourage interdisciplinary research with partners worldwide, with
researcher mobility and collaboration leading to a series of co-authored outputs and significant
research grant funding.

The University supports an open research environment, enabling staff to publish in the best journals
appropriate to their research and promoting the Green Route for open access as a standard across
the institution. Researchers benefit from a central fund for Gold Route publishing administered by

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the library for publishing articles to maximize impact opportunities, and CTPSR colleagues have
accessed this funding. Within CTPSR, an additional fund of approximately £15k is available each
year through the CTPSR budget to extend the reach of research outputs through Gold route
publishing, prioritising research within our core impact areas. Further details of our open research
environment and infrastructure are reported in Section 3.2.

Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity
Research Integrity is a core function and objective of CTPSR’s Research and Impact Strategy, and
the University’s Research Excellence with Impact Strategy. Reporting to the Director of Research
Excellence, CTPSR’s Ethics Committee comprises 12 members, with the terms of reference
stipulating that a gender balance must be maintained and the composition should reflect CTPSR’s
breadth of research expertise. The Chair of the CTPSR Ethics Committee and the Director of
Research Excellence sit on the University Ethics Committee. All research projects by staff and
students that involve primary research require approval by the CTPSR Ethics Committee. The review
process is swift and thorough: a minimum of three reviewers comment on the first draft of the
application typically within two weeks of an application being submitted (quicker in the case of urgent
applications). In the case of sensitive research, for instance research with children, the full committee
reviews the application. In addition to formal approval, the review process offers the researcher
guidance on research ethics and integrity as well as research design for fieldwork in challenging
contexts to improve the overall quality of research planned. The committee holds regular drop-in
sessions where researchers can discuss their questions at any stage. Committee members also
support the ethics training of postgraduate researchers and funding bid development, and share
relevant guidelines, academic articles and examples of good practice via the intranet. Where
necessary, the CTPSR Ethics Lead investigates reports of research misconduct and records these
in the 'Academic Research Integrity Annual Statement’ compiled by the University Group Research
Ethics Committee and acts, if required, in line with University regulations.

Developing Research Impact
CTPSR is well placed to engage with policy, practice and other stakeholders where human security
and community resilience is under threat, and impact has been a necessary core element of our
research since CTPSR’s inception. Research group leaders formed strategic relationships with key
non-academic stakeholders in their field (for example NGOs, charities and policy think-tanks), some
supported by Memoranda of Understanding. Institutionally, support is streamlined through four
Research Impact Officers aligned with research centres. They provide regular impact training for
staff at all levels and work with colleagues to understand the potentiality of their research, facilitate
impact opportunities through organising events, one-to-one meetings, horizon scanning, and
administer a dedicated research impact fund that colleagues can apply to annually. CTPSR
researchers secured over £160,000 in institutional funding for impact activities over the reporting
period. Support is also provided through four Coventry University policy advisors located in London,
Brussels and South East Asia who organise regular research-to-policy-to-practice workshops, the
latest of which concentrated on Protecting Crowded Places and Critical Infrastructure, and was
designed to engage senior security leaders in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia. These types of
initiatives are held four times per year in South East Asia, twice per year in Brussels and six times
per year in London for CTPSR research.

Within CTPSR, impact is managed by an Impact Champion and the Director of Research Excellence.
CTPSR staff can also draw down funding for impact activities with approximately £1000 per annum
made available per FTE and a special projects fund for pump-priming research and impact activity.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also actively encourage researchers to bid for research funding that requires detailed impact
strategies and deliverables, with particular emphasis on research councils where impact is a
fundamental consideration, so that impact is an integral part of research design. In these cases, the
Research Impact Officers work with staff to maximise the potential impact of their research and
develop pathways to generate significant impact for a wide range of beneficiaries. In 2020, the
MIDEQ Hub employed a dedicated Research Impact Officer to focus specifically on promoting
impact at the international level.

Future Strategic Aims and Activities
The future aims and activities of CTPSR will be influenced by the highly dynamic political landscape
and further challenged by an uncertain funding environment in the UK and internationally.
Exogenous factors such as climate change, terrorism and different forms of extremism, migration,
and technological advancements have all influenced the context in which politics and international
studies have evolved in recent times, with the future research agenda needing to respond and
address the challenges posed. For example, the growth in domestic extremism and international-
related terrorism is reflected in new, innovative research on P/CVE and wider counter terrorism
funded by CREST, GCRF and UK Home Office. Global challenges related to migration are
influencing the policy agenda, and the requirement for multidisciplinary responses to such crises has
allowed social science disciplines to offer research informed evidence at a much greater scale, such
as through the MIDEQ Hub. A key objective over the next five years, utilising the research outcomes
of such projects, will be reducing vulnerability in society by enhancing the evidence base from which
governments, law enforcement, and the third sector can make better-informed decisions. The Unit
will further develop the capacity and opportunities for research into the interplay between faith and
peaceful relations through building on impactful research such as that commissioned for the Office
for Students and Church of England, which has been helping faith-based institutions understand
their role in countering and mitigating discrimination and hate crime in diverse environments.
Focusing on issues that are likely to challenge peace at different levels will ensure that CTPSR
remains at the leading edge of research, innovation, and impact in this area.

In enhancing research excellence, we will also set the following as strategic research objectives:

   •   Enhance our international co-authorship level for outputs through dedicated CTPSR-based
       collaboration schemes
   •   Enhance the number of externally funded doctoral studentships
   •   Develop a Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship scheme for retaining doctoral students
   •   Strengthen our international partnerships and collaborations particularly with ECRs and in
       the global south
   •   Extensively develop our open research environment, particularly around co-creation of
       research questions through citizen social science approaches internationally
   •   Build on the case studies submitted in REF2021 by investing in policy engagement,
       secondments, co-creation activities, and research-informed training programmes

From a research structure perspective, the Unit will continue to operate within a single entity drawing
membership from across disciplines at the University to drive innovative and impactful research.
However, we are ambitious - our success in relation to achieving our strategic goals over the
REF2021 cycle, particularly our success in research funding and securing major research
infrastructure, has further strengthened the University’s commitment to sustaining and growing
Politics and International Studies research. In the next period, we will evolve from a single research

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
centre into a research institute focused on three core strands, peace, security and social justice. The
institute will comprise the unit during the next REF period. To maintain the powerful interdisciplinary
and multidisciplinary approaches that underpin CTPSR, our strategy will be to co-locate in a
dedicated research space with other university research centres and institutes enabling innovative
approaches to the significant global challenges that we address. Our ambition is also to secure
Athena Swan Silver status over the next term and further promote EDI in everything that we do.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

The University’s 2021 Corporate Plan and its associated People and Organisational Development
Strategy acknowledges that attracting, developing, retaining and rewarding exceptional staff is
fundamental for enhancing research excellence, and is recognised by the HR Excellence in
Research Award granted by the European Commission. This good practice extends to CTPSR
where we have adopted these principles in our staffing strategy, covering recruitment, progression,
retention and succession planning. Our approach to recruitment prioritised research expertise in new
emerging topics and strengthened the research base identified in the REF2014 submission.

CTPSR’s staffing strategy was implemented in four stages:
  1. Strong research leadership within the new Centre was developed through appointments of
     senior research staff to lead the five core thematic areas and aligned research groups (Aune
     from Derby; Crawford from Leeds; Crawley from Swansea; Hussain from Charles Darwin;
     Noortmann from Oxford Brookes).
  2. A deliberate drive to recruit promising early career researchers resulted in 19 appointments
     (9 Research Fellows (GR7) and 10 Assistant Professorships (GR8)) in CTPSR’s first two
     years of operation, all of which were permanent positions.
  3. Ongoing sustainability and succession planning for CTPSR’s research capability was the
     driver of the staffing strategy since 2016. This period saw the appointments at senior levels
     of McIlhatton (2016 from Ulster), Monaghan (2020 from Ulster) and Wessendorf (2020 from
     LSE) in the areas of counter terrorism, peace and conflict, and migration and ethnicity
     respectively. Recruitment of a further two permanent ECRs followed at assistant professor
     level (Slocombe from Macquarie; Jones from Cambridge) to replace staff who had
     progressed to mid-career and professorships. We also appointed a further 10 Post-Doctoral
     Fellows and Research Assistants to support research during the reporting period. 17 staff
     were promoted between 2014 and 2020.
  Opportunities for associate membership status within CTPSR allowing up to 40% of time to be
  spent on research for teaching focused staff. We have nine associate members seconded from
  business, psychology, and humanities.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 1: Research population by career stage (at REF2021 census date)

                                    No. of                No. submitted        % of REF
  Grade                                        % total
                                     staff                 to REF2021         submission
  Research Assistant                   3          5              -                 -
  Research Fellow / Lecturer          11          18             4                 8
  Assistant Professor                 24          39            24                46
  Associate Professor                 11          18            11                21
  Professor                           13          21            13                25

In addition to the established staff base, new academic appointments during the reporting period are
aligned to funding streams further increasing research capability, for example Harris (MiFriendly
City), Denning (Life on the Breadline), Sha (MIDEQ), and Wheeler, Dizdaroğlu and Sentama (Marie
Curie MSCA). CTPSR has a policy of employing staff on permanent contracts whenever possible,
on the basis that job security is conducive to high quality research. Of our 52 Category A staff, 48
are on permanent contracts and three are Marie Curie Fellows, demonstrating our commitment to
sustainability and vitality within our research areas. We predominantly use fixed-term contracts when
roles are linked to external funding with an end date, or at Post-Doctoral Research Fellow level, and
we actively seek to convert these to permanent roles as new funding becomes available. In all other
cases we offer permanent contracts to give staff security and confidence to build and invest in their
careers at CTPSR.

2.2 Staff Development

As a research centre, staff time is predominantly dedicated to research activities with teaching duties
minimised (maximum 20% FTE) except for associates who spend 60% on teaching. This eliminates
the need for schemes such as research sabbaticals and teaching release as the majority of our staff
already prioritise research activity. Our staff teams are organised and managed through research
groups, which provide a subject-focused ‘home’, an academic identity, access to peer support, role
models and mentoring with more experienced colleagues. Staff development is prioritised and
formalised at CTPSR in the following ways:

Induction
New staff receive a CTPSR induction programme and information pack to help them to understand
their role, their place in CTPSR, how the Centre and University works, and who their key contacts
are for enquires and support, including welfare, counselling and occupational health services. Each
new staff member is allocated a ‘buddy’ to assist them with settling in and finding their way around
a new university and city and with informal help and advice. All staff undertake the University’s
‘Coventry Essentials’ online training modules, covering topics such as data protection, health and
safety, gender, EDI and dignity at work. Staff are encouraged to attend the university’s academic
induction programme and to access opportunities to meet the Vice Chancellor at roadshows.

Personal development planning
Staff participate in the University’s CORE staff development and review system to set objectives and
agree personal development plans with their line manager, and to support the probation period for
new staff. Within the context of their research group, each staff member establishes short, medium
and long term personal development plans. This includes commitment to increasing the scale and
value of project funding applications, international collaboration, engagement, publications, and

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development. Research group leaders, as line managers, then monitor progress and review outputs,
ensuring that these align to the overall research strategy for the group and CTPSR.

All staff and PGR students at CTPSR have access to a personal development fund of up to £1000
each year to support their personal research plans and to help overcome potential obstacles. This
scheme provides flexible funds to be spent on activities for personal development, the achievement
of research outputs and development of research skills and capabilities. It also allows for specific
support to be provided when individuals encounter additional barriers such as in the case of
disability. Typical expenditure includes research materials, publications, equipment, software or
hardware, conference attendance, proof reading, and training where courses are not available
through the University.

Progression, succession and retention
The University’s academic progression process is open to all academic staff at all grades, and
provides a systematic progression route through the academic scales against clear criteria and
performance outcomes. Through the scheme and the associated University Exceptional
Performance Award scheme, CTPSR recognises and values personal development and career
progression and supports retention, delivering long-term sustainable relationships within the unit and
extremely high retention. Due to our proactive recruitment and retention policy within CTPSR,
departures have had limited impact on research over the period, though notable senior departures
include Ozerdem (George Mason University), Searle (Glasgow), and Harris (Birmingham City).
These departures are examples of progression from CTPSR to significant senior management posts
at universities in the UK and internationally. These posts were replaced immediately. All staff have
opportunities to undertake one of around 20 leadership and coordination roles to contribute to the
smooth running of the Centre and develop management skills required in more senior roles, and can
participate in CTPSR’s governance through committee membership. Such contributions are taken
into account in evaluating promotion applications.

Early and mid-career researcher development
CTPSR staff are actively encouraged to engage with the University’s Centre for Research Capability
and Development that delivers tailored training programmes for early, middle, and senior career
researchers through a combination of workshops, digital resources, reading groups, activity-based
learning, peer mentoring, and 1-2-1 support. Aligned to Vitae's Researcher Development
Framework, a series of developmental pathways are available to assist researchers in selecting
programmes most relevant to their career stage and research portfolio. Training programmes cover
relevant skills for a research career including leadership, project management, financial
management of budgets, grant application writing, managing people in research teams, and media
and external engagement.

Complementing this institutional provision, CTPSR provides support specifically designed for the
subject needs and career stages of researchers, including seminar series, reading groups and
conferences. Recognising how success in grant applications and research outputs unlocks career
opportunities for ECRs, CTPSR invests in a programme of dedicated grant writing retreats and
publication writing retreats each month. Led by the Director of Research Development, these draw
on in-house expertise from senior academic staff in the Centre, and are supported by colleagues
with specialised knowledge from across the university (e.g. data management plans, ethics and risk,
impact and engaging policymakers). ECRs are also encouraged to develop their supervision skills
through inclusion in PhD supervision teams. All qualifications and accreditations, such as Higher

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Education Academy, are both encouraged and funded for all ECR and MCR staff, and 10% of total
available staff time is allocated for development.

In addition to the above mechanisms, the Unit embraces three principles to drive our research culture
and staff engagement:
    • Team first places emphasis on cross-discipline and inclusive teamwork encouraging co-
        investigators from a variety of grades. Relatively few of our projects are single investigator or
        author, establishing a learning environment between colleagues.
    • Accountability: Staff enjoy significant freedoms in how they conduct their research, but are
        accountable to agreed objectives and to their colleagues for their contribution.
    • The Legacy principle places direct encouragement on project design and implementation
        that creates lasting impact, so that the needs of end-users of research are planned for at the
        outset.

2.3 Doctoral Students
PGR students are central to the vibrancy and culture of research in CTPSR, and we have around 50
registered at any time. The majority of PGR students are non-UK nationals, with a significant number
from countries in Africa and South East Asia. The number of research students increased by 80%
between 2015 and 2018 as a result of a funded recruitment strategy, and the number of female
students more than doubled. Recruitment has been supported by approximately £2m investment
from university funds and an increase in funded studentships, such as those of the Indonesian
Ministry of Religious Affairs. Self-funded students also contribute to the diverse research culture
within CTPSR. The sustainability of the doctoral programme in CTPSR is demonstrated by the 56
completions achieved during the reporting period, vastly exceeding the 22 completions reported in
REF2014.

Table 2: CTPSR PhD completions for UoA19

  2013       2014      2015       2016      2017      2018       2019      Total
   4          9         5          3         9         10         16        56

As core members of the research community at CTPSR, PGR students are treated as staff members
from the moment they enrol. They have equal access to personal development funding, training
programmes and shared office space on the same footing as a staff member, and are full members
of CTPSR’s governance structures through representation on key committees such as in Research
Group meetings, CTPSR’s Co-operation Committee, EDI Committee, and the University’s Research
Committee. Each PGR has a three-person supervisory team, and an annual developmental progress
review with an independent chair and a subject expert to provide additional feedback and guidance
on their research. They are linked to a Research Group to support their integration in the Centre’s
activities, provide mentoring and career role models, and facilitate engagement with live research
projects. Staff incorporate paid research student assistance into research funding bids to enable
students to gain hands-on experience of larger research projects. The PGR tutor holds regular drop-
in sessions to offer advice on all issues including career planning, and we have a growing PGR
alumni network to support students in gaining access and information about academic careers. All
students are encouraged to participate in CTPSR’s annual PGR Summer School to develop
essential communication and research skills and receive constructive feedback on their research
from academic colleagues. The summer school includes a ‘Careers Day’ exploring research careers
inside and outside academia with external speakers and role models.

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In addition, all students undertake the University’s Postgraduate Researcher Development
Programme run by the Doctoral College & Centre for Research Capability and Development
(ReCap). This provides students with development opportunities throughout their research degree,
and a dedicated resource hub (ReCap) for PGRs. Students are encouraged to take part in events
and competitions to enhance their confidence and studies, with CTPSR students regularly
participating in the Research Hootenanny, Three Minute Thesis Competition and Postgraduate of
the Year Competition (won by CTPSR’s Thea Shahrokh in 2018/19).

To ensure that PGR students are supported to complete on time and receive the best mentorship
and supervision, a dedicated training programme is available for supervisors and all are expected to
engage with the programme. CTPSR staff work to the CU Supervisor Development Framework and
Doctoral Supervision Programme, designed to support excellence in research supervision. The
highest standards of supervision by CTPSR staff have been repeatedly recognised in the University’s
Outstanding Research Supervision Team Awards, with two teams winning the award in 2020.

2.4 Equality and Diversity

Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) is core to CTPSR’s ethos, particularly in relation to protected
characteristics and any other areas where individuals may experience discrimination or barriers to
participation. CTPSR’s commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion is visible in the remit and role
of the Centre’s Co-operation Committee (and its EDI Sub-Committee) that establishes and
champions these values, and in our success in gaining an Athena Swan Bronze Department Award.
Since establishment we have mainstreamed best practices for the management, encouragement
and wellbeing of a high-performing, inclusive and diverse team.

On the REF census date, CTPSR’s staffing was 43% male and 57% female, with Category A staff
split being 50/50 by gender. Just under a third of CTPSR staff are from outside the UK, contributing
to a diverse, outward-looking and vibrant staff team. As well as diverse nationalities, 16% of staff are
from BME groups, slightly ahead of the UK sector as reported by HESA. CTPSR’s leadership
structures are deliberately gender balanced, with the Directorate and Leadership Teams both split
50/50 by gender. CTPSR’s attention to gender equality in its leadership roles has inspired female
staff to apply for promotion as they see that competence is more important than gender. To provide
visible role models, CTPSR has a policy for gender balance and diversity in conference panels and
speakers at events we organise.

Between 2016 and 2019 there were fewer female academics in grade 8 and 9 than male academics,
but this trend has been reversed as a result of promotions from lower grades and new recruitment.
This evidences a secure pipeline for female career progression. For REF 2014, CU submitted 18
male and 3 female academics, and the impact case studies were all led by male senior academics.
For REF 2021 there has been a significant improvement in gender balance, and 75% of our impact
case studies are led by female academics. Our REF2021 data demonstrates that female academics
at CTPSR have delivered high quality research at the same level as their male colleagues. This
outcome was achieved as a result of our inclusive research, training and recruitment policies, and
our strategic focus on research excellence for all staff at all levels, with additional development
support and mentoring targeted where needed.

CTPSR’s Co-operation Committee and EDI Sub-Committee monitor and analyse diversity data on
funding bids submitted, staff progression and pay, staff and PhD student recruitment, and


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contributions via leadership roles, and the committee members work with the CTPSR Leadership
Team to plan interventions as needed to address anomalies or perceived barriers. The CTPSR
annual survey of staff and PGR students examines working life, career and professional
development, EDI topics, wellbeing and work-life balance, and provides all members of the
community with the opportunity to comment on their experiences, make suggestions and raise
issues, which are then taken forward by the Co-operation Committee.

It is University policy to encourage applicants from diverse backgrounds to apply for positions, and
CU’s job vacancies webpage highlights the institution’s status as a Disability Confident Employer, a
Stonewall Diversity Champion, and a holder of an Athena SWAN Bronze Award. CTPSR’s job
vacancies are always advertised in line with government policy to enable overseas candidates to
apply and to be sponsored for visas if appointed, and this approach has been key in developing our
diverse community and in bringing international and Global South perspectives to our research.

CU has a flexible working policy for all staff, allowing staff to adjust their working hours to undertake
caring responsibilities or to work remotely. CTPSR’s staff performance is judged on the basis of
outputs and contributions, not on how many hours worked or visibility in the office, which makes for
a healthy, productive and trusting working culture. Staff are supported by their line managers and
research groups, as well as through formal and informal peer support networks and mentoring for
writing and bidding.

Staff and students are supported in taking parental leave, and are encouraged to do so without
detriment to their careers or research progress. In the last three years there have been 7 separate
instances of parental leave taken by CTPSR staff, involving 5 staff members. In every case the
individual returned to their role and their research. We also commit to our PGR students that no
student taking parental leave should be financially disadvantaged as a result of additional fees being
due, and such fees are waived. Colleagues have been promoted to leadership positions after
returning from parental leave, demonstrating that taking leave does not compromise progression for
high performing staff at CTPSR.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income

CTPSR staff received £7.01 million in external research income since 2014, increasing our income
by more than 150% compared to REF2014 (£2.77 million). New grant successes post-REF2021
census date evidence continued success, with approximately £2 million awarded between July 2020
and December 2020. Substantial growth in high quality research funding has been achieved, with
Research Council income increasing fiftyfold from £62,564 in REF2014 to approximately £3.2 million
during the REF2021 reporting period. Furthermore, the support and resources provided through our
research environment facilitated the development and securing of Coventry University’s largest
research grant, the £19 million UKRI GCRF MIDEQ Hub led by Professor Crawley. Income growth
goes beyond a small number of large grant successes, and is sustained across 174 projects
throughout the reporting period.

Major prestigious grants started over the assessment period involve staff across all our research
groups and at all career stages. This was achieved in an increasingly competitive funding landscape
and was a result of a deliberate strategy to diversify funding sources and to support colleagues in

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
developing high quality proposals. The link between funding support, our research strategy, and our
research income is demonstrated in the evolution of funding amounts won during the reporting
period, with a large number of smaller grants in our portfolio in the first couple of years of the Centre,
progressing to larger scale grants as staff expertise and confidence grew. Indeed, the growth in high
quality funding awards aligns strongly with an upward trajectory in the quality of outputs in recent
years (2017-2020 saw a rise of 15% in publications in Top 10% of Journal Percentiles by SNIP
according to SciVal; and a rise in research council funding from £340,000 in 2017/18 to £1.6 million
in 2019/20).

As a result of investment in the support infrastructure and staff development, ECRs have become
increasingly successful across a range of funders with notable awards through ESRC (Life on the
Breadline – Shannahan, £480k; Breaking Bad – Baird, £81k), AHRC (Minorities on Campus -
Cheruvallil-Contractor, £37k), British Academy (Youth Futures in Algeria – Northey, £253k; Gender
and resistance to violent extremism - Aroussi, £50k; UN-sponsored conflict resolution in Kyrgyzstan
– Thiessen, £10k; Struggles for territory, struggles for place – Celestina, £7k; Costa del Brexit –
Busher, £9k; Muslim women in Britain 1890-1948 – Cheruvallil-Contractor, £9k), European
Commission (Erasmus Plus – Jakala, £22k; Erasmus Plus – Curran, £64k; BuildPeace – Payne,
€240k), Norwegian Research Council (Temporary protection as a durable solution – Kaytaz, £88k),
Charitable Organisations (Penny Appeal - Cheruvallil-Contractor, £49k; The Linking Network –
Shannahan, £25k). In addition to this, the support provided to ECRs to enhance their writing skills
for research also led to Northey securing a British Academy Writing Workshop grant (£20k).

Building on our research strategy, we also supported staff to be more focused in their approach and
to develop significant traction in our core research themes. In the context of security, successive
research awards from CREST (Searle, £44k; Busher; £22k; Busher £100k; Noortmann, £74k),
Ministry of Defence (McIlhatton, £35k), Home Office (Multiple Projects, McIlhatton and Hussain,
£270k), Local Government (Luton Borough Council, Busher, £84k), and British Academy
(Thiessen, £130k) have helped build a sustainable basis for security research.

A strong portfolio of research has also developed in the area of global inequality and development,
with funding secured from a range of awarding bodies including ESRC (Crawley - £168k and
£19million), AHRC (Crawford, £65k), British Academy (Multiple Grants, K.Jones, £92k; Crawford,
£19k), European Commission (K.Jones, £623k), Swiss Research Network for International
Studies (Kaytaz, £44k), and Charitable Organisations (Ben and Jerrys, Crawley, £20k).

Similar growth and success of grants has been evident in the broad area of peace with funding not
discussed elsewhere in REF5b secured over the reporting period from AHRC (Aune, £40k), British
Council (Darweish, £87k; Sellick, £23k), Academy of Finland (Baser, £51k), Islamic Relief
(Hussain and Payne £224k); GCRF (Aroussi, £26k), Social Sciences and Humanities Research
Council of Canada (Milne, £11k), Church of England (Aune, £57k), Office for Students (Aune,
£50k), European Commission (Taka, £9k).

We have also been successful in attracting fellowships and funded visiting professorships over the
reporting period with four Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions fellowships (Total value: £615k) and
two Leverhulme Visiting Professorships (Total value: £180k).




                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

With the objective of supporting and enabling research across all career levels, CTPSR has invested
heavily in providing high quality support for identifying opportunities, maximising the potential
success of research funding applications, and supporting the successful delivery and impact of our
grants. The support infrastructure for researchers is underpinned by a team of 10 permanent staff,
led by a Director of Operations, shaped around the needs of the Centre to deliver its strategic
priorities. A further four professional services staff were recruited to support the delivery of major
new research infrastructure projects (MIDEQ Hub and ACUNS). Our research environment is further
supported by two pre-award Research Funding and Development Executives and four post-award
colleagues focused on research delivery and finance. While these staff work through the University’s
Research Services team, they are embedded in CTPSR on a full-time basis. This strong alignment
and integration of research support has provided much greater access to specialist knowledge and
peer mentoring of staff at all levels, enhanced success rates of grant applications and ensured
effective and efficient grant management.

In 2014, CTPSR moved to 5 Innovation Village, a dedicated building that was refurbished,
reconfigured, and co-designed with CTPSR staff. While our initial plans were to retrofit and create a
series of individual offices, colleagues decided that this would inhibit engagement and collaboration.
Instead, the co-created plans provided large open desk space, purpose-built meeting rooms for
group work and hosting events, and integrated the Operations Team, PGR community, Research
Services staff, alongside academic staff. In turn, the £450k spent on creating this unique space,
enabled a strong community of practice to develop and a culture where everyone was considered
as collaborators, minimising silo working. Due to our growth, a further £450k was spent after the July
2020 census date to modernise equipment, furniture and create greater flexibility for hosting large
meetings and events. All staff and PGRs are provided with new laptops to enable them to work
remotely and flexibly on projects and with teams, removing the need for desktop computers that
reduce flexible working practices. All PGRs and staff can access desk space in our building, personal
storage space, two kitchens, and five bookable meeting rooms.

Since REF2014, Coventry has invested heavily in ensuring that our IT and Library are available 24
hours a day, accessible remotely, and provide all the necessary software and literature from which
high quality research can be delivered. CTPSR funded 44 new journal subscriptions in social
sciences disciplines from 2015 onwards, with an annual investment of around £30k. Staff and PGRs
have access to all software products that the university procure regardless of the discipline.

As part of our future agenda for delivering impact at the local, national and international levels,
CTPSR has invested over £400,000 in two local community maker-spaces that are aligned to global
networks and designed to create an open research environment. Founded in 2014, the CTPSR
FabLab Coventry was established, to explore a new relationship between the university and the City
through the co-design and implementation of a civic engagement programme in Coventry.
Approximately 1800 people of around 50 nationalities have engaged in our programmes.

By opening our research methods, training and environment to local communities we are better able
to get to the heart of challenges our communities face. Citizens from diverse communities are
currently engaging with us as citizen social scientists, with CTPSR research staff and PhD students
supporting the teaching and field research. This provides career development for all parties as well
as supporting development of new research topics identified by communities themselves. CTPSR’s

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
FabLab supports hubs in 10 countries to deliver living lab approaches to developing gender-smart
mobility solutions through citizen science and co-creation. These initiatives have started to mature,
have generated approximately £1.5 million income over the REF reporting period, and are generating
significant societal impact for locals in the West Midlands. We will continue to invest in these facilities
over the next period

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

CTPSR’s strategy focused on delivering high-quality research, and critically on that which benefits
society, practice and policymakers. As such, interdisciplinary research is central to delivering
CTPSR’s research and impact strategy, as evidenced by collaboration within CU and with external
partners and beneficiaries in academia, charities, NGOs, policy, practice and professional bodies.
Examples of the former include collaborations with the Institute for Future Transport and Cities on
Humanitarian, Engineering and Energy Displacement (HEED), Centre for Agroecology, Water and
Resilience on post-disaster community relations (SAVE) and with the Centre for Business in Society
on developing new business models for raw materials (REMANPATH). Interdisciplinary research is
facilitated through close working between Centres, their directors, individual contacts, and through
collaboration between research development and funding managers representing each Centre to
bring together the most appropriate skillsets from across the research community for enhancing
innovation and impact. CTPSR colleagues are also encouraged to develop interdisciplinary
proposals for PhD studentships through the AHRC-funded Midlands4Cities scheme and University
GCRF PhD studentship awards where a minimum of two centres must be represented on
supervision teams.

CTPSR’s strategic objective to ‘Grow our global footprint’ has driven collaborations with academic
and non-academic partners’ on funded projects, organisation of major events, and through co-
authoring outputs. Since 2014, 31% of outputs have been internationally co-authored and we seek
to build on this over the next five years. CTPSR funding is used to proactively develop external
collaborations which are fundamental for protecting the sustainability of research in the Centre and
internationally. Many examples exist over the REF reporting period, and across all research groups
in CTPSR.

In relation to academic partners, CTPSR has collaborated on a significant number of funded
projects, and published outputs, with universities in the UK/Ireland (including Oxford, LSE,
Birmingham, Cardiff, Glasgow, SOAS, Durham, Royal Holloway, Manchester, Sheffield, Limerick,
University of East London, Ulster, Bristol, UCL, University College Dublin, Nottingham, Northumbria,
Middlesex, Oxford Brookes, Huddersfield, Cambridge, Warwick, Stirling and Leicester); North
America (including University of Central Oklahoma, University of Maryland Baltimore, University of
Missouri-Kansas City, York University, University of Manitoba, George Washington University,
McGill University, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign); Australia (Deakin University, University
of Technology Sydney, RMIT); South East Asia (Universitas Indonesia, Universitas Gadjah Mada -
Indonesia, Nanyang Technological University – Singapore, Monash University, Malaysia); Middle
East and Africa (University of Ghana, University of Capetown, Stellenbosch University, University
of Jordan, American University in Cairo, University of Mauritius, Arab American University Jenin,
University of Witwatersrand, Protestant Institute of Arts and Social Science – Rwanda, University of
Education, Winneba, Ghana Bolgatanga Polytechnic, Technical University of Kenya); South
America and Caribbean (University of West Indies, University of Belize, Universidad de La Sabana;
and Europe (TU Delft, Oslo, Uppsala, Alicante, Swedish Defence University, Athens, Utrecht

                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University, Strasbourg, Stockholm, Freiburg, Ghent, Lisbon, and Lodz. Initial collaboration on smaller
projects have led to much larger funded grants, with Crawley’s research on MEDMIG underpinning
the significant MIDEQ Hub.

Recognising the value of non-academic collaboration with policymakers and practitioners,
particularly in the development of impact, CTPSR has developed extensive research collaborations
to support evidence-based policymaking through the application of research findings. On many
occasions we involve these partners in the design and often in the delivery of projects. Notable
examples include Chapsos’ research on illegal fishing involving the International Organization for
Migration as both a partner and beneficiary of the research, and Jones’ research on MiFriendly Cities
with Coventry City Council. Other examples of formal collaboration on projects includes:
International Organisations (including NATO, Overseas Development Institute, International
Labour Organisation, Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR),
United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD), Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD), International Organization for Migration (IOM), British
Council, Indonesian Ministry of Fishing and Maritime Affairs, Norwegian People's Aid, Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), Academic Council on the United Nations System
(ACUNS), UNESCO, UN WOMEN, UNODC, Medicine Sans Frontiers); Professional Bodies
(including Royal Geographical Society with IBG, Royal Society for the Arts); Charitable
Organisations (including Action for Children, Penny Appeal, Church of England, Faith and Belief
Forum, The Aziz Foundation, CoramBAAF, Islamic Relief, Muslim Council of Britain, Church Action
on Poverty, ActionAid UK, ActionAid Nepal, HelpAge Nepal, Ben and Jerrys, MigrantVoice,
PositiveNegatives, Restored, and Coventry Refugee and Migrant Centre); Local Government
(including Edmond City Council (US), West Midlands Combined Authority, Coventry City Council,
Wolverhampton City Council, Belfast City Council, Local Government Association, Luton Borough
Council); Central Government (including Ministry of Defence, Home Office, Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, Department for Communities and Local Government and Department for
Education) and Law Enforcement (including Police Service of Northern Ireland, Dutch National
Police, Metropolitan Police Service, and National Crime Agency).

Impact beyond our case studies is promoted through strategic initiatives that CTPSR actively
supports each year and where all staff can contribute and engage wider audiences with their
research. We are extremely proud of the CTPSR FabLab where we work closely with Coventry City
Council and the people of Coventry to co-create research for enhancing the resilience of vulnerable
groups including those involved in gangs, as well as other communities such as migrants and
refugees. The outcomes of the research conducted through the FabLab feed directly into local policy
and practice. Another initiative is the RISING Global Peace Forum that engages peacebuilders,
policymakers, academics and members of the public from around the world to exchange brave and
innovative strategies for resolving violent conflict and sustaining peaceful societies. RISING is a
partnership between CTPSR, Coventry City Council and Coventry Cathedral and enables leading
edge research to be debated in fora with prominent individuals including prime ministers, community
leaders, and other stakeholders. As a result of the success of RISING in Coventry, we were asked
to deliver a series of RISING events in Baltimore, Belfast and Bogota with city leaders to provoke
debate and share good practice around violence and vulnerability reduction.

In contributing to the sustainability and vibrancy of the research community, CTPSR hosted several
conferences during the assessment period, and were involved in organising numerous others. In
2014 and 2015, Coventry led the ESRC international seminar series on the maritime security

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
challenges for sustainable development, and a NATO-funded two-day event in 2014 in Geneva on
‘Building Trust to Enhance Maritime Security’. Coventry hosted the Islam and Peaceful Relations
Conference in 2016, and the Contesting Transitional Justice conference in London in 2017, attracting
delegates from different international contexts and disciplines. CTPSR sponsored and co-organised
the Istanbul Human Security Conference annually until 2019 in partnership the United Nations
Human Security Unit and Kadir Has University. CTPSR’s leading role in counter terrorism research
and preventing and countering violent extremism has also contributed to international recognition.
CTPSR sponsored and co-organised the International CVE Research Conference in Jakarta in 2016,
with Hedayah and Royal United Service Institute, and in 2018 organised the first Counter Terrorism
Symposium at the American Real Estate Society Conference in Florida. To support development of
future talent in security studies, CTPSR sponsored and hosted the 2019 Society for Terrorism
Research’s Postgraduate Research Conference in Coventry. Professor Hardy was also the Senior
Adviser to the World Forum on Intercultural Dialogue in Baku in 2015 and 2017 which involved
UNESCO and the UN Alliance of Civilisations, heads of state, senior leaders of international
organisations and ministry officials from over 90 countries.

As evidence of the contemporary nature, relevance and quality of our research, researchers are
increasingly called upon for their expertise to serve on boards/committees, take editorship roles in
leading journals in the field, and edit special issues of respected journals. In the context of board
membership and peer review, Hardy is the Chair of the International Leadership Association,
Monaghan is the President of the Society for Terrorism Research, McGlinchey is the Vice President
of the Political Studies Association of Ireland, Noortmann was Executive Director of Academic
Council for the United Nations System, Aune was Vice President of the International Association for
the Study of Religion and Gender, Milne is Vice President of the International Sociological
Association Visual Sociology Research Committee, Crawley a Fellow of the Academy of Social
Sciences. Numerous other colleagues contribute to the sustainability and vibrancy of the discipline
through membership of the Political Studies Association, International Studies Association, Royal
Geographical Society, British International Studies Association, British Sociological Society, with
other staff involved in peer review during the reporting period for ESRC (Ozerdem; Crawley, Baird;
Crawford), EPSRC (Barrett), AHRC (Weller; Hardy), ERC (Busher), CREST (Monaghan;
McIlhatton), and UKRI/GCRF (Barrett).

CTPSR also contributes to the sustainability of the discipline through editorship of international
peer review journals, including Behavioral Sciences of Terrorism and Political Aggression
(Monaghan and McIlhatton), European Political Science Review (Qvortrup), African Spectrum
(Crawford), and Religion and Gender (Aune). Other researchers have guest-edited special issues
for Studies in Conflict and Terrorism (McIlhatton), Perspectives on Terrorism (Busher), Journal of
European Real Estate Research (McIlhatton), and have been book series editors for Edinburgh
University Press on Diasporas and Transnationalism (Baser), McGill-Queen’s University Press
Studies in Protest, Power and Resistance (Busher), the Springer Muslims in Global Societies Series
(Hussain) and the Routledge Gendering the Study of Religion in the Social Sciences Series (Aune).
Staff are also on the editorial board of 11 Q1 journals and regularly review for a significant number
of Q1 and Q2 journals in the politics and international studies discipline.

Further evidence of our contribution to the discipline is through the awarding of prizes for research
excellence. In 2016, Busher was awarded the British Sociological Association’s Philip Abrams
Memorial Prize for his book ‘The Making of Anti-Muslim Protest: Grassroots Activism in the English
Defence League’; in 2017 Barrett’s research on FGM won gold in the digital community category of

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the London Design Award; and Crawley’s research was runner up at the Guardian University
Research Impact Awards for the remarkable impact of the CTPSR MEDMIG project. In 2018, Barrett
won the prestigious Global Woman Award for her research on FGM. In 2020, Bogue’s monograph
was short-listed for the Philip Abrams Memorial Prize, and nominated by Policy Press for the Social
Policy Association’s Richard Titmuss Book Award, 2020. McGlinchey’s book ‘Unfinished Business:
the politics of ‘dissident’ Irish republicanism’ published by Manchester University Press won the 2020
Political Studies Association of Ireland Brian Farrell Book Prize, and has been nominated for the
Political Studies Association’s 2020 MacKenzie book prize. Aune, Cheruvallil-Contractor and
Crawley were recognised in Coventry University’s International Womens’ Day Roll of Honour for
contributions made at Coventry and beyond.

CTPSR staff have held numerous visiting fellowships and professorships at universities
internationally, including Stellenbosch University (Northey, Noortmann, Payne, Milne and Hussain),
Deakin (Hussain and Aune), York University, Toronto (Crawley), Freiburg (Crawford), Notre Dame
(Baser), Uppsala (Aune), University of Central Oklahoma (McIlhatton), University of Maryland
Baltimore (McIlhatton and Hardy), University of Ghana (Crawley), Arab American University
Palestine (Darweish), Harvard (Crawley), LSE (Baird), and NUI Galway (McCabe).




                                                                                             Page 20
