Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context

Our REF2021 submission focuses on transitional justice, human rights, international law and
gender research led by the Transitional Justice Institute (TJI), and the social security and access to
justice research of our Social Justice cluster (SJ). Our ambition is to support excellent research in
these areas, working with and for communities at local and international level, from women’s rights
groups in Belfast to social security claimants in Scotland and disadvantaged neighbourhoods in
Port-au-Prince and Rio.

Our REF2014 submission centred on TJI’s leadership in the field of transitional justice (TJ) – how
law deals with the transition from conflict or oppression. As TJ has expanded and diversified, TJI
has maintained its intellectual leadership in understanding and explaining the role of
international law in the field, the multi-level gender implications and boundaries of TJ, and the
broader relationship of TJ to peacebuilding, including socioeconomic and cultural aspects.
TJI serves as an international hub for TJ research, attracting visitors from across the globe and
collaborating with them in their home countries.

Our Social Justice cluster, representing the foundation of a formal observatory, encapsulates our
focus on social and civil rights, profiling citizenship and legal participation as they relate to
access to justice and social security. The cluster’s work has already distinguished Ulster as one of
the UK’s leading centres for socio-legal research in this field, producing significant research
funding, outputs and impact.

Whilst the different disciplinary remits of TJI and SJ diversify the impact of Law research at Ulster,
they share thematic and methodological continuities, evident in their emphasis on human rights,
socioeconomic rights and participatory action research, and in their alignment with the
University’s strategic theme of Social Renewal. There is a common focus on research that
addresses the real-world challenges facing communities. Across the unit, we work with people
who have been marginalised, overlooked or silenced, while consulting with and influencing civil
society representatives and policy-makers in international organisations, elected bodies and public
administrations.

We pursue multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research, evidenced by where we publish,
the grants we secure, cross-disciplinary supervisions, and the collaborations we have developed.
Our staff engage with audiences and publics beyond academia, including by innovative use of
film and other art forms. We collaborate with colleagues in other departments and universities,
and with partners in civil society, the public sector and international organisations. TJI and SJ
operations are mutually supportive, including through dual membership (Simpson, Fitzpatrick) and
joint supervision of PhD researchers.


Structure

Research is coordinated by the Law Research Director (RD) (O’Connell) and conducted through
the work of the TJI (Director O’Rourke) and the SJ cluster (Lead McKeever). The unit includes staff
from the Law School and the School of Applied Social and Policy Sciences (ASPS). The RD works
with the Heads of School, Faculty (of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, AHSS) Associate
Dean for Research and Impact (ADRI) and the Deputy VC for Research and External Affairs
(REA). The RD leads the unit and represents it in weekly Law School management meetings,
monthly meetings of the Faculty’s RDs and of the University’s RDs and REF Steering Committee
and attends the Faculty Leadership Team. The RD manages the Unit’s research strategy (with the

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ADRI) and, working with the relevant Head of School (HoS), discusses research achievements and
plans, including targets, for individual staff. These discussions take place in annual formal
meetings with each staff member, and more frequent informal meetings. We have supported the
sharing of good practice across the unit by developing Researcher, Impact Strategy and PhD
Researcher Handbooks. Our Law Ethics Filter Committee (Chair O’Rourke) reviews all staff, PhD
or student research involving human participants; depending on the level of risk the University
Research Ethics Committee’s approval may also be required. All staff and PhD researchers have
completed the University Research Integrity course (100% completion).

The Law unit is spread across three campuses: Jordanstown, Magee and Belfast, maintaining our
commitment as a civic University across the major population centres.


Research and Impact Strategy 2013–20

For the period 2013–20, our strategic aims were:
   • To produce publications which consolidate and advance TJI’s academic and intellectual
       leadership in the field of transitional justice with relevance to Northern Ireland (NI) and other
       post-conflict sites
   • To intensify our research base in law and social justice
   • To deepen innovative multidisciplinary research through new partnerships and research
       collaborations
   • To maintain support to staff advancing our research agenda through research support
       mechanisms and processes for integrating community and institutional praxis
   • To support ECRs to develop through the research support mechanisms and encourage
       external relationships and policy connections for ECR research
   • To facilitate staff participation in international conferences and conference/seminar delivery
       with a focus on under-represented communities and new conflict and transition sites
   • To develop other institutional and comparative collaborations particularly with those
       engaged in policy-oriented research
   • To support individual staff members to garner indicators of esteem and further the non-
       academic impact of their work, particularly through encouraging leadership in community,
       philanthropic, and institutional entities
   • On impact, our aims have been to
           o Influence policymaking in Northern Ireland, Scotland and at UK level
           o Influence policymaking of international organisations
           o Shape the development of relevant legal frameworks and guidelines
           o Develop cultural impacts

We have met these aims, sustaining TJI research while at the same time developing a set of SJ
research initiatives. We have strengthened our funding base, securing support from traditional
and non-traditional funders: £3.8m during this cycle, up nearly 60% from £2.4M in REF2014). We
have participated in major multi-centre projects (DfID-funded Political Settlements Research
Programme, GCRF-funded Gender, Justice and Security Research Hub).

During this cycle we have graduated 19.24 PhD researchers, a 34% increase on 14.33 in
REF2014. Six of our PhD researchers have progressed to lecturer or postdoctoral positions
at Ulster, seven to posts at other universities (including Oxford, Bremen) and ten to public sector
or civil society positions. One of our impact case study authors was an ECR for most of the cycle
(Simpson).

The practical relevance of our research has been recognised by staff appointments to prestigious
local, national and international positions in the public sector and civil society (e.g. UN Special
Rapporteur, UK Social Security Advisory Committee, Scottish Commission on Social Security, Irish
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Committee on Human Rights).



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff have published 114 articles in leading legal and socio-legal journals (e.g. International and
Comparative Law Quarterly, European Journal of International Law, Social and Legal Studies,
Journal of Law and Society), interdisciplinary journals (e.g. Human Rights Quarterly,
International Journal of Transitional Justice) and journals in other disciplines (e.g. Journal of
Social Policy, Memory Studies, State Crime Journal). Ashe, Chalabi, Moyo, O’Rourke and
O’Connell have written six monographs (with Oxford, Cambridge, Routledge). Staff have also
produced 50 book chapters, as well as research reports and policy papers, and co-produced
guidelines, non-traditional academic outputs and cultural artefacts such as toolkits, animations
and two research films. Staff and researchers participate in open access initiatives through the
PURE system and are encouraged to maintain SSRN individual pages and monitor their Google
profiles.

Our TJI staff have pioneered research in:

   •   Gender and transitional justice: O’Rourke published the first major study of the
       fragmented protection of women’s rights in conflict under international law; Ashe’s analysis
       of the NI peace process and transition addresses the position of women, masculinities and
       sexual and gender minorities; Hamber’s work on responses to psychosocial legacies of
       political violence, including gendered aspects;
   •   Accountability for human rights violations: Wills’ ground-breaking and award-winning
       film It Stays With You, made in collaboration with marginalised community in Haiti,
       highlights human rights abuses by UN peacekeepers; Hansen’s work has clarified the
       accountability obligations of the UK in respect of alleged international criminal law violations
       in Iraq; Collins’s work in Latin America on forced disappearances is grounded in deep in-
       country and comparative expertise, and the co-production of knowledge with victims and
       survivors;
   •   Human rights protection and promotion: Smith’s work leads NI and comparative
       expertise in the constitutional protection of rights; O’Connell and others developed a
       framework for socioeconomic rights obligations in budget work; Chalabi wrote the first
       major comparative, theoretical and interdisciplinary study on national human rights action
       plans.

Our SJ staff have brought social citizenship theory up to date in an age of devolution and social
security conditionality, shaping policy outcomes in devolved social security and justice, and
developing the methodological rigour for innovative research. This has been achieved by work on:

   •   Destitution: McKeever and Simpson’s work on access to justice and pathways into/out of
       destitution;
   •   Challenges facing litigants in person (McKeever, McCord, Royal-Dawson, Kirk, Yarnell);
   •   Universal Credit in NI (Simpson, McKeever, Gray);
   •   Embedding dignity and rights in social security legislation: McKeever, Simpson,
       Gray’s work on the Scottish legislation, Social Security Charter and Social Security
       Advisory Committee.

Through high-quality research, the development of meaningful collaborations outside academia
and production of outputs outside of typical academic outputs, our impact case studies
demonstrate how our research impact addresses the gender gap in the NI peace process
(examining women’s rights, masculinities and LGBTQ+ issues), and embeds dignity and rights in
social security legislation and practice in Scotland. Beyond these impacts, our research has
investigated accountability for human rights violations in Iraq, Haiti, Kenya, Palestine, Latin
America and NI.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and Impact Strategic Aims 2021–26

Building on previous cycles, Ulster’s Law research will consolidate and strengthen the work of TJI
and the SJ cluster. Our aims and objectives for the next cycle are:

       Overall Law unit
   •   Maintain our inclusive, supportive, and sustainable research environment for a
       multidisciplinary community of scholars.
   •   Increase staffing in areas of research strength.
   •   Support the development of our doctoral programme so as to enable researchers who
       produce original and rigorous research, address issues through multidisciplinary and
       interdisciplinary perspectives, and demonstrate commitment to ethics and integrity.
   •   Develop the sustainability and excellence of our research by targeting diverse research
       funders, including Research Councils and the Global Challenges Research Fund, Horizon,
       and charitable funders.
   •   Disseminate the good practice developed in TJI and SJ across the unit.
   •   Support ECRs and those disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic’s
       differential impacts.

       Transitional Justice Institute
   •   Consolidate and develop TJI’s leadership in transitional justice, especially on gender, social
       and economic rights, international law and justice, and TJ in global and comparative
       perspective.
   •   Support research on inclusive, participatory (particularly gender-inclusive) constitutional
       change on the island.
   •   Continue to innovate methodologically and especially to enhance interdisciplinary research
       and participatory approaches to research, including co-production of research.
   •   Continue to build capacity around multi-media outputs (theatre/photography, participatory
       filmmaking, conflict textiles).
   •   Deepen and expand our use of new media (podcasts, YouTube) to further improve
       accessibility and dissemination.
   •   Leverage membership of established (e.g. Association of Human Rights Institutes) and
       newer (e.g. Irish Peace and Conflict Network) networks to enhance partnerships with
       scholars and research users.
   •   Deepen relationships with local and international partners to inform, anticipate and respond
       to research needs, including with UN Women, Northern Ireland Women’s European
       Platform), and strengthen connections to UN institutions and local peacebuilding, in
       particular through Visiting Professors.

       Social Justice
   •   Develop a social justice observatory to enable our high-quality research and impact to
       develop and expand the field, regenerating an academic focus on social security law and
       stimulating alignment with established scholarly initiatives in social justice.
   •   Sustain current high levels of grant income generation, profiling innovative and rigorous
       interdisciplinary and empirical legal research.
   •   Deepen academic and policy collaborations, to generate significant and original research
       insight into how legal and welfare systems can support social justice.
   •   Strengthen synergies with the significant civic engagement of the Ulster University Law
       Clinic and Legal Innovation Centre.
   •   Consolidate links with socio-legal studies scholars through hosting the Socio-Legal Studies
       Association (SLSA) conference in Derry/Londonderry in 2023.

These aims and objectives will be taken forward by the RD, working with the HoSs, and liaising as
appropriate with the TJI and SJ Observatory. To ensure the sustainability and vitality of our
research, new staff will normally align with TJI or the Observatory (or both).


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

Staffing policy reflects twin needs. First, to support and enable world-leading research in
areas where we have established and are further developing a vibrant and sustainable
research culture. Second, to discharge our responsibilities as a university in a society with
diverse complex needs; this requires appointments in areas where there is an important teaching
need but limited research expectations.

Our close-knit research community has 14.7 fte staff: 5.7 Professors, 5 SL/Readers and 4
lecturers, representing a balanced and sustainable career pathway and our approach to
progression and succession planning. During this REF cycle, 3 were promoted to
professorships (Mallinder, McNamee, McKeever), 1 to Reader (Ashe), and 2 to SL (Smith,
Hansen). Of the returned staff, Fitzpatrick is an ECR while Simpson was an ECR for most of the
cycle. An Executive Assistant (1.0 fte) supports the RD on impact, open access and REF. The unit
facilitates shared appointments or fractional contracts to enable colleagues to work with partners
elsewhere (e.g. Collins’s links in the Americas). The unit implements the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers with annual opportunities for advancement, regular training
and development.

During this cycle, the unit appointed lecturers with strong research profiles in transitional justice
(Hansen), human rights (Chalabi), and law and social justice (Simpson, Fitzpatrick), building on our
research base. The unit maintains links with emeritus staff (McWilliams, Rooney, Rolston),
providing them with space and facilities. Staff have received University or Faculty Distinguished
Research Fellowship Awards (Ní Aoláin, Hamber, O’Rourke) and a Supervisor of the Year
award (Rooney).

Our selection processes ensure research quality and respect equality and diversity requirements.
Selection panel members undergo regular training that includes an equality and diversity
component. Applicants for research-relevant posts are expected to have a PhD. The RD sits on all
research-relevant selection panels to assess the applicant’s research and strategic fit. Applicants
must submit copies of published work in advance of interview, for consideration during the
selection process. Research targets are set during probationary periods.

All staff, including ECRs and those with a teaching-only role, have access to a suite of research
training activities in our University’s RIGOUR (grant income), SOARING (outputs), Impact
Development Series and Doctoral College programmes. The RD organises discipline-specific
events such as grant writing and writing for research, where staff share insights and external
speakers facilitate a discussion.

Staff workload is managed through a transparent and detailed workload model that
distinguishes between staff with significant research responsibility (SRR) and those without. Staff
with SRR are allocated a minimum of 40% of their time for research (maximum of 6 hours
teaching per week). Our model also recognises the time needed for PhD research supervision
and work on grants. The workload model accords ECRs extra time for research – their teaching
load is reduced by approximately 25%; the model also recognises the leadership and mentoring
role of professors. We match teaching responsibilities to the research interests of staff and
encourage research-led teaching. As important members of our community, we support our staff
on teaching only designations with a developmental scholarship allocation to support them if they
show potential to transfer to a teaching and research profile. Staff in this position receive advice
from the RD and may request funding for research development.

Research plans are monitored formally in annual ‘trilateral’ meetings involving staff member, RD
and Head of School (HOS)/Associate Head of School. These meetings review the previous year
and set goals for the next, considering research outputs, income, supervision, impact work and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research leadership, in a 360-degree review of research, teaching, administration and civic
contribution. At intervals the RD holds informal meetings with staff.

We have provided sabbaticals for 40% of our unit (six staff) during this cycle; this is a
competitive process requiring staff to provide detailed plans for research projects to be developed
during their leave. For example, O’Connell and O’Rourke’s monographs with Cambridge were
facilitated by sabbaticals. Where possible, we have in addition adjusted workloads to
accommodate requests to concentrate teaching and administration in one semester to enable
focus on research in the other.

We use Visiting Professorships to strengthen links with key stakeholders e.g. Allamby is former
Director of the Law Centre (NI) and Chief Commissioner of the NI Human Rights Commission;
Kilmurray, former Director of the Community Foundation NI, is on the executive of the Social
Change Initiative and the board of Conciliation Resources. Dolan is Director of the Refugee Law
Project (Kampala) and a leading expert on masculinities, gender, and refugees.


PhD researcher cohort

PhD researchers are core participants in our research culture. During REF2014 we graduated
14.33 PhD researchers; in REF2021 we have graduated 19.24 (34% increase). Our selection
process stresses excellence of the project, excellence of the applicant and fit with the unit’s
research priorities. All shortlisted applicants are interviewed by a panel which reviews their
commitment, competence and methodological sophistication.

Our PhD researcher cohort is international and interdisciplinary, including researchers from
Venezuela, Liberia, Tunisia, Egypt, Uganda, Kazakhstan, Turkey, South Africa (reflecting our focus
on post-authoritarian and post-conflict societies), the US, the Netherlands, Iran, Italy, Spain and
Germany, as well as the UK and Ireland. These researchers examine challenges both local (e.g.
social security, dealing with past conflict) and global (e.g. victims of male sexual violence in
Uganda, transitional justice in a Lebanese refugee camp).

Thanks to the profile of TJI and SJ, we attract high-quality applicants in these areas. The emphasis
on fit with research priorities ensures a vibrant and supportive research environment for both
researchers and staff, as well as generating imaginative interdisciplinary and empirical research.
Researchers are supervised by panels of two/three staff, usually with different levels of experience
to build supervisory capacity, and often from multiple disciplines.

PhD researchers are included in our research staff meetings and planning. We encourage and
support them to organise research events reflecting their own interests e.g. the Postgraduate
Symposium on Occupation, Transitional Justice and Gender (2015), Postgraduate Conference on
Masculinities, Violence and (Post-)Conflict (2016), PhD conference on Designing Gender
Research (2017), and PhD Workshop on Remembering During Conflict (2019). We support our
researchers with University monies for those with studentships (£900 annual research travel and
support grant), and all researchers have benefitted from the unit’s research budget. Funds for
conferences and field trips are important as our researchers have undertaken fieldwork in
Colombia, Lebanon, Israel/Palestine, Tunisia, Ukraine, Uganda, the Balkans and Russia. The unit
has facilitated a PhD writing retreat as part of a comprehensive support system for researchers.
We run weekly mindfulness sessions led by O’Rawe; all researchers can receive support from the
Doctoral College, Student Wellbeing and the Chaplaincy.

Our PhD researchers organise our lively internal brown bag seminar series What’s the Craic?
for staff, PhD researchers and LLM students in our unit and Social Policy: during 2019–20 there
were 15 talks, seven of them online after March 2020.

PhD researchers have access to an extensive array of Researcher Development Programme
workshops and training events (approx.160-200 per year) organised by our institutional

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Doctoral College: 22 of our PhD researchers have attended 118 training events, on average more
than five per researcher. The RD works with senior staff members who act as PhD coordinators
(Collins, Hansen). They arrange induction sessions and bespoke local training, determined in
consultation with the PhD researchers. Training events have included bespoke workshops on
interviews (with a focus on post-conflict and sensitive contexts), research ethics, designing
research questions, preparing for assessments and mock vivas. These include guest speakers
(e.g. Landman’s Academic Magician workshop, Judge Harhoff on international criminal law).
Researchers also regularly audit specialist LLM classes.

To foster interdisciplinarity we collaborate on PhD training events with Social Policy. Most PhD
researchers have shared office space in dedicated rooms in Dalriada House (home to TJI), which
holds a library of texts on research methods in law and social sciences, human rights and
transitional justice. Law and Social Justice PhD researchers share office space with Social Policy
PhD researchers to promote interdisciplinarity.

Our PhD researchers participate in University initiatives like the University’s Annual PhD Festival
and the 3MT. Our PhD researcher regularly win competitive University Broadening Horizons
Prizes (Campbell, Schulz and Yarnell won three of five prizes in 2016; more recently Aliçi and
Durdiyeva won this prize) as well as Santander Mobility Scholarships (McGill 2015, 2016). Sobout
was named Ulster Postgraduate student of the year (2017) and McKeever won the Faculty Best
Thesis award (2018).

With support from supervisors, they have had phenomenal success in securing internal and
external prizes and awards:

       •   Modern Law Review Scholarship (Drummond);
       •   Seven Socio-Legal Studies Association (SLSA) fieldwork grants (Simpson, Drummond,
           Afana, Chaban, Schulz, Ketelaars, Durdiyeva);
       •   SLSA grant: ‘In-work Conditionality and the ageing Worker in Northern Ireland’
           (Fitzpatrick, £2600);
       •   Feminist & Women’s Studies Association grant to host the 2015 workshop on
           ‘Occupation, Transitional Justice and Gender’ (Afana, Chaban);
       •   Fieldwork Grant, French Institute for Research in Africa (Schulz, €1000)
       •   Travel Grant, Foundation Scotland (Schulz, £1000)
       •   Fieldwork Grant, British Institute in Eastern Africa (Schulz, £1000)
       •   Two scholarships to attend a British Council Researcher Links Conference in Bogota
           (Alvarez, McGill)
       •   Social Policy Association grant to deliver a Imagine Belfast Festival roundtable event
           (Fitzpatrick, £500);
       •   Peace Research grant from the International Peace Research Association Foundation
           (Aliçi, $4535);
       •   Conflict Research Society Smith Prize for best research paper in peace and conflict
           research (Schultz);
       •   Honourable Mention for submission to the 2018 British Society for Middle Eastern
           Studies Leigh Douglas Memorial Prize for the best PhD dissertation on a Middle
           Eastern topic (Sobout);
       •   Letter of Commendation from Architecture Sans Frontières (Sobout);
       •   Network on Research and Teaching in EU Foreign Affairs bursary (Ketelaars);
       •   Best Paper prize at the Justice and Dignity under Challenge conference, Cork 2014
           (Simpson);
       •   Scholarship to attend an Oxford Centre for Socio-Legal Studies Law in Context Early
           Career Workshop (Fitzpatrick);
       •   Rouse was admitted to the Peace Research Institute Oslo Research School on Peace
           and Conflict;
       •   Durdiyeva appointed Global Dialogues Fellow at the Transregional Center for
           Democratic Studies, NY.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our PhD researchers have gone on to distinguish themselves as lecturers (Page, Simpson,
Fitzpatrick at Ulster, Alvarez in Navarre, El-Masri in Gloucestershire), in postdoctoral positions
(Drummond at Ulster and QUB, Rouse and Yarnell at Ulster, McGill at Oxford, Hearty at Warwick
and QUB, Schulz at Bremen, Sobout at Manchester), in civil society (Abernethy, Bollaert, Chaban,
Sobout, Fitzpatrick, Roberts, Palli-Aspero, Taylor) and public sector (Magill, Cabinet Office;
Drummond, Commission for Victims and Survivors; Ketelaars, BBC and Dutch Ministry for Foreign
Affairs). Our PhD researchers have published in journals, including the International Journal of
Transitional Justice, Journal of Law and Society, Constellations; during this cycle PhD graduates
Moyo, Swaine, Bollaert, Schulz, McKeever have published their PhD theses as monographs.

PRES surveys testify to outstanding PhD researcher satisfaction with their environment: in
PRES2019, with a 100% return, 95.4% of our unit’s PhD researchers mostly or definitely
agreed they were satisfied with their experience of the programme.


Equality and Diversity

Equality and diversity are central to our strategic research agenda. Staff are committed to
advancing these values in their research e.g. O’Rourke, Ashe, Hamber, emeritus staff McWilliams,
Ní Aoláin and Doyle on gender; McKeever, Simpson, Fitzpatrick on social justice; Moyo, Rolston,
Ní Aoláin on postcolonial issues; O’Connell, Smith on anti-discrimination and equality law.

The unit has a strong outreach ethos, with staff working out of the Magee (Derry/Londonderry),
Belfast and Jordanstown campuses across NI. Much of the unit’s research addresses the need of
deprived and marginalised communities e.g. Ashe’s research has highlighted the experiences of
LGBTQ+ people in Northern Ireland; the access to justice work of the SJ cluster (McKeever’s
work on litigants in person; Simpson, McKeever, Gray on social security and dignity); the work of
Rooney (emeritus) with community organisations, especially women’s groups, on the TJ
Grassroots Toolkit and Constitutional Conversations; and O’Rourke’s collaboration with academics
and activists on Gender Principles for Dealing with the Legacy of the Past. We have hosted
speakers from Scholars at Risk, providing support for international academics living under threat
of harm.

All staff undergo mandatory equality and diversity training. Those involved in REF management
have had specific REF equality and diversity training. Staff have also undergone optional
training (e.g. neurodiversity training), and the unit has provided reasonable adjustments in cases of
disability or specific learning differences (eg specialist computer software, office equipment, etc).
Equality and diversity is a standing item on the Law School Board agenda. Law and ASPS will
apply for Athena SWAN accreditation in 2022, working with the Faculty Athena SWAN coordinator.
O’Rourke is an active member of the University EDI steering group, and is Law SWAN lead, for
which she has buy-out of 200 hours to support the submission.

In our unit, 57% of staff are women; this breaks down as 44% of professors, 80% of SL/Readers,
50% of lecturers. The slightly lower percentage of women professors reflects the recent departure
of two female professors. During this cycle, two-thirds of promotions to professorships (2 of 3) and
two-thirds promotions to SL/Reader (2 of 3) were of female staff. The unit includes staff of diverse
national origin including Iran, Australia, Denmark, Zimbabwe, South Africa as well as the UK and
Ireland. The Department for Research & Impact, working with the Equality Unit, equality-proofs
REF submissions. Approximately 65% of the outputs selected for REF2021 are by female staff.
Our University Code of Practice stresses equality, inclusivity and participation and it has guided our
REF processes.

We accommodate requests for career breaks, leave for caring purposes (including beyond that
legally required), and flexible working. The unit has facilitated requests for staff to vary their
contractual commitment to less than 1.0 fte to facilitate other commitments, and for extended
(unpaid) leave for caring responsibilities. These local decisions complement legal requirements

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and University policies e.g. the Return from Carers’ Leave policy which provides funds supporting
the return to research.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

During previous RAE/REF cycles we generated research income significantly above the sector
average per fte (RAE2008, £1.8M research spend; REF2014: £2.2M research spend). During this
cycle we have increased this to £3.769M, an average of more than £256K per fte. This is
significantly in excess of the sector’s income per fte in REF2014 and reflects our commitment to
interdisciplinary research, collaboration, internal research strategy and support, and University
support. Our staff participate in grants collectively worth more than £10.6M to the University
during this REF cycle.

Our research is supported by grants from diverse sources including ESRC, AHRC, Nuffield
Foundation, DfID, Open Society, Interface, EPSRC, Legal Education Foundation, Special EU
Programmes Body, Framework 7, Horizon2020, Higher Education Consortium, Department for the
Economy, Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust, Royal Irish Academy, British Academy, Equality and
Human Rights Commission, Society of Legal Scholars, Socio-Legal Studies Association, the
International Criminal Court, Allen and Overy, Baker McKenzie, Irish Department of Foreign Affairs,
US Institute of Peace, and Leverhulme Trust.

Many of these grants demonstrate our core approach to research and impact. The Nuffield
Foundation-supported initiative on ‘The Impact of Litigants in Person on the NI Court System’
(McKeever, McCord £216,169) was a collaborative project, working with the NI Human Rights
Commission and using empirical legal studies methods to understand systemic barriers to
access to justice for litigants who have no legal representation, and to develop specific policies
for judicial and public sector bodies. This project was followed by a £354,578 Nuffield award for
a two-year project on the participation of litigants in person (McKeever, McCord, Potkewitz). These
projects demonstrate our commitment to interdisciplinarity: McCord is with the Built Environment
unit while the second grant draws on Potkewitz’s Legal Innovation expertise. The DfID-funded
Political Settlements Project (Ní Aoláin, O’Rourke, Rooney, Mallinder, £658,587 award to Ulster)
involved collaboration with Edinburgh University and leading nongovernmental organisations
(e.g. Conciliation Resources). It incorporated insights from law, gender studies and sociology in
policy-relevant research that underpinned proposals to address continuities in gender-based
violence post-conflict and to reform relevant international legal frameworks.

We strategically develop links with other excellent research units. In addition to the Political
Settlements Project, led by Edinburgh’s Global Justice Academy (PI Bell, a former TJI Director),
O’Connell and Rolston work on the LSE-led GCRF Research Hub on Gender Justice and
Security, a £15M five-year project involving more than 40 researchers worldwide (share to Ulster
£418K). Hamber works with LSE on an AHRC project ‘Communities as constructs of people and
architecture’ and with Newcastle on another AHRC project ‘Screening Violence’. Simpson’s work
on Universal Credit is based on collaboration with Social Policy & Social Work at York. O’Connell
worked with Harvey and others (QUB) on BrexitLawNI, an ESRC-funded project examining the
constitutional implications of Brexit for NI; Mallinder collaborated with McEvoy and others (QUB) on
ESRC- and AHRC-funded projects. Wills has worked with McLaughlin (QUB) on AHRC-funded
projects to produce the films It Stays With You and Right Now I Want to Scream.

These grants also evidence our policy of linking senior PIs with more junior colleagues
(McKeever with McCord, Potkewitz, Simpson, Fitzpatrick; Ní Aoláin with O’Rourke, Mallinder) to
develop research grant profiles and build successful internal as well as external collaborations. The
Nuffield Litigants in Person project also involved Visiting Professor Allamby, (Chief Commissioner,
NI Human Rights Commission).

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Funded research projects support our impact case studies. The DfID-funded Political Settlements
Project supported Doyle and McWilliams’s domestic violence work, while Simpson (then an ECR)
McKeever and Gray (Social Policy) secured an Equality and Human Rights Commission grant that
supported their engagement on social security in Scotland.

Our income generation strategy is outlined in our TJI-developed Researcher Handbook (a model
of good practice shared with other RDs across the University) which includes details of grant and
training opportunities. Our University has extensive support for grant work, including training
events. We collaborate with Research and Impact staff working on research grant development
(horizon-scanning and application support) and research grant management. The Development
and Alumni Relations Office helped secure the £3 million endowment for Hamber’s Hume-
O’Neill Peace Chair. Seventy-five % of our staff have participated in University research training
programmes including the University Mentoring scheme.

Research meetings and away days provide an opportunity to discuss collaboration on new ideas
and consider the potential for grant applications. We share examples of research applications, and
funding and impact advice. At staff research meetings we discuss income generation plans,
opportunities and possible collaborations. Staff present draft applications in our in-house ‘What’s
the Craic’ brown bag seminar series to receive feedback from peers and share good practice.
Our Research Peer Review policy requires all staff to submit large applications in draft to the RD
for peer review by professorial colleagues. At university level, Research and Impact work closely
with applicants on their proposals and arrange for strategically important applications to be
externally reviewed.

Our staff have secured many internal seed-fund grants and used them as the basis for
larger external grants. The University has provided several such grant opportunities (Challenge
funds, GCRF pump-priming) and funds to support impact (Civic Impact Fund) on a competitive
basis. TJI staff have secured seed funding for projects on the ‘Enforced and Involuntary
Disappearance as an Informational Challenge’ (Challenge, £20K Collins), ‘Socioeconomic Rights
and Transition’ (Challenge, £10K, O’Connell), ‘Nairobi Principles on Accountability’ (£10K,
Hansen), ‘Commemoration and Law: Narratives of Political Violence’ (Challenge, £10K, Ní Aoláin
and Brown) and ‘Use of Force in Haiti’ (GCRF pump-priming £44K, Wills), while McKeever (SJ)
secured Civic Impact funding for ‘A New Vision of Justice’ (£4K). We use these opportunities to
develop interdisciplinary links with other units. Work with Social Policy and Psychology, for
example, produced studies with practical local and international application: ‘Complex challenges
in post-conflict society: supporting civil society, participation, transformation and reconciliation’
(GCRF pump-priming £20K, O’Connell, Hamber, Morrow, Rooney, Ketola), ‘Mechanisms for
Dealing with the Legacy of Historical Child Abuse’ (Civic Impact Fund, £4K, Lundy, Hamber), and
‘Dealing Holistically with the Past: Mental health, Suicide and the Northern Ireland Troubles’ (Civic
Impact Fund, £4K, O’Neill, Hamber).

Staff have also used seed-fund grants to create meaningful networks with scholars and
practitioners in other universities and countries, e.g. Hamber’s ‘Resilience, Peace and
Development’ award (GCRF pump-priming £37K) brought together partners from eight countries
for a workshop in Sierra Leone.

These internal grants have led to larger grant-funded projects (e.g. Collins’s British Academy
and Open Society work on disappearances, £88K; Wills’ AHRC and British Academy
projects on Haiti and Brazil, £224K; O’Connell, Rolston and Malagon’s GCRF Gender,
Justice and Security Research Hub work, £418K) as well as providing research assistant
opportunities for PhD researchers, enabling them to hone their research and writing skills (Schulz,
Magill, McGill, Fitzpatrick, Chaban).

External research funding has supported new appointments e.g. AHRC and DfID projects
enabled Hansen and Chalabi’s appointments; Doyle was a postdoctoral researcher on a DfID


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
project; Denvir’s post was supported by Baker and MacKenzie, and Allen and Overy; Fitzpatrick’s
by a GCRF grant.

The RD works with HoSs to ensure that research income is used to benefit the staff who
generate the income by agreeing teaching buy-out to work on deliverables, through part-time
hours or appointment of fixed-term staff. Fulbright awards have supported O’Rourke’s monograph
and McNamee’s groundwork for the Legal Innovation Centre.


Infrastructure and facilities

The unit’s research infrastructure is headed by the RD, who works with the HoSs for Law and
ASPS, Faculty ADRI and Deputy VC (R&EA)). The TJI and SJ cluster are the main drivers for
research. The RD chairs meetings of staff and PhD researchers.

The RD has an annual budget (approx. £40-50K), calculated on the basis of the unit’s performance
in REF2014 and other indicators. This supports collective activities but also individual research
allocations to staff of approx. £1200-1400 per year. The unit provides funding for staff members to
develop collaboration and partnerships, participate in writing retreats, and engage audiences
for research in novel ways. These allocations facilitated Simpson’s attendance (as an ECR) at
Social Policy Association conferences, his collaboration with Patrick (York) and involvement in
multi-institutional research bids. Apart from individual research needs, the funds support research
management activities and collective research engagement including visiting speakers, grants for
networking and events. The RD allocates funds to support TJI and SJ research activities. A
portion is directed to support PhD cohort activity such as PhD conferences, writing residentials
and computing facilities.

We host numerous visitors, guest speakers and Visiting Professors, particularly through the
activities of the TJI, SJ, as well as the Law Clinic and Legal Innovation Centre which drive wide
reaching stakeholder engagement. During the REF cycle TJI organised more than 100 public
events including conferences, seminars and workshops, from Dealing with the Past in Northern
Ireland (2013) to Deliberating Constitutional Futures (2020). There have been over 20 SJ-led
public events, including a major conference on Litigants in Person (2018) and participatory
research workshops on Universal Credit (2019-20). Visitors and guest speakers have included
leading public figures such as Melanne Verveer (former US Ambassador at Large for Global
Women’s Issues), Nils Muižnieks (Council of Europe Human Rights Commissioner); numerous
academics including Lorna Fox-O’Mahony, Gina Heathcote, Alan Norrie, Colm O Cinneide, Aoife
O’Donoghue, Ruth Rubio Marin, William Schabas, Olivera Simic, Nigel White and Ulster graduates
Mark Bell, Aisling Swaine and Hakeem Yusuf.

TJI has a dedicated building with a well-appointed seminar room, videoconferencing facilities and
social space as well as staff offices and two PhD researcher labs, with space to host emeritus staff
and visiting scholars.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our TJI and SJ staff are recognised nationally and internationally for their expertise and are
regularly invited to contribute to local and international policy-making and practice, as well as
playing a leading role in the discipline.

Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society are central to all we do.
Our research is action-oriented and we sustain deep collaborations with non-academic users. We
have developed an Impact Strategy; all staff complete annual impact plans detailing activities



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
during the previous year and plans for the future. The RD and Department for Research and
Impact provide funds to support impact-oriented activities.

During 2021 the Jordanstown campus (including the Law School and TJI) will move to the new
Belfast city centre campus, providing even greater opportunities for collaboration with non-
academic stakeholders in civil society and the public sector; the new state-of-the-art £365M
building will house AHSS staff and researchers together furthering interdisciplinary opportunities.


Academic collaborations, networks and partnerships

We encourage collaboration across the University and beyond. We collaborate with University
colleagues, especially those working on post-conflict societies, social justice, reproductive justice,
grand corruption. We co-author articles with colleagues in Social Policy (Rolston, Lundy on
apologies for past human rights violations; Hamber, Lundy on institutional abuse; Hamber, Kelly on
reconciliation; McKeever, Simpson, Gray on social security). We develop collaborative research
projects e.g. McKeever and Simpson worked with Gray (Social Policy) on the ‘Social Security
Systems Built on Dignity and Respect’ project for the Equality and Human Rights Commission;
O’Rourke and Hamber worked with Braniff (Social Policy) on the ‘Advocacy Victims Survivors’
project funded by the Commission for Victims and Survivors.

We encourage cross-unit PhD supervision, exemplifying our commitment to
multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research. Approximately a quarter of our PhDs have
been co-supervised by colleagues in other units including Social Policy, History, and Sports
Science. These interdisciplinary links are supported by cross-unit activities e.g. a shared Law and
Social Policy residential to develop impact case studies and plans.

We collaborate with scholars in other high-performing research units on projects, outputs and
grants. TJI has extensive collaborations, including with QUB Law (BrexitLawNI, NI legacy issues,
Haiti and Brazil research, Bill of Rights), the Edinburgh Global Justice Academy (Political
Settlements), LSE, Leeds, Essex, and Universidad Diego Portales. Hansen has worked with
Ferstman (Essex), leading to submissions to Parliament’s Defence committee and a report on
accountability for UK forces in Iraq. Our SJ cluster (McKeever and Simpson) used unit seed money
to host a workshop with Patrick (Leeds) culminating in joint publications (e.g. Patrick and
Simpson’s 2020 Joseph Rowntree report on Universal Credit in NI).


Non-academic collaborations, networks and partnerships

We collaborate extensively with local, national and international civil society and public sector
bodies. At local level McKeever’s work with the Law Centre (Executive Director 2001-20) and NI
Human Rights Commission formed the basis for research supported by Nuffield on Litigants in
Person. Her earlier research on unmet legal need, and her links with the Department of Justice
were crucial in securing support for Ulster’s multiple award-winning Law Clinic. Simpson,
McKeever and Gray’s (Social Policy) work for the Equality and Human Rights Commission was
instrumental in leveraging their contribution to the development of Scottish social security law,
including the drafting of the Social Security Charter and creation of the Scottish Commission on
Social Security.

Staff and PhD researchers actively support engagement initiatives with non-academic users
including policymakers and the general public. These include the Knowledge Exchange
Seminars (KESS) at Parliament Buildings (Stormont) co-organised with QUB, the Open University
and the NI Assembly and hosted by Members of the Legislative Assembly. Nine staff have
participated in KESS seminars: Access to Justice (McKeever), Budget Analysis and Housing
Rights (O’Connell), Domestic Violence (McWilliams), Gender and Dealing with the Past
(O’Rourke), Rights in NI (Smith), Housing Rights (Diver), Dignity and Social Security (Simpson),
Revenge Porn (Oriola), Hidden Barriers and Divisive Architecture (Hamber).

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

ESRC Festival of Social Science presentations have included Memory as a Form of Resistance
(Law/SP PhDs), Peacebuilding (Rooney and Sobout), Brexit (O’Connell), the NI Bill of Rights
(Smith), Peace Walls (O’Connell). Ashe, Fitzpatrick, Hamber, Rolston and O’Connell have
contributed to the Imagine Belfast Festival of Ideas and Politics, of which Ulster has been a
founding partner since 2014. As part of the Human Rights Consortium-run annual Human Rights
Festival, O’Connell and PhD researcher Gallagher have contributed to events on law in popular
culture (Star Trek, Buffy, Harry Potter) while Collins has spoken on transitional justice in Latin
America and Smith on human rights in NI.

McNamee’s network of law firm contacts led to the creation of the interdisciplinary Legal
Innovation Centre with Computing. The Centre, having developed links with Belfast City Council,
and global law firms, has a portfolio of activity aimed at enhancing the ability of NI’s law sector to
benefit from the digital economy and information society. It works with SJ researchers to
develop technological solutions to providing legal advice and assistance as part of the Nuffield-
funded research on Litigants in Person.


Contributions to the discipline

Our staff contribute to the discipline thorough their peer review, grant review, editorial and other
roles. We pay for individual subscriptions to professional organisations (e.g. Society of Legal
Scholars, Socio-Legal Studies Association, Irish Association of Law Teachers, American Society of
International Law). McKeever is joint editor of the Journal of Social Security Law, where
Simpson is book editor. Simpson and Fitzpatrick organised a significant ‘Social Rights, Citizenship
and the Welfare State’ strand at SLSA 2017–20 (with the UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme
Poverty contributing via videolink in 2019).

Staff are members of the AHRC (Hamber, O’Rourke, O’Connell) and ESRC (Hamber, Wills) Peer
Review Colleges and the Royal Irish Academy Multidisciplinary committee (Wills). We have
reviewed applications for GCRF (Hamber), Nuffield (McKeever), Horizon 2020 (Ashe, O’Connell),
British Academy (Simpson), Irish Research Council (O’Rourke, Smith), German Research
Foundation (Hamber), Dutch Research Council (O’Connell). Staff review submissions for over
20 journals including the International Journal of Transitional Justice, Journal of Human Rights
Practice, Journal of Law and Society, Feminist Legal Studies and Journal of Social Security Law,
and book proposals for e.g. Cambridge, Hart, Routledge. Staff have acted as external examiners
for more than 20 PhDs during this REF cycle.


Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society

The action-oriented nature of our research has paved the way for appointments to civil society,
public sector and international bodies, and for work with governments and NGOs worldwide. While
Associate Director of TJI, Ní Aoláin was appointed UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights
and Counterterrorism. McKeever was reappointed in 2020 to the UK’s Social Security
Advisory Committee and is a member of the Administrative Justice Council’s Academic Panel
and the NI Civil Justice Board’s Advisory Group. Simpson sits on the newly formed Scottish
Commission on Social Security. O’Rourke is a member of the Irish Department of Foreign
Affairs and Trade Committee on Human Rights. O’Rawe is retained as Counsel to the Coroner
in legacy inquests dealing with allegations of a ‘shoot to kill’ policy.

TJI staff work extensively with civil society and human rights organisations, sitting on the
boards/executives of the Committee on the Administration of Justice (O’Connell, Smith, and
PhD graduates Bollaerts and McGill), Healing through Remembering (Hamber), Impunity
Watch (Hamber), Relatives for Justice (Rolston), the Women’s Peace and Humanitarian Fund
(Rooney). Brown has been a member of the Ulster Museum ‘Troubles’ Academic Advisory


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Group since its inception in 2015. This group advises National Museums NI on its ‘Troubles and
Beyond’ permanent exhibition.

Our collaborations sustain our impact. McKeever’s links with the Law Centre and Department of
Justice support the impact work of the Law Clinic. The Law Clinic and our PhD programme have
enabled policy and social security appointments to the Law Centre. McKeever has worked with the
Department of Justice to establish an arms-length advisory Litigants in Person Reference
Group. Smith’s links with the Human Rights Consortium, Amnesty and CAJ have extended the
reach of her Bill of Rights project findings (with McWilliams and later Harvey, QUB). As a result of
their expertise, McKeever and Smith have presented oral evidence to the UK, Scottish and Irish
Parliaments, and NI Assembly. O’Rourke, with the Legacy Gender Integration Group, has
presented evidence to the US Congress Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission.

Our work influences the role of international organisations including UN Special Rapporteurs,
UNDP and UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. TJI has a
partnership agreement with the UN’s Women Peace and Security Team. Many of Ní Aoláin’s
Special Rapporteur priorities reflect her research over two decades at Ulster. Hamber, Ní Aoláin
and O’Connell assisted the UN Special Rapporteur on Truth (UNSR) during his 2015 UK visit,
advising on his itinerary, providing administrative support and Hamber accompanied him on visits.
The UNSR’s 2016 Northern Ireland report reflects research by several TJI scholars. McKeever,
Simpson, Fitzpatrick’s research is cited in the UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty’s
report on the UK.

TJI research has worked with governments, public institutions, international organisations and civil
society world-wide:

   •   UN Women commissioned O’Rourke and TJI graduate Swaine to prepare a Guidebook on
       CEDAW General Recommendation No. 30 and the UN Security Council Resolutions on
       Women, Peace and Security (2015), the authoritative UN guidance in this area;
   •   UN Women and the UN Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights commissioned
       Ni Aoláin, O’Rourke and Swaine to conduct an expert study that informed the UN
       Secretary-General’s Guidance Note on Reparations for Conflict-Related Sexual Violence
       (2014);
   •   Collins is a founder member of the Latin American Transitional Justice Network;
   •   In 2017, the Latin American Studies Association invited Collins to join a five-person
       international fact-finding delegation to study the impeachment process against Brazilian
       president Rousseff. Collins was a key drafter of the final report;
   •   The Colombian Search Unit for Missing Persons asked Collins to assist in creating a
       ‘Friends of the Unit’ in 2019;
   •   The European Center for Constitutional and Human Rights drew on Hansen's research to
       urge the International Criminal Court Prosecutor to conduct a full investigation of UK
       action in Iraq;
   •   The Hume-O’Neill Peace Chair builds upon TJI and INCORE’s work to share lessons from
       NI’s peace process with conflict zones elsewhere;
   •   The Dutch government appointed Hamber an expert on a multidisciplinary Task Force
       looking at integrating mental health and psychosocial support into the UN
       peacebuilding architecture. Hamber presented the Task Force findings to UN member
       states at the Dutch request (2020);
   •   Hamber has developed links with the Sierra Leone Government and NGO Fambul Tok to
       discuss inclusive local governance and peacebuilding;
   •   The Kofi Annan Foundation commissioned Hamber and Kelly to provide a case study to
       shape future reconciliation work. Kofi Annan launched the work in Colombia to influence the
       peace process;
   •   Hamber and Kelly’s definition of reconciliation has been highlighted in policy forums, e.g.
       events by UN Department of Political Affairs’ Policy and Mediation Division, Office of the



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Catalan Institute for Peace, and by the Irish
       Government Representative in Colombia during the peace process;
   •   McWilliams visited Colombia, supported by Interpeace, to support women’s role in
       peacebuilding (2016).


Using imaginative methodologies to work with marginalised and disadvantaged communities

SJ staff have developed animations to explain why litigants in person go to court without legal
representation. Simpson was one of the UK’s first Instagram researchers in residence. Patrick
(Leeds) and Simpson’s collaboration with illustrators and designers helped people talk about their
experiences of poverty. Law Clinic staff and students have worked with the Art School to create
animated videos and posters, an art installation and a film. McKeever, Simpson and Gray
(Social Policy) have used participatory methodologies to develop claimant-led recommendations to
the NI Executive on Universal Credit.

Hamber’s AHRC-funded project, with Newcastle and Bristol, on ‘Screening Violence’, engages
through the medium of cinema with communities that have experienced violence.

Based on participatory filmmaking methodology, Wills and McLaughlin’s (QUB) film, It Stays
with You documents the use of violence by UN peacekeepers in Port-au-Prince, highlighting the
experience of a disadvantaged community that has been harmed and silenced. It has been
shown at ten festivals, a UN Human Rights Council Side Event (2018) and has won a prize for
Best Director (Belfast Human Rights Film Festival) and four best documentary film awards.

Ashe’s AHRC project LGBTQ+ Visions of Peace highlights the previously invisible experience
of transgender people in NI. Working with academics and NGOs, Ashe has co-produced cultural
artefacts, including the first theatre play and photographic exhibition on LGBTQ+ visions of peace
in NI. The exhibition was displayed in the Belfast Exposed Gallery, while the play featured in the
Imagine Festival (2018), Being Human Festival (2018), Outburst Festival (2016, 2017), and Outing
the Past: Festival of LGB&T History (2019), exemplify the vitality of our imaginative
interdisciplinary work and our sustained engagement with disadvantaged communities.




                                                                                          Page 15
