Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Business and Management Studies (UoA17)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context & structure

 The Business and Management unit has significantly grown in size, strength and expertise since
 2014 growing from 12 staff members to 23 in REF2021. This has been led by structural changes
 at University level, growth in university research institutes and by the appointment of a new Dean
 in the Faculty of Business and Law in 2015. There has been a clear coherent strategy to identify
 and create support activities for all research active staff. This strategy has included the
 appointment of a Head of Research, Mortimer, in 2015 and the development of two research
 centres made up of faculty members, who undertake applied research parallel to their teaching
 responsibilities. Alongside these centres are two research institutes, both self-sufficient and
 independent from the faculty, that support Business related staff with research. These institutes
 have full time researchers and have a focus on commercial opportunities, as well as pure research.
 Much of the research undertaken in the unit is linked to the University of Northampton Strategic
 Plan 2015-2020. This plan is heavily influenced by the fact that the UoN is the first UK member of
 the Ashoka U network of socially impactful universities. We consequently have a number of
 institution-wide Changemaker Challenges that focus on social impact generally but also
 specifically on social impact in Northamptonshire. These challenges are themed around
 Education, Health and Well-Being, Heritage and Culture, and Business and Enterprise. The
 University is also committed to aligning its impact work with the United Nation’s Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs) and will be making its first submission to the 2021 Times Higher
 Education Impact Rankings in December 2020. We have aligned ourselves to the SDGs ‘To build
 resilient Infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation’,
 ‘to promote sustained inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment
 and decent work for all’ and ‘Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns’.

 The themes of sustainability and impact therefore run across many of the research activities of the
 unit, reflecting the growing recognition that in today’s world, businesses are expected to operate
 in a corporately and socially responsible manner and consider the impact of their activities on the
 environment and society, as well as on the creation of profit.

 This emphasis is evidenced by the development of The Institute for Social Innovation and Impact
 (ISII), run by Hazenberg, which was established in 2014 and evolved from the Social Enterprise
 Research Group documented in the last REF submission. It reflects how work in this area has
 moved from social responsibility and social enterprises to social innovation and the measurement
 of social impact. The demand for research in this area, and the availability of funding to develop
 this knowledge, has led to the Institute’s steady growth over the years from two staff up to eight
 staff in 2020, alongside its support for 14 PGRs between 2014-2021. Since its inception ISII has
 brought in over 2,500,000 of direct research income into the university, sourced from central and
 local government, private and third sector organisations, and European funding. The Institute of
 Logistics, Infrastructure, Supply and Transport (ILIST), run by Fassam, is also a result of our
 interest in sustainability. Its inception was linked to research into environmentally friendly transport
 systems. ILIST focuses on the areas of cyber security, disruptive technologies, logistics, supply
 chain and transformational travel.

 The first of our research centres, The Centre for Sustainable Business Practices (CSBP), led by
 Hosseinian-Far, brings together colleagues researching sustainability within profit-making
 businesses across numerous disciplines such as Marketing, Finance and HRM. Sustainability
 topics vary from advertising ethics and cyber security to supply chain management and corporate
 social responsibility. The centre presently has 22 staff members and has seen a steady increase
 in numbers. It is at the heart of the Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance movement

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the South-East Midlands and beyond, helping charities, civic institutions and businesses
 work together. For example, it plays an active part in the Lord-Lieutenant’s Leaders’ Forum which
 brings together commercial, civic and charity leaders in the county to explore issues of business
 and society. The Centre also collaborates with external prominent industry organisations to
 promote external collaborations and enhance collaborative research opportunities, such as the
 Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE).
 Our other main area of expertise is incapsulated in the Centre for China and Emerging Economies
 (CCEE), led by He. The centre’s two main areas of interest are the internationalisation of Chinese
 enterprises and its impact on global economic organisation and the post-acquisition integration
 process involving Chinese overseas acquisitions. However, it is also involved with research in
 Africa, Brazil and Central Asia. The Centre has 12 staff members and external partners include
 the Chinese Ministry of Science and Technology, Nanjing University of Science and Technology
 and the University of Sao Paulo.

 1.2 Research objectives

 We have performed well against our three main objectives that were laid out in our REF2014
 submission, as well as our University Strategy in 2015:

    1. To develop a stronger vibrant research culture in a supportive environment for staff
       at all levels and doctoral researchers.

 This has led, in part, to the creation of several initiatives which are detailed in Section 2 of this
 document. Examples include a mentoring scheme, small grants scheme, seminar series and an
 associate professorship development programme. The unit has several Early Career Researchers
 (Fassam, Giroletti and Naumov) and it has therefore been important to encourage these
 colleagues to publish and collaborate with more experienced staff members to develop
 themselves as researchers. The research centres and institutes have been key in enabling this
 collaboration to take place by stimulating discussion, collaboration and interaction between staff
 at all levels.

    2. To strengthen current collaborative research relationships and build new regional,
       national and international partnerships.

 This is demonstrated by the large number of collaborations and joint projects detailed in Section
 4 which cover projects based in Northampton, UK, Europe, Central Asia and the Far East.
 Examples include the work of the ISII which plays a critical role in the internationalisation strategy,
 building research partnerships in the East and South East Asia regions, predominantly in Vietnam,
 but also including Hong Kong, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines and South Korea.

    3. Deepen and strengthen the research expertise of the existing research groups and
       centres.

 In REF2014 research was focused around the Social Enterprise Research Group and the China,
 Transitional and Developing Economics Research Centre. Over the course of the last 6 years
 these have developed into the ISII and the CCEE respectively, as well as the unit now including
 the research centre CSBP and research institute ILIST. We have strengthened our specialism in
 sustainability by the appointment of Hosseinian-Far in January 2018 who is now the Chair of
 CSBP and is presently putting together a new MSc in Sustainability Management which will involve
 colleagues from across the faculty. An important addition to the CCEE has been Ai who was
 appointed in January 2016 and has strengthened the quality and quantity of our research activity
 in that area.

 Our globally focused research is also supported by a keen commitment to the development of the
 local region (Northamptonshire) through the University Changemaker Challenges embedded in
 the University Strategy. We have supported PhD studentships presently having three PhD
 students who are looking into “Exploring Stakeholder Collaboration in Region Branding strategies

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the county of Northamptonshire” supervised by Daye and Mortimer, “Harnessing alternative
 economic growth in Northamptonshire” and “Exploring family business succession from the
 successors perspective in Northamptonshire” supervised by Fakoussa and Wang. Hazenberg
 and Thomas supervised a student working on “Mapping social enterprise ecosystems across
 England, including Northamptonshire”. We also awarded small grants on a competitive basis, an
 example of this allowed Ryu to examine Social Enterprises in the Northamptonshire area.

 Our research objectives, moving forward to the next REF cycle, are based on building on our
 excellent progress in this Unit and a recognition of the large number of ECRs within the Unit
 alongside a growing but still small number of more experienced researchers.

     1. To strengthen the quality of the outputs and this objective is being supported by further
        mentoring activity, increased training on identifying appropriate journals for publication and
        more opportunities to take part in national and international collaboration. An example of
        this is a new collaboration with Universiti Teknologi MARA (UITM) which is enabling
        several colleagues to identify common areas of interest with colleagues from UITM,
        hopefully leading to strong collaborative research, particularly in the area of sustainability.
     2. A greater emphasis will be placed on identifying and documenting the impact of research
        outputs at an earlier stage of the process, utilising our relatively new Pure system to collect
        evidence and document progress. This will involve the sharing of good practice and a
        number of workshops and training sessions for research active staff.
     3. More resources and emphasis are to be placed on bid writing, including the exploration of
        alternative and smaller funds so that our expertise in this area can be developed. It is
        planned to direct appropriate resources, such as a time allowance in recognition of
        investment needed in this area.
     4. It is our intention to appoint research active staff where possible and continue to invest in
        researcher development. This is in line with the central University strategy of creating a
        clear researcher development path from ECR to professor, supported by a strong ECR
        development course, appointment to Associate Professor and opportunities to apply for
        professorship.


 The introduction of the Teaching and Research contracts is a positive step in recognising the
 support that is needed for our research active staff. The institution’s move towards semesterisation
 in 2021/2022 is also seen as an encouraging development in terms of workload planning. There
 has also been recent investment in the Research and Innovation Funding Support (RIFS) who are
 planning to work more closely with the research centres to provide bespoke support in terms of
 the identification, submission and running of funded projects, with the assistance on the recently
 acquired Funding Institutional application.

 1.3 Open research

 Staff receive training and support in open access, copyright and data-management. In 2019 the
 University launched its CRIS (Current Research Information System) enabling greater visibility of
 not only research outputs, but also research activities and datasets. In 2020 the University
 purchased a platform for digital preservation, and staff are now moving towards a more open
 research environment, where open research has progressed from being encouraged, to becoming
 an integral part of the research life-cycle. Datasets are uploaded to the CRIS on submission, where
 they are checked for replicability and long-term digital preservation. A data management plan is
 required for all research projects as part of the ethical approval prior to any research being carried
 out. To facilitate this, staff are encouraged to use DMPonline and examples of well-written data
 management plans, and one-to-one training sessions are available to all staff. A strong emphasis
 is placed on ensuring that our data adheres to the FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and
 reasonable) principles of sharing of data, striving to be as open as possible, but understanding
 when necessary restrictions are required.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have been provided with training in the selection of places for publication, use tools such as
 Sherpa/Romeo and the creative commons to check funder requirements, restrictions relating to
 copyright, and the selection of appropriate licencing of research outputs. An institutional fund is
 available to cover the cost of open access where a green (non-payment) route is either not an
 option, or where the embargo period is extensive. This fund covers the payments for articles,
 chapters and monographs. Where possible scholarly chapters are made open access. Research
 activities, such as presentations at conferences, workshops and educational resources are made
 available under a creative commons licence.


 1.4 Research integrity

 The University supports the Concordat to Support Research Integrity building this into a rigorous
 Research Ethics policy. This is implemented at a Faculty level by the Faculty of Business and Law
 Ethics Committee which is presently chaired by Daye. The committee consists of representatives
 from all the different Subject Groups. It assesses all ethics applications submitted by research-
 active staff and is also responsible for overseeing the ethics and integrity procedures undertaken
 within undergraduate and postgraduate taught modules. The Chair for the committee is a member
 of the University Ethics Committee.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy & development

 Staff development is embedded in the structure of the Business and Management unit. A number
 of initiatives have been put in place over the last seven years to create a supportive environment
 for all staff, from ECR to experienced researchers. To assist in this challenge, Mortimer and
 Mansour were supported to attend the Development Programme for Directors of Research run
 by the Chartered Institute of Business Schools and the British Academy of Management.

 In order to ensure that research is considered during the recruitment process, the Research Lead
 contributes to the selection process, by discussing research plans and publication records with
 each candidate and feeding back to the interview panel. This involvement has led to the
 recognition that support is essential for our ECRs from the beginning of their employment and has
 led to the organising of specific sessions for ECRs to not only to provide training and impart
 knowledge but also to enable them to meet each other across subject groups and create their own
 support network.

 In line with our focus on ECRs, a mentoring scheme has been running for the last three years. At
 present ten colleagues have been matched with more experienced researchers to assist them in
 moving their research forward. The mentorship scheme provides support for producing research
 outputs, networking, skills development and evaluating impact. This collaboration between
 experienced academics and ECRs helps develop careers, broaden networks and increase
 collaborations.

 The most significant initiative in terms of research support and expansion in this unit has been the
 Research Development Awards (RDAs). This was a faculty-led program where staff members at
 all levels had the opportunity to apply for research hours to be included in their workload allocation.
 These ringfenced research hours allowed staff members to undertake further research alongside
 their teaching obligations. The scheme was initially based on the submission of research plans
 followed by a meeting with the Research Lead and the Dean. We have supported over fifty staff
 members throughout the scheme. RDAs now been superseded by the introduction of the Teaching
 and Research Contracts, a University wide initiative, which provide research active staff with
 designated research hours on their workload.

 A Small Grants Award Scheme of up to GBP2000 has also been available (2018-2020). In this
 application, it was necessary to demonstrate how the fund would be used to move their research

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forward as well as assisting in the application for external funds in the future. Fourteen projects
 have been supported, enabling colleagues to collect data, disseminate information and form
 important networks. An example from this initiative is the work on Social Enterprises in
 Northamptonshire by Ryu which has led to a conference paper at the EMES International
 Research conference on Social Enterprise and also assisted in successfully winning a bid
 examining the Concept of Social Enterprise from the Korean Studies Grant of GBP5,000. This
 study also led to a PhD studentship and was integral in the successful application to SEUK to
 make Northampton a Social Enterprise Place. A further small grant enabled Ai to visit China to
 collect further data on understanding the mechanisms through which cultural integration takes
 place from international acquisitions by multinational corporations from emerging economies. The
 fund enabled him to undertake a longitudinal study and he has written a research paper from this
 research published in the Journal of World Business. Another Faculty programme to support
 bidding has been the introduction of writing treats supported through external facilitators. These
 writing retreats have led to the formation of several research bids such as an Erasmus+ KA107
 Staff Mobility Central Asia and an APROV Augmented Procurement Visibility grant.

 A weekly Research Seminars Series is run during term time giving a platform for all doctoral
 students and research staff to present their research and receive feedback from colleagues. This
 originally was only available for doctoral students but has expanded over the last four years to
 enable staff at all levels as well as visiting professors/speakers to contribute. It provides an
 opportunity for staff to become aware of and get involved with research being undertaken in other
 subject areas and thereby lead to interdisciplinary research. Examples of such activities include
 joint papers with colleagues from the International Business and the Accounting and Finance
 subject groups. A further development opportunity for staff and students to enhance their
 presentation skills and to network across the different faculties is the University Annual Research
 Conference. This conference was originally a faculty run research conference but was
 collaborated with other faculty led conferences in 2018 to create a University wide event. This is
 now in its third year, with thirteen Business staff and doctoral students presenting their research
 over two days in 2020.

 Central resources such as The Graduate School and Research and Innovation Funding Support
 (RIFS) assist with our strategy to develop researchers. The importance of providing support for
 ECRs is recognised across the institution with the Graduate School offering sessions specifically
 for this group throughout the year e.g. “Designing Research with Impact in Mind”, and “Making
 External Partnerships Work for You”. Over 40 workshops a year are put on by the Graduate School
 with staff from this Unit supporting many of these sessions by facilitation.
 The university has a process for appointing Visiting Professors and Fellows, who contribute to the
 research activity of the department. We currently have 10 Visiting Professors and 4 Visiting
 Fellows who work alongside colleagues in the department with related interests, participate in
 departmental events such as conferences and research seminars, contribute to PGR supervision
 and provide links to external bodies. Examples of this are Professor Berg from Lulea University of
 Technology, Sweden and Professor Barry from University of East London hosting sessions for
 doctoral students and staff on Academic Ethics and Integrity and Professor Johnston from SOAS
 presenting the keynote speech at the University Research Conference and providing one to one
 support and workshops on writing impact case studies and preparations for REF to colleagues in
 the faculty.

 2.2 Postgraduate research students

 A head of Doctoral Programmes, Mansour, was appointed in 2018. This new appointment is
 driving our programme of PGR development within the faculty putting sustainability and vitality at
 the heart of our PGR offerings. The number of level 8 research students supported by this unit
 has increased considerably over the last seven years. This is due in part, to the introduction of the
 successful Doctor of Business (DBA) programme in 2014 which now runs alongside our PhD
 programme. As of July 2020, there were 23 PhD completions and 6 DBA completions. In July
 2020 our numbers of students were as follows.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Level 8 Doctoral Students:

    -   44 DBA students at the taught module stage
    -   55 DBA students in the thesis stage
    -   46 PhD students (including students with Partner Regents College)

 To strengthen our research capability, finance has been provided to support the sponsorship of
 PhDs in particular topic areas with 17 studentships advertised since 2016. Three of these are
 linked to the University Changemaker Challenges. Two of these funded projects are with ILIST
 where students are not only supervised by staff within the Business and Management area but
 also from Waste Management and Computing, illustrating some of the cross-disciplinary work that
 is taking place in the institute. The ISII presently has seven funded PhDs and has seven
 completions during the REF period, with additional funding being provided through HEFCE Global
 Challenges Research Fund, G4S and the Office for Students.

 This interdisciplinary commitment is reflected in our PhD community working in the circular
 economy and supply chain management in areas as diverse as leather, food, wheat, medical
 supplies and thermal installation. Supervisory teams are often formed across different subject
 groups and have led to new collaboration and publishing opportunities. An example of this is a
 PhD student who is looking at Sustainability in the leather industry and is being supervised by a
 chemist from the Leather department, Jraisat, an expert in supply change management and
 Mortimer, an experienced researcher from the Marketing area. Another example is a student
 exploring sustainability and impact within UNESCO Biosphere Reserves, combining
 ecological/environmental science and business/impact measurement supervised by Hazenberg
 and Giroletti.

 The FBL Research Seminar Series (RSS) is key in bringing together researchers at all levels,
 including our PGR students. It provides a regular forum for a constructive and supportive
 discussion about research and introduces our PGR students to our wider research community. It
 also includes our doctoral students’ transfer seminars (when they are required to present their
 progress after one year of study). Each PGR must present at least one research seminar per year
 as well as being encouraged to present his/her work at internal and external conferences.
 In addition to these seminars, the need to provide discipline specific research methods and
 methodology workshops for our PGRs has led to the recent introduction of the Doctoral
 Development Programme which runs parallel to the university Graduate School workshops. It runs
 as a series of workshops covering topics such as Research Philosophy, recently facilitated by
 Mansour and Mortimer and Digital Researchers facilitated by Ryu. The programme consists of
 sessions that allow members of staff and supervisors to offer their shared experience back to the
 community.

 It has been important to increase our supervisory capacity and to involve as many research active
 staff in supervision as possible. Supervisor training is run regularly by the Graduate School and is
 mandatory for all new research active members of staff. These recently trained colleagues are
 then often matched with a more experienced supervisor (2 completions minimum) to share
 knowledge and provide supervisory opportunities. Nineteen colleagues in this unit have completed
 the first of two modules of this supervisory training course, which is the minimum required to be
 given supervisory responsibilities and two are currently attending. Six colleagues have also
 completed the second module and been awarded the Postgraduate Certificate in Research
 Degree Supervision.

 As the number of supervisors has increased, the need for a monitoring system of supervisory
 support has been recognised. This approach was developed within the Business unit as a
 recommendation from the University Research Degrees Committee. The reviews ensure that
 Doctoral Researchers (PhD and DBA) receive regular supervision meetings with their supervisory
 team, and that the core discussion points arising from these meetings are appropriately recorded.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The review includes the transfer process deadlines and requirements. The reviews take place
 twice a year in Autumn and Spring.

 A probationary period, and key project development milestones (e.g. an initial project proposal, an
 ethical application, and a ‘Transfer’ seminar and viva), ensure that progress is carefully monitored,
 and supervisory support is tailored to individual needs. An annual progress review provides an
 auditable quality check of both the researcher’s work and the supervisory team’s work in support
 of the researcher’s personal/professional development. Postgraduate Researchers received an
 annual development fund which can be (currently GBP300 for part-time and GBP500 for fulltime
 PGRs) used for anything related to their studies such as equipment or conference attendance,
 and opportunities exist for PGRs to apply for additional funds in support of their research, plus an
 institutional postgraduate Research Environment Enhancement Fund (REEF) initiative which
 enables PGRs to run, facilitate and co-create opportunities and events with of the aim of enhancing
 research environment. Teaching opportunities for PGR students have also been more formalized
 from the centre to ensure equity and transparency. Enabling students to work on modules with
 other academic colleagues has strengthened their contact with the various Subject Groups and
 has led, in some instances, to job opportunities.

 Evidence that the support being provided to our Level 8 students is being recognised is provided
 in the PRES results. Over the REF period, the University of Northampton has scored strongly in
 Advance HE’s Postgraduate Researcher Experience Survey (PRES) (ranked 1st overall in 2020
 and 4th overall in 2018). This is reflected in disaggregated data for postgraduate researchers in
 the subject area of Business and Management which recorded 96% overall satisfaction compared
 with 81% across the University sector.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 The University of Northampton’s Equality and Inclusion Policy and Procedure establishes honesty,
 fairness and consistency in the recruitment and progression of research staff. All staff undertake
 an e-learning module on Equality and Diversity and unconscious bias as part of their induction
 programme. The individual needs and wellbeing of all colleagues are supported through the PDR
 process, with sensitive, bespoke arrangements in place in the faculty to support, for example,
 flexible and remote working, career development for part-time and fixed-term researchers,
 conference attendance for colleagues and PGRs, and appropriate adjustments for colleagues with
 disabilities, long-term illnesses, caring responsibilities and returning from leave periods.

 In addition, many colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led support and
 advocacy groups such as the Global Ethnic Minority (GEM) Network (co-chaired by Daye),
 LGBTQ+ group and Staff Disability Network. Many staff members have also benefited from the
 University’s Navigator (men and transmasculine) and ‘Springboard+’ (women, trans and non-
 binary) staff development programme for colleagues in academic or professional services roles
 which provides an opportunity for staff to undertake personal and professional development and
 support for leadership, goal-setting and strategic visioning skills.

 Over the last 6 years we have strived to keep diversity and equality at the forefront of our
 recruitment and development. Our achievement in this area is evidenced by a greater diversity
 amongst the research team in Business, going from 42% women (5) submitted in REF2014 up to
 52% women (13) in REF2021. Our senior research team of Associate Professors (Mortimer,
 Mansour, He and Hosseinian-Far) are also ethnically and gender diverse with half of
 them being women. This increasing diversity is further evidenced through our Small Grants
 scheme where 42% of awards were to women in 2018, further increasing to 57% in 2019.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research income has grown significantly within the unit from GBP703,474 reported in REF2014
 to GBP2,298,826 over this assessment period (2014-2020). This growth has been enabled
 through our focus on the themes of sustainable growth, social innovation and internationalisation
 as well as the institute’s expertise on bidding for promising commercial opportunities.

 The Unit has a portfolio of research funding from a range of national and international funding
 agencies including H2020, ESF, ERDF, ERASMUS+ and the British Council. Much of this income
 has been achieved through the Research Institutes and Centres. The ISII, under the leadership of
 Hazenberg, has been involved with several European projects such as an FP7 project, Erasmus+,
 two ESF projects and two ERDF evaluations. The FP7 EFESEIIS project worth GBP250,000 to
 the university (GBP2,400,000 total project value) ran from 2014 to 2017 with the aim to explore
 social enterprise ecosystems in Europe and is discussed in more detail in Section 4. The ISII also
 have a GCRF funded project for SE Asia that has funded three ongoing PGRs as well as being
 the evaluators for the ESF/National Lottery Community Fund Building Better Opportunities project
 in Northamptonshire (research funding of over GBP253,000).

 Research funding of GBP68,700 was also awarded to ILIST, under the leadership of Fassam, to
 run The Network Northants project in 2016/2017. The project was led by Northamptonshire County
 Council in partnership with the Institute to identify synergies that could be made across the
 sustainable public transportation within the county and led to the first global holistic procurement
 transport commissioning social enterprise co-owned by the project stakeholders. A more recent
 significant project with ILIST is the Architecture for EurOpean Logistics Information eXchange
 (AEOLIX). This is a platform which enables information on supply chain data to be shared between
 multiple organisations and thereby lead to interoperability and collaboration. Lastly, the Post-
 Consumer High-tech Recycled Polymers for a Circular Economy (PolyCE) GBP200,000 project is
 concerned with the Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and applying circular
 economy solutions to minimise that waste.

 The Centre for China and Emerging Economics, under the leadership of He, has won several high-
 profile grants. Examples of these are a GBP30,000 award from the British Council to work with
 Jianghan University of China to develop an innovative model to support internationalisation
 capacity building of Chinese universities and a further GBP35,000 from the British Council working
 with the Kazakh-British University of Technology on a Researchers Link Programme examining
 the impact of emerging economies and their multinational enterprises on the world economy.
 Another British Council fund of GBP10,800 was awarded to Batista in 2015, member of the CSBP,
 to finance a joint project with the Fundacao Getulio Vargas (FRG) University in Brazil to examine
 food supply chains to minimise food waste and maximize social benefits.

 The Business Innovation Grant (BIG) Ideas project is central financial support provided by the
 Higher Education Innovation Funding, with the aim of strengthening links between the university
 and local businesses and the community. The first round, between April and July 2019 created 50
 expressions of interest across the university and eight successful ‘Big Ideas’ were awarded. One
 of these was awarded to this unit and provided GBP5,000 to fund two academics to work with
 Pluswipes, a company based in Corby producing infection control products. The purpose of the
 project was to assist the organisation in developing their cyber resilience and risk management.
 The second round of BIG Ideas awarded Gough, an active member of CSBP, to advise Travis
 Perkins on ways in which they could minimise the creation of excess waste within their business
 and manage the waste that was created in the most effective way.

 The central Research and Innovation Funding Support (RIFS) is crucial in supporting colleagues
 to identify and apply for external funding and they run numerous drop-in sessions and tailored
 workshops to provides that support. Moving forward, the University has recently extended its
 institutional support by investing in Funding Institutional which can be used alongside Pure and
 GRANTfinder to support the faculty in discovering new, relevant research opportunities for staff to
 apply for.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University has recently invested heavily in its facilities, having completed the move to the
 purpose-built Waterside Campus in 2018 at a total cost of GBP330,000,000. The campus has
 been heralded as the cutting edge of university infrastructure, winning the 2019 Royal Institute for
 Chartered Surveyors’ coveted ‘Design Through Innovation’ award. While it is not possible to
 attribute a precise portion of this investment to Business, the department has benefitted from the
 new working environment with state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, new office space and a new
 library. The new workspaces facilitate scholarly dialogue and the exchange of research knowledge
 between disciplines creating a more interdisciplinary environment.
 The new campus has also transformed the experience and working environment of the PGR
 community. Whereas PGRs previously were separate and located across the campus, the new
 senate building provides an impressive, purpose-built, co-designed suite for the University’s whole
 multidisciplinary PGR community. The success of this strategic investment in PGR workspace is seen
 in strong, improving PRES results for PGRs at the University of Northampton.
 The Bloomberg suite is an area dedicated to Economics and Accounting and Finance staff and
 students, located on the ground floor of the Senate building. This new suite consists of nine Reuters
 terminals which provide research students and staff access to exclusive live financial trading data in
 a user-friendly manner in order to make economic forecasts and trading strategies. This is a great
 facility for researchers in this area moving forward.

 As part of the University’s new Research Strategy to 2025 and the move within this to integrate
 Institute functions and collaboration, the ISII are moving in 2021 to the University’s new Development
 Hub, where they will be based alongside the other research institutes. This new space includes
 dedicated Institute offices, data storage, meeting rooms and teaching/conference facilities. By
 embedding the research institutes together in shared office spaces, the University is seeking to drive
 further research collaboration between Institutes and their aligned research centres. The Institutes
 also share dedicated support functions from Human Resources and Finance, including a dedicated
 HR officer and Faculty accountant to support them with recruitment and fiscal planning. The Institutes
 also work closely with the RIFS team on funding applications and project management, whilst the
 University allows them dedicated expenditure for research dissemination and marketing. Finally, the
 Institutes also share a 1.0FTE admin support member of staff who works on supporting administrative
 functions including purchase orders, invoicing, office management and other miscellaneous support.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 There are many examples of collaboration and contributions at Institute, Centre and individual
 level, many of which are linked to funded projects discussed earlier. At the core of these
 partnerships is the University’s commitment to sustainable growth, social innovation and
 internationalisation. This is embodied at the University by our commitment to sign up to the SDG
 accord later in 2020 and to submit for the first time to the Times Higher Impact rankings in 2021,
 as well as our commitment at the Faculty level to the UNPRME initiative. Our collaborations and
 partnership strategy are centred on these principles, so as to ensure that our partnerships are
 linked together by these common goals.

 The ISII ran the FP7 EFESEIIS project between 2014 and 2017 with the aim to explore social
 enterprise ecosystems in Europe. The project was led by the University of Florence in Italy and
 the University of Northampton, led by Hazenberg, was one of eleven universities across eleven
 different European countries. The project’s impacts were both policy and practitioner focused,
 directly informed the EC’s policy brief ‘How can policy-makers improve their country’s support to
 social enterprises?’, as well as presenting findings to the European Commission and European
 Parliament. Practitioner engagement was also in-depth, with two stakeholder conferences taking
 place in 2015 and 2017.

 Further afield, Hazenberg has established two formal research partnerships in Vietnam with the
 National Economics University (NEU) and the Vietnam National University (VNU). With NEU, the

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focus is on joint research into social business in Vietnam (funded by the United Nations
 Development Programme); supporting them in launching their new MSc in Social Innovation, and
 research and business support in the establishment of their Impact Hub social business incubator
 (funded by the British Council). The focus of this association with VNU was on supporting the
 institution with social impact measurement in Vietnam. This work was funded by the British
 Academy and has led to the creation of Vietnam’s first online social impact measurement tool,
 which VNU now actively use with social enterprises through their THRIIVE social investment
 programme. ISII has since leveraged this work to also win funding from the British Council for two
 further projects to expand this focus on social innovation ecosystem building to Hong Kong, South
 Korea, the Philippines, Malaysia, and Indonesia, engaging with leading HEIs in each of these
 countries as co-researchers. This work has led to the establishment of the new Social Innovation
 Linkages for Knowledge Exchange Network (SILKEN) in partnership with Glasgow Caledonian
 University, which seeks to promote social innovation globally amongst HEIs. ISII has also recently
 signed an MOU with Sungkyunkwan University in South Korea to support them with their social
 innovation research and teaching. This global research excellence also led to the ISII being invited
 to deliver the social innovation and social impact modules on Global Business Scholl Barcelona’s
 new G-Accelerator post-graduate programme, demonstrating the growing impact around
 sustainable growth, social innovation and internationalisation.

 Fassam has worked closely with several European partners during the AEOLIX project including
 Chalmers University of Technology in Sweden, as well as global businesses such as Unilever and
 Kuehne + Nagel one of the world’s leading logistics companies. This project has involved ILIST
 operating a living lab to explore the impact of digital innovations on supply-chain integrity and
 sustainability in logistics, as a means to reduce criminality and fraud in supply-chains. As part of
 the WEEE project the institute is collaborating with Fraunhofer, considered to be the world’s
 leading applied research organisation as well as Phillips and the United National University based
 in Japan. This research seeks to reduce plastic use and waste in supply-chains and the logistics
 sector, through the utilisation of the circular economy. Both of these projects demonstrate the
 desire to drive sustainability through business innovation and improving international standards
 that runs through the Faculty, and links closely with the social innovation focus of the University.

 Within the research centres, He has forged close relationships between CCEE and business and
 local authorities both in the UK and overseas as already demonstrated in previous sections. In the
 local area, the centre is a strategic partner of South East Midlands Local Enterprise partnership
 (SEMLEP) and is now widely viewed, in Northamptonshire and the wider SEMLEP region, as the
 vanguard regarding China engagement, successfully collaborating with a range of business and
 local authorities such as Silverstone Circuit, Lincolnshire County Council and Northampton
 Borough Council. Part of its contribution at the local level is the “Doing business in China” series
 which has already provided three events in 2020. More internationally, He, the chair of the centre,
 has been appointed as Ambassador for International Exchange by the Hunan Provincial
 Government of China with the role of forging a closer business relationship between China and
 the UK. He was also recently invited to provide evidence to the UK Parliament’s Foreign Affairs
 Committee inquiry into “The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office’s role in blocking
 foreign asset stripping in the UK”.

 International collaboration also takes place at an individual level. Examples include Uba who is
 undertaking joint research with the University of Lagos and is part of the Technology Incubation
 Centre in Lagos which is a Federal Government supported initiative to nurture the start-up and
 growth of new innovative businesses. Mortimer writes on international advertising regulation with
 colleagues from universities in Australia and the US and Ai collaborates with colleagues from
 Singapore, China, USA and Hong Kong as well as from Royal Holloway in London.

 After working on several British Council projects in Central Asia, two colleagues, Daye and Wang
 are members of a research group with HEI partner institutions in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
 Uzbekistan and Tajikistan to investigate the prospects of China’s Belt and Road Initiative on the
 development of tourism, funded by EU’s KA107 - Higher education staff mobility Funding.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Relationships with key research users/beneficiaries

 Several of our research active staff are key contributors to their research specialism by being on
 editorial panels and reviewers of prestigious academic journals. Hazenberg is Associate Editor
 for the Social Enterprise Journal and the Journal of Social Entrepreneurship. Hosseinian-Far is
 Founding Editor & Editor-in-Chief for the International Journal of Strategic Engineering and Editor
 of the Open Journal of Big Data (OJBD). Jraisat is on the board of the Journal of Advances in
 Management Sciences and Information systems and Mortimer was deputy editor of the Journal
 of Marketing Communications for several years. Ai is an Editorial Review Board member of the
 Management Organisation Review and Mansour is a reviewer for Organisational Studies and
 International Journal of Management Education.

 Others have organised academic and practitioner conferences on our campus, such as Mansour
 who was the conference chair for Annual Dilemmas for Human Services International Research
 Conference in 2016 and 2018 and the Main Convenor and stream organiser for the 10th
 International Critical Management Conference in 2017. Gough organised the Logistics Research
 Network Annual Conference for the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport and He
 organised the Northampton-China Forum in 2016 and 2020.

 Most colleagues are members of their relevant scholarly society. Mortimer was Chair of the
 Marketing Communications Special Interest Group within the Academy of Marketing for several
 years as well as an active member of the American Academy of Advertising. Several colleagues
 are members of the Academy of International Business, the European International Business
 Academy and the Regional Studies Association. Hosseinian-Far has been an External Associate
 of the Sustainability Research Institute (SRI) at the University of East London since 2012 and an
 external associate of the Public Transportation systems (PTS) Research Group at RMIT Australia
 since 2020.




                                                                                            Page 11
