Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 30: Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Department of Philosophy (hereafter “the Department”) is a dynamic and flourishing unit, with
an international reputation for its research excellence. The Department’s members have diverse
philosophical interests, clustered into four main groups:

   (i)     Philosophy of science, epistemology and metaphysics
   (ii)    Logic and philosophy of mathematics
   (iii)   Value theory, including ethics, aesthetics and political philosophy
   (iv)    History of philosophy

These groupings are informal, and many staff members straddle them. Thanks to the Department’s
inclusive ethos, members of all four research groupings interact and collaborate. The Department
hosts a weekly seminar series with external speakers and an internal work-in-progress seminar,
both well-attended by staff and PhD students. The Department also hosts a large number of
academic and public engagement events each year.

In REF 2014, the Department identified three future research objectives: (i) to consolidate our
world-leading position in the philosophy of science, logic and mathematics; (ii) to develop medical
humanities; and (iii) to enhance our strength in value theory. All three objectives have been met.
Objective (i) was achieved by hiring six early career researchers (ECRs) (Thébault, Campbell-
Moore, Konek, Zuchowski, Tho, Stern), and by the ongoing research achievements and grant
capture of existing staff members. Objective (ii) was achieved by co-hosting (with Durham) the
award-winning Life of Breath research project from 2014-20, funded by a Wellcome Trust Senior
Investigator Award to Carel; by strengthening our links with the medical faculties; by setting up the
Centre for Health, Humanities and Science, and by successfully applying for and running a Medical
Humanities research strand within the University’s Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI) for Health
Research. Objective (iii) was achieved by hiring two ECRs (Wilson, Sticker) who work in value
theory.

Our overarching aim for the next five years is to build on our existing research strengths, to
continue to produce high-quality and impactful research, to increase our cohort of PhD students,
and to continue our success at winning research grants. One specific objective is to support our
new early career colleagues (of whom eight have been appointed in the last five years) to develop
their careers further and become research leaders. We will achieve this through ongoing
mentoring, supportive line management and targeted allocation of research leave. A second
objective is to make replacement hires in political philosophy, logic, and philosophy of biology /
medicine, to preserve our existing research strength in these areas. A third objective is to adjust to
the new research grant environment in which we find ourselves post-Brexit.

The Department has fostered strong links with research groups around Europe, facilitated in part
by the large number of staff members who are EU nationals, and / or have studied or worked in the
EU. Over the last seven years we have hosted a series of joint biennial workshops with the Munich
Centre for Mathematical Philosophy; and a similar series of joint workshops with the University of
Groningen. In the current assessment cycle, one staff member (Pettigrew) has been involved in a

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
successful Leverhulme Trust International Network Grant bid, bringing together researchers from
Bristol, Munich, Groningen, Tilburg, Lund and Pittsburgh. Further afield, we have recently
established a research connection with Kyoto University in Japan. One staff member (Okasha) has
an ongoing collaboration with researchers from Kyoto University, which has led to bilateral
research visits; a recently departed staff member (Leon Horsten, who left in Sep 2019) spent an
extended sabbatical period in the Philosophy department at Kyoto, building up research links.

The Department is home to a substantial volume of inter-disciplinary research activity; this is one of
its standout features. Many staff members have training in a discipline in addition to philosophy,
and a number of these publish regularly in the professional literature of another discipline. (For
example, Thébault has published in Physics Letters B and in Classical and Quantum Gravity;
Ladyman has published in Foundations of Physics, Entropy and Minds and Machines; Okasha
has published in Journal of Theoretical Biology, Journal of Evolutionary Biology, and Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society B; Carel has published in the British Medical Journal and, jointly
with Pettigrew, in The Lancet; and Fujimoto and Pettigrew have both published in Annals of Pure
and Applied Logic.) We enjoy strong links with other departments at Bristol, including Medicine,
Psychology, Physics, Economics, Politics, Sociology and Biology, and routinely host joint research
events with them. We have particularly strong links with the Bristol School of Mathematics: one
staff member (Fujimoto) has a joint appointment in the School of Mathematics, and three further
staff members (Ladyman, Pettigrew and Campbell-Moore) work closely with members of this
School.

In the last seven years, our inter-disciplinary activities have received a significant impetus thanks to
the establishment of four new Faculty Research Centres, all with significant involvement from
Department members. The Centre for Health, Humanities and Science was set up by Carel in
2016 and has become a hub for medical humanities research at the University. This has helped to
establish research connections between the Philosophy, English, and History departments and our
Medical Schools, and with the University’s EBI for Health Research. Migration and Mobility
Bristol, of which former staff member Chris Bertram (retired in Sep 2020) was a founder member,
was set up in 2016 to provide a focal point for research on the movement of people around the
globe, furthering links between Philosophy, Law and Social Science. The Centre for Science and
Philosophy, directed by Ladyman, was set up in 2014 and provides a focal point for much of the
philosophy-of-science related research and public engagement in the Department. The Centre for
Black Humanities, co-founded in 2016 by Burch-Brown in collaboration with colleagues in the
Faculty of Arts, provides a hub for work on African history, philosophy and arts. Each of these
research centres hosts regular seminar series and workshops, welcoming a stream of
distinguished visitors from the UK and abroad. Thanks to the activities of these centres, staff and
students in the Department enjoy an outstanding level of exposure to inter-disciplinary work.

The success of our current research strategy is evident from our research grant capture, graduate
student placement record, international reputation, thriving research culture, and the exceptional
productiveness of staff members. Our REF submission includes no fewer than ten monographs,
which is striking given the high proportion of ECRs in the department. Evidence of the
department’s international reputation comes from the 2017-18 Philosophical Gourmet Report, in
which the Department was ranked 9th overall in the UK, but 1st for Mathematical Logic, 1st for
Philosophy of Biology, joint 1st for General Philosophy of Science, 2nd for Decision, Rational
Choice and Game Theory, joint 2nd for Philosophy of Mathematics, 3rd for Philosophy of Social
Sciences, 4th for Philosophy of Physics, and 4th for Philosophical Logic.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)

During the current REF cycle, individual department members have held several major research
grants; see section 3 for details.

The Department has enthusiastically embraced the impact agenda and has developed a multi-
pronged strategy to achieve impact. Firstly, the Head of Subject seeks to identify research that has
impact potential at an early stage, as part of the annual research review process. Where such
potential is detected, the university’s dedicated impact team (who are part of Research, Enterprise
and Development (RED)), work with the staff member in question. The RED team provide detailed
advice on how to maximize research impact. Other dedicated university bodies, including Policy
Bristol and the public engagement team, also support impact work. Secondly, as part of the
Faculty’s grant writing feedback scheme, senior staff members offer advice to junior staff, at an
early stage of grant writing, to help them identify the impact potential of their work. Thirdly, the
department has a dedicated Impact Coordinator, who works with the Head of Subject to identify
possible Impact Case Studies, and to provide guidance to staff working on these case studies.

The net effect of our impact strategy is that the Department’s research has steadily increased its
impact over the assessment period. Our three submitted Impact Case Studies owe their success to
the strategy outlined above, having received support from the earliest stages at both department
and university levels. Ladyman was awarded internal funding by RED in both 2018-19 and 2019-
20 to help develop impact from his “Philosophy of Science in Science Education” project, which
works in partnership with teachers and teacher-trainers to use philosophy of science to inform
science teaching. Burch-Brown received considerable assistance from the RED team for her case
study on contested heritage and slavery in 2019-20, with collecting evidence and organization of
the material. Carel’s work on the role of philosophy in medical practice was identified as having
impact potential over a decade ago. Carel has received extensive internal support in developing
the impact of her research, including support from RED for her successful bid to the Wellcome
Trust for the multi-year Life of Breath research project, in which impact played a large part; this
project was awarded the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)-Wellcome Health
Humanities Medal: Inspiration Award (2018), for its public engagement program.

The Department is fully supportive of the open research environment, and staff have been pro-
active in their contributions to promoting open access publishing. Okasha, in his capacity as
President of the European Philosophy of Science Association (EPSA), has been involved in
extensive discussions with Springer (who publish EPSA’s journal, The European Journal for the
Philosophy of Science) about the move to open access, and about the suitability of Springer’s
concept of “transformative journals” for the philosophy discipline. Okasha has also been involved
in enlisting EPSA’s support for a multi-national initiative to start an open access book series in the
philosophy of science. Pettigrew is an associate editor at Ergo, a general open access philosophy
journal; and he recently co-edited the Open Handbook of Formal Epistemology, the first open
access handbook in this area, published through PhilPapers. He is also on the editorial board for
an open access book series in philosophy of science published by the University of Calgary Press.
Carel assisted in setting up the first open access philosophy of medicine journal, Philosophy of
Medicine, and was a subject editor in it.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 2. People

   1. Staffing Strategy and Development
The department currently has 17.5 permanent staff members. We have four professors (Havi
Carel, James Ladyman, Samir Okasha, Richard Pettigrew); one reader (Tuomas Tahko); six
senior lecturers (Anthony Everett, Seiriol Morgan, Giles Pearson, Karim Thébault, Jason Konek,
Joanna Burch-Brown); six lecturers (Catrin Campbell-Moore, Tzuchien Tho, Alan Wilson, Lena
Zuchowski, Martin Sticker, Kentaro Fujimoto); and one research fellow who will become a
permanent lecturer from 2023 (Johannes Stern).

All of the above are 100% FTE staff on Pathway 1 (with research and teaching contracts, hence
Category A), apart from Fujimoto who is a 50:50 joint appointment with the School of
Mathematics. The department does not have any Category A staff on short-term contracts. We
currently have one permanent lecturer (Max Jones) and one fixed-term lecturer (Jonathan Grose)
on Pathway 3 (teaching only contracts, hence not Category A). In addition, several honorary staff
members contribute significantly to departmental life: Ken Binmore (emeritus professor of
economics); Chris Bertram, Finn Spicer, Andrew Pyle and Andrew Woodfield (retired department
members); and Alexander Bird (a former staff member).

The composition of the Department has changed considerably over the assessment period, as has
the seniority profile. Five senior staff members have left the Department. Three junior staff were
hired but left within a few years for positions at other institutions. Eight members of the existing
permanent staff were hired during the assessment period, seven at lecturer level and one as
reader; two of the lecturers (Thébault and Konek) have since been promoted to senior lecturer. All
new staff members have been successfully integrated into the department. These hires resulted
from strategic job searches, for which we advertised in particular sub-fields of philosophy, with the
aim of maintaining / increasing our research strength in those sub-fields. In each of the eight
cases, we were able to hire promising junior staff, with outstanding research achievements and
excellent publication records. Three of our recent appointees (Stern, Tahko and Konek) have
already won prestigious European Research Council (ERC) grants.

In addition to the permanent staff and teaching fellows, the Department hosts a number of post-
doctoral researchers each year, who make an invaluable contribution to our research environment.
These are funded either by research grants held by staff members, or by grants won in internal or
external competition. We currently have six postdoctoral researchers in post: Robert Chapman
(University of Bristol Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow 2019-2021); Toby Friend (2019-22, ERC funded);
Vanessa Seifert (2018-21, ERC funded); Samuel Kimpton-Nye (2020-22, ERC funded); Thomas
Schindler (2020-23, ERC funded); Dan Degerman (Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship 2020-23).
Over the assessment cycle, a further fourteen postdoctoral researchers were hosted by the
Department, funded by grants from the ERC, British Academy, AHRC, Leverhulme Trust,
Wellcome Trust, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada.

The Department has long attracted visits by leading international researchers, for both short and
long-term stays. The University’s Benjamin Meaker Fellowship scheme provides funds for visiting
academics to spend up to 3 months in Bristol, with the requirement that they offer a public lecture.
Under this scheme, the department has hosted visitors from Monash, Michigan, Duke, St.
Petersburg, Chicago and Pitesti among others. Other academic visitors, mostly funded by research


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
projects, have come from Oxford, Carnegie-Mellon, Three Gorges (China), Macquarie, Austin-
Texas and others.

We have an excellent track record of helping our fixed-term teaching fellows and post-doctoral
researchers develop their careers and move on to other academic positions. During the
assessment period, the following fixed-term lecturers and postdoctoral researchers have held
positions in the Department and then secured a position at another institution: Mark Pinder (2017-
8, now a lecturer at the Open University); Giulia Terzian (2015-17, moved to a post-doc at the
University of Campinas, Brazil); Ana-Maria Cretu (2017-18, moved to a post-doc at the University
of Edinburgh); Jason Konek (2014-17, moved to Kansas University, now permanent at Bristol);
Bengt Autzen (2015-17, now a permanent lecturer at UCC, Ireland); Ben Levinstein (2014-17, now
an assistant professor at University of Illinois-Urbana); Ryan Sammaroo (2014-6, now a post-doc
at Oxford); Johannes Martens (2014-17, now permanent at Paris-Sorbonne); Sean Gryb (2017-8,
now doing a second PhD at University of Groningen); David Crawford (2014-17, moved to a
lectureship at Cambridge HPS); Jonathan Grose (2015-17, moved to a postdoc at Southampton
University); Katherine Puddifoot (2013-15, now a lecturer at Durham University); Patricia Rich
(2015-16, now a lecturer at Hamburg University); Alfred Archer (2015-16, now an assistant
professor at Tilburg University); Alexander Franklin (2019-20, now permanent at Kings College
London (KCL.)

In accordance with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, staff are
fully supported at all stages of their careers, thanks to the following institutional arrangements:

(i) Annual Research Review. This review, conducted by the Head of Subject, involves discussing
with staff members their plans for research, publication, grant applications, and impact activities.
(ii) Mentoring of Junior Staff. All new staff members are assigned a mentor, who is a senior
departmental member, not their line manager, and provides ongoing advice.
(iii) Workload Credits for Research. All staff members receive an annual allocation of workload
credits for research. Newly appointed lecturers receive an enhanced allocation.
(iv) Feedback on First Drafts. We have recently instigated a scheme whereby senior staff members
offer feedback to junior members on first drafts of their work, including offering advice about
suitable publication outlets.
(v) Initial Service Review. All new staff have a probationary “initial service” period of 12 months,
during which they have regular meetings with their line manager to discuss performance, including
research.
(vi) Staff Training. All staff are offered training in grant writing, public engagement, and developing
impact, organized by the University’s Research, Enterprise and Development (RED) division.
(vii) Regular Research Leave. All permanent staff members receive one semester of research
leave in seven, with the opportunity to extend this either by applying for externally-funded leave, or
for a University Research Fellowship, an internal scheme that offers a matching semester of leave.
(viii) Grant Writing Feedback. All grant applications by staff members are read by two senior staff
prior to submission, who offer detailed advice, ensuring that our in-house expertise in grant writing
is transmitted to our early career colleagues.
(ix) Impact Support. Considerable support is provided to assist staff members develop the impact
of their research, as described in Section 1. Staff members preparing an Impact Case Study are
awarded workload credits, as is the Impact Coordinator.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
(x) Returning Carer’s Scheme. Staff returning from a period of parental leave can apply for
teaching relief in their first year back. Several staff members have successfully applied during the
assessment period.

    2. Research Students
The Department has a strong cohort of research students (M Phil and PhD) – about 40-50 in a
typical year – many of whom have external funding, studying both part-time and full-time. Over the
assessment period, 48 doctoral awards have been made. In line with the Department’s growing
reputation, demand has increased markedly over the last decade, so we now receive many more
applications for doctoral study than we can accept. We host research students from the UK, EU
and elsewhere, including China, India, Latin America, and Australasia, which creates a diverse and
cosmopolitan atmosphere. Research students play an active role in the Department’s life and are
strongly encouraged to attend departmental research events. The research students run their own
weekly work-in-progress seminar, designed to give them experience at presenting their research in
a supportive environment. Every year, the research students organize a series of reading groups in
the Department.

Recruitment of research students is carefully managed, overseen by the Head of Subject. A
dedicated staff member ensures that our website is up to date. Queries from prospective research
students are answered promptly. The postgraduate admissions officer ensures that applications
are turned around within three weeks. Particular attention is paid to equality and diversity issues.
As a result, our intake of research students has been diverse in respect of age, gender, nationality,
race, and disability, resulting in a culturally diverse and inclusive environment.

The Department places great emphasis on the supervision, training and monitoring of its research
students. All research students are assigned two supervisors. The expectation is that students
meet with one or other supervisor every 2-3 weeks. Records of all meetings are kept. All research
students undergo a rigorous and supportive annual progress monitoring (APM) procedure. For
research students moving from first to second year, this involves submitting a complete chapter
and dissertation outline, followed by an oral examination with two staff members who are not their
supervisors. This process provides invaluable feedback to research students and helps ensure
consistency in standards. In subsequent years, annual progress monitoring is a lighter-touch
process, but is still rigorous and properly documented. Overall, our monitoring process succeeds in
identifying and ironing out any problems at any early stage, as evidenced by our low drop-out rate
and high rate of completion.

The Bristol Doctoral College provides centralized support for research students at the University,
with a focus on personal and professional development. A wide range of training courses,
workshops, and online resources are provided, targeted to the needs of the individual research
student. Annual events organized by the Doctoral College include a research student inauguration
event, and a flagship festival of postgraduate research. In addition, the Department provides its
own training to research students who teach undergraduate seminars, and provides extra-
curricular seminars to help research students intending to continue with philosophy to prepare for
academic careers, including sessions on publishing, CV writing, and navigating the job market.

The University of Bristol led the successful bid for the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral
Training Partnership (SWWDTP) scheme, which was then renewed as SWWDTP2. Our students
have been highly successful at securing funding from SWWDTP and SWWDTP2, with a total of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
twelve awards during the assessment period. Other research students have been funded by
awards from the Darwin Trust, the British Society for the Philosophy of Science Doctoral
Scholarship, and the National Institute for Health Research. In addition, four students funded by
our ERC and Wellcome research projects have been awarded PhDs during the assessment
period. The department currently hosts three PhD students funded by the three ERC projects
currently underway. Finally, over the assessment period the department has hosted international
research students with funding from their home countries, including Mexico, Chile, Australia,
China, Portugal and Taiwan.

We encourage our research students to start thinking about their future academic careers from an
early stage, and to start publishing as soon as they have developed suitable material. The
department provides dedicated training sessions for its research students to assist them with
publishing, job applications and professionalization. This has proved highly successful, evidenced
by the large number of PhD students who have managed to publish their work during the
assessment period, including in the following journals: Biology and Philosophy, British Journal for
the Philosophy of Science, Ethical Theory and Moral Practice, Philosophical Studies, Erkenntnis,
Journal of Medical Ethics and Philosophical Psychology.

The department has been highly successful in helping our research students secure academic
positions upon graduation. Over the assessment period, the following Bristol students have been
awarded PhDs and then gone on to secure academic positions elsewhere: Mark Pinder (PhD
2014, Lecturer (tenured), Open University, 2017-); Katie Monk (PhD 2014, Teaching Fellow in
Philosophy, Edinburgh University, 2017-); Benjamin Eva (PhD 2015, Humboldt Postdoctoral
Research Fellow, University of Konstanz, 2017-2020; Assistant Professor, Duke University 2020;
Oliver Lean (PhD 2016, Postdoctoral Research Associate, University of Calgary, 2016-18);
Christopher Burr (PhD 2016, Postdoctoral Researcher, Oxford Internet Institute, 2018-); Jonas
Waechter (PhD 2017, Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Geneva, 2019-); Niall Patterson (PhD
2018, Postdoctoral Researcher, University of Helsinki, 2019-); Max Jones (PhD 2015, Postdoctoral
Researcher, University of Leeds, 2016-18); Megan Blomfeld (PhD 2014, Assistant Professor,
University of Sheffield, 2018-); Pavel Janda (PhD 2018, Postdoctoral Researcher, University of
Gdńsk, 2018-); Benedict Easthaugh (PhD 2015, Postdoctoral Researcher, University of Aberdeen
2015-18; Postdoctoral Fellow, Munich Centre for Mathematical Philosophy, LMU Munich, 2018-);
Vincenzo Politi (PhD 2015, Postdoctoral Researcher, Institute for Philosophical Research, National
University of Mexico, 2016-18); Geoff Keeling (PhD 2020, Interdisciplinary Ethics Fellow, Stanford
University, 2020-22).

In addition, a further twelve former Bristol research students, who completed their PhDs earlier
than 2014, went on to secure academic positions at institutions including Cambridge, Durham,
LMU Munich, Leeds, Erasmus University, University of California Davis, and University of Sao
Paolo.

Our research students are highly active in the profession. Geoff Keeling (PhD 2020) was elected
President of the British Postgraduate Philosophy Association (BPPA) in 2018; Sorana Vieru (PhD
candidate 2016-19) served as Vice-President (Higher Education) of the NUS from 2015-17; James
Wilson (PhD 2020) serves as webmaster for the European Philosophy of Science Association
(2018-22); and Lucienne Spencer (PhD candidate 2018-21) is currently the postgraduate
representative for the Society for Women in Philosophy (SWIP). Our research students have also
been active in conference organization at Bristol over the assessment period. Events include the


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
postgraduate “Gender and Autonomy” conference in June 2017; the annual conference of the
International Society for Philosophy of Chemistry in July 2017; the Metaphors and Analogies in
Evolutionary Biology workshop, June 2014; the Bristol-LSE Graduate Formal Epistemology
Workshop in June 2016; the Epistemic Utility Theory conference in June 2016. Finally, from 2018-
2020 two of our PhD students organized a series of “Women in Philosophy” talks (see below) and
a feminist philosophy reading group.

    3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
The University of Bristol has a proactive and well-developed Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
policy, which is fully implemented at faculty, school and departmental levels. Particular attention is
paid to promoting inclusion, ensuring fairness in recruitment, addressing the gender imbalance
especially in relation to promotion, supporting disabled staff, implementing policies to help staff
with caring responsibilities, and supporting staff of all backgrounds to develop their careers. The
University has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition of its efforts to
address workplace inequality.

The University encourages its staff to apply for flexible working arrangements when necessary,
including remote working, and flexible working. These arrangements are available to all staff,
however they particularly facilitate staff with caring responsibilities, and staff with disabilities, to
continue their academic careers. The University is committed to enabling staff members with
protected characteristics, such as disabilities, to pursue their research careers. Adjustments and
additional support, including moving lectures to more accessible locations, providing disabled
parking spaces, and providing suitable office furniture, are agreed on and implemented on an
individual basis.

The University has recently taken concrete steps to support staff and research students with caring
responsibilities to travel to conferences and to attend training events. In January 2019 the
University’s Travel and Expenses policy was amended to allow claims for childcare while engaged
in work-related travel. Several university-wide schemes provide tailored support for staff returning
from periods of leave or ill health; these include the Returning Carer’s Scheme; the Maternity and
Paternity Coaching Service, which provides career advice and support; and the Parent and Carer’s
Staff Network.

The Department has worked hard to promote equality, diversity and inclusion, both by
implementing university-wide directives and through its own initiatives. The Department follows the
Good Practice Guidelines designed by the British Philosophical Association and the Society for
Women in Philosophy, which addresses gender bias in relation to conferences and seminars,
sexual harassment, and staff-student relationships. Every five years, we conduct an audit in which
a staff member is invited to meet with students and staff to discuss the climate in the department,
and to prepare a report with recommendations. The Department holds regular “women in
philosophy” sessions in which visiting speakers talk to our graduate students about career
development and overcoming obstacles for women in the profession. The Department is a member
of Minorities and Philosophy (MAP), a student-run worldwide network. In both 2017 and 2019,
Bristol hosted a MAP student conference, with departmental support, entitled “Gender and
Autonomy” and “Postcolonial and Decolonial Reception of European Thought” respectively. In
March 2019, the Department hosted a Women in Philosophy postgraduate conference (to coincide
with International Women’s Day 2019), featuring a range of internal and external speakers.



                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The Department provides regular training sessions for staff and students on implicit bias, “chilly
climate” and stereotyping. Departmental staff have developed a set of Active Bystander Training
materials presented annually in a seminar for staff and postgraduates. Two staff members (Carel
and Pettigrew) have been particularly active in this area, offering EDI training to the Department
and across the university. Carel and Pettigrew developed a set of inclusion guidelines that have
been formally adopted by the Arts Faculty. In recognition of the lead taken by the Philosophy
Department in addressing implicit bias, Carel was seconded to the University’s Equality, Diversity
and Inclusion Steering Group (2018-20) to help promote good practice around the University.

The Philosophy UoA has paid full regard to equality and diversity in the construction of its REF
submission. In accordance with the University of Bristol’s REF2021 Code of Practice, the output
portfolio has been selected in a fair and rigorous way. All eligible staff were given equal opportunity
to propose their strongest outputs for consideration. The members of the UoA Committee
undertook training in equality, diversity and inclusion, provided by the University’s Research and
Enterprise Policy Team and its Diversity and Inclusion Team. Carel was a member of the
University’s REF Extenuating Circumstances Committee.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    1. Income
The Department has achieved considerable success in generating research income. All research-
active staff are encouraged to submit bids to funding bodies. All staff are supported in preparing
research grant applications by the Head of Subject, the School and Faculty Research Directors,
and the University’s Research and Development (RED) team. This organizational infrastructure
works extremely well, as evidenced by our success at winning large-scale research grants in a
competitive environment. During the assessment cycle, the department’s per-annum research
income was £610,000, averaged over the whole cycle. This represents a substantial increase over
the previous REF cycle (where our annual income averaged £425,000.) Staff members were
Principal Investigators (PIs) on the following research grants during the assessment period:

Havi Carel: “Life of Breath: Breathing in Cultural, Clinical and Lived Experience”, Wellcome Trust
Senior Investigator Award, £770,357, 2014-21; Wellcome Trust Medical Humanities Small Grant,
£6400, 2015-16; “Social Ethical and Phenomenological Aspects of FASD”, £6000, Seed Funding,
Sociology of Health and Illness Foundation, 2016-18. Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (for Dan
Degerman) £93,000, 2020-23.

Samir Okasha: “Darwinism and the Theory of Rational Choice”, ERC Advanced Investigator
Grant, €960,000 euros, 2012-17; “Unifying Statistics: a Philosophical Analysis”, British Academy
Postdoctoral Fellowship (for Bengt Autzen) £238,976, 2014-17.

James Ladyman: “Applying Homotopy Type Theory in Logic, Metaphysics, and Philosophy of
Physics”, Leverhulme Trust Research Grant, £380,000, 2013-16.

Karim Thébault: “Analogue Simulation in Modern Physics”, AHRC Early Career Grant, £197,894,
2017-19.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Leon Horsten (staff member until Sep 2019); “Formal Truth in Epistemic Languages, Marie
Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship (for Johannes Stern), €183,454, 2016-18.

Richard Pettigrew: “The Scientific Approach to Epistemology”, Leverhulme International Network
Grant, £77,554, 2015-18; “Choosing for Changing Selves”, Leverhulme Research Fellowship,
£22,537, 2017-19; “Epistemic Utility Theory”, ERC Starting Grant, €950,000, 2013-17.

Johannes Stern: “Truth and Semantics”, ERC Starting Grant, €1,457,105, 2018-23.

Tuomas Tahko: “The Metaphysical Unity of Science”, ERC Consolidator Grant, €1,995,304, 2018-
23.

Catrin Campbell-Moore: “Undermining Beliefs and Imprecise Probabilities”, Leverhulme Research
Fellowship, £33,566, 2019-20.

Jason Konek: “Epistemic Utility for Imprecise Probability”, ERC Starting Grant, €1,490,433, 2020-
2025.

These research grants led to fourteen post-doctoral researchers joining the department for periods
of up to three years during the assessment cycle, and provided funding for seven PhD
studentships, all of whom completed. The research grants have facilitated a considerable body of
research outputs and research impact. Seven of the monographs that we have submitted for
REF2021 arose directly from the research grants listed above (2 by Pettigrew and 1 each by
Okasha, Carel, Ladyman, Stern, Horsten). In addition, two of our Impact Case Studies (Carel
and Ladyman) are directly related to research that was funded by the grants listed above.

    2. Infrastructure and Facilities
The University of Bristol has an extensive organizational infrastructure supporting research and
impact. The University’s Research and Enterprise Development team (RED) provide dedicated
support to staff members in preparing research grant applications, managing research projects,
and maximizing impact from research. This includes offering written feedback on draft grant
applications, coordinating an internal peer review process of draft grant applications, and providing
up-to-date information on funding opportunities. The RED team are fully conscious of equality and
diversity issues, particularly in relation to ECRs who may lack the confidence necessary to engage
with the research funding agenda. A number of junior staff members in the Philosophy department
(including Konek, Campbell-Moore and Stern) have been assisted by RED to make successful
research grant applications during the assessment cycle. Additional research support is provided
by the School of Arts Research Director and the Faculty Research Director, both of whom liaise
closely with the RED team, and who administer pots of “seed” funding for the strategic
development of grant applications and pilot research projects.

The University has four major research institutes, designed to consolidate areas of research
strength across the university and to promote inter-disciplinary activity. These are: (i) the Brigstow
Institute, focusing on arts, humanities and social sciences; (ii) the EBI, focusing on health; (iii) the
Jean Golding Institute, focusing on big data research; (iv) the Cabot Institute, focusing on the
environment. Philosophy staff are involved in all four of these centres, particularly (ii) and (iv); for
example, Carel is on the Steering group of the EBI, and directs the medical humanities strand. In
addition, the University has specialist research institutes with a more specialized focus. These

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
institutes offer research support, fund workshops and conferences, and help bring Philosophy into
contact with the wider university.

Another important source of research support at the university level is the Institute for Advanced
Studies (IAS). This Institute funds internal research fellowships, organizes the Benjamin Meaker
visiting fellowship scheme, and promotes inter-disciplinary dialogue across the University’s
faculties. During the assessment period, two current Philosophy staff members (Thébault and
Pearson) and one recently departed member (Horsten) have been recipients of the University
Research Fellowships that the IAS awards, which provide an additional semester of leave to
complement existing research leave.

At Faculty level, research infrastructure is similarly well-developed. Between 2013 and 2020, the
Faculty of Arts reviewed its research activities as part of the broader “Arts2020” project. This led to
the creation of six Faculty Research Centres to consolidate and expand existing research
strengths. Three of these have been directed or led by members of the Philosophy department: the
Centre for Science and Philosophy, currently directed by Ladyman; the Centre for Health,
Humanities and Science, set up and originally directed by Carel; and the Centre for Black
Humanities, co-founded by Burch-Brown. These centres are important fulcrums for inter-
disciplinary research activity, serving as foci for numerous visiting speakers, and helping to
develop impact. Indeed, our three impact case studies (developed by Ladyman, Carel and Burch-
Brown) correspond directly to work done under the auspices of these centres.

In addition to the centres, the Faculty sponsors several Faculty Research Clusters, which provide
funding for networking, training events and workshops. The Department has been awarded two
such clusters: a Medical Humanities Research Cluster that ran from 2014-16, led by Carel, which
integrated our work in the philosophy of medicine with the broader medical humanities network in
the University; and the ongoing Foundational Studies Bristol Research Cluster, which involves five
staff Philosophy staff members (Pettigrew, Fujimoto, Campbell-Moore, Ladyman and Stern),
and provides a focus for our work in logic and philosophy of mathematics.

The Faculty enjoys the support of two dedicated Research Development Managers, one Research
Development Associate, and one Research Development Officer. They help to identify potential
funding streams, help academic staff develop bids, and provide extensive feedback on grant
applications as they are being written. A dedicated team within the Finance department provide
pre- and post-award support to research grant holders. The Philosophy department’s success at
winning large research awards is attributable, in part, to our working closely with the Faculty
Research Development Managers.

In 2018, the Faculty Research Office was set up to nurture and embed a culture of impact across
the Faculty. This office employs a dedicated Impact and Knowledge Exchange Manager and a
Research Impact Administrator, who advises on impact statements and helps academics maximize
the impact potential of their research. The Research Office staff work closely with the Unit of
Assessment Impact Coordinators, to monitor progress and provide guidance on impact case
studies. In particular, the Research Impact Administrator helps individual researchers capture and
record evidence of their impact and maintains a central repository for evidence of impact. In late
2018, the Faculty launched an Impact fund to provide additional resources to help staff to develop
impact from their research. Three Philosophy staff (Ladyman, Carel and Burch-Brown) have



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
received support from the Impact fund to help them prepare their case studies and collect evidence
for impact.

Turning to physical infrastructure, the department is based in Cotham House, a magnificent 19th
century detached villa on the edge of the University precinct. All permanent staff, teaching fellows,
and post-doctoral fellows have offices in Cotham House. In addition, there is a large common
room, two seminar rooms, a well-stocked library, and two kitchens. Students and faculty run a
vegetable garden known as the ‘Kierkegaarden’, with a pond and pergola for relaxation, yoga and
occasional seminars. Most of the Department’s research activities, and much of the postgraduate
teaching, takes place in Cotham House, in fully accessible spaces. The physical infrastructure of
the wider university also helps to facilitate our research. The Faculty has recently opened a new
Humanities building, which will provide additional office space. A new University Arts and Social
Sciences Library is currently being built, which will in addition offer bespoke reading rooms and
dedicated spaces for research students.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

    1. Research collaboration, networks and partnerships
The Department benefits from extensive research collaborations, networks and partnerships, at
both the individual and institutional level. Staff members collaborate with researchers from other
institutions, in many cases as part of an inter-disciplinary endeavour. For example, Carel’s Life of
Breath Wellcome research project was co-hosted by Durham University, which facilitated regular
bilateral visits from 2014-20. Carel has an ongoing research collaboration with Ian Kidd of
Nottingham University, with whom she has co-authored several articles, and with Catherine Mills of
Monash University, with whom she has co-run a research grant. Thébault has an ongoing
collaboration with the physicist Sean Gryb, of Groningen University, with whom he is writing a
book, under contract for Oxford University Press (OUP). Okasha has an ongoing collaboration with
Jun Otsuka of Kyoto University, Japan, which led to bilateral research visits in 2017-18, and a co-
authored article in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, 2019. Ladyman has ongoing research
collaborations with three senior Bristol scientists: Nello Christianini (Engineering); Stephan
Lewandowsky (Psychology); and Karoline Wiesner (Mathematics) with whom he wrote a book
published by Yale University Press in 2020. Horsten (staff member until Sep 2019) had a long
collaboration with Philip Welch, of the Bristol School of Mathematics, with whom he has edited an
OUP book and organized joint research events.

At the institutional level, the Department has an ongoing collaboration with the LMU in Munich,
based around a biennial Bristol-Munich joint workshop, and a similar arrangement with Groningen.
Departmental members involved in these collaborations, which have led to reciprocal visits by staff
and students, include Pettigrew, Konek, Thébault, Stern, Okasha, Ladyman and Campbell-
Moore. Bristol was the pivotal node in the Scientific Approach to Epistemology research network,
funded by a Leverhulme Network Grant to Pettigrew (2015-18), which links Bristol with five other
institutions: Tilburg, Carnegie-Mellon, Groningen, Lund and LMU Munich. The Department also
has an ongoing collaboration with Kyoto University, Japan, arising from the connections that
Okasha and Horsten have with two Kyoto-based researchers (Jun Otsuka and Yasuo Deguchi).

Further evidence of the department’s effectiveness at forging research connections comes from
the large number of invited and keynote lectures that Department members have given at other

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
institutions (see below); and from their taking up visiting positions at other institutions. Over the
assessment period, the following staff have held visiting positions at other institutions: Okasha,
Visiting Professor at Nanjing University, China, April 2016; Campbell-Moore, Visiting Research
Fellow at Australian National University, July-August 2018; Horsten, Visiting Professor at Kyoto
University, Japan, Sep 2017-June 2018; Ladyman, Visiting Professor, University of York, 2013-.
Conversely, we have welcomed a large number of visiting researchers to Bristol, as detailed in
Section 1.

There is considerable institutional support for our collaborative research efforts. The University’s
Institute for Advanced Studies provides funds to bring visiting researchers to Bristol, which includes
finding office space and arranging accommodation. The Faculty of Arts has a generous
Conference and Research Fund, which provides funds for hosting workshops at Bristol, and for
travelling to conferences elsewhere, both of which facilitate research collaborations. To facilitate
staff with caring and childcare responsibilities, the Conference and Research Fund meets childcare
costs incurred while attending conferences. Finally, the University infrastructure that supports
research grant applications, described in Section 3, also facilitates research collaboration, since
many of our collaborations arise through externally-funded research projects.

    2. Impact, Knowledge Exchange, and Wider Contributions to Society
Over the assessment period, the Department has become increasingly adept at developing impact
from its research. This impact goes considerably beyond what is recorded in our three Impact
Case Studies, the contents of which are not repeated here.

Bertram (who retired in September 2020) has done research on migration and human rights that
has led to considerable public engagement activity. Bertram is a member of the Democracy Forum
panel at the House of Commons; is a trustee for Bristol Refuges Rights; spoke on the refugee
crisis for Ujima Radio in 2015; has given talks on migrants’ rights at public events; recorded a
podcast in 2018 for Clara Sandelin’s Talking Migration Series; and has participated in a number of
events at the Refugee Studies Centre, Oxford. Bertram’s 2018 book Do States Have the Right to
Exclude Immigrants? (Polity Press), generated considerable media interest. Bertram was an
International Observer at the Consejo Nacional Electoral, Colombia in 2016.

Pettigrew has done extensive work on the value of universities to society, culminating in his 2018
co-authored book What are Universities For? (Bristol University Press). The book launch was
attended by the Chief Executive of the Office for Students, among others. This book has
contributed to the ongoing national conversation about the role of universities in society, as
evidenced by Pettigrew’s article in The Independent, 27/09/2018. The book has received much
attention in the blogosphere, on the WonkHEblog, and the blog of The Council for the Defence of
British Universities. Ladyman has also contributed to the national conversation on higher
education policy over the assessment period. He has published letters in The Observer and in
Nature; has participated in a House of Lords debate on higher education; has written two
submissions to Select Committees of Parliament in 2018; and currently serves on the executive
committee of the Council for the Defence of British Universities.

Further evidence of the Department’s commitment to, and success at, developing impact from its
research is found in the three Impact Case Studies we have submitted to REF2021: Carel’s work
on the role of philosophy in medical practice, Ladyman’s work on the role of philosophy of science



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
in secondary school science education, and Burch-Brown’s work on slavery and contested
heritage. Please see our Impact Case Studies for full details.

Department members regularly write and record podcasts and lectures for a wider audience. Carel
has published numerous pieces in medical journals including The Lancet and The British Medical
Journal and writes for The Conversation, The Philosopher’s Magazine and was recently
interviewed for a BBC documentary The Disability Paradox. Ladyman has written for the
Philosopher’s Magazine 2012 and 2015, and contributed podcasts for Rationally Speaking and
Preposterous Universe. Okasha has written two introductory books for Oxford University Press’s
VSI series: Philosophy of Science: a very short introduction (2nd edition 2016) and Philosophy of
Biology: a very short introduction (2019); the first of these has sold over 100,000 copies. Okasha
has also recorded podcasts about his work, aimed at a broad audience, for the YouTube channel
The Dissenter in 2019, and the New Books Network in 2019. Pettigrew has written a number of
blog posts on OUPBlog on popular philosophical issues, in addition to his work on the value of
universities mentioned above. Burch-Brown has published an article in the Bristol Evening Post
2017, discussing the removal of statues of slave-traders. Burch-Brown has been interviewed
about her work on contested heritage and slavery by The Spectator, July 2017; by Historic
England’s report on contested heritage, May 2017; and by the Philosopher’s Magazine, May 2017.
Thébault has been interviewed for Quanta Magazine in 2016. Tahko has written for The
Philosopher’s Magazine in 2016, and for Areiopagi, a Finnish magazine, in 2016.

Department members have given numerous public lectures, including talks at well-known science
and philosophy festivals, during the assessment period. These include: Carel at Medicine
Unboxed, 2018; Ladyman, Burch-Brown, and Carel at How the Light Gets In, Hay-on-Wye, 2015,
2016, 2018, 2019 and 2020; Ladyman at the New Scientist Instant Expert Day in 2017, and
Boomtown Festival 2018; Bertram at the Afrika Eye Film Festival, Bristol, in 2015; and at the
Democracy Forum panel, House of Commons, April 2014. Thébault at the Forum for Philosophy
event on Black Holes, 2018; Tahko at The Science Forum, Oulu 2017, and at A Night of
Philosophy, Helsinki 2016; Wilson at the Lothian Science Festival in 2014, Burch-Brown at the
Oxford Global Priorities Institute, 2019.

Since 2013, the department has worked closely with IDEAL community action, a charity that
supports adults from backgrounds of addiction and chaos. Another notable contribution to society
is the Bristol Philosophy Exchange, which has been running since 2013. Set up by and overseen
by Departmental staff, this programme trains Philosophy undergraduates to introduce philosophical
ideas to primary-school age pupils, using the Philosophy for Children (P4C) approach. The
programme focuses on primary schools in deprived areas of Bristol. To date, over 1,000 pupils in
local schools have benefited from this programme. An initiative aimed at secondary school pupils
was set up in 2018. Entitled “Insights into Philosophy”, this after-school course is taught by student
ambassadors from the Department of Philosophy, trained by Philosophy staff members.

In October 2018, the Department hosted a Mauritian artist-in-residence, Krishna Luchoomun, of
the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Arts. This was a joint venture with Black Artists on the Move and
marked the 50th anniversary of independence for Mauritius. The residency tied in with Burch-
Brown’s work on colonialism and contested heritage. Luchoomun’s residency culminated in an
installation on reparative justice for people exiled from the Chagos Islands and received
considerable media coverage in Mauritius.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    3. Contribution to the Discipline
The Department has made a substantial contribution to the discipline, both through the individual
activities of its staff members, detailed below, and through the generations of successful research
students who we have trained, details of which are given in section 2.

    4. Journal Editing
Over the assessment period Department members have played an active role in editing journals in
their field. Okasha served as associate editor for Philosophy of Science from 2014-17, and
currently serves on the editorial board of Biology and Philosophy, Philosophy of Science, and
Philosophy and Theory in Biology. Ladyman serves as co-editor of Studies in History and
Philosophy of Modern Physics, and is on the editorial board of Palgrave’s New Directions in
Philosophy of Science book series. Carel is on the editorial board of Philosophy of Medicine and of
the Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology. Pettigrew served on the editorial board for
Philosophia Mathematica (2012-17), is currently on the editorial board of Ergo, and is subject area
editor (epistemology) for the Stanford Encyclopedia in Philosophy. Konek is an area editor for
Analysis. Tahko currently serves on the editorial panel of Thought, and on the editorial board for
Metaphysics and Ajatus.

    5. Fellowships and Prizes
Carel was awarded the prestigious Health Humanities Medal 2018: Inspiration Award and was
short-listed for the Heath Humanities Medal 2018: Best Research Award, by the AHRC and
Wellcome Trust, for her Life of Breath Research Project. Konek won the Young Epistemologist
Prize in 2015 for his paper “Epistemic Conservativity and Imprecise Credence”, Philosophy and
Phenomenological Research (forthcoming); and was runner-up in the Saunders Prize in
Epistemology competition in 2017 with his essay “The Art of Learning”, Oxford Studies in
Epistemology (forthcoming). Okasha was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2018.

    6. Professional Service
Department members have been fully involved in the profession at national and international
levels. Ladyman is on the REF2021 panel and was a panel member for the Italian Research
Assessment exercise. Thébault was Secretary of the British Society for the Philosophy of Science
from 2016-18. Okasha is President of the European Philosophy of Science Association from 2017-
21; and was an Aristotelian Society Committee Member, 2012-15. Tahko is President-elect of the
Society for the Metaphysics of Science and serves on three AHRC Peer Review Colleges
(Academic, Strategic and International). Carel is a Scientific Committee Member, Philosophy of
Medicine Roundtable, 2008-, and is a member of the Advisory Board for the International Health
Humanities Network, 2018-. Pettigrew was on the Committee of the British Society for the
Philosophy of Science, 2013-16, and the Analysis Trust Committee, 2015- present. Sticker serves
as Treasurer of the UK Kant Society, 2019-.

    7. Exemplars of Interdisciplinary Research
The Department has been at the forefront of inter-disciplinary philosophical research in the UK,
thanks in part to its concentration of philosophers of science (including logic and mathematics). As
detailed in section 1, staff members have published in leading learned journals of other disciplines,
have been invited to speak at numerous science festivals, have forged effective research links with
other departments at Bristol, and have co-authored books and papers with researchers from other
disciplines. In addition, several of the research projects that the Department has hosted over the
assessment period have had a strong inter-disciplinary component. For example, Carel’s

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Wellcome-funded Life of Breath project involved working closely with clinicians, artists, and
medical anthropologists; Okasha’s ERC-funded Darwinism and the Theory of Rational Choice
project involved collaborations with economists and biologists; Ladyman’s Leverhulme-funded
Homotopy Type Theory project involved collaborations with computer scientists and
mathematicians; Stern’s (ongoing) ERC-funded Truth and Semantics project has connections to
linguistics, while Konek’s (ongoing) ERC-funded Epistemic Utility for Imprecise Probability project
involves collaborators from statistics.

     8. Refereeing and Grant Evaluation
All Department members are involved in refereeing articles for academic journals, across a wide
range of sub-fields of philosophy. Staff members have been involved in research grant evaluation,
for the ERC, AHRC, Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), European Science
Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Templeton Foundation, Wellcome Trust, British Academy, US
National Science Foundation, Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research, Irish Research
Council, Israel Science Foundation, and Royal Society. Tahko has served as Vice-Chair for the
Marie-Sklodowska-Curie Actions ECO_SOC panel; while Okasha is the current Philosophy
Section Organizer of the British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship scheme.

   9. Invited and Keynote Lectures
Members of the Department have delivered too many invited and keynote lectures over the
assessment period to document exhaustively; a partial list is as follows.

Okasha gave the 2020 Bar-Hillel lectures in Tel-Aviv and Jerusalem, and gave keynote lectures at:
ONSW Conference, Groningen 2016; First Principles in Science Conference, LMU Munich, 2016;
British Society for Philosophy of Science Annual Conference 2016; Spanish Society for Logic,
Methodology and Philosophy of Science 2016. Stern gave invited lectures at the Axiomatizing
Metatheory conference, Salzburg, 2018; Metaphysics Sans Phrase, Geneva 2017; The Sky is the
Limit, Munich 2017; Intensionality and Truth, Amsterdam 2016. Pettigrew gave keynote lectures at
the Yale Workshop on Experience and Transformation 2018; Recent Debates in Formal
Epistemology, Cologne 2018; Epistemic Utility Theory Masterclass, KCL 2017; Formal
Epistemology Workshop, Groningen 2016; Joint Session of the Mind Association and Aristotelian
Society 2015. Burch-Brown gave a keynote lecture at Honour and Admiration after War and
Conflict, Stockholm 2019; and invited lectures at Descartes Lectures on Social Punishment, Tilburg
2018; Museum Association’s Conference on Dissent, Belfast, Nov 2018. Ladyman gave keynote
talks at the Structure and Modality conference, Hong Kong 2019; the Emergence conference,
Amsterdam 2019; the Individuality in Physics workshop, Bonn 2018; the All You Need is Science
conference, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam 2014; the Society for Experimental Biology Annual
Conference, Prague 2015; and the Identity, Indistinguishability and Non-Locality in Quantum
Physics International Workshop, Buenos Aires, Jun 2017. Everett gave invited talks at a workshop
on his book (The Nonexistent, OUP 2013), Gottingen 2015; at the Fiction and Intentionality
conference, Turin 2015; and at the Fiction conference, Prague 2017. Campbell-Moore gave
invited talks at the ANU Philosophy Seminar, Canberra 2018; at the Experience and Updating
workshop, Bochum 2017; at the Probabilistic Knowledge workshop, Hamburg 2017; at the Truth
and Modality workshop, Munich 2017; at the University of Michigan Philosophy Seminar 2018.
Carel gave keynote talks at the International Human Science conference, Molde, Norway 2019;
the Health Humanities conference, Nottingham 2019; the Health and Culture conference, Aarhus,
Denmark 2018; the Translation in Medicine conference, Vienna 2018; the Joint Session of the
Aristotelian Society and the Mind Association, Cardiff, 2016; and at the Phenomenology and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Health inaugural conference, Oxford, March 2015. Thébault gave keynote talks at Philosophical
Foundations of Quantum Gravity, Geneva 2017 and the German Physical Society Annual Meeting
2015; and invited talks at The Physics of Society conference, Munich 2016; at The Hole Shebang,
LSE 2016; at the Why Trust a Theory conference, Munich 2015; and at the Royal Society
conference The Next Generation of Analogue Gravity Experiments, London 2019. Tahko gave
keynote talks at Modal Metaphysics, Bratislava 2014; at the Workshop on Grounding and
Reduction, Paris 2018; at the 3rd Belgrade Graduate Conference in Philosophy, Belgrade 2018;
and at the 13th Italian Society for Analytic Philosophy conference, Novara 2019. Pearson gave
invited talks at Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy, Worcester MA, No 2018; at the
inaugural session of the Plato Commentary Project, Spetses, Greece 2015; at the Aristotelian
Society 2015; at the Fact-Value Distinction and Contemporary Philosophy conference, Kent 2015.
Wilson gave an invited talk at the Interdisciplinary Summer Seminar, Wake Forest University
2018; and at the University of Edinburgh research seminar 2018. Sticker gave a keynote talk at a
conference on Parfit’s On What Matters, Frankfurt 2015, and invited talks at the Evil After Kant
conference, Southampton 2016; the Norwegian Kant Society seminar, Oslo 2017; and the Kant,
Normativity and Religion conference, Istanbul 2018.




                                                                                        Page 17
