Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy



  Oxford History in numbers
  Research staff FTE: 172.75
  Total postdoctoral researchers, 2014-20: 33 (18.4%)
  Average doctoral cohort p.a.: 74 students
  Average annual research income p.a.: GBP291,877.57 (internal); GBP3,853,348.43
  (external)
  Impact Case Studies: 10
  Volume of Research Outputs: 98 books; 26 edited volumes; 108 Open Access articles; 114
  chapters; 6 other.
 1.1 Mission

 Oxford History aims to promote research of the highest quality into all aspects of human
 experience in the past. Our core mission is to maintain and enrich our provision of original and
 rigorous scholarship across the full chronological, geographical and thematic range of the
 discipline. The exceptional size and diversity of the unit explains its distinctive character, but also
 underpins our outstanding record in interdisciplinary innovation, grant capture and collaboration
 with scholars in many other countries. Since REF2014, the major development has been the
 embedding of global history in all periods from late antiquity to the contemporary world. Our
 emerging priorities for the next assessment period are (1) to bring insights from high-quality
 historical research to address urgent global problems, including the environment, disease,
 modern slavery, and migration; (2) to foster an inclusive research culture, through the study
 of women and other groups formerly marginalised in the study of History; (3) to develop a
 substantial programme of community history by working closely with local groups and
 organisations in and beyond Oxford; (4) to enhance our resilience in the face of the challenges
 created by the UK’s departure from the EU and by the Coronavirus pandemic, so that we remain
 a dynamic centre for the production of research and the training of doctoral and postdoctoral
 scholars; and (5) to strengthen our doctoral and postdoctoral training to ensure that the
 next generation of scholars are equipped with the skills necessary to make successful careers in
 and beyond academia.
 Supported by the vision articulated in the University’s 2018-23 Strategic Plan, the achievement
 of these five priorities will require the unit to:

    •   foster an inclusive environment based on our commitment to academic freedom, and
        collegiality;
       nurture a rich and diverse research culture using both traditional and virtual formats that
        compares favourably with other world-leading universities, and that enhances Oxford’s
        place as a global centre for the doctoral training of the next generation of historians;
    •   ensure that the number of posts is maintained and if possible increased through support
        from within and outside the University;
    •   sustain long-term research excellence by attracting and supporting the best UK and
        international graduate students and early-career researchers;
    •   secure substantial external funding for research projects that serve our academic
        priorities;




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   provide response-led funding and administrative support for research activities
        (workshops, conferences, archival work etc) for all sectors of our research community
        and users.


 1.2 Overview of UoA

 Oxford hosts the largest grouping of historians in the UK, and one of the largest in the world. Its
 research extends across 3 departments, 22 colleges and 4 institutes, in addition to world-class
 museums and libraries. The organisational structure of the unit is presented in Figure 1
 (overleaf).

 The central focus is the Faculty of History, which hosts 117.1 FTE researchers or 68% of the
 History unit. In addition, our return includes 22.5 FTE teaching and research staff employed
 elsewhere in the University, comprising 4.3 FTE in other faculties; 8.2 FTE in the Ashmolean
 Museum, the History of Science Museum, and Bodleian Libraries, all of which form part of the
 University’s Division of Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM); 2 FTE in the Rothermere
 American Institute (RAI); and 8 FTE in the Department for Continuing Education (OUDCE). In
 addition, it includes 33.15 FTE who are salaried college-only employees distributed across 21
 colleges. The Department of the History of Art (HoA) is a sub-unit (6 FTE) that benefits from
 separate premises and day-to-day autonomy in teaching but is fully integrated into the Faculty’s
 research structure. HoA also manages the Faculty’s Visual Resources Centre.

 The History Faculty is the largest of the nine academic units within the Humanities Division. Its
 research is supported by an administrative team of 8.6 FTE working in liaison with the Divisional
 administration. GLAM, OUDCE, and the RAI have their own support staff and report to central
 university authorities. Historians co-operate across these sub-units in many ways, by co-
 supervising doctoral students and serving on appointment panels. Some joint appointments exist
 across two or even three sub-units; several straddle the Divisions of Humanities and Social
 Sciences. The dispersed presence of historians contributes to a culture of interdisciplinarity, but
 does not exclude a collective intellectual identity. This is reinforced by our rich culture of
 research seminars, graduate workshops, and work-in-progress forums. The Faculty hosts an
 average of more than fifty regular weekly or fortnightly term-time seminars. In response to the
 suspension of in-person activities in the spring of 2020, nearly all of these seminars moved
 successfully on-line (with valuable support from our IT staff). In addition, members of the UoA
 participate in the leadership and research activities of centres across the university, including the
 Besterman Centre for the Enlightenment (Humanities Division); the Centre for Early Modern
 Studies (English Faculty); the Centre for the History of the Book (Bodleian Library); the
 Changing Character of War Centre (Department of Politics and International Relations), and the
 University of Oxford China Centre.

 There are twelve Research Centres within the History Faculty, all of which are open to
 researchers of all career stages. Their core purpose is to provide a focus for research activities,
 including organising conferences and colloquia, hosting international visitors and study groups,
 and attracting research-grant funding. In addition, the UoA participates in the activities of The
 Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH), which has developed in recent years as a
 prominent site of inter-disciplinary research and an incubator for new ideas and collaborations
 within and beyond academia. Interdisciplinary work also takes place between historians and
 colleagues from other disciplines in the Oxford Martin School. Its purpose is to develop solution-
 focused approaches to problems of global significance, such as the Programme on Women’s
 Equality and Inequality, co-led by Selina Todd and Senia Paseta.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                    Figure 1. Structure of UoA

 The historians of the UoA therefore operate within a larger culture of research and intellectual
 exchange. The distinctive culture of our UoA reflects the way that the devolved structures of
 Oxford have encouraged independent research initiatives and synergies to develop. Space and
 the freedom to develop new themes are qualities that we value highly. We wish to maintain that
 collective ethos by making enhanced resources available to encourage it. But we have also set a
 series of measurable objectives for our research activities which are developed through this
 statement.


 1.3 Review of the research and impact plans articulated in 2014

 Whereas the Environment Statement submitted in 2014 mapped closely onto the History Faculty
 and articulated its own vision, the History Faculty only constitutes 70% of the present UoA. This
 review thus pertains primarily to the three objectives the Faculty committed itself to in 2014:

 1. Giving new force to our research profile through more efficient use of postholders’
 time and generating more fully-funded doctoral scholarships. We have used our alumni
 fundraising (often undertaken in partnership with Colleges) to develop a series of internally-
 funded doctoral scholarships. By 2019-20 there were six donor-funded studentships, as well as
 various forms of part-funding; and, along with our share of the University’s Doctoral Training
 Partnership (DTP), and other scholarship schemes, this has resulted in an average of 56% of
 the students admitted to the doctoral programme receiving packages of support. This major
 investment has helped us to attract the strongest doctoral students from around the world to
 Oxford. The Faculty has also reviewed and reconfigured its provision at Masters level, by
 reducing the number of separate programmes and enhancing the level of technical training
 available for Masters and early doctoral students in research skills. At the same time, we have
 embedded a major reform of our undergraduate curriculum, intended to bring undergraduates
 closer to our research and also to create synergies between teaching and research. This project
 is generally regarded as having been a considerable success (notably in terms of globalising our
 undergraduate curriculum), but the work involved in the implementation of a new curriculum has
 created pressure points for some colleagues, which the Faculty’s officers have sought to
 address with targeted assistance.

 2. Globalising our research profile by expanding our expertise in African and Asian History,
 while ensuring that our established strengths in British, European and American history are fully

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 integrated with the study of the wider world. Senior appointments in African History and Global &
 Imperial History have been reinforced with the appointment of Associate Professors in early
 medieval Eurasian history, Byzantine history, Eastern Christianities, Byzantine Archaeology and
 Visual Culture, early modern global Iberian history, South Asian intellectual history, modern
 Chinese history, and the History of East Asian Art (see Section 2 below).
 External recognition of Oxford’s importance as a hub of research with global span and
 significance has come in two forms. First, external endowment has funded the post in the History
 of East Asian Art and a post-doctoral teaching and research post in Mexican history. Second, a
 very successful record of applications for funding in Global History has deepened research on
 the Middle East, Eurasia, and Africa. Notable successes are two European Research Council
 project grants, one in Near Eastern History (John-Paul Ghobrial) and the other in sub-Saharan
 African History (Miles Larmer). The AHRC has awarded funding for projects on global religions
 and the First World War (Adrian Gregory) and global socialism (Paul Betts); while the
 Leverhulme Trust has supported Stephen Tuck’s work on the segregation-era civil-rights activist
 Francis Grimké, Rana Mitter’s work on post-WW2 East Asia, and James Belich’s exploration of
 macro- and micro-histories of globalisation. Finally, the Wellcome Trust funded the research of
 Shinjini Das on public health in British India. We are especially proud of our cohort of ECRs who
 have won highly competitive funding to take our globalised agenda to new intellectual frontiers,
 including Lucy Parker tracking the persistence of late antique saints’ cults under Muslim rule in
 the Middle East; Jonathan Krause revealing the tumult caused by the First World War in French
 and German colonies; and Abhijit Sarkar investigating the history of earthquakes and
 earthquake-relief in the Indian subcontinent.

 The Centre for Global History, based in the History Faculty, provides a focus for these activities,
 but equally importantly this ‘global turn’ has also led us to globalise the study of phenomena,
 which formerly have been approached through a primarily European lens. This has been evident
 in Natalia Nowakowska’s international conference on ‘What is Dynasty’ (2015) and our major
 project over the period 2014-18 on Globalising the First World War. Conversely, our extra-
 European historians take account of European phenomena in their research. A notable example
 is Alan Strathern’s important monograph Unearthly Powers, which enriches his focus on Asia by
 drawing on medieval and early modern European examples.

 3. Nurturing other research clusters was our third stated objective. We have allowed some of
 our research centres to wane, where the demand for collective activity was less pronounced. But
 most have flourished, and we have created a new structure of funding which has enabled us to
 direct enhanced support to new initiatives. Two areas of expansion are particularly striking. The
 new Centre for Economic and Social History owes much to the appointment in 2017 of Catherine
 Schenk, an authority on banking and financial history, and to a new partnership with the Said
 Business School, that has enabled us to create a Centre for the Global History of Capitalism.
 This has led to a range of doctoral and postdoctoral funding streams that have benefited our
 doctoral students and ECRs. The second is the new energy evident in the History of Science,
 Medicine, and Technology (HSMT). The appointment of Robert Iliffe to the Chair in the History
 of Science has brought new endowment and externally-funded research income into this field.
 This has enabled the creation of a fully-endowed post in the modern History of Science. The
 significance of HSMT for transcending both academic disciplines and internal institutional
 distinctions is further evidenced by the appointment of Mark Harrison, Professor of the History
 of Medicine, as Co-Director of the Wellcome Centre for Ethics and the Humanities. Based at the
 University’s Big Data Institute, this Centre was founded in 2017 to lead debate about the ethical
 constraints on scientific research and technological innovation.
 Members of the UoA have also addressed the global crises of the twenty-first century. Concern
 for the climate and the environment energise the work of Amanda Power in her Leverhulme-
 funded research on medieval histories of the Anthropocene. Catherine Schenk is a consultant
 to the International Monetary Fund on the ongoing challenges posed by the global financial
 crisis, while [text removed for publication].




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The facilitation of Impact was not among the designated strategic priorities in 2014, but the
 UoA has, nevertheless, undergone a welcome paradigm shift between 2014 and 2020. The
 History Faculty formally launched its Impact Strategy in 2019, which sets objectives for what we
 want to achieve over the coming years; and we have charged the Deputy Director of Research
 with overall responsibility for accelerating Impact. Particularly important in the Oxford context is
 the opportunity to bring our museums and libraries into closer working relationships with
 researchers (at all career stages) in academic departments. This has provided opportunities for
 a wide range of formats of KE, PER, and Impact, as demonstrated by the Ashmolean Faculty
 Fellowship scheme and the training opportunities afforded to ECRs in the museum. This has
 formed part of a broader cultural change among members of the UoA. Historians have been
 quick to take advantage of the specialist resources now available across the University for
 impact, and colleagues have become much more accustomed to working with non-academic
 partners. In order to showcase our research and foster its dissemination we appointed our first
 Communications and Alumni Relations Officer (1.0FTE) in 2015. Staffing of the communication
 office rose in 2020 to 1.6FTE. From 2016/17 to 2019/20 the Research section of our website has
 seen a 60% increase in the time spent on it, coupled with a significantly larger increase in use of
 individual researcher pages over the same period (149% increase in page views, which lasted
 on average 44% longer). Further details of our support for Impact are provided below.

  Responding to Coronavirus
  The Unit has responded nimbly to the 2020 global crisis caused by Covid-19 with targeted
  support for individual postholders (especially those with caring responsibilities) as well as
  measures to help ECRs whose research programmes have been knocked off course. In
  broader terms, the History Faculty recognised that the emergency is exacerbating existing
  inequalities, especially those deriving from race, across the world. It issued a strong public
  statement signalling its commitment to acknowledging these problems and working
  constructively to address them. It can be found at https://www.history.ox.ac.uk/statement-
  values. Two colleagues, in particular, have redirected their research efforts in response.
  [text removed for publication] Erica Charters used her expertise in the History of Medicine
  combined with her international networks to guest-edit an OA Centaurus Spotlight issue:
  Histories of Epidemics in the Time of COVID-19. Its fifteen contributors show how
  epidemics need to be studied within their broader cultural, political, and geographic contexts,
  and reflect on how history can contribute to a better understanding of the world’s current
  predicament.




 1.4 Research objectives in and beyond 2020

 The research priorities of the Unit over the coming period fall into three closely-related
 categories: reinforcing institutional resilience; developing four research themes; and deepening
 our Impact agenda.

    (1) Institutional Resilience
 An essential consideration in the next few years will be ensuring the resilience of History at
 Oxford. We already assist our many post-doctoral and doctoral researchers with grant
 applications, writing research proposals, and providing workshops for younger scholars to test

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 out their ideas; but we aim to target training events and peer-to-peer support more effectively.
 Since 2014 we have obtained funding from a number of alumni for outreach, early-career and
 community history initiatives, but we intend to do more. Our ‘Development Panel’ (of alumni), set
 up in 2019, has already yielded GBP40,000 in donations, but has the potential to generate
 further resource. We will also strengthen administrative support structures for PIs running major
 projects, which is an aspect of our activities that has developed in recent years in a rather ad
 hoc manner. The new premises planned for the Faculty in the Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre
 for the Humanities (scheduled for completion 2024/5) will enable us to participate fully in the
 Centre’s programmes of public-facing cultural events and exhibitions. The larger goal is to use
 this new physical environment to achieve a step change in the tangible sense of collegiality
 among the exceptionally rich range of scholars of the past in Oxford.

    (2) Research Themes
 We have identified four priorities to shape our research over the coming years: community,
 gender and sexuality, science and technology, and Europe.

 Community is a priority that has emerged out of the enthusiasm of many of our staff for work
 with audiences beyond the conventional frontiers of academia. Examples have been the project
 of Kathryn Gleadle on the history of children’s stories in Orkney, and the work of Miles Larmer
 and Sloan Mahone with African villagers on the impact of diseases and economic change. We
 shall reinforce the local benefits of our research through OUDCE in everything from PGR
 supervision to public engagement and impact, and by seizing the new opportunities provided by
 the Schwarzman Centre. Following a highly successful Community and Public History event in
 2019, we have used our strategic funding allocation to create a Community History Seed Fund;
 we have appointed our first annual Community History Fellow in 2020; we are developing
 projects with Oxford’s African-Caribbean and South Asian communities; and we will create a
 Public History space within the Schwarzman Centre.

 Women, Gender and Sexuality. Our considerable expertise in this field is evident in the
 distinguished work of the Regius Professor, Lyndal Roper, but also in a cluster of historians
 working on aspects of Modern Britain and Ireland (notably Selina Todd, Siân Pooley, and Senia
 Paseta) complemented by colleagues (Dan Healey, Conrad Leyser), who work on masculinity.
 Over recent years, we have organised research activities and workshops during LGBTQ History
 Month, and have established a Centre for Gender, Identity and Subjectivity (CGIS) to encourage
 research initiatives relating to sexuality and identity. In 2020, our new externally-funded Chair in
 Women’s History was established. The arrival in 2021 of the first holder, Brenda Stevenson, will
 enable us to develop funded doctoral places, workshops and conferences.

 Science and Technology reflects the cultural change that has taken place within many of
 Oxford’s Science and Medical departments, which has made them much more aware of the
 benefits of working with Humanities scholars on interdisciplinary projects. This has already
 generated real benefits for our faculty, but we intend to reinforce these possibilities over the
 coming years. Rob Iliffe, Professor of the History of Science, has also developed close links with
 the Oxford-based science and technology cluster of companies. This will undoubtedly be one of
 the enduring legacies of the current pandemic, and we will prioritise research initiatives in this
 field.

 Europe expresses our determination to maintain the largest cluster of Europeanists in the
 country, but also research about Europe: its identity, its evolving frontiers, and changing position
 in the world. Oxford Historians working on Europe have long demonstrated the deep complexity
 of European history, by exploring diverse themes from the Late Antique period to the post-1989
 era. That remains an important task, both politically and intellectually, but much of our more
 recent research has been on the edges of Europe. This ranges from the work of Fanny Bessard
 and Marek Jankowiak on early medieval Eurasia, to Alexander Morrison on Russian Central
 Asia in the nineteenth century, and James McDougall on colonial Algeria. Other colleagues
 investigate the larger interchanges between Europe and the world, such as Andrew
 Thompson’s work on global humanitarianism, and the work of Patricia Clavin and Catherine

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Schenk on modern economic and financial history. In this way, Europe remains a major focus of
 our scholarly endeavour, but also an interface with wider agendas.

    (3) Impact beyond 2020
 We will develop further our forms of support for early and mid-career academics in knowledge
 exchange, co-production of research, and achieving impact, using our 2019 Impact Strategy
 document. This includes highlighting opportunities for knowledge exchange through the targeted
 dissemination of requests for expert advice in public consultations on UK government policy,
 brokering contacts between academics and curators/media producers and directors who are
 seeking research-based knowledge to enhance their cultural productions, as well as maximising
 the online presence of our activities. The UoA sits in this respect in a particularly favourable
 institutional context: on the one hand, there are the external partnerships we have established
 with external institutions, such as the National Trust; while on the other there are the wealth of
 more local opportunities and expertise provided by the museums and galleries of GLAM to
 generate public engagement with research (PER). The third leg of this process is our investment
 in Community history which we think can do much more to embed our practice of History with
 diverse communities, locally and more internationally.


 1.5 Research principles

 Our research is conducted in accordance with certain principles:

    (1) Interdisciplinary Research
 The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH) provides an important opportunity for
 historians at all career stages to collaborate with researchers from other disciplines; to develop
 partnerships with public and private institutions; and to bring together academic research, the
 creative industries, and the performing arts. Historians have been prominent in the diverse
 programmes of TORCH, and from 2013, Stephen Tuck served as its founding Director. More
 recently, Julia Smith helped launch TORCH’s international schemes aimed at broadening the
 global reach of Oxford Humanities research and bringing diverse and underrepresented voices
 to Oxford. We report on the income derived from TORCH in Section 3, but its broader impact
 has been evident in the energy it has given to interdisciplinary activities. Two awards exemplify
 historians’ pursuit of innovative interdisciplinarity. TORCH awarded a grant to ECR Lisandra
 Costiner to establish a network on ‘(En)coding Heritage’ which connects scholars from the
 humanities, social sciences and applied sciences interested in harnessing the power of 3D
 mapping, photogrammetry and virtual environments in the study of historical records, material
 objects and cultural sites; while Amanda Power’s cross-university partnership on ‘Climate Crisis
 Thinking in the Humanities and Social Sciences’ aims to challenge debates and methodologies
 driven by the hard sciences.

    (2) Open Scholarship
 Both the University and UoA are committed to the principles of open research and open access.
 Oxford historians have taken a lead within the University and at the national level in responding
 to resolve the challenges posed by open access for the practice of publishing in the humanities.
 In his role as Bodley’s Librarian, Richard Ovenden leads the implementation of the University’s
 open scholarship strategic priority and contributes widely to national and international
 consultations in support of a sustainable open research culture. On behalf of HEFCE, Chris
 Wickham (retired 2016) undertook an evidence-based assessment of the impact of OA on
 journals in Humanities and the Social Sciences (HSS), leading to his 2014 co-authored report,
 Open access journals in Humanities and Social Science. (London: British Academy, 2014;
 (https://www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/publications/open-access-journals-humanities-and-social-
 science/). This informed the formulation of the rules for REF2021. Many other colleagues have
 also been heavily involved in the formulation of policy via their roles on the editorial boards of
 journals and learned societies.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All UKRI grantholders operate a Researchfish account, and project databases are hosted on
 public access free-to-user websites managed by the Faculty and/or Bodleian Libraries. A good
 example is the substantial Newton Project, which provides free-to-access digital editions of
 Newton’s publications: http://www.newtonproject.ox.ac.uk. In addition, members of the UoA
 participate prominently in the innovative Cabinet open-access platform launched by Oxford:
 https://www.cabinet.ox.ac.uk. The University funds Gold-route OA publications when required by
 funding agencies. But, in addition, all members of the UoA are strongly encouraged to deposit
 manuscripts of journal articles and conference papers in the Oxford Research Archive (ORA),
 and our research officers monitor compliance. Doctoral students deposit their theses into ORA,
 and are supported with issues of copyright and publication in an ‘open’ world. The Bodleian
 librarians have initiated an ambitious programme of open-scholarship training and advocacy
 events including Open Access Oxford Week in which UoA members are to the fore.

    (3) Research Integrity
 Oxford’s historians conduct research activities involving human participants and personal data in
 a way which respects the dignity, rights, and welfare of participants, and minimises risk to
 researchers, and third parties. The University requires that all such research is subject to ethical
 review, in advance of the research being undertaken. Scrutiny is overseen by the Central
 University Research Ethics Committee (CUREC,
 https://researchsupport.admin.ox.ac.uk/governance/ethics). Historians’ applications are handled
 by the Social Sciences and Humanities Interdivisional Research Ethics Committee, generally via
 procedures for expedited “light-touch” low-risk research. Research Ethics training sessions
 provided by the Humanities Division are supplemented by online training resources. Training is
 mandatory for PGTs and PGRs; and all relevant ECRs, visiting researchers, and staff colleagues
 – notably those conducting oral-history research and/or working on private archives – are also
 required to undergo training.



 2. People


 Oxford historians are individually and collectively diverse. They work in different units of the
 University and operate within a variety of structures. But these different contexts are united by
 an emphasis on career-length development, fostering synergies, and cultivating the curiosity-
 driven research that we regard as central to our ethos. These people-oriented policies are also
 geared to fulfilling the strategic aims articulated in Section 1, notably strengthening global
 history, nurturing research clusters, promoting diversity, and expanding the number of funded
 doctoral places. Colleges too play an important role in achieving this goal, through maintaining
 the emphasis on research-led teaching and providing support for doctoral scholarships and post-
 doctoral research. Libraries and Museums contribute though their appointment of research staff
 who work closely with UoA staff on research projects. The UoA is also fortunate to possess a
 long-established core of staff in OUDCE whose remit is not simply to teach diverse audiences,
 but to provide pathways to participation in research, notably through part-time degrees. All parts
 of the unit therefore have frameworks to support staff across the researcher lifecycle; and this is
 reflected in the structure of this section which traces the successive career stages from doctoral
 students to senior staff.


 2.1 Research Students (PGRs)

 The Faculty contains one of the largest communities of research students in the world, with on
 average 74 admissions per annum. Entry is highly competitive: in 2019-20, the Faculty received
 326 applications for a doctoral place, of which 25 were for a part-time degree. The proportion of
 funded doctoral students has held reasonably steady around 56% (a low of 52% in 2019/20, but
 a high of 61% in 2018/19). Of these, an average of 32% each year are AHRC-funded, with a
 smaller number supported by ESRC. The Faculty has worked hard to diversify the doctoral

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cohort, notably by guaranteeing an equal gender balance in awards and through initiatives such
 as the sponsorship of a PGT scholarship for UK BAME applicants in 2020, and the Stuart Hall
 doctoral scholarship, offered in partnership with Merton College. The proportion of women in the
 doctoral cohort has grown steadily from 44% in 2014 to 48% in 2019. Many of our Masters
 students have the ambition to progress to a DPhil with us, which underscores the importance of
 ensuring provision at Masters level acts as a gateway to diversity in doctoral research. This
 motivated the decision to create the very successful Masters in Global and Imperial History.
 Similarly, our MSt in History will contain a strand on ‘Women’s, Gender and Queer History’ from
 the autumn of 2021, and another on ‘Race and Resistance’ is in preparation. The geographical
 diversity of our doctoral students is also important. In 2019-20, 33% of our intake of doctoral
 students came from outside Europe. The numbers from Latin America, Africa and Asia are
 small, but we succeeded in endowing a research fellowship in contemporary Mexican history;
 we are looking at developing a similar programme with AfOx, the Africa-Oxford Initiative; and are
 launching a fund-raising initiative in India in honour of the historian of Nehru, Sarvepalli Gopal.
 We have also consolidated part-time doctoral provision, both through the Faculty itself, and the
 doctoral programmes of OUDCE. The Libraries and Museums host a number of research
 students, and the Oxford University Museums-AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (2016
 onwards) enables the development of research in concert with its partners in the museum
 sector. Oxford’s young historians have benefited from collaborative doctoral awards through the
 award-winning National Trust partnership. An important element of this partnership is the way it
 broadens the scope and relevance of doctoral training. While the majority of doctoral research is
 geared towards academic teaching and research careers, the increased emphasis on more
 practice-oriented and public-oriented history within the unit opens up a wider range of career
 choices. Similarly, the participation of part-time and later career doctoral students embeds
 doctoral training in more diverse life patterns.

 Doctoral training proceeds along three axes, designed to integrate research students in the
 practice of academic history:
     First of all, there is centrally-provided training in auxiliary skills – languages, bibliography,
         quantitative skills, etc. – and a rich programme of researcher development, with modules
         in ‘Career Confidence’ and ‘Preparation for Academic Practice’, as well as four priority
         areas: Digital Humanities; Business and Entrepreneurship; Heritage; and the Creative
         Industries. This training is provided by [1] the Faculty, which employs some specialised
         staff in these areas, such as the Professor of Diplomatic (Richard Sharpe; deceased
         2020), the Lyell Career Development Fellow in Latin Palaeography (Stewart Brookes),
         and the University Research Lecturer in Latin (Ida Toth); [2] the Faculty Library, which
         coordinates a gathered field of web-based training platforms; [3] the AHRC Doctoral
         Training Partnership (Oxford only until 2019, now Open-Oxford-Cambridge) and the
         ESRC DTP (Oxford only until 2019, now Grand Union – including Open and Brunel); and
         [4] a multitude of research skills courses provided by the Bodleian and interdisciplinary
         workshops in the Ashmolean. In addition, there are opportunities to gain skills across the
         University – in mapping, or codicology, via the Bodleian; in handling material objects, via
         the Ashmolean or Pitt-Rivers; in European and world languages via the Language Centre
         and Oriental Studies. Each doctoral student is entitled to claim up to GBP1500 for
         specialised language tuition.
     Second, there is the University’s ‘progression’ structure, which requires incoming DPhil
         students to ‘transfer status’ in their first year and ‘confirm status’ in their third year. For
         Transfer, students have to present a short lecture on their research, an initial piece of
         writing, and a plan of what the thesis will cover and how it will be researched and
         delivered in a timely way. For Confirmation, they must present a thesis chapter of
         submittable quality. These procedures involve colleagues in commenting and advising on
         students’ work, while introducing students to the challenges of communicating their ideas
         to a wider audience. Doctoral students receive four formal reports a year from their
         supervisors, but importantly the Graduate Supervision Reporting system has been
         redesigned to enable students also to report on their own progress.
     Third, there is extensive provision of opportunities for self-directed development. In the
         Faculty, these include: [1] our substantial programme of seminars and workshops, many

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of them run by students and early-career scholars; [2] our twelve research centres, which
        provide opportunities for students to network with senior and junior academics within and
        outside Oxford, and to gain experience at directing workshops; [3] the support we are
        able to provide to doctoral students from the Arnold, Bryce, Read Fund (up to GBP250 a
        year for students studying the UK or the extra-European world), the Clark Fund (up to
        GBP250 a year for students working on Europe) and the Rattray Fund (up to GBP500 a
        year for students working on architectural history), as well as funds held within colleges;
        [4] participation in a range of doctoral workshops organised with other universities, such
        as the ‘Global Dome’ partnership, led by the University of Notre Dame. These
        opportunities are matched by parallel provision by other organisations in the unit, such as
        the Bodleian’s Centre for the Study of the Book; the Ashmolean seminars which
        introduce historians to handling material objects; and the seminars and workshops on
        local history and architectural history run by Mark Smith and Paul Barnwell in OUDCE.

 Peer-to-peer support and advice is also important in the development of our students. The
 Oxford History Graduate Network brings PGRs together to share skills, runs ‘Work in Progress’
 sessions, and convenes a greatly valued bi-weekly ‘Shut Up and Write Group’. Its officers sit on
 Faculty and Divisional committees, including the Faculty Board, while the termly Graduate Joint
 Consultative Committee provides a forum for wider consultation. We recognise that the lives of
 research students can present emotional challenges. To that end, all students are affiliated to a
 college where they meet regularly with a designated Graduate Adviser who is the primary point
 of pastoral contact and advice. In addition to support available from college welfare teams and
 the University Counselling Service, the History Faculty maintains a network of trained Equality
 and Diversity – including Harassment – officers to whom students can turn confidentially.

 The goal of cultivating independent and well-integrated early career scholars appears to be
 being realised through our doctoral programmes. Completion rates are respectable, with 70%
 submitting within the four-year period that the University allows. The proportion of doctoral
 students progressing to an academic career is high. Survey data suggests around 71% entering
 academic employment, which compares favourably to sector norms.


 2.2 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

 In our UoA, as elsewhere in the UK, the major demographic change in recent years has been a
 rapid expansion in the ranks of ECRs, many of whom are employed on collaborative externally-
 funded projects. 52.85 FTE (30.6%) in this UoA are fixed-term postdoctoral ECRs, divided
 almost equally between men and women. They account for 25.75% of our outputs and are made
 up of two groups:
       the holders of a range of Post-Doctoral Fellowships, including British Academy
         Postdoctoral Fellowships, Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, Wellcome Trust
         Research Fellowships, Newton International Fellows, research grant-funded postdoctoral
         researchers, college-based Junior Research Fellowships, and research fellowships in the
         Museums and/or Bodleian Libraries.
       fixed-term Departmental Lecturers (temporary early-career posts, replacing colleagues
         on leave or secondment). The UoA appointed 32 of these over the period of the REF, all
         of whom were research-active staff.
 Developing structures to support and develop these ECRs has been a major element of our
 work on staffing. On arrival, ECRs are integrated into our research culture via dedicated
 induction sessions which provide orientation in the research structures of the Faculty led by
 Regius Professor Lyndal Roper who is the ECR Champion. All Departmental Lecturers (DLs)
 have the same entitlement to apply for funding from the Faculty Research Committee as
 permanent postholders; those based in colleges also have access to college research funds.
 Many also obtain additional funding from the university’s John Fell Fund (supported by an
 annual transfer from the university press) and/or TORCH networks. In 2019-20 the Unit opened
 its fund for Monograph Workshops to ECRs, enabling them to organise a workshop to receive
 feedback on their manuscript before seeking a publication contract. In addition, the Faculty’s

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research officers prioritise support for the ECR community via ‘research surgery’ meetings for
 advice and guidance, scheme-specific grant-writing workshops, and help with revision of funding
 applications and associated costings. Around a tenth of applications for research funding
 supported by the Faculty are made by ECRs. A similar emphasis on supporting ECR research
 exists in the Pitt Rivers Museum, which aims to put forward two research-grant applications from
 ECRs each year. An elected ECR representative sits on almost every Faculty Committee,
 including the Research Committee and the Faculty Board. All ECRs receive a mentor who has
 responsibility for helping their integration into Oxford and their career development.

 All of our DLs are employed on at least 12-month contracts to sustain their research outside of
 active teaching periods, and the Faculty is normally able to arrange college associations for
 them. All ECRs are entitled to extend their associate membership of the Faculty for a year
 beyond their employment with us, ensuring they retain visibility, library access and an Oxford
 association while they may be completing research and applying for jobs. The Regius Professor
 was prominent in a successful campaign to ensure that full maternity benefits would be available
 for temporary staff (https://hr.admin.ox.ac.uk/summary-of-maternity-leave-and-pay).

 The Humanities Division offers an extensive programme of training and development for
 postgraduates and early career researchers through TORCH:
 https://www.humanities.ox.ac.uk/researcher-development. The Faculty also offers opportunities
 to design and lead activity through its research centres and its seminars, as well as two specific
 forms of career development:
      Within their specific contractual terms, ECRs are encouraged to develop their teaching
         profile to enhance their employability. Central to the 2017 restructuring of the PGT
         programme (MSt/MPhil in History) was enabling ECRs to co-teach Master’s courses in
         Theory and Methods; Sources and Historiography; and topic-specific Options. Many
         undertake supervision of undergraduate theses, and co-supervise masters and doctoral
         dissertations as appropriate.
      We also offer career-development openings to ECRs. We have involved them in the
         identification and development of REF Impact Case Studies, through which they gained
         experience in teamworking and communication with colleagues, as well as new contacts
         with internal and external partners. ECRs have also gained experience through helping
         to run research centres. For example, Rebecca Orr and Andrew Edwards have
         benefited from fully mentored roles in the Global History of Capitalism project, as part of
         their career development fellowships there.
 The Museums and Libraries also offer training opportunities to ECRs, and these are integrated
 with the Faculty and other organisations in the unit. For instance, Federica Gigante, who is a
 trainee curator with the Ashmolean, has been able to gain curatorial experience with the History
 of the Museum of Science, while developing her research in the history of global exchange
 through her membership of the Faculty’s Centre for the History of Science, Medicine and
 Technology.

 In sum, the contribution of ECRs to the UoA’s research culture is immense. Through their
 participation alongside PGRs in our international doctoral research workshops, they model the
 next career stage and contribute informal mentoring. Recent conferences and networks
 organised by postdoctoral researchers include ‘New Critical Approaches to the Byzantine World’,
 led by two ECRs and a former PGR, and ‘Managing Airs and Climates’, led by an ECR and a
 PGR, both of which have led to significant publications in this submission. Their achievements in
 Oxford translate into career success: although we do not keep comprehensive records, at least
 33 ECRs have been appointed to permanent posts in research-intensive universities within this
 period, and at least a further 7 have been appointed to other postdoctoral posts; 8 have made
 their career overseas, from Australia to Italy, while 32 have remained in the UK, including 3
 appointed in both Manchester and UCL, and 2 in each of Birmingham, UEA, Glasgow,
 Cambridge, KCL, and QMUL. We are proud to have been able to make such a major
 contribution to ensuring the resilience of the profession in the coming decades.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.3 Permanent Staff

 Permanent staff account for 69% of the UoA. The large majority (82%) are employed by the
 History Faculty, with a further 7% employed by the Department of Continuing Education
 (OUDCE) on very similar terms. Almost all the other permanent staff in the unit are employed
 either by Museums and Libraries, or by colleges, where they are generally teaching or research
 fellows.

 In the History Faculty, there are only two grades of permanent academic staff: the vast majority
 are associate professors (APs), constituting 93 individuals (91.5 FTE), and there are 13 statutory
 professors who hold senior positions. APs are normally employed jointly by the Faculty and by
 colleges; some do more lecturing and class-teaching for the Faculty (APTF-U) and some do
 more tutorial teaching for the colleges (APTF-C). A third group have no undergraduate teaching
 obligations but teach and supervise graduates (APNTF). All these staff are required to undertake
 research as part of their contract of employment. Most OUDCE colleagues are also APs, and a
 number are also members of Kellogg College, which provides a collegiate home for part-time
 students and a good number of full-time History graduate students.

 The Faculty
 The relatively non-hierarchical employment structure of the Faculty lies at the heart of our
 distinctive research culture. As almost all postholders are also fellows of colleges, they retain a
 certain independence from the Faculty, which fosters an ethos of voluntary participation in its
 activities. Responses to the University’s 2018 Staff Experience Questionnaire and to the
 consultations associated with our Athena SWAN application in 2019 demonstrate that staff
 appreciate the relative autonomy created by this framework, and regard it as positive for their
 development as researchers.

 The Faculty seeks to support and encourage research and impact at every stage of postholders’
 careers, from recruitment to retirement. Its strategies are outlined here:

 Recruitment: During this assessment period, the Faculty has substantially reformed its
 recruitment practices, with the intention of encouraging a more diverse range of applicants and
 appointees, and to signal the importance of research and knowledge-exchange to our common
 life. Job descriptions provide more detailed information about research activity in the sphere of
 each position; the Faculty follows best practice by inviting shortlisted candidates for both
 associate professor and professorial positions to make presentations to Faculty colleagues and
 PGRs, at which candidates’ capacity to explain their research to broad audiences can be
 assessed. These events are well attended and demonstrate to candidates and colleagues alike
 the importance and liveliness of the Faculty’s research culture. Recruitment committees receive
 guidance on bias in references; and since 2019, their members are required to take unconscious
 bias training. Each year’s recruitment patterns are analysed at Faculty Board level and lessons
 learned. Since 2018, we have been asking for written work before references, and in 2019 we
 considered the introduction of online long-list interviews, in both cases with a view to diversifying
 the fields of interviewees. During the assessment period, we have recruited 27 new permanent
 members of staff, 19 at AP level and 8 at professorial level. Of these, 14 have been men and 13
 women, replacing 17 men and seven women (three are new posts, all now held by women). All
 but one of these appointees were external candidates, though five had previously studied or
 worked in Oxford. We have interview data for 12 of these posts, and they show that, of 66
 people interviewed, 38 were women and 61 were external to Oxford. Although data on ethnicity
 is incomplete, the proportion of appointees from minority ethnic backgrounds was nonetheless
 above the norm for UK History departments (which was 6.3% in 2018); 10 of the appointees are
 from outside the UK, 5 of whom were working at non-UK institutions at the time of appointment.

 Recruitment patterns have advanced our research strategy. A series of British and European
 posts have been re-purposed to strengthen the Faculty’s non-European or global coverage
 (Marcocci replacing Maddicott; Larmer part-replacing Service, to bring us an extra post in

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Africa; Morrison replacing Harris; Zaman replacing Innes; Bessard replacing Ward-Perkins;
 Park a new appointment in Chinese art). Other posts have addressed other agendas. In 2016
 we replaced a post in nineteenth-century US History (Sexton) with one in North American
 women’s history (held by a Caribbean and Atlantic historian, with interests in sexuality, gender
 and disease, Paugh); in 2019, we were able to create a new post in the history of science, to
 expand the activity of that cluster and to strengthen links with colleagues in the hard sciences
 (Jackson, a historian of nineteenth-century chemistry). Development efforts have been turned
 towards the same strategic ends. In 2020, we have been able to recruit to what we think is the
 world’s first statutory chair in women’s history (Brenda Stevenson, who will take up her post in
 2021), with the intention that the postholder will lead initiatives to support women’s history and
 gender history. We have also initiated a fund-raising campaign to support a new post in LGBTQ
 history.

 Recent professorial appointments have also been made with an eye on research leadership:
 Iliffe has transformed the History of Science, Medicine and Technology group, through his
 efforts in fund-raising, and by building research collaborations with colleagues in the Science
 and Maths departments. Wilson has energetically expanded the programme in the History of
 War and won an ERC Advanced Grant. Smith has built on the achievements of Wickham as
 Chichele Professor of Medieval History, notably by acting as the Faculty’s Director of Research
 in a period of rapid progress on impact and KE. McBride, succeeding Foster as the Foster
 Professor of Irish History, has led REF preparations. Schenk, replacing Humphries as
 Professor of Economic and Social History, has led on Impact, built links in financial history and
 been awarded an ERC Advanced Grant. Comparable to a statutory chair is the important post
 formerly held by Darwin at Nuffield College – a key element in our global history endeavour and
 a direct link to research in the social sciences and connections to public policy. We were
 delighted in 2019 to appoint Andrew Thompson, executive chair of AHRC (2015-20), to this
 position.

 In those cases where new appointees have replaced postholders on a nominally ‘like-for-like’
 basis (18 cases), we have used these appointments to open up new fields of enquiry and
 methodological approaches. These include Jankowiak (replacing Whittow) in Byzantine history
 but bringing expertise in Arabic and Japanese as well; Gittos (replacing Abrams), strengthening
 connections with linguistic scholars in medieval studies; Healey (replacing Service), adding
 welcome expertise in LGBTQ history to a regional specialism in Russian history; and
 Altehenger (replacing Muscolino), bringing an interest in modern Chinese material culture.

 Probation: All staff below the level of statutory professors pass through an ‘initial period of office’
 (IPO), normally of five years, in which they are given a mentor, encouraged to set aims for their
 research development, and assessed on their progress in research, teaching and administration
 on two occasions: an interim assessment, and a final assessment, at which they are typically
 granted contracts to the retirement age. This framework entails regular meetings with Faculty-
 appointed mentors as well as annual meetings with the Faculty Board Chair. Colleagues in their
 IPO are typically spared substantial administrative roles; and they will usually be allowed
 reduced teaching stint by their colleges during the first year or two of office. Colleagues are
 eligible to take sabbatical during their IPO period, at the normal rhythm of postholders (see
 below); and they are supported in applications for research awards, such as Philip Leverhulme
 prizes. During this period, four colleagues in the IPO have won external research grants,
 including one ERC consolidator – Larmer.

 Our system enables colleagues to take on responsibilities – for organising areas of teaching,
 and for leading projects and initiatives – from an early stage in their careers. While this can be a
 challenge in terms of protecting research time, it is intellectually enriching and fosters numerous
 opportunities for collaboration and fresh learning. Several colleagues have been led into
 research through teaching: among the most distinguished is Ghosh, who has written major
 articles on five of the seven historians in the ‘Tacitus to Weber’ course which he convenes,
 including a large book on Weber’s Protestant Ethic; equally, dialogues built through teaching and
 examining underlay the interdisciplinary and international Innes-Philp-Posada-Carbo project on

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Re-Imagining Democracy’, which has led to several conferences and two publications, with a
 third in prospect (https://re-imaginingdemocracy.com/).


 Post-probation: A familiar problem in the historical profession is the difficulty of maintaining
 research momentum in mid-career. We have taken a number of steps to address this issue.
 Besides the various forms of support provided by the Research Office (discussed below), and
 the stimulus offered by our Research Centres, three strategic elements are worthy of note:
      Sabbatical Entitlement: For every six terms of service, each postholder is entitled to a
         term of research leave. This entitlement can be saved up to release a whole year. In
         practice, when placed alongside externally funded leave, this means that 15-20% of
         postholders are on leave from teaching each term.
      Career Development Reviews: Every two years, postholders engage in peer review of
         one another’s career trajectories, with a particular focus on research planning.
         Participation includes colleagues in OUDCE, and in college positions, thus helping to
         connect the Faculty to the wider community of historians in Oxford. From 2020, biannual
         reviews are supplemented by voluntary ‘Career Conversations’ with senior colleagues
         from across the Humanities Division, and five-yearly meetings with the Faculty Board
         Chair. These meetings enable longer-term thinking about career-planning, placing
         research development in a more rounded perspective.
      Promotion structures: Since 2014, a Recognition of Distinction system in the University
         bestows the title of Professor and a small salary increment to colleagues who can
         demonstrate an appropriate level of research productivity, leadership and/or innovation,
         alongside commensurate contributions to teaching and administration. A series of
         Professorial Merit Pay awards are available to those who hold this title of professor.
         Impact and KE are fully integrated into the assessment criteria, and particular care is
         taken to ensure that awards are made with due attention to equality and diversity, such
         as the effect of child-birth and child-care on many female colleagues’ career trajectories.
         Over the period for which data is available, (2014-2018 only) all female applicants for
         Recognition of Distinction have been successful, whereas the success rate for men is
         79%.

 Emeriti and Others: Emeritus postholders retain their faculty membership in retirement. Many of
 them continue to co-supervise PGR students, contribute regularly to seminars and occupy
 advisory roles and board memberships nationally and internationally. Faculty membership is
 afforded (on application) to those other historians from outside the University who participate in
 research in History in Oxford, and includes access to research facilities and IT support, and an
 entitlement to apply to the Research Committee for research funding (see below). Additionally,
 Associate Membership of the History Faculty for two years (renewable) is available on a case-
 by-case basis for external historians who make a contribution to our research culture. This is
 particularly useful in encouraging the involvement of those historians from elsewhere who are
 undertaking research in Oxford.

 Other Institutions in the Unit
 Staffing strategies across GLAM, OUDCE and the colleges parallel those in the Faculty. These
 sub-units have their own research offices to support grant applications – a Research
 Development Manager in OUDCE, for example, together with a fund for pump-priming projects.
 Most units in GLAM have their own research committee and/or strategy, all overseen by a
 Division-wide committee; these typically promote interdisciplinary partnerships and dialogue with
 colleagues in the Faculty and across the University; the strategies of the museums often have a
 strong emphasis on knowledge exchange, and what the Pitt Rivers attractively calls ‘socially
 engaged research’. Staff benefit from regular seminar series within their own units – the
 Ashmolean Seminars on western art history, for instance – but they also participate in the
 Faculty’s seminars and centres, so that the Ashmolean’s eminent numismatists have played a
 full part in the Economic History Seminar (Mayhew) and the Byzantine History seminars
 (Baker), while Elizabeth Gemmill from OUDCE has co-convened the Medieval History seminar
 and the Medieval Economic History seminar with colleagues from the Faculty. The Museum of

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the History of Science is integrated in the management of the Faculty-based Oxford Centre for
 the History of Science, Medicine and Technology; while the research centres of the Bodleian –
 notably the Centre for the Study of the Book – attract colleagues from the Faculty. Colleges too
 are centres for research, through the home and funding they provide for research fellows and
 ECRs. They also provide a basis for research projects. Notable examples are the ‘Legalism’
 project hosted by St John’s College from 2012 to 2015, which brought together historians and
 others to produce multiple seminars and three books; and the Somerville College medievalists
 group, which has led to volumes on performance, polemic and temporality.


 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 A concern with issues of equality and diversity is threaded through everything the unit does. The
 UoA demonstrates a composition in gender terms familiar to many History departments, of
 equality at the junior levels, and an under-representation of women in more senior roles. This is
 demonstrated in Figure 2.




          Figure 2. Current staff returned in REF 2021 by employment level and gender


 Structures
 Equalities legislation is fully integrated in the Faculty’s decision-making; every large committee
 has a diversity representative, and the E&D implications of decisions are routinely, but carefully,
 evaluated. The Faculty has an Equality and Diversity Committee, the members of which are
 drawn from Faculty colleagues including professional staff and an ECR representative.
 Importantly, it receives reports from three ‘working groups’ at which staff, researchers and
 students are represented: focusing on Gender Equality, Race Equality, and Disability. These
 groups commission projects – notably on gender differentials in undergraduate examinations –
 but they also address concerns among the student body, such as (in 2019) how to improve the
 integration of trans people and trans methodologies in the Faculty; how to address
 neurodiversity and advance inclusive teaching; and (in 2020) how the Faculty should respond to
 the killing of George Floyd. Research culture is as much a concern of these groups and
 committees as other facets of the Faculty’s activities, and – together with the Faculty’s Athena
 SWAN co-ordinators (Ian Forrest, 2018-19, Hannah Skoda, 2019-) – they have ensured that

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 E&D considerations are central to Faculty policy, notably in campaigning for improved maternity
 rights for ECRs (2017-18), leading Research Committee to analyse grant capture by gender
 (2020), pushing for investment in Black History at PGR, ECR and postholder level, and
 promoting community history as a way of progressing knowledge exchange in a properly equal
 and collaborative manner. The Faculty also benefits from the University’s provisions for Equality
 and Diversity, most notably its relatively generous maternity provision; its ‘returning carers’ fund;
 its counselling and occupational health facilities; its provisions for tackling unconscious bias in
 appointments; its harassment procedures; and its staff-experience surveys. In addition, the
 Faculty funds a compensatory extension to the salary of permanent staff holding research grants
 who take maternity or adoption leave, while researchers with childcare responsibilities whose
 research requires them to work away from home (such as during a visit to an archive) are
 encouraged to apply to the Research Committee for a contribution to the costs of childcare.
 Finally, the Faculty’s redesigned web-site combines core E&D activity with research via our
 ‘values’ pages, which illustrate welfare and campaign activities alongside historical research on
 gender, race, and disability.

 Initiatives
 In September 2019, the Faculty was awarded the first Athena SWAN bronze award in the
 Humanities Division, after 18 months of preparation. This direct focus on gender inequalities and
 disparities in the Faculty has had a galvanising effect on the Faculty’s environment and led to
 significant advances. It has also served as an inspiration for our Race Equality Action Plan,
 beginning in 2020, which is a two-year long project, underwritten by strategic funds, to
 understand and address racial inequalities within the Faculty: we shall draw on external advice
 from more diverse departments across the UK and the US, with the intention of effecting a real
 transformation in this area. The Royal Historical Society’s Reports on gender inequality, race
 and ethnicity, and most recently LGBT+ have been considered by the Faculty’s committees, and
 recommendations have been implemented – notably the campaign for a chair in women’s history
 (2018-20), the launch of a campaign to fund a post in LGBT+ history (2019-20), and the funding
 of a full PGT scholarship for a UK BAME applicant in 2019, an action which helped to push the
 University to invest in a range of targeted scholarships for BAME students. The foundation of a
 research centre in Gender, Identity and Subjectivity has been a huge stimulus to students,
 researchers and academic colleagues working in these fields by providing workshops, lectures,
 and networking opportunities; its interactions with the Division’s ‘Women in the Humanities’
 organisation have given it a campaigning edge and its support for LGBT+ History Month has
 underpinned a growing body of queer and trans research within the Faculty. Our Disability
 Working Group has held teach-ins about disability history and, in 2018, set up a network in
 disability history research. Our Centre for the History of Childhood, and Siân Pooley and Lucy
 Bowes’s project on ‘Changing Lives’, has promoted interdisciplinary work with colleagues in
 Psychology and ensured that attention to the life-cycle is a prominent feature of our research,
 especially in modern British history. In 2020, we appointed the first of a three-year cycle of
 ‘Community History Fellows’, funded by external donations, to co-ordinate and advance our
 interactions with local community organisations such as the Afrikan Caribbean Kultural Heritage
 Initiative, Everyday Muslim and Oxford Jewish Heritage; some of these projects are already
 underway, and we expect them to become an important feature of our research and teaching.
 Finally, our introduction of a part-time route for our PGT programme in 2015 and our continuing
 promotion of a part-time PGR route have opened up graduate study to mature students.

 Outcomes
 The available data indicates an encouraging trend within the UoA. Over the REF period, the
 proportion of female PGRs in the Faculty has grown from 38% (2016 intake) to 46% (2019
 intake), and now reflects the gender ratio of applications. Among ECRs and fixed-term staff
 employed by the Faculty, the proportion of women slightly exceeds men (29/28: see Figure 2).
 Among Faculty postholders, the proportion of women has grown strongly: at Associate Professor
 level from 35 to 42%, and at Statutory Professor level from 10% to 36%. We do not collect pay-
 gap data at Faculty level, but the data for the Division shows steady progress towards parity. In
 addition, we can also identify examples of the ways in which a commitment to equality and
 diversity has contributed to research. Maria Misra was chosen for an AHRC pre-pilot Public

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engagement Fellowship in Equality and Diversity to engage audiences in the media, business,
 government and the cultural and arts world on how humanities research can help us understand
 and challenge sexism in all of its contemporary forms. Siân Pooley used funding from the
 University’s Social Sciences Impact Accelerator for Public Engagement with Research to co-lead
 an interdisciplinary network of academic and practice-led experts researching children’s
 experiences of adversity and maltreatment, and Dan Healey obtained funding from the John Fell
 Fund to pump-prime a major project on Homophobic Politics and LGBT Activism in Eurasia.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities



  Research income overview
  Total external research income: GBP26,973,438 (in 2014: GBP13,879,664)
  Annual research income in 2019/20: GBP3,328,948 (in 2013/14: GBP3,030,132)
  Research income per FTE: GBP156,141 (in 2014: GBP106,726)


 Since 2014 the UoA has further increased its average annual income, improved grant capture
 per FTE, and diversified the range of its funding applications. This is a collective achievement:
 by postholders, support staff, and specialist research facilitation teams. Preparation of grant
 applications requires a variety of skills, and the UoA has developed a healthy culture of
 collective working, including peer-review of draft texts and, where appropriate, mock interviews.
 It also requires adaptability to a changing context: more than 50% of the funding agencies
 reported in the current review period were not present in our 2014 portfolio. Consequently, our
 internal grant income of approximately GBP2.2million has leveraged over GBP26.9million in
 externally generated research income. The rate of return of GBP12 for every GBP1 invested is
 more than 25% higher than the average for Oxford University as a whole.


 3.1 Seed-funding

 Internal seed-funding and proof-of-concept funding are often decisive in the development of
 high-quality applications. In this category, we achieved GBP2,189,552 of funding, drawn from a
 number of sources. By far the most important was the John Fell Fund, which focuses on pilot
 projects, pump-priming, and interdisciplinary collaborations. For example, an award of
 GBP46,967 to Peter Wilson in 2016-17 supported the proof-of-concept research which won him
 an ERC Advanced Grant in 2018 on the Fiscal-Military System in Europe 1580-1850. Selina
 Todd’s Impact Case Study on Feminism, Culture and Women’s Lives in Britain, c.1945-c.2015 is
 based on several tranches of John Fell funding, totalling GBP149,567. In total, the Fell Fund has
 contributed 80.26% of our internal funding by value (151 awards, GBP1,757,357).

 The other sources of internal funding are illustrated in Figure 3 (overleaf). Prominent among
 these are a variety of small funds dedicated to the areas of Knowledge Exchange, and Public
 Engagement with Research.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




     Figure 3. Top ten internal funding sources, excluding John Fell Fund, August 2013-2020

 The final source are funds derived from Research England’s Higher Education Innovation Fund,
 the Global Challenges Research Fund, the UKRI Impact Acceleration funds, and the Wellcome
 Institutional Strategic Support Fund. A notable example of success here is Abigail Green, who
 extended her current AHRC-funded project (and Impact Case Study) on Jewish country houses
 via Knowledge Exchange Fellowships in 2017-18 and again 2018-19, supplemented by eight
 small grants from the Humanities Division Knowledge Exchange Seed Fund, the Heritage Seed
 Fund, and the Creative Industries Seed Fund, making a total of almost GBP35,000 in internal
 funding. At a more junior level, Emma Turnbull, an AHRC-funded doctoral student, held a KE
 Fellowship to explore the activism of royalist women during the British Civil Wars. The diverse
 benefits of internal funding are evident in Figure 4, and we are particularly proud of the success
 of our ECR cohort, who have obtained 17.60% of the total awarded.




                    Figure 4. Internal funding award categories Aug 2013-2020




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2 External funding

 In the current review period, the Unit has been awarded a total of GBP26,973,438 in external
 research funding. Figure 5 shows the overall breakdown by HESA category.




                           Figure 5. Funding types August 2013-2020

 Within these broad categories, the main funding sources by value are indicated in Figure 6:




                 Figure 6. Top ten individual funding sources August 2013-2020




                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This external funding encompasses a balanced portfolio of six primary funders. The largest
 share is taken by the EU Commission, overwhelmingly through our successful applications to
 the European Research Council. In this period, we held nine ERC awards (including one which
 is starting in 2021; and one shared 50% with Area Studies). The prominence of the AHRC (12
 awards), Leverhulme (25 awards, including 4 Major Research Fellowships), and the British
 Academy also reflects our success in their individual research competitions; but the funding from
 Wellcome and Mellon, as well as a wide range of smaller funders, were often for collective
 projects.

 None of this happens by accident, and the greatest single change in the research culture of the
 UoA over this period has been the normalization of grant applications in the working life of a
 broad range of colleagues. This cannot be a matter of obligation, and the Faculty has been
 concerned to emphasise the diversity of funding routes, reflecting the different working practices
 of historians. For some, funding which enables a visit to an archive in a vacation is as important
 as the aspiration of others to construct teams of researchers. What matters is that external
 funding should be accessible and relevant to all.

 A notable feature of the last few years has been that applications for research funding have
 become much more prevalent among doctoral students. This has been particularly so of the
 interdisciplinary funding facilitated by TORCH. In most years since 2013 one of the Divisional
 Knowledge Exchange Fellowships has been awarded to an ECR in History. A former doctoral
 student, Oliver Cox, won one of the first KE Fellowships, and is now the University’s Humanities
 Innovation Champion, in addition to co-leading the Oxford University Heritage Network; Hanna
 Smyth drew on her background in Museum Studies to obtain funding from the Humanities
 Heritage Seed Fund to redesign the Museum of Oxford gallery on World War I. She is now one
 of the University’s Public Engagement with Research professional staff. ECRs are a significant
 proportion of our holders of external as well as internal research funds, and we rightly regard our
 lively group of British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellows, Leverhulme Early Career Fellows,
 Wellcome Trust Research Fellowships, and Newton International Fellows as the future of the
 profession.


 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure for Research and Impact

 Scholarly infrastructure
 Face-to-face advice is an essential element of effective research support. Within the History
 Faculty, academic leadership is provided by a senior postholder as Research Director (currently
 Ian McBride) and a mid-career Deputy Director of Research (currently Natalia Nowakowska);
 the remit of the latter includes explicit responsibility for Impact and Knowledge Exchange. Both
 provide research surgeries for colleagues to review plans and objectives, and develop funding
 applications. The Research Director chairs termly meetings of the Faculty Research Committee
 which sets research policy, and allocates funds via two funding streams. An annual allocation
 from the Faculty supports conferences, PGR workshops, and personal research expenses (up to
 GBP800 for permanent postholders and fixed-term Departmental Lecturers). In addition, a
 philanthropic donation (the Sanderson Fund) supports projects designed to improve the
 Faculty’s research environment, notably but not exclusively the work of its Research Centres,
 and pump-primes the development of new research projects. Since 2018, the Faculty has
 disbursed a total of GBP38,865, of which 60.1% derived from the Faculty’s general budget, and
 39.9% from the Sanderson Fund. 71 colleagues have benefitted.

 Operational infrastructure
 Research support is provided within each sub-unit, enabling it to be tailored to disciplinary and
 departmental needs. Research Facilitators ensure that staff are informed of grant schemes, as
 well as providing one-to-one advice. All draft applications are submitted to internal review by a
 pool of internal peer reviewers. For funding calls with advertised closing dates, the Director of
 Research brings applicants together in workshops to undertake peer-to-peer critique and share


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 best practice. Notable recent successes from these workshops include Mitter’s Leverhulme
 Major Research Fellowship, Parker’s British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship and Schenk’s
 ERC Advanced Grant.

  The Oxford and Empire project (https://oxfordandempire.web.ox.ac.uk/home)
  demonstrates how small grants from the Faculty can leverage Divisional funding and rapidly
  upscale into significant activity. It provides a central hub and site for research on the legacies
  of colonialism in Oxford. Launched in April 2018 to encourage students to research the
  legacies of empire in Oxford’s built environment for their final-year thesis, the project
  now includes PGRs, ECRs, and postholders in other departments, museums, and colleges,
  as well as local historians. This unique Oxford-wide initiative received a Public Engagement
  with Research Seed Fund Award in 2018 to train graduate students and ECRs to develop
  public tours that address and discuss the legacy of colonialism in Oxford, and again in 2019
  to support the production of podcasts and further research. A TORCH Network Grant then
  funded its use of digital platforms to curate public-facing research projects. It has even
  produced its own independent spin-off, Uncomfortable Oxford, initiated by History PGRs,
  which provides walking and online tours that raise awareness of racial inequality, and the
  legacies of empire as manifested in the streets of Oxford
  (https://www.uncomfortableoxford.co.uk/).




 The Faculty Research Office has been significantly strengthened during the period of
 assessment. In 2014, it had a staff of 3.3 FTE, now increased to 5.0 FTE, directed by a
 professional Research Facilitator (RF). Post-award management is undertaken primarily by the
 Finance team (1 FTE in 2014, now 2 FTE), supplemented by support from the Humanities
 Division. The Faculty Research Office has always worked in close liaison with the Divisional
 Research Support Office, which includes among others 7.6 FTE focused on Research
 Facilitation and 5.5 FTE focused on Impact/Knowledge Exchange. The management of multiple
 major research awards is a challenge for an academic unit with limited resources. In 2020, we
 reviewed our support structures for PIs, and decided to create a forum for those who are leading
 major projects.

 Historians in other academic departments benefit from the Divisional team, while staff and
 students in OUDCE have a departmental 0.5FTE Research Development Manager. Museum
 research staff in GLAM have a dedicated Research and Impact Team of 1.9FTE whose staff
 support research and impact funding proposals from across the Oxford museum network. All
 of these Research Offices work in close conjunction with the University’s Research Services
 team which provides pre-award help in complex circumstances, and negotiates on the
 budgeting and management of research-related contracts.

 The History Faculty’s research space is spread across three buildings: the main building in
 George Street, with outlying premises for the clusters in the History of Medicine and the
 History of Art. Our Research Hall in the main building provides desk space for PGRs, ECRs,
 visiting scholars and is much in demand among the scholars based in Oxford. It also includes
 the administrative office of the English Historical Review. Given the expansion in projects
 hosted in the Faculty, the Research Hall is not able to accommodate all the research project
 teams and ECRs. Some are provided with space within TORCH, and in one case the Weston
 Library. The OUDCE enjoys a very central building, Rewley House, tailored for their specific
 needs, and a close affiliation with Kellogg College. The intended transfer to a new building,
 the Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities, consciously built around collective
 team working, will do much to enhance the research culture of the Faculty, creating a more
 flexible space for research activities, and increased capacity for PGRs and post-doctoral staff.


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This evolution of ethos is a major goal for the coming years, but it builds on much that has
 been achieved over the last decade.

 IT is also managed within sub-units. The IT Office in the History Faculty comprises 1.6 FTE
 with other support available as needed. These staff maintain 36 websites, 18 servers and
 approximately 250 PCs, laptops and tablets across the Faculty. Equally importantly, they
 advise on equipment specifications for grant costings and, in conjunction with the University
 IT Services, on the design, hosting and preservation of data-sets. The Visual Resources
 Assistant runs the Visual Resources Centre, which is so essential to the History of Art unit. It
 also supports members of the UoA in sourcing images for research purposes, and gives
 guidance on copyright issues. The central element of support for research is, however, the
 History Faculty Library (HFL), embedded within the Bodleian libraries. The UoA has been
 exceptionally fortunate in the quality and commitment of its HFL librarians. A team of four
 librarians (1.96 FTE) are responsible for acquisitions, skills training, and guidance on
 research resources for historians across the History Faculty Library, as well as the Vere
 Harmsworth Library in the RAI, specialised in North American History; and the History of
 Medicine Library. At the last count, the HFL contained 93,328 volumes, additional to the
 copyright collection of the Bodleian. A real strength of recent years has been the way that
 librarians have become in effect research associates, sourcing and developing resources
 (material and online), and receiving deserved thanks in the Acknowledgements of the authors
 of many theses, articles, and monographs.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships support

 The UoA is now embedded in a range of externally facing collaborations and joint projects. This
 reflects a change of mind-set and ethos on the part of our staff, who see such engagement as
 integral to the conduct of effective and impactful research. It has also benefited from the
 incentivisation of such work through the provision of resources by the University. Our use of
 seed funding has enabled us to expand informal relationships into durable partnerships and
 collaborations. An exemplary case is the University’s strategic Partnership with the National
 Trust, initiated by an Innovate UK KTP award granted to William Whyte. Since its inception in
 2015, ‘Trusted Source’ has engaged more than 60 researchers at ten universities and has
 secured more than GBP1.7 million in funding. In Oxford the partnership has created internships
 for 86 students, 4 Knowledge Exchange Fellowships, 4 collaborative PhD projects funded via the
 AHRC, and it has brought in the National Trust as Oxford’s Cultural Partner in the Open –
 Oxford – Cambridge AHRC DTP. Trusted Source was featured as a case study in the Mendoza
 Review (DCMS, 2017). It was graded ‘A: Outstanding’ by InnovateUK and was named
 Knowledge Exchange Partnership of the Year at the PraxisAuril 2019 KE Awards. The
 partnership provided the context for Abigail Green’s AHRC-funded project on Jewish Country
 Houses. There are also spinoff benefits for doctoral students, such as Katie McKeogh’s research
 consultancy for the NT at Lyveden New Bield through TORCH heritage engagement and OU
 Innovation (2017-19), focusing on English Catholic culture in the early modern period.

 The Faculty responded to the anticipated consequences of the UK’s departure from the EU by
 creating new strategic partnerships with institutions in Berlin and Padua. A third with Paris is
 being finalised. Established in 2017, the Oxford-Berlin Partnership aims to stimulate research
 collaborations between all academic divisions, museums, and libraries at Oxford and the four
 Berlin partners: Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Technische Universität
 Berlin, and Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin. The Partnership’s seed-grant projects are
 headed by an Oxford PI alongside PIs from the Berlin universities, and it is envisaged that this
 will lead to an Oxford-Berlin Institute for Advanced Study and physical hubs in both locations.
 Historians have acted as the local PIs of three seed-grant groups, the highest number across all

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Humanities faculties. The History-led projects supported by the Partnership, to an overall
 sum of c. EUR75,000, are: ‘Global Microhistory in the Early Modern World’ (Oxford PI: Roper);
 ‘Mobility in Historical Perspective’ (Oxford PI: Smith); and ‘The Oxford-Berlin Enlightenment
 Hub’ (Oxford PI: Lifschitz). Smith also won John Fell fund support to bring Padua into a
 triangular research network with Berlin. The University of Padua has been awarded a centre of
 excellence ranking in Italy, and this has enabled us to build a series of doctoral and staff
 exchanges, as well as (to date) five workshops. A prominent theme of these partnerships, and
 our other links, is the involvement of early-career scholars. The UoA also participates in a range
 of annual doctoral student workshops in Late Antique and Byzantine Studies with Princeton,
 Vienna and Mainz; in Contemporary European History with Paris, Brussels, Geneva, Berlin and
 Padua; and in Twentieth-century History with Sciences Po. TORCH International Partnership
 funding has also supported individual doctoral workshops, notably on Creative Cities:
 Knowledge of Nature and Networks of Science (Charters).


 4.2 Relationships with key research users and audiences

 Key research users include major cultural institutions such as the British Museum (BM), Tate
 Britain and the Ashmolean. Clunas’s exhibition at the BM attracted 120,396 visitors with a
 notably diverse composition (30% BAME). Whistler’s exhibition on Raphael’s Drawings
 (Ashmolean, June – September 2017) won the Apollo Award in November 2017 as Exhibition of
 the Year from an international shortlist. On a smaller scale, Faisal Devji’s exhibition Art in India
 and Pakistan after 1947 (Ashmolean, October 2017 – March 2018) emerged from a
 collaboration between the History Faculty, the Oxford-India Centre for Sustainable
 Development, and the Courtauld Institute. Amy Lim, currently entering the fourth year of a
 collaborative AHRC Studentship with Tate Britain, was assistant curator on the exhibition British
 Baroque: Power and Illusion (February/March 2020). Lim was closely involved in the
 development of the exhibition, writing the captions for 30 exhibits and the catalogue essays on
 decorative arts and gardens. The unit’s contribution to the cultural sector has been international:
 Tito in Africa: Picturing Solidarity, co-organised and researched by Paul Betts, opened at
 Belgrade’s Museum of Yugoslavia, where it was the main show of 2017. The exhibition was
 opened by a nine-member delegation from Belgrade’s African embassies and was visited by
 50,000; it subsequently transferred to the Pitt Rivers Museum and the Wende museum in Los
 Angeles. Betts was involved in the conceptualisation and curating of the exhibition and in the
 devising and writing of the accompanying catalogues.

 Rana Mitter has become one of the most prominent public commentators on China in the UK
 and beyond. His documentary, China’s Forgotten War (2015) was broadcast in China, the USA,
 the UK and Australia. In 2019 Mitter won the ACTA award for Best Presenter for Chinese
 Characters on Radio 4, a 20-part series on Chinese history. Roy Foster’s rethinking of the Irish
 revolution in Vivid Faces (2014) led to his collaboration with Bob Geldof on Fanatic Heart, a
 two-part television film about W.B. Yeats’s importance in the construction of Irish political and
 cultural independence. Nick Stargardt’s The German War (2017) led to his involvement in three
 different TV documentaries (for BBC4, ZDF and France 5). The two episodes of BBC4’s Lost
 Home Movies of Nazi Germany, shown in December 2019 and repeated in September 2020,
 attracted 2.8 million viewers in total. Patricia Clavin was historical adviser on Bash Doran’s
 Traitors, a drama broadcast on Channel 4 and Netflix in 2019.

 These collaborations disseminate the research of the UoA, but they also have a creative impact
 on the research undertaken, encouraging colleagues to frame their research in ways that
 respond to the issues of the moment, from work on mining and environmental change (Tuffnell
 and Larmer) in the Global South to issues of social inequality and mobility in Britain today
 (Todd).

 Members of our Unit have informed and influenced policy-making. An outstanding example is
 Schenk, an expert on the evolution of the international monetary system and the regulation and
 supervision of international banking. In 2017 she became consultant for the IMF’s Impact

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Evaluation Office for the review of the Fund’s response to Unconventional Monetary Policy over
 the previous 10 years. Her critique of the Fund’s attempts to promote international monetary
 cooperation was reviewed by the Executive Board of the Fund in June 2019, and its conclusions
 accepted. Schenk was invited by Christine Lagarde to take part in the Expert Advisory Panel for
 the IMF on reform of the Special Drawing Rights. Following her recommendation the Board
 chose not to implement this reform. Drawing on her research on the monetary disintegration of
 Malaysia and Singapore in the 1960s and 1970s, Schenk also devised the currency-monetary
 framework/policy for a future independent Scotland with Andrew Hughes Hallett as part of the
 Scottish Sustainable Growth Commission. McBride’s workshop, ‘Historians and the Stormont
 House Agreement’, funded by the Faculty in October 2016, helped to shape the formulation of
 government policy on addressing the legacy of the Troubles [text removed for publication].
 Historians at Oxford are also closely embedded in the local community, ranging from the local
 branch of the Historical Association (chaired by Steve Gunn), which organizes talks by Faculty
 members in local schools, to the UoA’s involvement (with the Ashmolean) in events with the
 Oxford African-Caribbean community marking the 70th anniversary of the Windrush, and in the
 Faculty’s participation in the Cowley Road Carnival.


 4.3 Public engagement with research

 One of our most original collaborations began when Meryem Kalayci, author of a PhD on the
 Armenian Genocide, arrived as a British Academy International Newton Fellow in 2018. With the
 poet and professor of English Literature Kate McLoughlin, she created ‘Into Silence’ – a series of
 silent performances featuring film-makers, musicians, sound-installationists, dancers, mime-
 artists, body percussionists and light-sculptors – supported by funding from the University’s PER
 Fund and the British Academy. This led to the Oxford Network for Armenian Genocide
 Research, and a digitization project with Columbia University, the collections of which include
 many interviews with survivors of the destruction of Armenian communities in the first decades
 of the twentieth century. This example is one among many which one can provide of the
 interfaces of the research of the UoA with different public communities. Much of this takes place
 thanks to the expertise and energy provided by the museums and galleries. An outstanding
 example was the exhibition in the History of Science Museum, Back from the Dead:
 Demystifying Antibiotics, which was developed in collaboration with our History of Science Unit,
 with funding from the Wellcome Foundation.


 Contribution to disciplinary sustainability
 An ethos of service to the profession is integral to our research culture. For many colleagues this
 takes the form of national policy and strategic leadership at the highest level. Andrew
 Thompson served as Executive Chair of the AHRC for five years (2015-2020), and Martin
 Conway was a member of the AHRC Advisory Board until 2020. Thompson is also Chair of the
 AHRC / ESRC Advisory Board for the Modern Slavery Human Rights Policy and Evidence
 Centre. He is Chair of the Creative Industries Advisory Group, and Member of the DCMS/BEIS
 Creative Industries Advisory Council. He was also UKRI International Champion, responsible for
 international strategy for all of the UK Research Councils, including the AHRC. From 2011-15,
 Mark Harrison chaired the Wellcome Trust Medical History and Humanities Expert Review
 Group, and Schenk sat on the ESRC’s Grant Assessment Panel until 2018, and now serves on
 the ESRC DTP Board and Selection Panel. Ovenden serves on the Advisory Boards of
 Cambridge UL, the Harvard Library, the Deutsches Literatur Archiv, and the John Rylands
 Research Institute. Mitter has recently been appointed Vice-President of the British Academy in
 charge of Communications and Public Engagement. In 2014 Wickham, then Head of
 Publications for the British Academy was one of their spokespeople in the early discussions over
 open access in the UK. David Sweeney, then head of research for the Higher Education Funding
 Council for England (HEFCE), invited him to undertake a research project for the British
 Academy, funded by HEFCE, to give an evidence-based assessment of the impact of OA on
 journals in Humanities and the Social Sciences (HSS). The resultant co-authored publication
 had a direct impact on the formulation of the rules for REF2021.

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A) Developing the discipline
 Collectively and individually, the members of the unit contribute in myriad ways to the
 development of the discipline, through their work and activism within professional organisations.
 Perhaps the most visible measure of this contribution is through the way in which two of the
 foremost general historical journals in the English-speaking world are based in Oxford, and have
 been directed by Oxford historians. The English Historical Review is the most long-established
 History journal in the world, and is housed in the History Faculty Building. Two of its most recent
 editors, Conway and Holmes, are members of the Faculty, and the journal plays a major role in
 sustaining the broader reputation of the discipline, through its articles and reviews. Past and
 Present is widely acknowledged for its quality control, its global breadth, and its reputation for
 innovation. Joanna Innes has chaired the editorial board since 2018 (replacing Wickham);
 Lyndal Roper and Steve Smith are vice-chairs. One of the unexpected consequences of the
 pandemic was that the audience for our substantial range of research seminars and workshops
 broadened considerably, as historians elsewhere in the UK and beyond seized the opportunity to
 participate virtually in our events and discussions. Along with other leading hubs of historical
 research in the UK, we shall be looking at the best means to make that broadcasting to the
 historical community more permanent over the coming years.

 B) Sustaining the profession
 We understand disciplinary sustainability to mean both the training and equipping of the next
 generation of researchers in the subject and providing leadership for a wide range of historical
 activities. Much of this work is relatively invisible, through work on assessment panels for
 funding bodies (in Britain and across the world), the reviewing of submissions for journals, and
 membership of the editorial boards of journals and scholarly books series. This editorial activity
 contributes to disciplinary sustainability in numerous ways beyond upholding high standards of
 scholarly publication. Importantly, it helps set the agenda for emerging new directions in the
 discipline and represents the perspectives of historians in the devising of priorities for funding
 and publication. At a time when commercial and policy pressures often work to marginalise the
 practice of History, this work has an evident importance; but its mentality cannot be simply
 defensive. Oxford History has been an advocate for high-quality historical research, through
 promoting innovation, new digital editions, and the development of online discussion sites. The
 UoA has long had a particularly close relationship with Oxford University Press. OUP is a world-
 leading scholarly press, overseen by Delegates, who typically include at least one historian. In
 the current assessment period, Joanna Innes, Kevin O’Rourke, John Watts, Peter Wilson and
 Chris Wickham have all served in this important role on behalf of the University. In addition, we
 are represented on the boards of a number of Oxford scholarly series, including Studies in
 Byzantium, and Oxford Studies in Medieval European History. The Oxford Historical
 Monographs series publishes a select few of the best Oxford doctoral dissertations in History,
 averaging six titles a year: the chair and all members of the editorial board are drawn from the
 Faculty.

 A provisional census of the activities of members of the UoA during the assessment period,
 indicated that at least seventy members of this UoA have served as external examiners for
 approximately 180 doctoral theses throughout the UK, plus another 76 internationally, for
 institutions spanning the globe from Australia (University of Melbourne) and Israel (Hebrew
 University of Jerusalem) to the USA (Notre Dame; Princeton, University of Georgia) via most
 countries within the EU. In a similar way, at least fourteen members of the UoA have been active
 in the appointment of professors to chairs and the adjudication of applications for professorial
 appointments in the UK, Europe, Asia, and North America (including Princeton, Columbia, the
 Courtauld Institute, Vienna, and Paris).

 Maintaining disciplinary standards and recognising the potential for new and fruitful cutting-edge
 research come together in the adjudication of project grant and fellowship applications. Here too,
 Oxford historians are extremely active, within the UK as members of the AHRC peer review
 college and as assessors for the British Academy or Leverhulme Trust, but also internationally.
 In particular, the major EU bodies including the former ESF, HERA and the ERC, together with

                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the various European national research organisations (Netherlands, Flanders, Germany, Spain,
 Switzerland, Czech Republic), have drawn on the expertise of colleagues. Institutional and
 programme reviews are an important way of ensuring the sustainability of the discipline. Among
 many other instances, Craig Clunas was from 2014 to 2016 a member of the Helsinki Collegium
 for Advanced Studies; and McBride chaired the external review panel for the Keough-Naughton
 Institute of Irish Studies at the University of Notre Dame in October 2017.


 4.4 Indicators of wider influence and contribution to vitality and sustainability of the
 research base

 Given the scale and diversity of this UoA, it is necessarily somewhat arbitrary to seize upon
 particular signs of the wider influence of its members. Some indicators are more visible than
 others. Nonetheless, between 2014 and 2020, of the fifty-four historians elected as fellows of the
 British Academy, seven were from Oxford: Susan Brigden, Laurence Brockliss, Patricia Clavin,
 Rana Mitter, Polly O’Hanlon, Eugene Rogan, and Steve Smith. Several other members of the
 UoA are members of foreign Academies, or have been awarded honorary degrees. In 2015,
 Patricia Clavin was awarded the British Academy Medal, which recognizes outstanding
 achievement that has transformed the understanding of a particular subject in any of the
 disciplines supported by the Academy. In 2020, Rana Mitter was awarded the Medlicott Medal
 by the Historical Association for outstanding services to History. However, alongside these
 indicators of esteem, the UoA is equally proud of the more diverse signs of its influence and
 engagement with different areas of historical life. Five somewhat random examples over the
 reporting period might indicate the breadth of that engagement:

        In November 2016, George Garnett, a medievalist in the Faculty, was invited to give a
        lecture on ‘Barking’s First Golden Age’, to launch the Barking Regeneration Partnership.

        In 2019 David Rechter was appointed to the Academic Advisory Board of Gesher Galicia
        (Gesher is the Hebrew word for Bridge), a non-profit organization that promotes and
        conducts Jewish genealogical and historical research on Galicia.
        Laura Tisdall (a recipient of Public Access to Research funding from Oxford) gave the
        Jacob Bronowski Award Lecture at the British Science Festival in 2019, speaking on
        'When children became evil', exploring the psychological and psycho-analytical
        depictions of 'evil children' in post-war horror and science fiction.
        In 2019, Philippa Byrne, an Early Career Researcher, was awarded the CARMEN (the
        Co-operative for the Advancement of Research through a Medieval European Network)
        Project Prize, to undertake her research on the soundscape of Medieval Sicily.
        In 2019, Natalia Nowakowska was awarded the George Blazyca prize by the British
        Association for Slavonic and East European Studies for her monograph King Sigismund
        of Poland and Martin Luther, one of four prizes which this book has been awarded.

 The importance of these diverse examples is that they point to the way in which many members
 of the UoA – at the junior and more senior levels – are regarded as figures of scholarly authority
 in their fields. This is indicated by the range of prizes achieved by members of the UoA, such as
 those listed above to Philippa Byrne and Natalia Nowakowska, as well as the Royal Economic
 Society Prize awarded in 2019 to Jane Humphries and her co-author Jacoob Weisdorf for their
 article on Real Wages and Economic Growth in England from 1260 to 1850. In 2020, Alan
 Strathern was awarded the Bentley Prize by the World History Association for his monograph,
 Unearthy Powers: Religious and Political Change in World History (2019); and J.P. Park won the
 Charles Rufus Morey Book Award (in Art History) for his book A New Middle Kingdom: Painting
 and Cultural Politics in Late Chosŏn Korea (1700–1850) (2018). At a senior level, this is also
 reflected in the award of honorary degrees, and invitations to give series of endowed lectures,
 such as the Birkbeck Lectures given by Julia Smith in Cambridge in 2018 on “Thinking with
 Things”.

                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Other forms of influence – and esteem – relate more directly to service to the scholarly
 community. The work of Erica Charters, Grant Tapsell and Ian Archer as office holders within
 scholarly organisations within the UK (respectively the Naval History Society, the Church of
 England Record Society, and the Royal Historical Society), are just three examples of many
 such contributions that members of the UoA make to historical life in the UK and beyond. This
 forms part of a wider culture of engagement and activism, reflected in Rechter’s work (listed
 above) to safeguard and reconstruct the records of Jewish life in Eastern Europe. Such activities
 rarely attract a wider prominence, but they are part of a broader culture of diverse engagement
 with the preservation and enhancement of History as a discipline. With a subject as outward-
 facing as History, this also takes the form of the communication of historical research, in person
 and online, to ever wider communities. The example of Garnett listed above is just one among
 very many instances of activities of this kind, which also encompass the wide range of
 educational outreach activities undertaken by members of the UoA on behalf of the faculty, and
 the colleges of the university. A striking example of the way in which Oxford historians can reach
 diverse audiences is the work of Lyndal Roper. She gave 110 lectures and interviews in 2016
 related to her best-selling Luther: 50 were in the UK, 21 in Germany and 12 in the USA, but she
 also addressed audiences in Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, Hungary, Ireland,
 Israel, the Netherlands, and New Zealand.

 In these different ways, the UoA has maintained and reinforced over this reporting period its
 prominence as one of the foremost centres for historical research in the UK. But, more
 importantly than that, at a time when historical research has an enhanced relevance for public
 debates within Britain and elsewhere, the historians based in Oxford have been at the heart of
 those debates, acting as advocates for the importance of historical research, and contributing to
 the making of a historically-informed public sphere.




                                                                                            Page 27
