Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.0 Overview. UoA33 at the University of Lincoln (UoL) is situated within the School of Fine and
 Performing Arts (LSFPA), which offers programmes in Drama, Dance, Fine Art, Music, Musical
 Theatre, and Technical Theatre. This set of interrelated disciplines enables cross-disciplinary
 possibilities both in pedagogy and research. Particular expertise exists in contemporary British
 and European theatre, intercultural performance, and music/musical theatre, emphasising
 methodologies in cultural history, applied approaches, ethnography, and practice-as-
 research (PaR). These core areas form a coherent, contemporary research
 agenda positioning collaborative and interdisciplinary practices at the heart of our department.

 1.1 Context and structure.
 Over the last two REF cycles, the UoA has undergone strategic expansion, following aims from
 RAE2008 to enlarge the academic team, develop the research environment, and focus on
 distinctive specialisms. One indicator of our expansion is the development of Music from
 2015. Having submitted 8 individuals to RAE2008 in our first submission, we returned
 11.2 ftes in REF2014 and 12 in this submission, with two colleagues submitted to UoA27. We
 also include material from O’Thomas (relocated 2016), Bull (retired 2019),
 and Pinchbeck (relocated 2020).

 Our strategic recruitment policy has emphasised research and impact leadership across the
 school, while supporting new areas and consolidating existing
 strengths. Following Symonds’ appointment at the end of the last cycle further investment was
 made in leadership of research and impact (Breed); two senior lectureships extended our focus
 on British theatre-making to encompass European theatre (O’Gorman; Scheer);
 and two ECR recruitments in music expanded our newest area (Balosso-
 Bardin; Scheuregger).

 The appointments of Symonds as School Director of Research (DoR), Breed as Impact
 Lead, and Westerside as area Research Lead, underpinned a carefully-managed approach to
 research, supported by our Research Committee, which additionally comprises the Head of
 School (Savage), senior researchers (Bull, retired 2019), Research Group coordinators
 (Bolton, Nair, Dean), Digital Lead (Scheuregger), PGR lead (Bolton), and a PGR
 rep (Kummer-Seddon). This committee reports to the College Research Committee through
 our DoR.

 Our research groups “Contemporary Theatre-making” (Bolton, Savage, Scheer, O’Gorman,
 Westerside, Page and Ali de Rossi (PhDs)), “Intercultural Performance”
 (Nair, Breed, Madhavan, Smirnova and Puspita (PhDs)) and “Reconstructing Music(s)”
 (Dean, Scheuregger, Balosso-Bardin, Symonds, Atkinson and Langabeer (PhDs)) each
 have a coordinator (Bolton, Nair, Dean), giving leadership opportunities to mid-career
 researchers and enabling career development.


 1.2 Achievement of research strategy.
 Our contemporary theatre-making, intercultural performance, and music/musical
 theatre strengths can be viewed individually, and are evidenced by grant income, publications,
 and international profile. However, our research has also been driven by collaborating across
 disciplines, and producing knowledge with communities, enabling synergies between the
 strands, with many colleagues working between them.

 Research in contemporary theatre builds on the exclusively
 British focus of 2014 (Bull; O’Thomas). O’Thomas’s work on the Royal
 Court (monograph: Royal Court International) influenced two internally-funded PhDs

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Holden, Healy); both students now have full-time posts in UKHEIs (Greenwich; UoL). Current
 PhDs focus on the UK’s regional Theatre Writing Partnership (Page), and on
 British/African playwriting (Ali de Rossi), reflects a developing strength in new writing. This is
 also demonstrated by Bolton’s work (monograph: The Theatre of Simon Stephens, forthcoming
 2021) Her biennial conferences have led to collections on David Greig (CTR special issue 2016),
 and debbie tucker green (2019). New appointments enabled our UK focus to expand
 to continental Europe: Scheer’s is the first English monograph on the German interdisciplinary
 artist Christoph Schlingensief, while O’Gorman publishes extensively on Irish theatre. The area
 is strengthened by Hudson’s mid-career work (submitted to UoA27) (monograph, Contemporary
 British Theatre and Reactionary Ideology, forthcoming), and theatre-making practices
 that include PaR (Pinchbeck; Westerside). Bolton was lead editor for Studies in Theatre and
 Performance during the editor’s sabbatical, while the theatre-making
 of Pinchbeck (Michael Pinchbeck) and Westerside (with Proto-Type Theatre) has been
 recognised in British Council showcases. By way of orienting our PaR philosophy, we
 collaborated with College colleagues in hosting two symposia (“The Impossible Constellation”,
 2014; and the “Academic Book of the Future”-funded “[Im]Possible Constellations”, 2015). We
 celebrated our first PaR PhD in 2015 with Dunne, now appointed at University of London;
 current PaR dovetails with musical theatre (Langabeer).

 Research activity in Music/Musical Theatre is evidenced in two monographs by Symonds (We’ll
 Have Manhattan; Broadway Rhythm), who also edits Studies in Musical Theatre and
 coordinates the international conference series Song, Stage and Screen. His focus on Broadway
 is complemented by wider research encompassing cultural history, ethnography, and PaR,
 incorporating Balosso-Bardin’s ethnographic studies
 of Mediterranean traditions, Scheuregger’s analysis and composition of fragmented music,
 and Dean’s cultural histories of popular music. These colleagues work together (and with
 others), enabling the area to become overtly collaborative and interdisciplinary, as indicated
 by Symonds’ collaborations with Savage on the monographs Economies of Collaboration in
 Performance (2018) and Ecologies of Community in Performance (forthcoming). Ongoing work
 with intercultural communities (“Welcoming Voices”, an ethnographic study of Eastern European
 migration and music; “Hidden Gems”, a series of events promoting Eastern European, Middle
 Eastern and SE Asian culture) consolidates this area’s dialogue with other research strands;
 and various colleagues in those strands have also published on musical theatre
 (Jones (submitted to UoA27), O’Thomas, Savage). The UoL funded Rush’s PhD in musical
 theatre (now appointed at Winchester), while current study brings PaR to
 interrogate megamusical performance paradigms (Langabeer), and gender to explore Country
 Music (Atkinson). Meanwhile, strong links with Lincoln Cathedral choir and the extensive
 Cathedral archive promise significant research opportunities in liturgical and sacred music, PhD
 scholarships, and a significant civic partnership as the area expands.

 Intercultural performance is explored by Breed (monograph: Performing the Nation; edited
 collections: Performance and Civic Engagement; Creating Culture in (Post) Socialist Central
 Asia; and The Routledge Companion to Applied Performance (two volumes)), Nair (edited
 collection: The Natyasastra and the Body in Performance) and Madhavan (edited
 collections: Women in Asian Theatre; Women in Indian Performance; Women in Asian
 Performance), and in Nair’s editorship of Indian Theatre Journal. A focus on post-conflict
 resolution stems from Breed’s applied work in international conflict areas, and resonates
 with our work on “Performance as Commemoration” (see section
 1.4), synthesizing several methodologies (applied; ethnographic; PaR) in an indication of our
 holistic approach. Breed’s appointment not only provided leadership in this area, but also
 enabled impact to become central to our research practices. Her four-year project “Mobile Arts
 for Peace (MAP): Informing the National Curriculum and Youth Policy for Peacebuilding in
 Kyrgyzstan, Rwanda, Indonesia and Nepal” (AHRC GCRF Network
 Plus, awarded £1.86m) involves two current PhDs (Smirnova, Puspita). She has also been co-
 investigator of the AHRC GCRF Network Plus project, “Changing the Story”, leading the
 Rwandan strand “Building Inclusive Societies” (£30,012), and being awarded follow-on funding
 as PI for “Ubwuzu: Shaping the Rwandan National Curriculum through the Arts in

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rwanda” (£86,299.20); a Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF) Development Award
 (£53,747); and a GCRF Inception Award (£88,456). Nair also contributes to “Changing the
 Story”, benefitting from its GCRF funding for “Tribal Education Methodology”
 (TEM) (awarded £91,973.46), with young communities in Kerala. This strand also has synergy
 with Balosso-Bardin’s ethnomusicology, and with community-building research
 events involving Eastern European, Middle Eastern, and SE Asian communities (“Welcoming
 Voices”; “Hidden Gems”, previously mentioned). PhD research into “24 Festival Drumming”,
 jointly supervised by intercultural performance and music colleagues, led to Xiao’s completion in
 2020.

 The distinct identity of these strands stems from our establishment of research groups in
 2013. Each was tasked with preparing a major funding bid, raising PhD numbers, and hosting
 conferences.

 We have substantially raised PhD numbers (from 1 completion for REF2014 to 5 for REF2021).
 This has been achieved through a combination of developing Masters programmes as
 springboards to PhD, internal studentships, and growing international reputation. International
 profile in eg contemporary theatre-making, musical theatre, and conflict resolution have led to
 new PhD students, of which our UoA currently has 8 (from a total of 12 in the school).

 To maximise visibility, we have hosted 13 conferences/symposia during the
 period, including “Performing Science: Dialogues Across Culture” (2014); “The Impossible
 Constellation: Practice-Led Research” (2014); “Embodied Knowledge: Training & Performance
 Practice” (Asian Performance Conference, 2016); “Rural Artistic Diversity: A Lincolnshire Case
 Study” (2016); “Welcoming Voices” (2016); “Staging Loss: Performance as Commemoration”
 (2016); “Provocative Pedagogies” (2017); “Regions, Ruins and Regeneration” (ISTR,
 2018); “Performance and Conflict” (2019); “Ethnomusicology and music enterprise in
 catastrophic times” (British Forum for Ethnomusicology, online, 2020); and four iterations
 of Bolton’s International Playwriting series (focusing on David Greig, 2014; debbie tucker green,
 2015; Dennis Kelly, 2017; and Zinnie Harris, 2019). As a direct result of these, colleagues have
 produced three edited collections (Staging Loss; David Greig; debbie tucker green), one report
 (“Rural Artistic Diversity”), and attracted external funding (“Welcoming Voices”, £20,000).

 We have further internationalised our profile through enhancing a) the quality of publications, b)
 strategic recruitment, c) targeted funding, and d) international networks (key aims identified in
 our REF2014 submission). These processes have been assisted by training and mentorship
 from our senior team (DoR Symonds; Impact Lead Breed; Research Lead Westerside).

 EDI has been key to our strategy—largely because of systemic diversity challenges within the
 region. This has been assisted not only by Breed’s recruitment, expanding the visibility of our
 diversity work, but also by the ACE-funded “Lincolnshire Diversity in the Arts” (Nair, Madhavan,
 £37,083); research into migration in “Welcoming Voices” (Symonds, Dean,
 £20,000); cultural outreach (“Hidden Gems”, Balosso-Bardin); and successful diversity-related
 bids to the AHRC (“MAP”, “TEM”, see above).


 1.3 Research strategy for next five years
 Our aim for the forthcoming cycle is to consolidate
 our Interdisciplinarity, Collaboration and Internationalisation. These dynamics reflect a
 focus on impact and our commitment to collaborative practices, situating UoL at the centre of
 regional, national and international communities, and responding to its ethos of “local to global”.

 Our strategy for achieving this aim consists of five approaches:

 1). To build on our strength in core areas of world-leading or international excellence.
 We will do this by using internal mobility funding to reach out to international partners,


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 targeting network funding to mount international projects focusing on existing core areas, and by
 recruiting colleagues strategically to maximise strengths in contemporary theatre, intercultural
 performance, and music/musical theatre.

 This strategy builds on the model of Breed’s “MAP” work, developing from applied work in one
 area of Rwanda, then engaging in the international networking project “Changing the Story” to
 expand across the rest of Rwanda, and developing to Nepal, Krygyzstan and Indonesia through
 a £1.86m AHRC grant. This funding has enabled postdocs and PhD students to
 be recruited (also contributing to teaching), while Breed has mentored other colleagues to adopt
 similar strategic trajectories.

 For example, Nair has developed a project in India (“TEM”), attracting £91,973.46. As a direct
 result of this he will oversee “Changing the Story”’s Consolidated Learning programme for SE
 Asia, Cambodia, Malaysia, Nepal, and India. This will develop a critical review (2022), briefings
 for non-academic stakeholders (2022), and a public dissemination event (2023), further raising
 the international profile of our “Intercultural Performance” area.

 2). To promote interdisciplinary research as a driver of long-term research sustainability.
 We will do this by working with College and UoL structures like the Centre for Culture and
 Creativity (C4CC) and Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS); by responding to UKRI
 priorities; by building networks internationally across interdisciplinary areas; and by expanding
 applied, ethnographic and PaR methodologies.

 Savage and Symonds’ explorations of interdisciplinarity and collaboration in Economies of
 Collaboration and Ecologies of Community both reflect and inform our practices.

 For example, colleagues have already established interdisciplinary groups “Lincoln Games
 Research Network” (Westerside, with Computer Science), “Justice, the Arts and Migration”
 (Symonds, with Media, Law, and colleagues in Hong Kong, Taiwan, etc.), and “The Glass
 Armonica” (Balosso-Bardin, Scheuregger, Dean, with Life Sciences, Engineering, Computer
 Science, with the Sorbonne and Chile) (see 1.6 below).

 We will build on these projects through UoL’s international
 fellowship scheme and targeted funding initiatives to establish focused centres of
 interdisciplinary excellence, seeking thematic PhD recruitment, postdoctoral capacity, and centre
 heads at professorial level.

 3). To build collaborative research expertise through group-driven initiatives.
 We will do this by supporting research groups to focus on collaborative projects; by fostering
 networks through hosting conferences; and by consolidating the role of PaR within the school
 (resourcing R&D; targeting ACE funding).

 Leadership in collaboration is strengthened by the expertise of Savage (HoS)
 and Symonds (DoR) and their publications mentioned above. Further to this,
 the UoL’s development of six collaborative networks in response to the United Nations’
 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) offers institutional support to extend
 partnerships. UoA colleagues lead the steering committees of three of these networks
 (“Communities”: Symonds, Balosso-Bardin; “Health and Wellbeing”: Dean;
 “Digitalisation”: Savage, Breed), and are proactively driving this initiative forward with targeted
 aims.

 For example, the “Communities” group has a forthcoming conference (June 2021), aimed at
 spawning a set of outcomes (edited collection, report, public event, outreach activities, 2022-23),
 and a focused three-year plan for external funding generation (2024).

 4). To develop our civic engagement through research responding to the needs of
 organisations and communities locally and regionally.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will do this by initiating/developing relationships with partners to identify needs and
 opportunities; by curating networking events with local stakeholders; and by emphasising the
 ambitions for impact outlined below (1.5).

 Leadership is provided through Breed’s expertise (Performance and Civic Engagement, 2018).
 We will maximise our links with the C4CC, and with regional community arts organisations
 like Transported, Lincolnshire One Venues, and Mansions of the Future, to further civic
 engagement possibilities.

 For example, Breed has initiated a series of Civic University and Pipeline Mentoring events
 involving both colleagues and external stakeholders. These are aimed at amplifying research
 and practice to promote civic engagement; identifying and coordinating School, College and
 University partnerships; developing long-term engagement strategies across the sector;
 identifying the needs of user groups to ensure that activities serve communities; and aligning
 with service providers.

 The UoL prides its Civic University status, and the role of our departmental building, Lincoln
 Performing Arts Centre (LPAC), enables community groups to access one of Lincoln’s primary
 cultural spaces. A growing partnership between our music area and Lincoln Cathedral seeks to
 expand existing relationships with the Cathedral choir, and established research in the School of
 History and Heritage. We intend to build this area through targeting specific funders
 to support jointly supervised PGRs (eg St. Matthias Trust).

 5). To boost the vitality of our research culture by embedding research at all levels.
 We will do this by raising PG numbers through Masters programmes, internal studentships,
 Collaborative Doctoral Award possibilities, and PhD strands within externally-funded research
 projects.

 Throughout the current cycle we have established M-level programmes
 (specifically, MRes Performing Arts, but also MAs in Theatre, Music, and Theatre for Young
 Audiences) as pathways to PGR study. Our goal is to raise PhD completions from an existing
 level of around 1pa (5 in this period) to between 1-2pa (10-15 for REF2026). 8 students are
 currently enrolled in the UoA.

 We strongly encourage a holistic trajectory of enquiry from undergraduates to professors, and
 we have promoted research principles throughout our programmes to embed enquiry not only in
 research, but also in pedagogic and practical activities. We are supported by UoL’s “Student as
 Producer” initiative, and “Undergraduate Research Opportunities Scheme” (UROS), an annual
 award of 20 £1000 stipends that enable student-staff research projects.

 Our ongoing support for graduates (space, resources, mentorship, and technical support for
 graduate theatre-makers, musicians, dancers, etc.) enables R&D opportunities within the school
 ecosystem.


 In order to maximise the efficacy of these five approaches, we will invest strategically through
 mentoring, financing, and recruitment:

 • boosting support for staff at all levels with three- and five-year individual research
 plans (IRPs) specifying output, EIG and impact targets. These will be guided by our strategy of
 incremental development outlined below (2.2).
     o (goals: 2 x internationally excellent outputs, 2 x funding bid submissions (small/medium
         or medium/large), and 1 x impact-driven research project for all Category A staff);

 • using internal mobility funding from LIAS to build collaborative networks which lead to larger
 external funding generation.
     o (goal: triple HESA income from £184k to £500k during cycle);

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 • targeting Collaborative Doctoral Awards and work with partner organisations (for example,
 Lincoln Cathedral) to enhance PhD recruitment.
     o (goal: increase completions from 5 to 10-15 during cycle).


 1.4 Achievement of impact strategy
 Our impact is measured in terms of direct, hard, indirect, and tacit results:

    o   a). ‘Direct’ impact caused by actual intervention (“Changing the Story”; “MAP”; “TEM”);

    o   b). ‘Hard’ impact demonstrable in statistics, facts and figures (“Lincolnshire Diversity in
        the Arts”; “MAP”; “TEM”);

    o   c). ‘Indirect’ impact (research transfer/training/charity) allowing second generation
        intervention with communities (“Performance as Commemoration”; “The Ravel Trilogy”);

    o   d). ‘Tacit’ impact raising awareness, connecting communities, sustaining culture and
        sharing knowledge (“Welcoming Voices”; “Hidden Gems”).

 In order to maximise impact, we identified communities and stakeholders (eg, migrant
 populations; local and national governments: “Welcoming Voices”); embraced applied and
 participatory methodologies (eg, ethnographic and action research: “MAP”; “TEM”));
 and delivered alternative research outputs (eg, public poster events; informational films; reports:
 “Lincolnshire Diversity in the Arts”).

 We secured £48,785 of internal funding through UoL’s Research Investment Fund (RIF) to seed
 applied research projects with target communities, and then used external funding to carry them
 out (see for example “Welcoming Voices” below); we maximised our public-facing PaR through
 relationships with local communities, local and regional government, and organisations; and
 made use of public-facing resources (eg, LPAC) to offer access, training, workshops, and
 community events as part of rounded research initiatives.

 Our Impact Case Studies focus on Breed’s work in conflict resolution (“Changing the Story”;
 “MAP”), which has led to educational policy change in Rwanda and elsewhere; and
 on Pinchbeck’s PaR work “The Ravel Trilogy”, which has transformed young people’s lives
 through developing youth theatres in former Yugoslavia.

 A number of other projects have delivered significant impact:

    o   “Welcoming Voices” (Symonds, Dean) worked not only with Lincoln-based local
        government, NGOs (cultural solutions uk), and arts organisations to establish greater
        access to music and arts for migrant communities, but also with colleagues
        from Vytautas Magnus University (Lithuania), Riga Stradins University (Latvia) and the
        University of Warsaw (Poland). This project was seeded by RIF (£6371), leading
        to Heritage Lottery funding (£10,000) to conduct ethnographic research, and an Awards
        4 All grant (£10,000) enabling LPAC to facilitate training workshops, heritage trips, and
        performance events. It produced short videos and brochures on “Memory, Migration and
        Music” for public dissemination; and led to three “Hidden Gems” world music
        events which brought Eastern European, Middle Eastern, and SE Asian populations into
        LPAC (Balosso-Bardin), supported by PEARL (Public Engagement for All with
        Research at Lincoln) and Being Human. Subsequently, this initiative became part of an
        extended international network, “Justice, The Arts and Migration”, see below.

    o   Lincolnshire Diversity in the Arts: Research and Development (Nair, Madhavan)
        partnered with Tara Arts, Lincoln Folk Society, local government, and cultural
        organisations to explore diversity. It mounted a tour of the theatrical

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        production Charandas Chor while conducting community meetings with constituencies
        about diversity and the arts in rural Lincolnshire.

    o   Performance as Commemoration (Westerside, Lawrence), a long-term project with the
        RAF and the BBC, engaged local communities with WWI and WWII commemorations by
        creating site-specific performances and radio dramas, including Leaving Home (2014)
        with the villagers of Friesthorpe (securing funds to restore the church’s bell tower); the
        opening celebrations of the International Bomber Command Memorial and Chadwick
        Visitor Centre (2015 and 2018); and Fallen (2016), commemorating the Battle of The
        Somme with the Royal Anglian Regiment and Lincoln Castle.

    o   “Justice, The Arts and Migration” (Symonds) is an interdisciplinary project focused on
        refugees, forced migration and detention. It derives from the LIAS-funded visit of
        Professor John Erni (Hong Kong Baptist University) to UoL in 2018 and has led to
        workshop and public engagement events with arts groups and diasporic communities
        in Lincoln, Canning Town and Hong Kong. Its community activities in Lincoln are
        delivered through the arts hub Mansions of the Future, and are supported by the C4CC.

    o   “Hidden Gems” (Balosso-Bardin) has celebrated the music and culture of diasporic
        communities from Eastern Europe (2017), the Middle East (2019), and SE Asia
        (2019), working with 21 external partners (14 from Lincolnshire, 7 from beyond) and 6
        different UoL departments.

 1.5 Impact strategy for next five years
 Building on our understanding and experience of impact-led projects, we will cascade impact
 expertise to colleagues through SMART workshops (initiated by Symonds and Breed in 2018),
 embedding impactful research into interdisciplinary, collaborative, civic, and community
 engagements. Our commitment to impact will be led by the principle of research
 becoming increasingly interdisciplinary and collaborative, by UoL’s Civic University status, and
 by nurturing established community links (see section 4).

 We will continue to measure impact according to our four categories: Direct, Hard, Indirect, and
 Tacit.


 1.6 Approach to interdisciplinary research
 The make-up of our school is inherently interdisciplinary, driving its approach to research.
 Increasingly, performance is recognised as a significant way of understanding other fields,
 making our expertise valuable to researchers across disciplines, and enabling an
 interdisciplinary expansion of research.

 The inception of collaborative networks responding to UN SDGs has created six interdisciplinary
 groups, three of which we have identified to guide our UoA’s research (“Communities”, “Health
 and Wellbeing”, “Digitalisation”). Steering groups have been formed (involving Symonds,
 Balosso-Bardin, Dean, Breed), terms of reference are being drafted, and initial projects
 benefitting from internal funding throughout 2020-21 are in plan to supercharge engagement
 across the university with these agendas beyond 2021.

 Meanwhile, existing interdisciplinary connections with
 other UoL departments include “Contemporary Playwriting” (with English), “Performance as
 Commemoration” (with History and Heritage), Gothic Theatre (with English), Migration (with Film
 and Media, Law), Gaming (with Computer Science and others), the Body (with Sports Science),
 and local civic engagement (with Heritage). Such partnerships have generated a wealth of
 collaborative projects, including conferences (such as the “International Playwriting”), networks
 (“Lincoln Games Research Network”; “Justice, the Arts and Migration”), public events
 (“Lincolnshire Diversity in the Arts”; “Hidden Gems”) and edited collections (on Staging


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Loss; Contemporary Gothic Theatre; David Greig; debbie tucker green; and Public Engagement
 with Heritage).

 For example,

    o   “Lincoln Games Research Network” involves colleagues from computer
        science, psychology, media studies and design, exploring ways in which the affective
        qualities of games are determined by a dialogic relationship between player and
        game; Westerside brings the insights of a performance scholar to understand that
        relationship as performance.

    o   “The Glass Armonica” involves life sciences, engineering, computer science,
        and performing arts (Balosso-Bardin, Scheuregger, Dean), and collaborates with
        Sorbonne Université and Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile. The project is
        designing an instrument based on the eighteenth-century glass armonica, tying in its
        local association with Doddington Hall, and testing its physical qualities through
        composition and performance.


 1.7 Progress towards open research
 We are committed to enabling open access. The Lincoln Repository, which houses bibliographic
 details of all research projects and outputs, provides curated open access consistent with REF
 protocols yet responsive to publishers’ embargo periods. In collaboration with the UoL’s Open
 Data Working Group and our commitment to DORA (see REF5a), we have made available key
 datasets in the institutional repository, including:

    o   “Memory, Migration and Music: Oral Histories from Lincolnshire's Eastern European
        migrant population” (Symonds, 2016-18);
    o    “The role of the written element in composition PhDs in the UK: qualitative and
        quantitative survey data” (Scheuregger, 2016, included in this submission).


 1.8 Research integrity
 As a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, UoL provides a robust framework
 for ethics approval, operated by the Lincoln Ethics Application System
 (LEAS). Two LSFPA colleagues act as Ethics champions (Breed, O’Gorman). Research
 projects are scrutinized through UoL’s Awards Management System (AMS) and formal internal
 peer review. Pre-submission approval is required from both the HoS and the Director of the
 Research Office. Data management is secured through password-protected servers
 and centrally-provided maintenance (overseen by UoL’s Data Management
 Committee, with Symonds as CoA representative).

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 UoL’s strategy for REF2014 was to boost early career research, providing LSFPA with an
 enthusiastic young team abreast of latest developments. This enabled us to nuance towards
 more contemporary research and practice: from drama to performance; from playwriting to
 theatre-making; from produced to co-produced; and from individual practice to collaboration.
 This shift was fundamental to rewriting our UG Drama programme (2015), and is articulated in
 the dialogue between practice and theory that is so pronounced in our school: theatre-making is
 also theatre-thinking; contemporary performance is also embodied discourse; community
 engagement is also political performance.

 These ECRs and practitioners are now mid-career, and have
 influenced our UoA’s trajectory (eg, Westerside and Pinchbeck’s PaR, evidenced in this
 submission). Testifying to the influence of their contemporary thinking and doing, our ethos
 embraces several research strands with a holistic vision, our work champions interdisciplinarity

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and collaboration, and we have turned demonstrably towards more applied, ethnographic
 and PaR approaches.

 Since 2014, we have recruited or promoted staff to senior positions to provide contemporary
 strategic thinking and mentorship. Savage became HoS in 2016, Symonds was promoted to
 Professor in 2017, and Westerside, Dean, and Pinchbeck became Associate Professors in
 2019. All of these have an interdisciplinary background, and research profiles encompassing
 both practical and theoretical work. Meanwhile, UoL’s staff investment for new colleagues within
 this cycle has been £481,242. New arrivals reflect all levels of experience, including senior
 researchers with world-leading profiles to provide impact and civic engagement
 expertise (Breed: post-conflict reconciliation); mid-career researchers to internationalise our
 profile (Scheer: Contemporary German theatre; O’Gorman: Irish theatre); and ECRs to
 establish our Music area (Scheuregger; Balosso-Bardin, both professional
 musicians/composers).

 Alongside research, colleagues are recognised for discipline excellence,
 emphasising our commitment to the practical, technique-based demands of research
 methodologies, and recognising an arts landscape in which innovation and
 discovery are underpinned by discipline expertise (and vice versa). Colleagues juggle
 institutional and sectoral expectations from HE with industry demands, professional recognition,
 and ACE-funded portfolios: they are not only researchers, but also practitioners.

 This is something that our research engages with whether or not it is driven by people who self-
 identify as practitioners, and whether or not the work is done
 with practitioners, artists, audiences, or communities. Without such critical and creative praxis,
 the ACE-funded PaR of Pinchbeck (“The Ravel Trilogy”) and Westerside (“A Machine They’re
 Secretly Building”; “The Audit”) would not be possible; but nor would the AHRC-funded action
 research of Breed with communities in Rwanda (“MAP”), or the interdisciplinary collaborations
 of Balosso-Bardin (“Secret of the Bagpipes”) and Scheuregger (“Glass Armonica”)
 with acoustic scientists and engineers.

 2.2 Staff Development
 LSFPA’s research is overseen by a Director (Symonds) and supported by a dedicated
 Research Lead (Westerside) and Impact Lead (Breed). Alongside the HoS these
 colleagues coordinate our Independent Research Plan (IRP) process, deliver workshops in
 research skills and EIG, and steer the strategic development of the school’s research profile.

 IRPs enable bespoke training to target specific needs, such as SMART research workshops on
 “Reading”, “Writing”, “Bid-Writing”, “Time Management” and “Career Development”; and training
 on “PaR”, “Research in Music”, “Generating Internationally Excellent Research Outputs”,
 “Publishing”, “Archival Research”, “Impact”, and “Peer Review”. Dedicated events in September,
 January, and June provide focused development incorporating workshops, guest speakers,
 strategic planning, and analysis.

 All colleagues are allocated a weekly research day (222 hours pa); teaching allocations are
 balanced to accommodate research demands by weighting semesters as appropriate; and
 curriculum allocation is symbiotic with research expertise (research-led teaching), inviting staff
 projects to drive “Specialist Electives” at levels 5 and 6. A research leave scheme is operated by
 the College, offering semester-long opportunities competitively. Within this
 cycle, eight colleagues benefitted from this, contributing to an increase in monographs and
 edited publications (enabling Savage & Symonds to complete Economies of Collaboration in
 Performance (submitted within this REF); Pinchbeck & Westerside to complete their edited
 collection Staging Loss (also submitted); Madhavan to complete her collection Women in Asian
 Performance (also submitted); Bolton to complete The Theatre of Simon
 Stephens (forthcoming 2021), O’Gorman to develop Theatre, Performance and
 Design (forthcoming 2021); Savage to prepare the IFTR working group collection Avatars,


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Activism & Postdigital Performance (forthcoming 2021); and Hudson (UoA27) to
 develop Contemporary British Theatre and Reactionary Ideology (forthcoming 2022).

 With the rise in PGR completions, we have also increased the number of colleagues who have
 supervised to completion, creating opportunities for ECRs to supervise research mentored by
 the DoS.

 From 2011 LSFPA has hosted the seminar series “Critical Encounters”. Recent speakers
 include academics and artists Terry O’Connor, Peter Boenisch, Aoife Monks, Andy Smith,
 Andrew Poppy and Owl Project. Termly events also offer the opportunity for LSFPA staff to
 share research.

 Funding bid support provides feedback as part of a peer review process; and our mock-REF
 provides developmental feedback. Alongside the support available to all staff, ECRs are
 allocated a research mentor, and offered specific training opportunities by the central Research
 Office. Career progression is facilitated by an annual round of promotion.

 Lincoln Performing Arts Centre’s R&D initiatives (such as “Newvolutions”, providing space,
 funding, technical resources, and “scratch” opportunities) are fundamental to the success of
 our PaR projects. The work of Proto-Type Theater (Westerside), for example, has been
 developed through Newvolutions before securing ACE funding and being selected for the British
 Council Showcase at the Edinburgh Festival.

 Staff development for publication
 The approach to strengthening publications involves junior colleagues producing short outputs
 (chapters; articles) with feedback from more experienced colleagues; mid-career colleagues
 proceeding to research-leadership projects (edited collections; special issues) mentored by
 senior researchers; and senior colleagues developing monograph publications supported by
 research leave provision.

 Output at each level has increased significantly:

    •   book chapters and journal articles have proliferated, reflecting the success of the first
        level of this approach;
    •   a growth in edited collections by mid-career researchers (from 2 between 2008-2014
        to 9 between 2014-2021) reflects the second stage (Bolton’s CTR special issue,
        and debbie tucker green collection; Madhavan’s Women in Asian Performance, and
        special issues for Asian Theatre Journal and Samyukta; Jones and Dean’s
        collection Contemporary Gothic Drama; Nair’s collection The Natyasastra and the Body
        in Performance; Pinchbeck & Westerside’s collection Staging Loss;
        and O’Gorman’s Devised Performance in Irish Theatre;
    •   monographs by senior researchers (from 3 between 2008-2014 to 7 between 2014-2021)
        reflect the culmination of this strategy: Bull (British Theatre Companies 1965-
        1979), O’Thomas (Royal Court International), Savage & Symonds (Economies of
        Collaboration in Performance), Symonds (We’ll Have Manhattan; Broadway
        Rhythm), Breed (Performing the Nation), and Scheer (Christoph Schlingensief).

 Staff development for EIG
 The approach to EIG has involved a similar incremental process. We encouraged a bidding
 strategy based on incrementally enlarging bids.

 An example of successful upscaling is seen in supporting Nair to augment previous small-scale
 funding (Leverhulme £10,406, 2011) by securing medium-scale grants (for “Lincolnshire
 Diversity in the Arts”, ACE, £37,083, 2016) and subsequently larger funds through the “Changing
 the Story” GCRF hub (“TEM”, awarded £91,973.46, 2019).



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also instituted “Critical Friend” support, enabling drafts to be iteratively revised; took
 advantage of UoL seed-funding initiatives (RIF) to build potential projects (eg, “Welcoming
 Voices”); and supported these processes with regular workshops complementing institutional
 training. We work closely with the Research Office who assist on budget preparation and non-
 disciplinary peer review. This has improved our ability to identify opportunities, transformed the
 quality of bids, and fostered a more strategic conceptualisation of research. For large-scale
 funding bids, we have organised mock interview panels to prepare colleagues for subsequent
 interviews by eg. ERC/AHRC (O’Thomas; Breed).

 This strategy led to significant success, increasing our HESA-recognised external funding by
 190% since REF2014 (from £63,601 to £184,191); additional income not yet registering through
 HESA totals around £2.5m (see section 3.1), demonstrating our upward trajectory.
 Alongside UKRI opportunities, we continue to access ACE and other funds, particularly for PaR,
 attracting a total of £384,494.

 The CoA supports research through its Research Resources Allocation Fund (RRAF) three
 times yearly. From 2014-2020, UoA33 colleagues received £60,733 through this
 scheme. The competitive two-stage application involves school and college approval, aligns with
 IRPs and the school’s research strategy, and mimics external funding processes. It supports a
 variety of activities (conference travel; archival visits; field research; network-building aimed at
 large grant capture; pump-priming). This has enhanced individual research, encouraged grant
 applications, and supported internationalisation and dissemination. A parallel fund is available
 for PGRs.

 The UoL supports research through its Research Investment Fund (RIF), which between 2013-
 2016 provided £500,000 pa competitively. During this period, UoA33 had four successful
 applications, enabling £48,785 of pump-priming for two subsequent UKRC bids: “Welcoming
 Voices” (Symonds, Dean), seeded with £6371, then received £20,000 from HLF and Awards 4
 All; “The British Council” (Bolton; Hudson), seeded with £5014, enabled a collaboration with
 colleagues in Durham and Birmingham on a £774,554 AHRC bid. A further £5000
 was invested in our UoA’s research groups in order to build research. This enabled external
 advice about EIG; networking with other universities on major funding bids (eg, “The British
 Council”; “Welcoming Voices”, above); and visiting speakers for our research seminars “Critical
 Encounters”.

 Colleagues have benefited from the support of the Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies
 (LIAS) (see REF5a). Its competitive internal funding for visiting fellowship schemes (enabling the
 visit of Erni, see “Justice, the Arts, and Migration”, section 1.4), mobility grants for overseas
 networking, and focused research development activities. During this
 period, five UoA colleagues received mobility funding totalling £4517.74,
 including ECR Balosso-Bardin whose 2018 grant enabled her to establish a
 network with Sorbonne Université, initiating a number of projects, and leading to UoL hosting the
 British Forum for Ethnomusicology conference in 2020.


 Staff development for Impact
 Our UoA has provided an ambassadorial role in steering Impact within the
 university. Symonds established the CoA Impact Focus Group in 2013 to develop a strategic
 approach towards impact literacy. This enabled us to conceptualize Impact; understand it
 through participation at national events; analyse it from REF2014 case studies; and cascade
 training to colleagues through SMART workshops. The school also allocated
 dedicated workloading to support impact development, and made a targeted professorial
 appointment in recruiting Breed as Impact Lead, who has not only developed her own impact-
 driven research (“MAP”), but has mentored colleagues to successful projects (eg, Nair, “TEM”).

 The College recruited two Impact Support Administrators to oversee the processing of impact at
 a local level. Meanwhile, UoL’s Professor for the Public Understanding of Research, based in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our College, has led approaches to outward-facing research through PEARL (Public
 Engagement for All with Research at Lincoln), which offers internal grants and awards;
 the UoL’s role as one of five 2019 hubs for the national outreach festival “Being
 Human” coordinated regional activity and enabled support for civic engagement projects such
 as “Hidden Gems” (Jan 2017; Jan 2019; Nov 2019).

 The University formed the Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute in 2018, appointing a dedicated
 Director of Research Impact Development and providing budgetary resources for impact
 gathering.



 2.3 Support for PGR students
 Our UoA has seen a significant rise in PhD completions in this cycle, with 5 (compared to 1 in
 2008-2014). These aligned with staff interests in contemporary theatre-making (Holden; Healy);
 musical theatre (Rush); site-specific PaR (Dunne); and ethnomusicology (Xiao).
 Three received RIF studentships (Healy, Rush, Holden), while four subsequently secured jobs
 in UKHEIs (Holden, Greenwich; Rush, Winchester; Dunne, City, and Healy, UoL). During his
 studies, Rush also established the Postgraduate Network in Musical Theatre to support fellow
 PGRs across the UK.

 All PGR students are allocated a supervisory team of three (Director of Studies plus two
 supervisors). Supervisors undergo mandatory training. Supervisory meetings are
 held monthly, with written reports submitted to the College Research Degrees Board. PGRs
 have 24/7 access to facilities and are supported by the Doctoral School’s Researcher
 Development Programme, whose workshops respond to needs identified
 in annual reviews. Internal funding, through the PG RRAF, is available to support
 research and/or conference attendance. PGRs are offered opportunities to teach at UG and
 MA level, and to present research in a number of contexts: through our Critical
 Encounters seminar series; our monthly PG forum (“Tower Talks”); the annual CoA PG
 Research Day; and the UoL’s annual PGR Showcase.


 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 In contrast to a 2014 profile which had an entirely male senior team, our current school
 exec respects a gender balance of 50/50: the HoS (Savage), Director of Teaching and Learning
 (Scheer) and Impact Lead (Breed) are female; our DoR (Symonds), Research Lead
 (Westerside) and Deputy HoS (Lawrence, relocated 2021) are male. Our REF submission
 profile is split 58.3% female / 41.7% male, and reflects a 25% BAME staff base. 71.4% of our
 Grade 7-8 colleagues and 66.7% of SMG 1-2 colleagues are female, and 28.6% / 33.3% BAME.

 Recent recruitment includes Gowland, who specializes in Queer Theory and
 sexuality, contributing to Mercury Musical Developments’ MTPride panel on LGBTQ+
 representation in musical theatre (2020).

 A number of staff have caring responsibilities for children, parents or partners; we support these
 individuals to continue teaching and research beyond what is expected by the university; the
 university has a strong return-to-work scheme for maternity cover, and in our school we have
 provided additional workload time, enhanced compassionat
 leave, telephone/Skype mentorship for colleagues with access challenges.

 We have enabled flexible retirement opportunities, working hours, job shares, and
 negotiated contracts for colleagues; we have proactively assisted younger colleagues to benefit
 from developmental responsibilities; we have facilitated access solutions for staff and students
 with disability; and we have worked across the school to support those undergoing gender
 transition and reassignment.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoL’s Eleanor Glanville Centre promotes inclusivity across the University, notably through
 “Inclusion Matters” (ESPRC ASPIRE) (school rep: Madhavan). Meanwhile, LSFPA’s Athena
 Swan Self-Evaluation Team (ASSET) convenes to monitor EDI implementation, with eight
 members including a Chair (Nair) Vice-Chair (Breed) and representation from
 the HoS (Savage), admin staff, and students. It reports to the school executive
 committee. As of March 2021 the school is preparing for Athena Swan Bronze Award status.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 HESA-recognised research income has increased significantly from £63,601 in the
 previous REF period to £184,191.23 currently (a 190% rise). This
 reflects the sustained development of our strategic planning for EIG, underpinned
 by College and University infrastructural support.

 The increase in successful bids shows momentum into the next cycle with significant funds not
 reflected in current HESA figures. Major grants awarded to Breed include £1.86m for “MAP”
 (2020-24); £86,299.20 for “Ubwuzu”; £30,012 for “Building Inclusive Societies” (“Changing the
 Story”); and GCRF Development and Inception Awards of £53,747 and £88,456 respectively. In
 addition, demonstrating sustainability and deepening impact, Breed is PI of the GCRF Newton
 Fund Agile Response project “MAP at Home: psychosocial support through the arts in Rwanda”
 (recently awarded £469,829.80). Both “MAP” and “Changing the Story” operate as grants hubs
 to fund other impact-driven research projects: “MAP” allocates funds of almost £1m to selected
 projects in Rwanda, Nepal, Kyrgyrstan, and Indonesia. Meanwhile, Nair has
 secured £91,973.46 for “TEM” (AHRC GCRF); and £37,083 for “Lincolnshire Diversity in
 the Arts” (ACE); Symonds received £20,000 for “Welcoming
 Voices” (£10,000 HLF, £10,000 Awards 4 All).

 Funding from non-HESA sources
 (principally ACE) significantly contributes to PaR: Pinchbeck has generated over £145,000 in
 ACE funding since 2014; and Westerside has brought in £168,576, plus financial support
 from the BBC and British Council; Scheuregger received £13,835 for
 “Mechanical Asynchronicity”. Such income ensures the visibility of our research beyond the
 academy and attests to both industry practice and public engagement.

 Current staff have also won smaller awards from organizations including the St. Hugh’s
 Foundation for the Arts, STR, the British Forum for Ethnomusicology and the Institute for Musical
 Research.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The UoA develops research in two main buildings: Lincoln Performing Arts Centre (LPAC),
 which houses Theatre and Technical Production programmes, and the Alfred Tennyson
 Building, accommodating Music and Dance. LPAC includes an adaptable 446 seat theatre with
 dressing rooms, green room and workshop, and four multipurpose studios
 equipped as performance spaces. Internal funding for equipment and facilities
 totalled £188,547 between 2016-20. Specialist technicians support staff and
 PhD PaR. LPAC also hosts conferences and symposia, as detailed above.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 We have promoted a culture of national and international projects, establishing strategic
 relationships for long-term collaborations. This formed the basis of our 2014 ESRC bid (with
 Leeds, Newcastle, RCSSD and Lancaster), “Economies of collaboration: understanding the
 impact of HE Performing Arts departments on Civil Society” (Symonds, Savage), and has
 driven our commitment to work with other institutions to triangulate regional, national and
 international concerns.

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The development of research groups, our regular conferences, and our curatorial work on edited
 collections has led to significant national and international collaborations:

    o   “MAP” (Breed) involves eight co-investigators from partnering organisations including
        Foundation for Tolerance International (Kyrgyzstan); Atma Jaya Catholic University
        (Indonesia); Tribuvan Univesity and Human Rights Film Centre (Nepal); University of
        Rwanda and the Institute of Research and Dialogue for Peace (IRDP); Open University
        and UCL, alongside 23 cultural and policy organisations including UNESCO.

    o   “Changing the Story: Building Inclusive Society with and for young people in Five Post-
        Conflict Countries” (AHRC, Breed) has not only worked with arts and humanitarian
        organisations in Rwanda, but also with colleagues in Leeds and Lincoln to generate
        GCRF projects.

    o   Breed has worked with 13 sub-editors and 110 individual contributors to compile The
        Routledge Companion to Applied Performance (two volumes) (2020): Australia and New
        Zealand (8); Eastern Europe (6); North America (17); Latin America (11); Southern Africa
        (10); Western Europe (11); Brazil (11) West Africa (7); South Asia (10); Arab World (2);
        UK (7); SE Asia (8).

    o   Breed is Cultural Arts and Humanities research group leader of the GCRF
        Network Building Cultures of Peace in Rwandan Schools. This is led by the University
        of East Anglia, University of Rwanda, and the Aegis Trust, in collaboration with Rwanda
        Arts Council, Partner in Education, Wellspring, Child Mental Health and Wellbeing, Sana
        Initiative, Rwanda Arts Council, Educational Consulting Success, Rwanda Management
        institute, American University in Nairobi, UCL, and Umubano Academy.

    o   Both Breed and Nair have engaged in AHRC and GCRF hosted webinars and research
        events (eg Praxis, Mideq Hub), speaking at Network Plus town hall
        meetings and hosting international webinars as part of “MAP” and “TEM”.

    o   “Welcoming Voices” (Symonds, Dean) worked with Polish, Latvian and Lithuanian
        migrant communities, arts organisations, and colleagues from Vytautas Magnus
        University (Lithuania), Riga Stradins University (Latvia) and the University of Warsaw
        (Poland). This accessed the LIAS visiting fellowship scheme to start a joint initiative
        between UoAs 33 and 34, hosting visiting fellow John Erni (HKBU), and developing the
        global network “Justice, the Arts and Migration” with further colleagues from Leeds,
        Sheffield, the University of Sydney, and Shih Hsin University (Taiwan).

    o   LIAS’s support of our partnership with Professor Benoit Fabre led to a research
        partnership with Sorbonne and the Universitat de les Illes Balears (Spain), and the
        hosting of the British Forum for Ethnomusicology’s conference in 2020.

    o   Our focus on Contemporary Theatre-Making (Bolton) developed a Contemporary
        Playwriting Network with colleagues from Greenwich, Loughborough and RHUL.

    o   Our focus in Musical Theatre (Symonds) is contributing to the AHRC-funded “Musical
        Theatre and All That Jazz” network with colleagues from Portsmouth,
        Wolverhampton, LMU Munich, and University of Missouri, Kansas City.

 Staff are also supported by internal funding to participate in networks, including the British
 Musical Theatre Research Institute; Harvard-Princeton Musical Theatre Forum; Melodrama
 Research Consortium; Societé Francaise d’Ethnomusicologie; International Council for
 Traditional Music; International Bagpipe Organisation; and periodic meetings
 of eg. SCUDD; IFTR; TaPRA; PSI; ISTR; IETM; MeCCSA, etc.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society
 The resonance of our research on society has been a guiding influence.

 PaR projects, principally the work of Pinchbeck exploring dramaturgical approaches to new
 theatre-making, and Westerside exploring practical methodologies for radical and resistance
 politics, have involved high-profile performances, augmented by research principles documented
 in critical playtexts, journal publications and/or chapters in edited collections.

 The inception of PEARL in 2017 (UKRI-funded) has encouraged research with impact through
 public events, awards and funding initiatives. UoA colleagues have been recognised
 with PEARL awards (Breed, 2019, Scheuregger 2019, Lawrence 2019) and commendations
 (Balosso-Bardin 2018) for public engagement.

    o   “Performance as Commemoration” collaborated with the RAF, the Royal Anglian
        Regiment, the Military Wives Choir, and the BBC (R3, R4, Look North, and Radio
        Lincolnshire), to create a series of commemorative films, theatre pieces and radio plays
        (including “Leaving Home”, “The Beecheys Reunited”, the “RAF 100” concert, and “In
        Their Name”, delivered at the official opening of the International Bomber Command
        Centre.
    o   “Hidden Gems” attracted new audiences and users to LPAC to celebrate Eastern
        European, Middle Eastern, and SE Asian cultures, attracting capacity audiences and 498
        first-time visitors to the venue over three events. These linked to the ongoing work of
        “Welcoming Voices”, enabling training provision for small-scale arts organisations
        (Boston Lithuanian Choir, Lincoln Polish Society, Art Ninjas), and heritage visits for
        migrant groups.
    o   “Justice, the Arts and Migration” has hosted a number of public facing events
        in Lincoln, Canning Town and Hong Kong, engaging with migrant groups, artists, and
        local communities.
    o   In 2017, members of the UoA demonstrated the Glass Armonica at the European
        Commission-funded Marie Curie festival of research, LiGHTS, intended to enthuse wider
        publics about research. Over 1000 schoolchildren from over 20 schools across
        Lincolnshire attended, along with local visitors of all ages.



    3. Wider contributions to research base

 Editorial positions include Symonds (Studies in Musical Theatre), Bolton (Studies in Theatre
 and Performance), Madhavan (Indian Theatre Journal), and Nair (Indian Theatre
 Journal). Symonds also edits the book series “Palgrave Studies in British Musical Theatre” and
 “Critical Perspectives in Musical Theatre” (OUP). During his PhD, Rush worked on the editorial
 board of Platform: Journal of Theatre and Performing Arts, and established the Postgraduate
 Network in Musical Theatre.

 Further colleagues have convened working groups for TAPRA (Madhavan), IFTR
 (Nair, Savage), and ISTR (O’Gorman). Staff peer review for publishers (OUP, CUP,
 Yale, Palgrave, Routledge, Bloomsbury, Intellect, Illinois), grants (AHRC), professorial and
 tenure appointments (East 15; Regents University, Duke University, University of Colorado), and
 REF preparation processes (Buckinghamshire New University; Winchester; Portsmouth), and
 have examined research degrees across the UK and internationally (Sheffield, Brighton,
 Guildhall School, Goldsmiths, Wolverhampton, Central European University, Murdoch
 University, Griffiths University, Monash University).

 Meanwhile, colleagues have been invited international speakers. A snapshot of appearances
 includes Symonds at the Oxford Literary Festival (2016), Ohio Light Opera Festival (2018), and
 ENO (2018, 2016); Breed’s lectures in Germany, Estonia, Canada, Sweden,


                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and online to Nepalese, Rwandan, and Kenyan audiences; Nair’s invitations to Bangkok and St
 Petersburg; and Balosso-Bardin’s lectures throughout Mallorca.

 Aside from home events, colleagues have organised conferences including “‘Britain’s
 Ambassadors’: The British Council 1939-1989” (Bolton: ICA, 2014), which led to a major AHRC
 funding bid; the Contemporary Drama in English Annual Conference, “Nation, Nationhood and
 Theatre” (Bull: Reading, 2017), whose proceedings were published in 2018; an “Asian
 Performance and Diaspora” round table (Nair: UEL, 2016); Indian Theatre special panels on
 “Embodiment” and “Taste” (Nair: IFTR 2015; IFTR 2016); “Where from here: 21 years of Third
 Angel” (Pinchbeck: Leeds Beckett, 2016); and the Royal Musical Association Study Day,
 “Keeping Time? New Approaches to Temporality” (Scheuregger: York, 2016).

 Organising committee positions include Balosso-Bardin who convenes the
 biennial “International Bagpipe Conference” (London, 2014; Glasgow, 2016; Mallorca,
 2018); Nair who leads the “International Consortium for Stanislavsky and Yoga”; Symonds who
 is founding organiser of “Song, Stage and Screen” (annually since 2006); and Breed, whose
 “Performance and Conflict” conference series has expanded internationally (UoL, 2019; Monash
 University, 2020).

 Westerside’s A Machine They’re Secretly Building (part of this submission in
 the PaR project “Theatres of Agitation”) was selected for the 2017 British Council Showcase
 and long-listed for the Amnesty International Freedom of Expression Award.

 Balosso-Bardin’s article “Music in a Bag” achieved “Technical Pick of the Year” from
 the Journal of Acoustical Studies of America (2018). In 2019 she was selected for the “Australian
 Academy of the Humanities and The British Academy Knowledge Frontiers Forum”.

 Gowland won The Stage’s 2018 Debut Award for Best Composer/Lyricist, and The Stage’s Best
 Regional Musical of the year for Pieces of String (the basis of a PaR project into LGBTQ+
 representation); this was also nominated for the inaugural Writer’s Guild of Great Britain Award
 for Best Musical Theatre Bookwriting, and for the UK Theatre Best Musical Production award.




                                                                                          Page 16
