Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:

 Heriot-Watt University

 Unit of Assessment:
 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Introduction
The UoA is comprised of 13.1 FTE research-active academics aligned to a newly established
research centre and sits in the School of Social Sciences (SoSS), one of five Schools of Heriot-Watt
University (HWU). Excelling in research with a focus on impact is one of the four strategic aims of
HWU.
The Unit’s 2021 submission builds on strengths in staff recruitment and development as well as
national and international collaborations as noted in the feedback from the REF2014. This
submission reports sustained improvement over this cycle: most notably in terms of our
interdisciplinary credentials, public engagement, facilities, grant income and staff development.
Psychology at HWU aims to address societally-relevant research questions in health, well-being and
in cognitive and behavioural change. Important contemporary and future issues include interventions
for an ageing population, multilingualism and the promotion of language diversity, memory
consolidation, mental health across the lifespan and human-computer/robot interaction. Our
research is organised into three research themes: ‘Cognition, Brain and Behaviour’, ‘Lifespan Health
and Wellbeing’ and ‘Work, Society and Environment’ (described in detail below).
Our strategic aim has been to focus on applied and interdisciplinary research and leverage our public
engagement capability to work directly with the people impacted by our research, as well as through
intermediary organisations. Consequently, we have broadened our collaborations with other
disciplines both within and beyond HWU. This focused research strategy has led to the recruitment
and development of staff and PGR students at all stages in clearly defined areas of expertise.
Major highlights include:
    EPSRC-funded social robotics research in autism (£870k) as part of the Edinburgh Centre for
     Robotics;
    interventions for healthy cognitive ageing and dementia research (The Intervention Factory
     funded by Velux Stiftung, £407k;
    A Tablet for Healthy Ageing funded by The Dunhill Medical Trust, £74k;
    Alzheimer’s Society funding for a variety of research, including a Junior Fellowship totalling
     £357k); and
    understanding mechanisms for memory consolidation (Wellcome Trust Funding, £80k).
The two submitted case studies 1) ‘What keeps us sharp? Increasing public awareness of the
lifestyle factors that promote brain health’ and 2) ‘Decarbonising Road Freight using Behavioural
Science Interventions’, underline the relevance of the units research to real world problems.

Structure
Psychology at HWU is situated within the School of Social Sciences (SoSS), which was created as
a School by HWU in 2016 to consolidate research in fields focussed on people and society. Bringing
together academics from Psychology, Management, Languages and Intercultural Studies, SoSS

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
now facilitates cross-disciplinary collaboration. The UoA retains its fundamentally science-based
approach but has benefited from relocating to SoSS because of the broader academic landscape,
greater resourcing and the physical relocation of staff in one a single location; evidenced through
investment in staff (see Section 2), facilities and equipment (see Section 3) [Total investment in
facilities and equipment: £619k]. Further, Psychology PGR students benefited from becoming part
of a wider community of social science students through access to enhanced research methods
training and career and skills development opportunities, including membership of the new SoSS
Doctoral Centre (see Section 2).
More specifically, having Psychology structurally and physically relocated within social sciences has
also afforded staff better access to laboratory facilities, joint PhD supervision opportunities and
development/mentoring opportunities to build collaborative outreach and impact. For example,
Psychology has been integral to social and developmental robotics research, playing a central role
during the HWU Year of Robotics 2017, which was widely covered in local, national and international
media across radio, TV and print news (See Section 4). In 2019, Psychology led the HWU Year of
Health and held events including Brain Health Day – where research results on the beneficial links
between taking up a new activity, ageing and cognition was disseminated to over 300 older people
and representatives of third sector organisations.
During the REF cycle, Psychology has focused on three coherent themes to better reflect our
translational research: ‘Cognition, Brain and Behaviour’, ‘Lifespan Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Work,
Society and Environment’. Focusing on these themes has enabled more interdisciplinary research
(see Section 2 for joint PhD supervision; see Section 3 for fuller details of interdisciplinary funding).
By increasing the visibility of our staff and connecting with psychological research conducted in
different disciplines in HWU, we have collaboratively investigated driver behaviour, medical
technologies and human computer/robot interaction.
Fourteen staff (13.1 FTE) are returned in the submission. Throughout this statement those employed
pre-REF2014 are named in bold, and post-REF2014 in bold italics. The table below maps staff
against primary research themes (with brief descriptors), and highlights projects. Research for many
staff with multiple specialisms cuts across more than one theme, emphasising our cross-
disciplinarity.

Research Themes         Description and Highlights

Cognition, Brain Change, including developmental conditions, dementia / stroke patients
and Behaviour    as well as heathy adults, with strong theoretically-informed translational
                 interventions, making use of state-of-the-art multidisciplinary techniques.
                        The research and labs include: The Memory Lab (Dewar); The
                        Developmental Psychology in Action Lab (Rajendran); Body and Emotion
                        Lab (Sedda); Language Across the Lifespan Lab (Garraffa), Perception
                        Lab (Delicato) and The Culture and Social Influence Lab (Tamariz).
                        Highlights include: Study on memory consolidation (Wellcome Trust) – a
                        collaboration between Dewar’s Memory Lab and the Ageing & Cognition
                        Research Group at the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases;
                        Rajendran’s Developmental in Action Lab’s Socially Competent Robot
                        (SoCoRo) project (EPSRC), where robots are used to help people with
                        autism with emotional understanding in the workplace.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Research Themes       Description and Highlights

Lifespan   Health This theme explores health-promotion activities in children and
and Wellbeing     adolescents, healthy ageing and mental health.
                      The research and labs include: The Ageing Lab (Gow), Social Interaction,
                      Mental Health, and Wellbeing Group (Stewart), and child and adolescent
                      mental health (Hale).
                      Highlights include: Gow’s ‘Intervention Factory’ (Velux Stiftung), in which
                      older adults took up new community-based activities to help maintain their
                      cognitive skills, and health and wellbeing more broadly.

Work, Society & This theme explores behaviour in the workplace, assessing risk in the
Environment     environment and interventions to improve workplace performance.
                      The research and labs include: the Star Lab/Medical Educational Lab
                      (McKendrick), The Culture and Social Influence Lab (Cristea), driver
                      behaviour using simulators (Lansdown), leadership and coaching
                      psychology interventions (Grajfoner), and obedience (Gibson).
                      Highlights include: Lansdown’s ongoing programme of research in
                      understanding the behavioural components of driving, from driver
                      distraction to fuel efficiency driving interventions, and his research to
                      improve societal health (promotion of sun-safety and Vitamin D
                      consumption in construction workers, IOSH, £200k); McKendrick’s use
                      of virtual environments using eye tracking to reduce anxiety, and
                      interventions to improve surgeons’ performance; Gibson’s re-analysis
                      and revisionist interpretation of Milgram’s classic obedience research.


Achievements since REF2014
The Unit has surpassed a number of targets set in out in the REF2014 submission, including a
sizeable increase in research income. During the last REF period, staff held 33 competitively
awarded grants (total spend £632k). In the current REF cycle the spend was £1,639,403 (from
35 awards), which represents a 2.6-fold increase from REF2014. Further, this momentum has
led to £693k worth of grants [to be spent in the next REF cycle] being awarded since the launch of
the new Centre for Applied Behavioural Sciences in 2020 (see below for greater detail of the Centre
and Section 3 for grant awards). This includes:
   Tamariz received £97k (€106k) as part of an EU Horizon 2020 CAROUSEL+ project
    (€3.7million) to examine emerging paradigms and communities in AI-mediated communication
    through dance.
   Garraffa received extended funding (£25k from Bòrd na Gàidhlig) to continue work on
    biliteracy in Gaelic medium education.
   Garraffa received £22k from the Academy of Medical Sciences Global Challenges Research
    Fund Networking Grant Scheme for the “Early identification and intervention of children with
    speech and language disorders in South East Asia Region: Developing capabilities,
    partnerships and research.” (See Section 2 for details of current joint PhD between Garraffa
    and Dr Razak from Universiti Kebangsaan, Malaysia).
   Garraffa received £96k from The Research Council of Norway as part of a (£690k [8 million
    NOK]) funded collaborative study with the Center for Multilingualism in Society Across the


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Lifespan (MultiLing), The University of Oslo entitled ‘Better attention, better communication?
      How ADHD and multilingualism influence children’s pragmatic development’.
Another target set out in REF 2014 was to publish our research in Psychology journals with the
strongest possible international reputations. In 2014, 66% of the outputs submitted were publications
in top journal percentiles. In 2021, this is now 74% (Source: SciVal). Similarly, in 2014, 12% of the
outputs were in top citation percentiles – and this has now more than doubled in 2021 to 25%
(Source: SciVal).
As per our strategy, the Unit’s proportion of interdisciplinary publications has also increased. In 2014,
31% of the outputs were in purely Psychology journals and in 2021, 25% were in purely Psychology
journals, with the remaining outputs also attributable to 15% in Medicine, 17% in Neuroscience and
7% in Computer Science (Source: SciVal). Further, in 2014, 19 out the 47 selected outputs were
from females. This ratio in 2021 is more balanced with 19 outputs selected from females and 14 from
males (see Section 2 on how the Unit has been working to improve Equality and Diversity).

Future ambitions and plans to build on success
Psychology’s 2025 Strategic Plan articulates a clear research Vision: “As a ‘hub’ discipline we are
uniquely placed to collaborate within and beyond HWU” and, so, align with the University’s strategy
“to create and exchange knowledge that benefits society” and “to address crucial world issues
through our interdisciplinary approach”. As Psychologists we conduct both discipline-specific and
applied research. So, our mission is not only to create this research but to apply it for the benefit of
others.
The Plan also sets out clear targets:
    Increase quantity and quality of outputs year on year (while still aiming for the most prestigious
     journals and raising citation counts)
    Increase grant income, especially peer-reviewed funding with overheads costs included, as
     well as externally funded PhD work. “£305,000 minimum as annual baseline, with a 10% year
     on year increase as staff develop portfolios and new staff enter; 3 externally PhD studentship
     per 2 internally funded.”
    Further improve PhD completion rates (i.e., 4 years or less).
    To tackle issues of reproducibility in Science, the Unit will be a fully compliant Open Science
     Department by 2025, e.g., via The Open Science Framework and, so, include practices like
     preregistration of studies and data sharing. This will be done through several parallel,
     interrelated processes, including staff training and procedures for safe storage of data in line
     with GDPR. Since 2020 we have now adopted a fully integrated ethics and data protection
     system through Infonetica. This provides us with the mechanism for managing sensitive and
     non-anonymised, pseudo-anonymised and fully anonymised data that can be openly shared
     for scrutiny and for third-party data analysis.
    Impact Strategy: Psychology’s Engagement Plan embodies the University’s values. Sharing
     what we do with our colleagues, students and communities is about celebrating our
     achievements and inspiring others. It is equally about creating opportunities to be inspired by
     the voices of others so that new research projects are genuinely collaborative, both in terms
     of diverse disciplinary input and full user-engagement at all stages of the research cycle.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Public Engagement and Impact
The Unit has a proud history in public engagement. Psychology staff regularly participate in the
Edinburgh Fringe Festival in addition to a diverse range of other science festivals and public events,
and make local, national and international media appearances. Mentoring and peer support have
further enhanced and embedded public engagement within the research culture resulting in broader
and more frequent engagement activities by more researchers within the UoA. In addition, there has
been considerable successful impact in promoting the discipline more generally both within and
beyond HWU. We have deliberately positioned Psychology as a resource to improve people’s lives
and help them make informed choices, from how much screen time is appropriate for children to
strategies for heathy cognitive ageing (See Section 4 for more specific details on Public Engagement
during the current REF cycle).
Moving forward, we seek to build on these accomplishments. The 2025 Research and Engagement
plan targets three levels of Engagement: Departmental, University, Community. Key actions include:
    Departmental: Engagement meetings to share practice, develop ideas, plan events/activities,
     provide training, plan grant submissions, data management and ethics.
    University: ‘Psychology on Tap’ is a campus-wide initiative to share research beyond the
     Department and in a non-traditional public engagement-style format. As such, staff have
     delivered their Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas Fringe shows to staff and students at the Student
     Union. The annual ‘Psychology Showcase’ is an outward facing event typically with 50+
     attendees in which Psychology research is disseminated to the University, including
     experimental demonstrations and PGR poster sessions. There are including the Principal of
     the University.
    Community: Events for major national/international days or weeks (e.g., Brain Awareness
     Week, Mental Health Awareness Day, etc.)
Research Centres
Since August 2020, all Psychology research has been coordinated and managed under the umbrella
of the ‘Centre for Applied Behavioural Sciences’ (CABS) – one of seven Research Centres within
SoSS. CABS will foster the strategy for Psychology and the University's 2025 goals. Currently, CABS
is comprised of 14 members, 15 associate members and 10 PGR students, led by Rajendran as
Director, Gow as Deputy Director for Impact and Engagement, Garraffa as Deputy Director for
Interdisciplinarity and Internationalisation, and Dewar as PGR Lead. CABS is the foundation for all
research cutting across the three themes and has the explicit aim of developing research culture
through a devolved budget. Initial School investment of £5k in year 1 of the Centre’s launch for
research activities, including support for data collection, equipment purchase and conference
attendance is projected to increase to £30k per annum based on Centre performance. Research is
also supported by dedicated administrative support (2.0 FTE) and technical support from a PhD-
trained Experimental Officer in Psychology (1.0 FTE) – see Section 3 Facilities. To further support
the Centre, SoSS will fund two studentships annually: 1 PhD studentship and 1 Graduate Teaching
Assistant. CABS plans to connect research and joint PhD supervision between the UK and the
University’s campuses in Dubai and Malaysia. There will be at least 20 events within the Centre each
year, across CABS three streams of events:
   1) An External and Internal speaker research seminar series;
   2) Psychology on Tap (as mentioned above as an opportunity for public engagement training
      and dissemination); and
   3) Skills-based sessions in which bespoke psychology methods training is provided on topics
      such as statistics training or Qualtrics, PschoPy/Pavolvia use for data collection.
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Response to Covid-19
The Unit recognises the ‘new normal’ and our plan is to chart our way through the many unknowns.
As well as unprecedented socio-economic challenges, this change represents an opportunity and a
civic duty. At a strategic-level, Psychology is actively seeking Covid-related research funding, e.g.,
for keeping the ‘human-in-the-loop’ as we increasingly move towards a more digitised economy and
society; mental health during and post-Covid in children, adults and individuals with developmental
conditions; cognitive and mental health interventions for older adults. Further, we will use our well-
established public engagement links to provide Covid-specific events. On a practical, data gathering
level, the Unit has contingencies to pivot to collecting online data where necessary. More specifically,
Garraffa is leading BPS-accredited Internet-based experimentation and data-collection training for
the Unit in collaboration with the University of Florence.
Cristea, Lansdown and Stewart are part of CHARIS: the Covid Health and Adherence Research
in Scotland project, which is funded by the Chief Scientist Office of the Scottish Government (CSO)
via their Rapid Research in Covid-19 Programme. Further, Stewart is one of the experts who have
shared their expertise with the UK Government in the Horizon Scanning exercise ‘Life beyond Covid-
19: What are experts concerned about?’
Grajfoner and Dr Ke Guek Nee (HWU Malaysia Campus) received an internally funded Global
Challenges Research Covid-19 Urgency Grant (£15k) to focus on the effects of the Covid-19
pandemic, specially focussing on the psychological wellbeing of vulnerable groups in Malaysia who
are the most likely to experience the highest rates of financial loss and declines in psychological
well-being and resilience. Grajfoner is also leading a collaborative project with Dr Dusanka Jordan
(University of Ljubljana) on the effect of pets on owners' mental health and wellbeing during the
Covid-19 pandemic. Tamariz, in collaboration with Dr James Stewart (University of Edinburgh) is
studying the effects of social network changes during Covid-19 on mental wellbeing. Gibson edited
a special section of the British Journal of Social Psychology: ‘Social Psychological Theory and
Research on the Novel Coronavirus Disease (Covid‐19) Pandemic’.
The pandemic has been a catalyst for increased digitisation. However, for society to use and benefit
from autonomous systems, people need to trust them. In November 2020 a new £3million EPSRC-
funded project began: Trustworthy Autonomous systems Node (EN-TRUST), an interdisciplinary
collaboration between HWU (Rajendran and Professor Helen Hastie, School of Mathematical and
Computer Sciences), The University of Manchester (Professor Angelo Cangelosi) and Imperial
College London (Professor Yiannis Demiris). This Node is part of the EPSRC’s Hub and forms part
of the £20.5 million funding for a Hub and Node model to ensure that autonomous systems can be
trusted, and ultimately adopted by society. This Node funding has been further supported by SoSS
and the School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences through a joint internally-funded PhD
studentship.
January 2021 also sees the start of an £182k EPSRC-funded public engagement collaborative
project with Rajendran and Bridle (School of Engineering and Physical Sciences at HWU). This
timely ‘Engineering Science Capital’ grant will provide fully digitised content to Schools at the very
time they have moved to – and requested – greater online content, including possible solutions for
Covid.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People


Introduction
HWU is committed to ensuring that all academic staff are active at internationally competitive levels
in research and/or scholarship. This is supported by our strategic investment Bicentennial Research
Leaders fund and through the programme of development and support provided by the Research
Futures Academy. One specific example of this commitment was the recruitment of Social
Psychologist Gibson, to lead the SoSS Doctoral Centre. Recruiting Gibson (as the dedicated
Director of Doctoral Programmes and Bicentennial Chair in Research Methods) to oversee the
training of the PGR population has further reinforced a culture of excellence for both the PGR student
and supervisor community.

Equality and Diversity
In 2020, Heriot-Watt made a successful submission to renew our Athena Swan Bronze Charter
Award; this has been conferred until 2026 reinforcing our commitment to extending the principles of
facilitating and improving career progress opportunities for female staff throughout all disciplines. As
stated in Section 1, progress has already been made in balancing the gender composition of
research outputs submitted by the Unit. SoSS has an Equality and Diversity Working Group and
Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team (SAT) who conducted a survey and interviews with staff and
PGR students in order to identify a range of issues. One of the Co-Chairs of the SAT, Tamariz, sits
on the Senior Management Board of the School. SoSS is preparing to apply for an Athena SWAN
Bronze award in November 2021. An analysis by the SAT of the survey and interview data has led
to the identification of four main priorities in SoSS relating to equality, diversity, and inclusion:
    Engagement with our whole community on issues of diversity and equality
    Increasing gendered representation in key student and staff groups
    Retaining those staff and students that we recruit and
    Supporting progression for them.
These priorities are being addressed through a series of ongoing actions to be all inclusive, compiled
in the form of a 4-year action plan in order to support staff and students with a range of characteristics
to enter, maintain or progress in work or study. Guidelines and procedures are in place to guarantee
that all appointments and promotions are transparently based on quality, ability, and achievement.
The SoSS senior management team and the CABS leadership team both have a 50/50 male/female
balance. Promotion criteria give consideration to maternity leave, health-related absence and caring
responsibilities whilst a mentoring scheme supports female staff considering promotion. Our
headcount of 14 is split 9 female and 5 male. SoSS has recognised that there is a need to address
this imbalance and in 2019 ran a three-stage programme for female mid-career staff that addressed
the issues of (a) establishing research identity and building profile; (b) developing financial skills in
preparation for bidding for and managing grants; and (c) building strong networks within and beyond
the University. HWU Performance and Development Review (PDR)/Promotion pathways materials
feature positive case studies of a wide range of staff, especially women and those working P/T or
returning from career breaks. In parallel, at School level, all secondary roles are appointed through
a process where all staff have the opportunity to express interest in leadership roles and a
transparent workload model has been introduced



                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Faculty Staffing Strategy & Staff Recruitment
The Unit’s strategy focuses on the recruitment, development, and retention of excellent researchers;
we aim to attract the best talent across the discipline to enhance our world-leading research in all
areas. Mirroring the commitment to recruiting excellence externally through the Bicentennial
Research Leader programme, the UoA has a clear focus on training, developing and mentoring
existing staff. Our future staffing strategy also reflects the University’s aims in Strategy 2025 to
maintain research excellence.
The Unit currently comprises 14 members (13.1 FTE): 11 full time and 3 part-time staff with research
in their contract. With a view to the sustainability and development of future research, the staffing
strategy over the REF period was to i) make all appointments contractually open-ended and ii) to
advertise and align these appointments to the areas of expertise in the UoA. Consequentially, seven
new open-ended appointments (six of whom are female) were made: Cristea, Delicato, Garraffa,
Hale, McKendrick, Sedda, and Tamariz.

Staff development and support mechanisms
The UoA has had an effective mentoring system in place throughout the assessment period. The
annual monitoring of individuals’ Performance and Development Reviews (PDR) requires
statements of forward job plans focusing on research outcomes and exploring ways of supporting
individual researchers to produce world-leading outputs and impact. PDRs are annual and are
carried out by the Head of Department or Project PI/CoI [in the case of RAs], with input from the
Research Centre Director. PDR and other mentoring mechanisms emphasise quality rather than
quantity of research outputs, income, knowledge exchange, impact, citizenship and leadership.
Newly appointed staff are supported by a robust mentoring system and more formal training is
provided through a Postgraduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching (PGCILT). Midcareer staff are
supported by the Research Futures Academy who offer specific training to support them; for example
Fast Track PI Training in grant writing and diversification of research for those who have not
previously been PIs on a significant grant. For all staff, the Unit has a particular emphasis on
developing applied psychologists through facilitating interdisciplinary cross-University
collaborations.
We encourage a long-term perspective and submission to well-respected outlets with international
reach. During Covid-19 specific focus was given in the PDR cycle to reflect on how the pandemic
and the resulting changed working environment has affected different categories of staff members,
specific research methods and topics (e.g., data collection in schools) and steps needed to address
these issues. For all research staff, there are several support mechanisms which allow them to focus
on enhancing their research profile. These include:
   Training sessions aimed at developing pathways to impact in research and sourcing funding
    for public engagement projects.
   Research community discussions/training at School and University levels carried out monthly.
   Conference, seminar, PDR and Internal Research Grants funding at School level with
    applications approved by the School’s Director of Research (this is now funded through the
    Centre for Applied Behavioural Sciences).
   Peer review of grant applications before submission to enhance quality of submissions.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    An active programme of semester-long study leave, accessible every three years and used to
     reinforce international collaborations. Research sabbaticals have been afforded to Gow and
     Stewart during this REF cycle.
    A structured approach to career development, leading to five members of staff promoted during
     this REF cycle: Gow and Rajendran to Full Professor, and Dewar, Garraffa and Sedda to
     Associate Professor.
A Psychology Ethics Committee [under the jurisdiction of the School and University], which is able
to provide Psychology-specific oversight in reviewing and approving data collection, and processing
and storage after collection; ensuring adherence to the University's and BPS’s Ethical Codes while
at the same time providing an agile response to local research needs.
Research Associates
A direct benefit from Psychology’s interdisciplinary research is our excellence in developing talented
independent thinkers, with uniquely marketable skill sets. We also offer leadership and teaching
opportunities to all our Research Associates to develop them still further.
Substantial grant funding has allowed Psychology to employ eleven Research Staff on grants for
one or more years (Bevilacqua, Calia, Craig, Dickson, Hoefeijzers, McKenna, Messer, Merhav,
Niechcial, Strickland and Vaportzis). These contracts have allowed the UoA to engage in capacity
and capability building of early career researchers in Psychology, with HWU creating a pathway for
outstanding researchers to be subsequently appointed to open-ended Assistant Professorships at
other UK Universities (one directly to Associate Professor). For example:
Craig joined Psychology at HWU as a Postdoctoral Research Associate working in the Dewar
Memory Lab following completion of his PhD. In 2016, he was awarded an Alzheimer’s Society
Junior Fellowship. Subsequently, in 2019, he combined his Postdoctoral Research Fellow activities
with teaching duties as a part-time Assistant Professor on a research and teaching contract. He was
then appointed directly as Associate Professor in Psychology [rather than an Assistant Professor] at
a UK University. Craig is now an Honorary Research Fellow at HWU until 31st July 2022 in order to
maintain his research links with the UoA.
Vaportzis was employed as Postdoctoral Research Associate in Gow’s Ageing Lab on the Tablet
for Healthy Ageing project funded by The Dunhill Medical Trust, followed by a 3-year Velux Stiftung-
funded project, before moving to an open-ended appointment as Assistant Professor in Psychology
at a UK University.
Dickson – who worked in Garraffa’s Language Across the Lifespan Lab – now works at the at The
University of Glasgow on the sociolinguistics aspects of acquisition of indigenous languages. His
experiences in Psychology at HWU – through presenting data at conferences and workshops – was
pivotal for him in gaining this new post.
Bevilacqua – who worked with Hale for one year investigating associations of cannabis use with
mental health outcomes, funded by the Carnegie Trust – is now undertaking a Clinical Doctorate in
Psychology in the UK.

The Doctoral Centre
During the current REF assessment period, SoSS has consolidated its doctoral programmes under
the leadership of a newly created dedicated post to oversee all aspects of the doctoral student
experience. The new Director of Doctoral Programmes (Gibson) is a professorial-level appointment
that commenced in December 2019. Gibson is responsible for overseeing all aspects of the School’s

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
policies and procedures for postgraduate research students, as well as liaising with key external
partners such as the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences (SGSSS) and the Scottish
Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH). The Director of Doctoral Programmes is
supported by a team consisting of four academics and three administrators, as well as by PGR Leads
within each of the School’s seven Research Centres. A School PGR Committee meets regularly,
and consists of all Research Centre PGR Leads, student representatives, and other key colleagues
with responsibilities around the doctoral student experience.
Training in key skills and methodologies is provided through two principal routes:
   1) PhD students have access to a comprehensive programme of generic skills training provided
      by the University’s Research Futures Academy (RFA);
   2) The School runs a 60-credit PGCert programme in research methods that is compulsory for
      any doctoral student who does not already possess equivalent Masters level research
      methods training at the point of admission. Additionally, Psychology PhD students receive
      Psychology-specific training in Learning and Teaching and are offered teaching opportunities
      at UG level. This strengthens the teaching-research nexus in the Unit and is important for the
      holistic development of our PhD students.
The School offers a number of fully-funded PhD scholarships each year, with a total of nine
scholarships awarded in the Unit during the current REF assessment period. This represents a total
investment of £642k in doctoral research in the Unit. In addition, the Unit has been successful in
attracting external funding for PhD students, with three additional scholarships being awarded
through external funding.
The recruitment of PhD students is driven primarily by the quality of both the applicant and the
research proposal but is also contingent on the level of fit between a proposed doctoral project and
the areas of research strength (i.e., the Unit’s three research themes) and critical mass represented
by the School’s Research Centres. Furthermore, our approach is geared towards ensuring that early
career academics are given opportunities to develop their supervisory expertise. To this end, it is
required that all supervisory teams include at least one member who has experience of supervising
a doctoral student to successful completion, and thus when an early career researcher is involved
in supervision there is always a more experienced colleague on the team to provide guidance and
mentorship.
All PhD students – whether internally or externally funded – have access to an additional budget of
£750 per annum for research expenses, such as conference attendance, participant payment and
miscellaneous equipment. This budget can be used flexibly across a student’s period of study,
meaning that unused funds can be carried forward to subsequent years as necessary. High quality
supervision is ensured by regular supervisory training provided by the Research Future Academy,
and supervision meetings are logged on a central online system that enables any student who
appears to be falling behind, and/or not engaging sufficiently, to be easily identified and appropriate
follow-up action taken. Formal progress monitoring takes the form of annual review meetings that
require the student, supervisor, and a member of academic staff in a cognate area to meet and
reflect on progress over the preceding 12 months, with a formal written report forming the basis of
the discussion.
During 2020, many PhD students were adversely affected by the restrictions imposed in response
to the Covid-19 pandemic. The School and University responded by providing additional support
opportunities, such as regular ‘virtual coffee breaks’ to provide informal opportunities to maintain
social contact with fellow doctoral students, and by moving existing face-to-face training
opportunities online (e.g., research methods training). In addition, the University took the decision to
match the UKRI approach to offering fully-funded extensions of up to six months for final year
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
students whose work had been affected by the pandemic, with additional support for students in the
1st and 2nd years of their doctorates launched in early 2021.
PGR Students
Over this REF period 8 PhD students (Dimitriou, Douglas, Fallon, Fatkin, Hussen, McKenna, Petrou
and Reid) and 1 registered MPhil student (Hunter) have successfully completed. Currently there are
10 Psychology PhD students, including one student awaiting her viva. Six are fully funded by SoSS
scholarships, 2 are fully externally funded and one is 50% externally funded [with the other 50%
covered by a SoSS fee waiver]. One of these students (Maitland-Warne) is registered on a Joint
Degree with Edinburgh University at the Salvesen Mindroom Research Centre for Learning
Difficulties.
Many of the Psychology PhD students (both current and present) have second supervisors within
the wider School of Social Sciences or University. As previously mentioned, this mechanism
highlights the University and School strategy of facilitating and promoting interdisciplinary research.
For example, McKenna’s second supervisor was Professor Oliver Lemon (a Computer Scientist in
the School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences and Director of the Interaction Lab) – primary
supervisor Rajendran. Lemon is a world leader in Conversational AI, Natural Language Processing,
and Machine Learning. Fallon’s second supervisor was Professor Ruth Aylett (also a Computer
Scientist in the School of School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences and a specialist in
Affective computing) – primary supervisor Rajendran. Aylett’s seminal research has combined
pillars of Psychology like ‘Basic Emotions’ and ‘Theory of Mind’ in the context of Graphical
Characters and Social Robotics.
Psychology staff also act as second supervisors to students in other parts of HWU, for example, Nioi
(in the School of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure and Society, funded by EPSRC), with Gow as
second supervisor, researched the impact of light exposure on the circadian rhythms of people living
with sensory impairments. Sexena (in the School of Engineering and Physical Sciences), is
designing a tool to assist patients with aphasia and is industry funded, with Garraffa as her second
supervisor. As part of the Unit’s international research initiatives, Garraffa is also second supervisor
to Aziz whose PhD is funded by the Malaysian Ministry of Health (See Section 1 for recent funding
with Aziz’s first primary supervisor, Dr Razak). Macmillan – a former HWU UG student, and now
based in the School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences at HWU – is undertaking an EPSRC-
funded PhD on online safety in autistic children with Stewart as third supervisor.
Additionally, there is joint PhD supervision beyond HWU which again highlights national and
international collaboration, and interdisciplinarity. For example, Krzeczkowska (University of
Strathclyde) is an ongoing joint supervision – with Gow as second supervisor; Segovia-Martinez
(Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona) has been supervised to completion with Tamariz as second
supervisor; Jee (University of Edinburgh) is an ongoing joint supervision with Tamariz as second
supervisor; Bevilacqua (University College London) was supervised jointly with Hale.
We actively support the development of our PGR students and some have gone on to pursue
academic careers. This is done via their doctorial training, excellence in supervision, and providing
them lab demonstration and supervised teaching experience. For example, Fallon and Reid were
appointed to open-ended Assistant Professorships at UK Universities. McKenna moved from his
PhD to a Post-Doctoral Research Associate position on the EPSRC-funded SoCoRo project in
Rajendran’s Developmental Psychology in Action Lab – and will continue this role on the EPSRC-
funded EN-TRUST project.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income
As mentioned in Section 1, the Unit has ambitious targets for income generation. Looking back: in
the last REF period, staff held 33 competitively awarded grants, which supported a total spend of
£632k. In the current REF cycle the spend was £1,639,403 (from 35 awards) which represents a
2.6-fold increase from REF2014.
The total value of awards that the Unit has been a part of during the current REF cycle is £2.45M
(£1.27M from 28 awards – lead only; £1.18M from 7 awards – as collaborators). This highlights
Psychology’s collaborative and interdisciplinary success. That is in not only gaining funding to
Psychology, but also making major contributions to the grant success of others.
The Unit’s funders reflect the interdisciplinary and translational nature of Psychology’s research – as
well as representing a broadening of the portfolio since REF2014, including: The European
Commission; EPSRC; The Wellcome Trust; The Alzheimer’s Society; Alzheimer's Research UK;
Carnegie Trust; Bòrd na Gàidhlig; Velux Stiftung; The Dunhill Medical Trust; The Scottish
Government.

Internal income support for research
Since joining SoSS, Psychology has benefitted from three fully-funded internal PhD studentships in
2017, two in 2018 and three in 2019. Because of Covid, the next cohort of SoSS funded students
will start in January 2021 with the School funding two studentships per annum to the Centre for
Applied Behavioural Sciences: 1 fully-funded PhD studentship and 1 Graduate Teaching Assistant
PhD studentship (as mentioned in Section 2).
Specific studentship support is also now provided for large grant success like EN-TRUST (See
Section 1). Here, EN-TRUST is supported by SoSS with a 50/50 funded PhD studentship between
SoSS and the School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences. Wherever possible, large grants
within SoSS only are supported with a PhD studentship that is 100% funded by SoSS.

Facilities
Psychology has three expertise-specific physical testing spaces: the General lab, the Body and
Emotion Lab; the EEG (Electroencephalogram) lab.
Completed in 2017, the General lab occupies an entire top floor (cost £500k). Its generous space
includes 13 separate rooms for individual as well as group experiments. There are dedicated
separate rooms for a driving simulator and eye tracking equipment. The Body and Emotion lab
(Sedda) includes a Transcranial Direct-Current Stimulation (tDCS), a Kinematic suite (cameras, a
set of force transducers, measuring grip aperture and force) and Functional Near Infrared
Spectroscopy (FNRS). The EEG lab has both portable and in situ EEG equipment. Both the Body
and Emotion and EEG labs offer easy ground-floor access for children, older adults, disabled and
wheelchair users. All the Unit’s labs have access to free parking spaces either directly next to labs,
or only metres away. Also, an excellent regular local bus service provides a public transport
alternative, with bus stops close to all three labs.
The Unit’s dedicated PhD-trained (and BPS award winning) Experimental Officer in Psychology
(Argyropoulos) manages all labs and also provides support and research development opportunities
to staff and students alike.
                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition to these three dedicated labs, Psychology has excellent access to wider University
facilities through our interdisciplinary work. For example, the UoA has access to research facilities
for human multimodal interaction research at The Edinburgh Centre for Robotics, including the
current and new £22.6 million National Robotarium [funded by the Edinburgh and South-East
Scotland City Deal] opening in 2022; the Global Research Innovation and Discovery Centre (GRID)
(a £19m centre for technological innovations, with equipment for gamification and VR); the Living
Lab (School of Engineering and Physical Sciences); the Virtual Reality Lab (School of Engineering
and Physical Sciences) and Language Labs (Languages and Intercultural Studies in SoSS).
Additionally, Psychology will benefit from the Cross Hub collaboration between The National
Robotarium and The Edinburgh Futures Institute (The University of Edinburgh) in the following areas:
    Governance structures: share practice/expertise on data ethics across the Hubs with a view to
     influencing wider University practice.
    Teaching: bring PhD students together for seminar series [e.g. student-led and contribute to
     networking].
    Networking: sharing of research with a view to creating new research collaborations [seminar
     series].
    Public engagement strategies: series of joint seminars/public engagement events.
    Research: broaden capacity in developing and accessing interdisciplinary research projects
     and programmes.
Rajendran contributed to the design which includes six labs that can be configured to be, for
example, a hospital bay, a living room, a child/baby lab, etc. The Robotarium will also include a
bespoke Living Lab in the form of a flat for assisted living for older people or individuals with a
disability. In addition to robots for human robot interaction (including Furhats, ARIs, Tiagos, ICubs,
Flashes and PR2s) there will be motion capture equipment, and audio and video sensors for tracking.
Next to the Robotarium will be free disabled parking and a minibus spaces – for easy participant
access.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Public Engagement
The Psychology 2025 Strategic Plan includes a specific Engagement Strategy. This consolidates a
long-standing commitment to engagement which has characterised both the unit and the wider
University.
As mentioned in Section 1, Psychology staff regularly participate in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival,
as well as making local, national and international media appearances.
The Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas (CODI) at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival has been one of many
avenues that the Unit has used to take research to the general public. CODI is an innovative and
highly successful co-produced public engagement with research programme – and is a collaborative
effort between the four universities in Edinburgh (coordinated through the Beltane Public
Engagement Network). CODI takes public engagement to the world’s largest arts festival: The
Edinburgh Festival Fringe. Gow, Rajendran and Sedda regularly performed shows to share their
research and have performed to over 600 people from 2014 to date. Similar outreach activities, such
as Pint of Science, have included contributions from Gow and Stewart.
Media exposure includes Rajendran’s appearance on the world’s longest running Children’s TV
show, Blue Peter: The robots are coming! episode in 2017. Here, Rajendran appeared alongside
Flash, Pepper and Miro robots and explained to a younger audience about how socially assistive
robots would be impacting our future lives. Gow has appeared on the BBC’s flagship science
programme, Horizon as an independent contributor to their recent programme about intelligence;
specifically, Gow provided commentary on the wider field of cognitive ageing and the lifestyle factors
that might promote brain health, in addition to previous appearance on BBC Radio 4 and BBC Radio
Scotland’s Brainwaves.
Psychology staff also regularly present and have interactive exhibits at Science Festivals, for
example Cristea presented work about pro-sociality and sharing behaviours among children at the
Edinburgh International Science Festival (‘Science Night at the Zoo’, April 2016). Rajendran and
Computer Science colleagues from the SoCoRo project had an interactive robot exhibition at the
Edinburgh International Science Festival (April, 2019). In 2016, Gow was an invited presenter at the
British Science Festival held in Swansea. In 2019, McKendrick was invited to present ‘The novice
to expert viewpoint’ as a guest speaker at the CodeYourFuture (CYF) Conference, June 28th,
University of Glasgow. CYF is a UK based non-profit organisation that trains refugees and other
disadvantaged people to become web developers and helps them to find work in the tech industry.
Psychology has a substantive and sustained presence in non-peer reviewed, digital and print media.
For example, six articles were published in The Conversation and available via that outlet’s creative
commons during the REF period. These include “When it comes to keeping our brains young, we
need to rise to new challenges”; “How robots can help us embrace a more human view of disability”;
“New hope for people obsessed with amputating one of their own limbs” – through Gow, Rajendran
and Sedda respectively – with a 135,000+ combined reads from The Conversation site directly.
These articles were subsequently picked up by other media, including the Huffington Post, The Daily
Mail, The i and The Independent –further increasing their reach. McKendrick was invited to write
an article supporting the First Minister for Scotland’s Advisory Council on Women and Girls, an
independent body set up to tackle gender inequality which was then picked up by The Scotsman.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Keynote Addresses and TEDx talks
Gibson gave a keynote at the joint conference of the BPS’s Qualitative Methods in Psychology
Section and History & Philosophy of Psychology Section (Cardiff, July 2019). Rajendran gave a
Keynote at the Video Games Conference organised by the University of the United Arab Emirates
(Al Ain, UAE, April, 2015). Grajfoner gave the opening keynote at the European Coaching
Psychology Conference (London, December, 2015). Tamariz gave Keynotes at Triggers of
Language Change international conference. Université Lyon II, Lyon, France, 12 October 2017;
"Minds, Mechanisms and Interaction in the Evolution of Language" international workshop. MPI
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, 21 September, 2017; the international conference
"Why Linguistics" international conference. Tartu, Estonia, 7 May 2015. Rajendran and Stewart
both gave TEDx talks in 2016 about social robots and autism and integration across the autism
spectrum respectively.

Stakeholder Engagement:
Our stakeholders not only often fund and participate in research, but Psychology actively
disseminates findings to them. For example, both Stewart and Rajendran work in partnership with
Autism Initiatives, which is a local and national charity committed to finding and maintaining
employment for people on the autism spectrum. Rajendran also works with All in Edinburgh, which
is a local charity whose aim is to find and keep in employment people who have a disability or long-
term health condition. Cristea and Stewart led training events for LAYC (a charity supporting
community-based youth and children’s work in Edinburgh and the Lothians) about imposter
syndrome and autism respectively. Craig was funded by the Alzheimer’s Society through a Junior
Fellowship, which also enabled him to disseminate his work on dementia through them. Moreover,
Craig has worked with Alzheimer Scotland to coordinate and deliver a series of informal research
talks at Alzheimer Scotland ‘dementia cafes’ in Edinburgh. This relationship is now maintained by
Dewar. Representatives of Age Scotland, Age UK, Education Scotland, NHS Lothian, and the
Scottish Older People’s Assembly sit on Gow’s study advisory panel. He has also contributed to
workshops or web materials for Age Scotland and Age UK and is a member of the Scottish
Parliament’s Cross-Party Group for Age, Ageing and Older People. McKendrick has engaged with
clinicians and patients interested in medical technologies and education – as an invited speaker at
the Edinburgh Anaesthesia Festival (EAF), 19-21 August 2020 (now 2021) at the ‘Royal College of
Physicians, Edinburgh, (RCPE)’ and guest speaker at the Dundee Institute for Healthcare Simulation
(DIHS) launch, 19th Sept, 2018 and the British Orthopaedic Association Congress, Sep 21st, 2017
Liverpool. In June, 2018, McKendrick hosted an EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account-funded
Medical Training Innovation Hub and Workshop (funded for £11k), bringing clinicians, SMEs and
cross discipline academics together at a national level. McKendrick works with Venture Trust who
support young people (aged 16-24) who have a history of disadvantage and are at risk of
(re)offending or of anti-social behaviour. Hale has joint projects with National Children’s Bureau and
has affiliations with the Scottish Drugs Forum to engage stakeholders.

International Networks and collaboration
The Unit’s international reputation has been enhanced through international collaborations. For
example, Garraffa has hosted several visiting scholars over the REF period including: Professor
Davide Crepaldi, Associate Professor from SISSA and Head of the Cognitive Neuroscience PhD
program, Dr Giuditta Smith PhD candidate in Cognitive Psychology at University of Trento, Dr
Franziska Koler Lab Director of the Center for Multilingualism in Society across the Lifespan Faculty
                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of Humanities, Oslo University and Dr Paolo Canal from IUSS PAVIA an international expert in EEG
and eye tracking methods for the study of language. A team composed of McKendrick, Dr Ozge
Akbulut of Sabanci University, Istanbul, and Dr Sue Down of the University of East Anglia has been
shortlisted for the Newton Fund’s prestigious Sustainable Development Goals Chair’s Prize to deliver
a hands-on online platform to offer high quality and accessible oncoplasty education to surgeons in
ODA countries. Gow’s recent 3-year intervention study included an international expert advisory
panel, comprising Professor Kaarin Anstey, Australian National University; Professor Ian Deary,
University of Edinburgh; Professor Mike Martin and Dr Christina Roecke, University of Zurich;
Professor Kaisu Pitkälä, University of Helsinki.

Journal Editorial Board Memberships.
Gibson is the Joint Editor-in-Chief of the British Journal of Social Psychology; Cristea is the Senior
Editor, Europe’s Journal of Psychology; McKendrick is an Editorial Member of PLOS ONE;
Grajfoner is Member of Editorial Board of the Coaching Psychologist, and the International
Coaching Psychology Review, Dewar is Member of Editorial Board for the Journal of Cognition; Gow
is an Editorial Board Member for Gerontology. Garraffa is an Editorial board member of the Journal
of Clinical and Linguistic Phonetics and Frontiers and Language Sciences. Tamariz is a member of
the Advisory Board and Associate Editor of the journals Cognitive Semiotics and Language Evolution

Awards
Both Psychology staff and undergraduate students have won distinguished awards during the REF
period. Argyropoulos was the winner of the British Psychological Society’s research/technical
support award (2016). Both Gow and Craig won HWU Prime Awards for Public Engagement in 2019;
winning the Pioneer and Changemaker awards respectively. Gow was one of two runners-up in the
Nature Research Award for Driving Global Impact (2019) and won the British Psychological Society
Public Engagement and Media Award (2016); Dewar was the winner of the British
Neuropsychological Society’s Elizabeth Warrington Prize (2016). Hastie won the UG Dissertation
Award for the British Neuropsychological Society (2016). Craig was awarded an Alzheimer’s Society
Undergraduate Research Bursary grant for an UG student to work with him as an RA over the
summer of 2018.

Review and evaluation activities
The expertise of UoA’s staff is much sought after in both Psychology and interdisciplinary research.
Unit members have reviewed for research institutions including ESRC, EPSRC, MRC, BBSRC, EU,
Chief Scientist’s Office for the Scotland Government, Italian Ministry of Health, Netherlands
Organization for Scientific Research - Council for the Humanities (NWO), The Romanian Ministry of
Education and Scientific Research, Alzheimer’s Society and Carnegie Trust for Scottish Universities.




                                                                                             Page 16
