Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Staffordshire University
 Unit of Assessment: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy (UoA 03)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
This Unit of Assessment presents work from two multidisciplinary research centres, the Centre for
Health and Development (CHAD) and Staffordshire Centre for Psychological Research
(SCPR), and from the Sport, Exercise, and Performance Psychology (SEPP) Research Group.
These structures consolidate allied health research within the School of Health and Social Care
and the School of Life Sciences and Education by bringing researchers, methodological experts,
and researcher-practitioners to work together. They provide an integrated, interdisciplinary
environment for researching local, national, and international needs for health and wellbeing. As the
present submission demonstrates, this research includes innovative work on nursing, public health,
biomedical science, and health behaviour change that explores a range of biological, psychological,
sociological, and spiritual-ethical dimensions.
Within the Unit, we are committed to producing high-quality research that contributes to our
academic and public communities. Staffordshire University is an anchor in the local community. We
contribute to that position through our close links to Stoke-on-Trent City Council, the NHS, and a
range of third-sector organisations. In the assessment period, our research volume and the quality
of our outputs (329 peer-reviewed articles, 79% in Q1/Q2 journals) have been a testament to our
dedicated, talented, and resourceful academics, sound recruitment strategy, and emphasis on a
supportive, collegial environment that promotes collaboration and mentorship.


Centre for Health and Development (CHAD) [Boath, Boughey, Ellis, Forsyth, Gidlow, S Jones,
      McSherry, Povey, Rodham, Tolhurst]: CHAD was established in 2015 as an innovative
      partnership between the University, Stoke-on-Trent City Council and Staffordshire County
      Council, with a Board of prominent national and international public health figures (e.g., Prof
      Siân Griffiths, Associate Director of Public Health England). In line with our civic university
      agenda, CHAD undertakes interdisciplinary, applied research that benefits the population by
      informing policy and practice locally, regionally, and nationally.
       CHAD’s key objective is to contribute to the reduction of entrenched social and health
       inequalities. Priority research areas include neighbourhood environment and health,
       homelessness, and chronic disease prevention. In addition to a three-year grant from the
       local authority partnership (£900,000), CHAD has attracted additional external income
       totalling approximately £540,000 (2016-2020) to sustain and develop research, impact, and
       engagement activities.
       CHAD is founded on collaborative working. The Centre connects researchers from across
       the University whose work aligns with the Centre’s aims. It also provides collaboration with
       external partners from academia, practice and policy, as demonstrated by the impact case
       studies returned to this UoA led by Gidlow and McSherry.


Staffordshire Centre for Psychological Research (SCPR) [Barlow, Burton, Cowap,
       Humphreys, Hurst, Jolley, Krahenbuhl, Owen, Povey, Rodham, Rose, Scott, Street,
       Taylor]: SCPR was established in 2016 to bring together psychology researchers who
       undertake socially relevant research across the lifespan. Common across all the work is its
       focus on improving psychological health, demonstrating the impact that psychology can have
       on health, and providing evidence to enhance delivery of health services. To ensure our
       findings are shared widely, SCPR collaborates with industry, the NHS, service users,
       policymakers and global academic partnerships and exemplifies the University’s ethos of co-
       creation and co-production of research. Barlow, Jolley and Rose explore children’s
       creativity in pedagogic settings, using innovative and engaging methods to collect data.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Povey and Cowap focus on understanding children’s dietary choices to improve
       interventions to increase fruit and vegetable consumption. Scott has explored how best to
       help children learn how to delay gratification. Taylor and Owen both examine factors that
       influence our ability to engage in proactive health behaviours. Hurst focuses on the impact
       of nature on health. Street explores the impact of fractals and the concept of beauty, often
       in nature, on our wellbeing. Burton and Rodham look at how best to help adults live with
       persistent pain. Burton has investigated how to encourage healthy aging.


Sport, Exercise, and Performance Psychology Research Group (SEPP) [Blackett, Duffel,
       Slater (NB Barker, M Jones, Turner and Wood have since taken positions elsewhere)]:
       SEPP is an interdisciplinary research team created in 2016. It explores methods of promoting
       psychological and physiological health and performance. It produces research into: (1)
       understanding and managing stress; (2) the psychology of groups and leadership; and (3)
       the application of cognitive behavioural approaches. SEPP’s research engages with
       individuals, teams, and organisations in a variety of settings. Its stakeholders include Team
       GB’s rowers, Paralympic footballers and archers, Staffordshire Fire and Rescue Service, and
       Stoke City Football Club. Slater’s impact case study demonstrates the impact of SEPP’s
       high-quality research with external partners.


We have enhanced our biosciences research capacity by recruiting McStay and Seker. Similarly, S
Jones brings expertise in healthcare analytics (£458K Health Foundation grant). These colleagues
complement the UoA’s existing interdisciplinary nature. Through their research in computational
biology, genomics, microbe-environment interactions, patient safety, data ethics and health
analytics, they are expanding our expertise in addressing underpinning environmental and
psychological factors that impact on population and healthcare workforce health and wellbeing.
Within the UoA, research ethics and integrity are paramount. We adhere to University principles and
processes outlined in the Code of Conduct for Research and GDPR, as well as conforming to
relevant professional body ethical practice guidelines (such as those of the British Psychological
Society). Robust ethical approval processes include independent, double review, and peer review
for projects that require Health Research Authority and NHS Research Ethics submission. Patient
and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) activities are integral to our development and
delivery of health-related research, and internal peer-review of funding applications is routine.


1.2 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
Since 2014, and accelerated by the University’s 2018 Research, Innovation and Impact Strategy,
we have focused on building capacity and capability, enhancing collaboration, and enabling and
facilitating impact.


(i) Building capacity and capability in key research areas
In keeping with the University strategy to develop interdisciplinary strength in key areas, we have
united research expertise across nursing, public health, biomedical science and health behaviour
change throughout the assessment period. The Unit incorporates researchers from a range of
academic disciplines and healthcare expertise including nurses, health psychologists, and sport and
biological scientists. The synergies in research have been developed by our researchers seeking
interdisciplinary collaborations across the University with support from our Research Innovation and
Impact Service (RIIS, established during this REF cycle). We have focused on expanding our core
strengths in:


Understanding the impact of natural environment on health. Gidlow, Hurst, Ellis have been
      part of large European (PHENOTYPE 2012-2016, GoGreen Ex 2016-ongoing) and
      international collaborations (International Physical Activity and Environment Network 2010-

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       present). These collaborations are developing the international understanding of the impact
       of neighbourhood environments, particularly the natural environment, on a range of health
       outcomes including birth outcomes, mental health in pregnancy, cardiac rehabilitation
       indicators, and physical activity.
Improving individual physical, psychological, social, spiritual well-being and health. Burton
      has collaborated with The Change Exchange, a collective of volunteer behavioural scientists
      who translate behavioural science in situ in low and middle-income countries. Burton worked
      in Uganda and explored the behaviour change techniques used by educators, supported
      knowledge and skill development in behaviour change, monitored the impact of projects on
      psychological determinants of behaviour, and made recommendations for future project
      developments. In 2018 Gidlow, Ellis, Povey successfully developed and tested training to
      improve 60 practitioners’ confidence and perceived understanding when communicating
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk, introducing them to novel tools and metrics.


Our innovative, qualitative methodologies enable us to develop our thematic research with
populations who would be otherwise difficult to engage. Jolley, Rose, Burton, Barlow, Hurst,
Street, and Rodham all use images (drawing, photographs, art) in their research. These innovative
methodologies widen the range of potential research participants by making our data collection
process more accessible to those who may otherwise be excluded from taking part, for example,
children, clinical populations, and people with health literacy problems. Gidlow, Ellis, and Cowap
used novel video-stimulated recall methods to explore CVD risk communication in primary care CVD
prevention. We seek to take our methodological innovation in pioneering new directions, as seen in
McSherry’s work on the importance of considering spirituality to meet gaps in healthcare delivery.


(ii) Enhancing collaboration with external partners in academia and other sectors
We have focused on delivery of interdisciplinary, applied, high-quality translational research.
Through our research and collaborations (71% of peer-reviewed outputs are co-authored with
external collaborators. 29% of peer-reviewed outputs include collaborations with non-academic
partners), we are already making a positive impact on policy, practice and theory. Key achievements
include:


Impact on Policy & Practice: CHAD has developed and strengthened partnerships (2016-ongoing)
      with over 30 stakeholders, encompassing local authorities, the NHS, and third sector
      organisations. CHAD’s research is influencing these organisations’ practice and policy,
      making a difference for the people they serve.
       As demonstrated in Gidlow’s impact case study, our research into neighbourhood/natural
       environments and health resulted in the creation of two collaborative Healthy Urban Planning
       (HUP) posts in Stoke-on-Trent City Council; homelessness research led to changes in a
       public protection order for more empathetic policing of street begging; and research for the
       Beth Johnson Foundation has shaped their organisational focus of promoting health in mid-
       life (helping them to secure substantial programme funding in this area).
       Gidlow, Ellis, and Povey’s research has resulted in developing training and resources to
       improve risk communication in NHS Health Checks nationally. The research has contributed
       to an improved uptake of NHS Health Checks in Stoke-on-Trent from 62.5% to 73.5%.
       McSherry was supported to take a joint appointment with the University Hospitals of North
       Midlands NHS Trust. This strategic development ensures that his research is co-developed
       with end-users, and as a result generates impact by improving clinical practice. In his EU-
       funded EPICC project, he has developed networks in 21 countries to shape education around
       spirituality in nursing.




                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Increased engagement: Slater has established productive collaborations with researchers at KU
       Leuven and the University of Queensland that focus on social factors including leadership
       and belonging. The resulting high-quality outputs contribute to the University’s growing
       reputation in this area (e.g., Fransen, Coffee, Vanbeselaere, Slater, De Cuyper, & Boen,
       2014; Slater, Coffee, Barker, Haslam, & Steffens, 2019).
       Street and Hurst collaborated with the artist Mark Ware (www.markware.co.uk) on the
       interactive arts-science exhibition and workshop tour Reflecting Nature at eight venues in the
       UK (2016-2017). Through a series of lab and field-based studies, researchers explored
       whether artistic, nature, and urban images evoked positive psychological states such as
       improved mood and stress-reduction responses.
       Jolley is promoting the psychological benefits for children who engage in the arts, a
       collaboration with the Stoke-on-Trent and North Staffordshire Cultural Education Partnership.
       Rodham has strengthened our existing connections with the Complex Regional Pain
       Syndrome-UK (CRPS) patient support group. During the COVID-19 lockdown she has been
       invited to speak at their online meetings, which offer psychological coping advice for people
       living with CRPS.
       CHAD’s public engagement programme of research seminars, lectures and conferences was
       attended by 1600 stakeholders and members of the public across 25 events (2016-2019),
       providing a major contribution to the University’s impact and engagement programme.


Enabling and facilitating impact
Our work is centred on interdisciplinary partnership working and participatory methods to co-produce
high-quality research that can be applied. We focus on developing collaborative networks to
generate and support ongoing impact, a strategy in line with our institutional research strengths
around co-creation and co-production. Our established links with external partners, practitioners,
and experts, and our support for staff with joint practice and research contracts, helps to strengthen
this impact strategy. Our dissemination strategy further enhances our impact by ensuring that our
work contributes to and further develops evidence-based practice, which in turn benefits end users.
Income and research promotion and dissemination have been key enablers of our approach to
impact. Significant achievements include:
Raising external income and diversifying the funding base: As detailed in section 3, members
      of this UoA have successfully secured £2.7 million in external income (£102,944/FTE) in
      this REF period. We have won flagship awards from prestigious funders including NIHR,
      Health Foundation, and the European Commission. As our impact case study outline, we
      have successfully delivered 70 impactful projects funded by charitable and public sector
      organisations (including Public Health England, NHS, Stoke-on-Trent City Council,
      Staffordshire County Council, National Lottery/VOICES of Stoke-on-Trent, Brighter
      Futures), which have included private sector engagement. Our mixed portfolio underlines
      our sustainable growth and future, and it ensures a breadth of knowledge exchange
      pathways are available to achieve further impact.
Promoting and disseminating research: The investment in research that has been made in the
     REF period has yielded excellent outputs, grant awards and measures of esteem. Between
     2014 and 2020 members of this UoA achieved 329 publications (79% in Q1/Q2 journals),
     2933 citations and a field-weighted citation impact of 1.5 (Source: SciVal).
       In line with University open access policy and to maximise the reach of our work, we upload
       our outputs to the University’s repository, STORE, which ensures that our research is widely
       available. In addition, the University’s media and communications team has extensively
       broadcast our research in the press and other media, with over 1.2 million reads in the
       Conversation outlet since 2017/18.
       We have several regular seminar programmes with high-profile external speakers throughout
       our UoA. We have an extensive cohort of visiting fellows and professors (n=86) whose

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       contributions to our research environment include PhD supervision and co-authoring
       research outputs. The central Research Innovation and Impact Service (RIIS) identifies
       funding opportunities and works closely with academics to seek collaborations with academia
       and industry.


1.3 FUTURE DIRECTIONS
This submission is Staffordshire University’s first to UoA3. The strong ties that have been forged
within the Unit, the enthusiasm and expertise of the researchers, the increasing international
reputation, the forming of key partnerships, and the comprehensive support from the University
combine and provide a clear route to growing the research over next five years.
The University’s 2030 Academic Strategy commits to underpin our “intellectual contribution to the
local and regional creative, digital and foundational economies” with rigorous and significant
research. Our continued growth plays a key role in meeting this University strategy, which has a
strong focus on allied health and education. Over the next five years we will continue to contribute
to the advancement of knowledge focusing on:
   •   Understanding the impact of natural environment on health
   •   Improving individual physical, psychological, social, spiritual well-being and health
Specifically, we will foster the growth and support the development of existing and future research
groups and centres, take advantage of current and future University investment, and embed
coaching and mentoring throughout in the research environment.


Growth and support for existing and future Research Groups and Centres
There will be growth in number of University-research groups to meet these challenges, through
mentoring, targeted support and guidance from RIIS, and shared expertise from leaders of Research
Centres across the University. Specifically:
   •   SEPP will be supported to become an established Research Centre.
   •   The Research into Safety in health and social care Network (ReSNET) was formed by
       recent recruit S Jones in September 2020. The network consists of a growing number of
       University researchers and representatives from 17 regional and national organisations
       including NHS England, NHS Improvement, and NHS Resolution, alongside strategic senior
       policymakers including Professor Mark Radford, Chief Nurse of Health Education England
       and Deputy Chief Nursing Officer for England. We will develop this collaborative network to
       drive our research growth in patient safety and healthcare through the co-production and co-
       creation of research with key stakeholders.
   •   Building on the new expertise acquired during this REF period, we will establish a
       Biosciences Research Group in 2021/22. Researchers in this nascent group investigate
       the underpinning environmental factors that impact on health and wellbeing. Its members
       have expertise in areas including computational biology, genomics and microbe-environment
       interactions.
In line with the civic university agenda, research in UoA3 is underpinned by a culture of collaboration
and co-production. Our researchers will contribute significantly to the University Civic Agreement,
which calls for us to formalise existing relationships and develop new ones with an increasing range
of external partners in academia, professional practice, industry, community, sport, and ecumenical
bodies in line with our civic mission and research impact activities. We will undertake this work by
seeking to develop critical mass in key emergent research areas, such as ReSNET, which is bringing
quantitative strengths and new partnerships.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ensuring Investment across the University impacts positively on our UoA
Recently the University was awarded £2.9 million (2020) to develop a Centre for Health Innovation.
This Centre will be used for research collaborations across Allied Health professions with local
Hospital Trusts and industrial partners. Our aim is to increase innovation and jobs in the local
healthcare sector through collaborative research and knowledge exchange activities located at the
Centre.
We will use the University’s recently established Digital Institute London, which contains high-quality
computing facilities and leading national development in e-sports, to increase our digital research
capacity in bioinformatics and healthcare.
The range of opportunities for research and knowledge exchange experience, mentoring, capability,
and potential that arise from these investments, combine with our comprehensive, ambitious
research strategy. Together, they fortify our research culture and ensure our sustainable growth
beyond REF2021.


Embedding coaching and mentoring in the research environment
To support the growth in researchers in the Unit, we have approved an expanded mentorship
programme to increase our mentorship provision for early career researchers (ECRs). We will
implement this support within the Research Centres and Groups, with Senior Researchers
(Associate Deans for Research and Enterprise (ADREs), Professors, Research Centre Directors,
and Research Group Directors) working closely with ECRs and other individuals allocated time to
undertake this role. ECRs will be paired with Senior Researchers and encouraged and supported to
seek out and engage in collaborative multidisciplinary research.




 2. People


2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND DEVELOPMENT
Over the REF period, the University has used policy consultations and recruitment to increase the
institutional focus on research. We have contributed by making several researcher appointments
and promotions across the Unit and this is reflected in all of our submitted staff holding a PhD or
Professional Doctorate. These include internal appointments, and part of our submission includes
researchers who were submitted to three separate UoAs in 2014 (UoA4 Psychology, UoA25
Education, and UoA26 Sport). We have recruited strategically and brought researchers together to
expand our thematic and collaborative Allied Health research.


Effective development and support of research work of our staff
We prioritise maintaining and expanding our team of expert, passionate, and internationally
renowned Allied Health researchers. Our sustainable staff structure is underpinned by:
   •   Appointments and promotions in key areas of research strength
   •   Professional development of researchers


Appointments and Promotion
Since 2014, we have recruited research leaders at Professorial level in Rodham (ex University of
Bath) and Pierscionek (returned in UoA12, ex Nottingham Trent), the latter as ADRE in the School
of Life Sciences and Education. In this REF period, we recruited S Jones at Associate Professor
level. Two of those submitted in this UoA have been promoted to Professor (Boath and Gidlow) and
five to Associate Professor (Forsyth, Jolley, Povey, Slater, McStay).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We make appointments and promotions in conjunction with the University’s systemic use of targeted
support to develop the institutional research culture (see section 2 of REF5A). The appointment of
senior and established researchers adds to our capacity to provide mentorship and guidance for our
early career staff. These strategic staffing decisions ensure our continued sustainability and vitality.
We are developing our established researchers, simultaneously growing, and supporting ECRs (who
comprise 19% of our submitted staff) to develop their skills, expertise, and networks.
We encourage staff seeking promotion to attend dedicated support sessions run by experienced and
recently promoted staff. We offer these staff comprehensive mentoring support by an appropriate
senior member of staff under guidance from the relevant ADRE or Centre Director. Further support
is provided by an extensive network of visiting (n=86) and emeritus (n=5) academics. This additional,
external support enhances our diversity and enables us to use their networks and thereby expand
our opportunities to collaborate with academics, practitioners, clinicians, and other Allied Health
professionals.


Professional Development of Researchers
Our researchers, including ECRs and Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs), make use of a range of
opportunities which are designed to ensure that they realise their full potential. These opportunities
include:
Dedicated and Protected Research Time: During this REF period, the University introduced a
      Teaching, Research and Innovation (TRI) contract pathway (section 2 of REF5A). All staff on
      this pathway who are being submitted to this UoA receive a minimum 20% contracted time
      for research, protected by reduced teaching and administrative activities. The School ADREs
      and line managers ensure that this research time is indeed protected by building its planned
      allocation into work-plans.
Performance and Development Review: All researchers have an annual Performance and
      Development Review (PDR) with their line manager, with a six-monthly review to set
      objectives aligned to University strategy and identify appropriate training and development
      needs. ADREs contribute to the PDR by helping to develop appropriate research objectives
      that support the trajectory of individual research careers and the broader research centre
      academic direction.
Continued Professional Development: Development training is supported internally through the
      University Human Resources and Organisational Development and access to LinkedIn
      Learning. RIIS supplies all staff and PGRs with a centralised programme of internal
      researcher training. The programme has been designed with input from staff and PGRs,
      ADREs and using feedback from the outcomes of the Culture, Employment and Development
      in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS) from 2020. We are expanding our capacity to
      supervise doctoral trainees by providing our staff with appropriate training in doctoral
      supervision and encouraging inexperienced supervisors to join supervisory teams as the
      second or third supervisor.
Coaching: We encourage our less experienced researchers to access coaching and mentoring
      through the Research Centres and from the University Professoriate Community.
Internal collaboration: Internal Research Centre seminars and workshops provide an opportunity
       for establishing new academic networks, receiving supportive academic critique and
       disseminating research findings to peers. The annual University Research Conference
       provides an opportunity to share research findings and establish new interdisciplinary
       contacts across the institution. The nascent Biosciences Research Group (see p5) is working
       with SEPP to develop a collaborative research programme with Qatar University’s Biomedical
       Research Centre in Doha.
External Collaboration: CHAD’s approach of developing and strengthening partnerships with local
      authority, NHS, and third sector organisations (see section 1) continues to create
      opportunities for research collaboration. In this last REF period, SCPR has secured nine
      bursaries for health psychology professional doctorate trainees. Every bursary leads to

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       research collaborations between the trainee, their workplace, and their academic
       supervisors.
Early Career Researchers: In addition to protected time, ECRs are provided with ADRE and RIIS
       support for writing grants and achieving publications. Interdisciplinary meetings held across
       the University develop ECRs’ peer-to-peer networks and enhance the research environment
       (e.g., Professoriate). Internal funding is prioritised to support travel to conferences and
       external networking events, and to achieve open access publications.


2.2 DEVELOPMENT OF RESEARCH STUDENTS AND THEIR INTEGRATION INTO THE WIDER
RESEARCH CULTURE
In the current REF period, the Unit has had 32 successful doctoral completions (18 PhD and 14
Professional Doctorate in Health Psychology) completions. We ensure that our PGRs enjoy a
supportive, constructive experience that enables them to do their best work, encourages them to
publish as they progress through their doctorate, and helps them to achieve their qualification within
an appropriate period of time. We also support our postgraduate research trainees to gain
membership of the Higher Education Academy. Cross centre supervision of PGRs promotes
integration and inter-disciplinarity. PGRs have their own dedicated space for social and professional
networking as outlined in section 3.
This Unit has three dedicated Postgraduate Tutors (two for PhD students and one for Professional
Doctorate trainees). These tutors offer support in addition to the supervisory team. They provide
regular engagement and collaborative working with the PGR community to ensure that the students’
feedback is heard and actioned where appropriate by the University.
All doctoral trainees are members of the Graduate School, the University’s central PGR support and
administrative service. The Graduate School monitors and supports PGRs throughout their project
lifecycle: admission, progression, thesis submission, and completion. It supplies supervisors with
links to research and teaching resources as requested. It provides PGRs with a full programme of
seminars and workshops. These sessions supplement supervision meetings to ensure that PGRs
develop the requisite key skills to become confident and competent researchers. The Graduate
School also provides a forum for formal and informal interdisciplinary exchanges, including both
academic (annual research conference) and social activities (e.g., the annual BBQ).
The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our staff and students. We have worked hard to maintain
connections with our PGR community (73 current students on 31st July 2020), some of whom may
not yet have visited the campus due to COVID-19 restrictions. Beyond supervision meetings, we
have kept in regular contact with our PGRs by post as well as by electronic means; for example, the
health psychology team sent their professional doctorate trainees tea bags to have during
supervision meetings, regular sending of cards (e.g., end of the academic year, graduation,
induction, Christmas) and for the new trainees, they put together a booklet introducing Stoke-on-
Trent. The Graduate School have also run social events and encouraged trainees to make use of
the technology to develop a sense of ‘being together apart’.




2.3 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
Of the staff submitted to the UoA3, 61% are female. The University is a member of the Athena SWAN
charter and is working to earn a University Bronze award. We uphold the SWAN charter’s six
principles, and we actively work to support and implement the University’s Equality, Diversity, and
Inclusion Framework (2018-2021; renewal in 2021). We facilitate flexible working for staff with
different needs, with individuals within the Unit benefiting from maternity/paternity leave, other
special leave circumstances, and provide flexible working arrangements in line with institutional
policies (e.g., individuals with caring responsibilities, compassionate leave). 21% (6/28 staff) are
employed on part time contracts. Forsyth was supported by the University to set up a ‘Women in
Research Network’ across the University, which she leads, to provide an informal forum for gender-
based support and discussions to support the research environment.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 INCOME
In the REF period, we secured research income from a diverse range sources, reflecting our
research activity’s breadth and significance. We are committed to health and well-being research
with real world impact. The focus of our future external funding strategy involves targeting funders
who share this aim, and range from European funding and NIHR, to commissioned and impactful
research and evaluation for organisations, including the NHS, local authorities, charities, and elite
sport.
Between 2013 and 2020, UoA3 secured £2.7 million of research income. Notable awards include:
   •   £900,000 from Stoke-on-Trent City Council and Staffordshire County Council to establish
       and run CHAD for the first three years (Gidlow, 2015-2018)
   •   £397,536 Health Technology Assessment funding (NIHR) for the Risk Communication in
       NHS Health Check (RICO) study (Gidlow, 2017-2019).
   •   £458,000 from the Health Foundation to investigate nurse retention, ambulance workforce
       retention and patient safety utilising big data modelling (S Jones, 2019-2023)
   •   €242,093 (£218,704) Erasmus+ K2 Strategic Partnership funding to work with leaders across
       Europe in spirituality and compassionate care (McSherry, 2016-2019)


CHAD’s funding awards demonstrate our applied and collaborative approach to securing funding for
research that will make a difference. These awards include £160,000 for Healthy Urban Planning
researchers to change the practice of Stoke-on-Trent City Council planners (Gidlow); over £47,000
for research around housing and homelessness through local third sector organisations (VOICES
and Brighter Futures; Gidlow); over £260,000 for research and evaluation for third and public sector
organisations covering a range of areas (e.g., dementia-friendly care homes, Adverse Childhood
Experience, dignity in care, commissioning of women’s support services, and Staffordshire Fire and
Rescue Service) (Gidlow, Ellis, McSherry, Slater).
Local practice-based partners provided SEPP with key working and funding partnerships. These
include £180,000 for PhD studentships from Stoke City Football Club and from Impact International.
We have generated consultancy income from our expertise in areas including stress management
and dementia-friendly care environments, with stakeholders including The Davies Group and Great
Britain Rowing (£43,000).
In addition to external income, internal seed funding has been used to start impact-based projects
and conferences and to support the writing of research bids.
Our strategy for future income generation is to maintain and develop new activity with funding
sources where we have been successful, including NIHR, charities, and local government, and to
use our extensive partnership networks to build capacity and become more competitive for UKRI
and fellowship funding.


3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE
Income generating activities are supported in several ways.
(i) ADREs provide senior strategic support and ensure that the Institutional Research and
Innovation Strategy is prioritised. Their support has empowered our Research Centres and
Groups to develop plans for targeted, proactive funding proposals in areas of strength, leading to a
coherent organisational growth that includes all academic staff. This system not only fosters


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development of early career researchers but ensures a critical mass of researchers around our key
research themes.
(ii) Our UoA has a vibrant community of service users (detailed in Section 4) who are not just
involved in all aspects of doctoral training (e.g., admissions, intervention, and consultancy training)
but are also involved in the development of research ideas, funding applications, and research
analysis.
(iii) Academics are supported in income generation by RIIS. This central service (see REF5A
section 4 for more information) provides a range of support including identifying income sources,
grant development, initial finance, and project management assistance where appropriate (e.g., for
Gidlow’s 2017-2019 NIHR-funded RICO study).
(iv) The 2018 University Research and Innovation Strategy identifies research excellence as a
priority goal. This is a key institutional development since the last REF. The strategy embeds
research in the appraisal system for staff on the research pathway, which in turn facilitates the
identification of their research needs. It is reflected in the staff development strategy at departmental
and University level and is reflected in work-loading processes. All staff in this Unit now have a
minimum 20% time for research, receive research-focused annual appraisals and are set discipline-
appropriate targets for research grant applications and income.
(v) University funding. The University provides us with quality-related (‘QR’) funding (through
application) for impact acceleration, teaching relief to support bidding, and for dissemination
activities. Two of our impact case studies (Gidlow, Slater) have benefitted.
All Research Centres are awarded central support to facilitate the development of their research
activities, including a budget for building research strengths. We received £38k of internal funding to
support the development of a “Smarter Thinking” app, which aims to reduce individuals’ irrational
beliefs and improve psychological health.
(vi) A rolling programme of centralised research-related workshops to support researchers.
RIIS organise these workshops. They include: funding for research, research grant writing, writing
for publication, beginning to write for publication, and starting to become research active.




3.3 FACILITIES
We collaborative through shared use of central facilities. These include the University Library
Services, which support research through the provision of a high-quality library environment and
facilities, appropriate print and electronic information resources and support from professional
subject librarians to support literature searching and retrieval; and leading software for quantitative
and qualitative data analysis (e.g., SPSS, AMOS, NVivo).
Researchers within UoA3 have access to dedicated, specialist facilities with support from the
centralised Technical Services. The University is a signatory to the Technician Commitment. The
Technical Services team enables sharing of equipment and facilities across the University to
stimulate interdisciplinary collaborations. We conduct research with support from the Health &
Clinical Skills Hub (HCS) of Technical Services, one of five Hubs across the University. HCS
comprises 13 staff, one of whom was awarded the 2014 HEA Psychology Technician of the Year.
Annual expenditure on equipment is prioritised according to a range of factors, including emerging
research and teaching needs and growth, and opportunities to develop and expand research funding
proposals by harnessing new facilities and resources.
Stand-out facilities include:
       The £30m Science Centre, which is central to our work, is equipped with facilities for
       biochemical, molecular biology, microbiological, cell biology, physiological and genetic
       analysis. These include dedicated spaces for cell culture, fluorescence microscopy, a genetic
       analyser, microbiological culture, spectroscopy, scanning electron microscope, an X-ray
       diffractor, liquid chromatography mass spectrometer (LCMS), and a nuclear magnetic
       resonance (NMR) spectrometer. Each of these pieces of equipment has a dedicated

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       technical specialist responsible for maintenance and training. Investment in server capacity
       is being finalised to implement cloud systems for data storage.
       Human Sciences Suite: includes the Electroencephalographic (EEG) Laboratory, The Pain
       Laboratory, The Cardiovascular Laboratory, and the Clinical Biochemistry Laboratory.
       Observation and Cognitive Suite: purpose-built facility used for research by students and
       staff. It includes an observation room with video and two-way mirror, a Child Development
       Laboratory, and a series of laboratories including eye trackers and Virtual Reality (HTC VIVE,
       Samsung Gear), plus five individual testing rooms linked to a central control room.
       Counselling Suite & Interview Rooms: smaller, separate rooms equipped with
       microphones and video-recording technology suitable for interviewing participants in our
       qualitative research.
       The Basil Ashford Sport and Exercise Psychology Lab includes a Finometer and
       Portapres used extensively in the Group’s research on psychophysiological responses to
       stress, as well as co-ordination functioning testing equipment (e.g., BATAK). Separate from
       the lab is the SEPP Sport Psychology Suite used for data collection and interviews.
       Facilities for Doctoral Students: PhD students have access to all laboratory facilities and
       equipment and space close to where they research. In addition, we provide dedicated space
       for PGRs to undertake quiet work with access to computers and desks and social interaction
       and discussion spaces.


Future facility developments
To support our future healthcare analytics potential, in 2020 we have achieved accreditation with the
NHS Data Protection and Security Tool Kit. This accreditation opens our access to NHS Digital data
and other data projects within the NHS, helping to support our five-year research growth intentions.
In 2021, the launch of the £5.8 million Centre for Health Innovation (£2.9 million Local Enterprise
Partnership funding) will provide a state-of-the-art simulation and immersion suite for future
collaborative research with public and private organisations in the healthcare sector.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Our research contributes to the University’s wider role as a civic university. We work closely with our
local partners to ensure relevant and impactful research that can improve the health of the local
population. Collaboration and co-production are at the heart of what we do.


4.1 COLLABORATIONS
Collaborations with Service Users
We have built strong relationships with Service Users and embedded them in our research and our
teaching. As part of NHS PPIE, and research co-design and co-production, we work closely with
patient groups in the planning and delivery of specific projects (e.g., RICO study, 2017-2019;
homelessness in Stoke-on-Trent, 2018-2019), and have ongoing collaborations with service users
(e.g., people with fibromyalgia and chronic pain; people with lived experience of multiple and severe
disadvantage). S Jones’s work in healthcare analytics is designed to facilitate PPIE integration.
Rodham collaborated with service users to co-produce a leaflet for the charity Pain Concern (2018).
Boughey has conducted research in the areas of dementia care (2013-2014, 2017), chaplaincy
(2013-2015) and undertaken research for NHS England (2015-2017) capturing carers’ experience
by recording their personal stories.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Collaborations with Government and Third Sector committees
We are embedded in a range of external committees and groups in the NHS (CHAD, SCPR), and
public and third sector organisations. These roles ensure that our work remains relevant to our
partners’ needs, and they benefit from our research. Gidlow sits on the VOICES Partnership Board,
an organisation that supports people with multiple and severe disadvantage in Stoke-on-Trent, for
whom CHAD has undertaken six commissioned research and evaluation projects to inform practice.
CHAD’s original Board comprised well-respected national and international public health figures,
including Prof Siân Griffiths, and Prof Mona Fouad (University of Birmingham, Alabama). CHAD are
also part of the Collaborative Network (comprising approximately 30 local public and third sector
organisations) who are working to influence practice, policy and commissioning relating to vulnerable
groups. Gidlow, Ellis and Povey have honorary academic contracts with Public Health England.
McSherry has a joint appointment with UHNM (below). Tolhurst has led research within Shropshire
Community Health NHS Trust around assessment of patient experience (2019-2020). S Jones is a
regular collaborator with NHS England and Improvement, particularly with the Deputy Chief Nursing
Officer.


National and international collaborations
In addition to our close, local connections, we have developed extensive partnerships nationally and
internationally. These partnerships enable our research to achieve both impact and international
excellence. We remain committed to expanding our national and international collaborations. We
see such collaborations as vital to our research. 71% of our 329 peer-reviewed outputs in this REF
period are co-authored by colleagues from other UK or international academic institutions (83% of
those submitted to REF), including 82 papers with collaborators from Spain, 42 from Netherlands,
28 from United States. Our collaborations with non-academic partners are evident with 29% of our
publications including a non-academic partner. We have produced 65 publications with NHS/Health
sector and 25 with governmental organisations over the REF period. We will emphasise these co-
authorship practices in the following REF period.
Nationally, SEPP’s collaborative research has benefited a range of organisations including Great
      Britain Paralympic Archery (2014), Stoke City Football Club (2013-ongoing), Great Britain
      Rowing (2014-2015), Hampshire Police Constabulary (2018-ongoing), Staffordshire Fire and
      Rescue Service (2019), The Royal Air Force (2017-2020) and Impact International (2016-
      2019). Street worked with artist, Mark Ware, to lead a national touring exhibition (2016).
      Gidlow, Ellis and Povey have undertaken several collaborative projects with Public Health
      England around CVD and diabetes prevention programmes (2014-ongoing).
Internationally, we have developed a range of strong collaborative international partnerships (e.g.,
       International Physical Activity and Environment Network (IPEN); GoGreenEx consortium;
       University of Sao Paulo; Impact International (SEPP)). In addition, Burton has worked with
       the Change Exchange to take health psychology informed behavioural science to midwives
       in Uganda. McSherry was a founding and steering group member of the newly launched
       Enhancing nurses’ and midwives’ competence in Providing spiritual care through Innovative
       education and Compassionate Care (EPICC) international network to support the
       advancement of spiritual care education. Tolhurst is coordinator of The European
       Sociological Association's Research Network on Ageing in Europe (2019-ongoing). Jolley
       hosted Romina Vivaldi from the National Research Council of Argentina (CONICET) for a
       six-month visiting academic scholar position. Vivaldi has since joined the Department of
       Psychology as a lecturer. Jolley also hosted Grégory Dessart from the University of
       Lausanne in 2018 for a six-month visiting academic scholar position. McSherry is a
       Professor in Nursing employed in a joint appointment between Staffordshire University and
       the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust and he also works as part-time
       Professor at VID Specialized University, Norway. His employment provides national and
       international collaborations across academia and hospitals. With a career in nursing working
       as a Registered Nurse primarily within Acute Hospital Care with a focus upon care of the
       older person and end of life care, in 2010 he led the Royal College of Nursing (RCN)
       workstream exploring members’ perceptions of spirituality.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Collaborations for external bursaries for doctoral trainees
In this REF period we have widened our access to doctoral level training through securing nine
funded professional doctorate bursaries in health psychology (led by Povey: including the Royal
National Orthopaedic Hospital, London, Huntercombe Centre, Birmingham; Lawnswood Pupil
Referral Unit, Wolverhampton). The bursaries cover the fees for the doctorate and a small stipend
for the trainee.


4.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE WIDER RESEARCH BASE


Awards: Current and former researchers in this Unit have received awards in recognition of their
     work during this REF period. Awards include: British Psychological Society (BPS) Lifetime
     Achievement Award (Clark-Carter, 2016), Higher Education Academy (HEA) STEM
     Technician of the Year (Psychology) (Gallimore, 2018), Fellow of the BPS (Rodham, 2016),
     and Fellow of the Faculty of Public Health (Gidlow, 2019). Turner received the Albert Ellis
     Award for Research in 2018, and an outstanding achievement award in 2019 from the
     Association for REBT.


Contributions to Learned Societies: Staff contribute to many learned societies and networks and
       both influence and provide expertise on the development of a range of disciplinary areas. We
       sit on funding committees and journal editorial boards: McSherry is Executive Editor for the
       Journal for the Study of Spirituality, and on the Editorial Board for the journal Healthcare;
       Povey is Associate Editor for the British Journal of Health Psychology (2019-ongoing);
       Forsyth is an Editor for the Women in Sport and Physical Activity Journal (2019-ongoing);
       McStay is a screener of pre-prints for BioRxiv and preprints.org; Slater is in the Editorial
       Board of the International Review of Sport and Exercise Psychology (2019-ongoing); Gidlow
       has guest edited special issues in the International Journal of Environment and Public Health
       Research, and Frontiers in Psychology (2018-2020); Rodham was qualitative expert for the
       West Midlands Regional Advisory Committee for the NIHR Research for Patient Benefit
       funding programme (2014-2015).


 Gidlow is a member of the national Expert Scientific Advisory Panel (ESCAP) for NHS Health
      Check (since February 2020); McSherry is a founding and executive member of British
      Association for the Study of Spirituality, part-time Professor at VID University College,
      Bergen, Norway, a visiting Professor with the School of Care Sciences, University of South
      Wales, and at the School of Nursing and Midwifery, Trinity College, Dublin. Rodham was
      Chair Elect (2014-2015), Chair (2015-2017), Past Chair (2017-2018) of the British
      Psychological Society Division of Health Psychology. Slater was a member of Division of
      Sport and Exercise Psychology (DSEP) committee between 2015-2018 leading on research
      hubs, CPD and pathways to full membership of DSEP. Rose was secretary to the BPS
      Developmental Section (2015-2021) and is current secretary to the BPS West Midlands
      Branch (2020-ongoing). McSherry is a founding and executive member of the International
      Network for the Study of Spirituality (INSS) and formerly British Association for The Study of
      Spirituality launched in January 2010. He was the Lead applicant of an Erasmus+ project
      titled Enhancing Nurses Competence in Providing Spiritual Care through Innovation
      Education and Compassionate Care (EPICC), which developed a European and international
      standard for spiritual care education. Tolhurst is currently the Coordinator of the European
      Sociological Association’s Research Network on Ageing in Europe.


Contributions to Funding Bodies: We are members of and reviewers for research funding panels.
       These include: Research for Patient Benefit (RfPB) (Rodham), ESRC (Gidlow, Rose,

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Seker) AHRC (Rose), NIHR (Gidlow, Povey, Rodham) Diabetes UK (Gidlow, Povey),
       MRC (Gidlow) COST (European Cooperation in Science and Technology (McSherry),
       American Diabetes Association (Povey), Alzheimer’s Society (Tolhurst), Health and Care
       Research Wales (Povey), Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Povey), North
       Central London Research Consortium (Povey), EPSRC, and Parkinson’s UK (Seker).


Contribution to knowledge: In addition to our research publications and doctoral completions, we
       are actively engaged in disseminating our work to as wide an audience as possible. We
       facilitate the sharing of best practice across disciplines by organising academic and
       practitioner workshops, conferences, and lectures. These include the Annual Health and
       Inequalities Conference, co-hosted with the UK Faculty of Public Health (Gidlow).
       Throughout the assessment period, we hosted a series of collaborative workshops with
       external agencies, PhD seminars and public lectures (CHAD).
       We contribute to and shape curricula and practitioner guidelines. Our national and
       international leadership is evidenced by the embedding of spirituality within international
       health practitioner training (McSherry). We undertake co-production of research-informed
       recommendations for practice and policy with a range of stakeholders. Rodham contributed
       to Pain Concern’s Complex Regional Pain Syndrome guidelines. Her work is included in the
       Royal College of Physicians’ 2018 update to the Complex regional pain syndrome in adults
       guidelines. We have undertaken a formal rapid review of the literature on reflective practice
       in crisis for Macmillan Cancer Support (relating to the COVID pandemic, led by Rodham).


Invited lectures: Slater delivered a keynote presentation on his research at the NHS Human
       Factors Conference at the Royal London Hospital (2019) and at NEOMA Business School in
       Paris (2018). Jolley gave invited talks at Oxford University (2018 and 2020). Gidlow gave
       invited talks at the Health Disparities Research Symposium, University of Birmingham
       Alabama (2018), and keynote at the International Mountain and Outdoor Sports Conference,
       Prague (2019). In collaboration with cardiothoracic surgeon Christopher Satur, Rodham
       presented a series of invited talks to the Chest Wall International Group Meeting, Pretoria
       (2019). McSherry was an invited speaker to the Australian Nursing and Midwifery Federation
       (South Australia) branch annual conference, Adelaide (2019). He spoke on the topics of
       dignity and spirituality in older person care. McStay has been an invited lecturer at the
       University of Keele and University of Sao Paulo. Seker has delivered a range of invited and
       keynote presentations relating to Big Data (e.g., International Symposium on Intelligent
       Manufacturing and Service Systems, Turkey (2021), and IEEE EMBC in Milan (2015) and
       Chicago (2014).


Knowledge Exchange and public engagement: As part of the research strategy, Research
     Centres and Groups offer public engagement events throughout the year. These range from
     a series of visiting speaker seminars, through to engaging with a range of public, professional
     and academic stakeholders, who come to together to share knowledge and identify priorities
     for action around key health and social care issues. The Big Community Conversation
     involved collaborative workshops and stakeholder engagement events with local and
     regional organisations themed on CHAD research projects (25 events with 1600 attendees).
     Our engagement activities also include PGR student seminars, invited lectures, annual health
     inequalities conference (last time co-hosted with the UK Faculty of Public Health), monthly
     Psychology in the Pub talks, and the ‘Psychology and Me’ showcase. McStay has been a
     participant in eLife programmes to support innovations in open science and research
     communication.


Our Associate Professors and Professors across the UoA contribute to the ‘Profs in the Pav’ public
seminar series. This series is an opportunity for the public to come to the university, join us in a free
community meal, and learn about the work of Staffordshire University senior research active staff.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 15
