Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Middlesex University London
 Unit of Assessment: 32. Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and mission

 REF 2014 ranked our UoA 26th overall (GPA 2.98, up from 2.26 in RAE 2008; power ranking
 70.3, up from 36). 78% of our research was judged as internationally excellent (21% as world
 leading) and 100% of our impact case studies as very considerable, with one considered
 outstanding. 90% of our environment was judged as internationally excellent and world leading.

 Our REF 2021 submission reflects our staff’s research foci and our 2031 strategy, as
 expressions of a vibrant and sustainable research culture that is explicitly supportive,
 collaborative and combines high levels of academic achievement with impactful research. Since
 2014, we have steadily developed our researchers, research structures and governance, while
 building our research strengths in the following areas of history, theory and practice:

    1. fine art, including photography, video installation and film, socially engaged practices;
        curatorial practice and material and visual cultures;
    2. animation;
    3. interior architecture and design.

 Middlesex climbed in the top 100 in Times Higher Education’s Best Young Universities in both
 2019 and 2020. Art and Design at Middlesex was ranked in QS’s Top 150 World University
 Rankings for Art and Design in 2017 and 2018; and 14th in the UK for research quality by the
 Complete University Guide 2021 for Art and Design. These achievements are the result of our
 many mid-career researchers who comprise 76.2% of this submission, as well as increases of
 21.5% in doctoral completions and 130% in external income since REF 2014.

 36% more staff (FTE) are submitted in REF 2021, a headcount of 42 (32.1 FTE), compared to
 34 in 2014 (23.59 FTE). The proportion of research active staff submitted represents 44.1% of
 the total staff FTE from the Department of Visual Arts (31 eligible staff), Department of Design
 (Fashion and Interiors) (10 staff) and Media Department (1).

 79 outputs are presented: 36 in theory/history (four double-weighted) and 38 practice as
 research outputs (one double-weighted). Eight outputs (10%) are from researchers who made
 significant contributions to research while employed at Middlesex but have now moved to other
 universities or retired. Significant in our submission are first monographs from mid-career
 researchers (Kokoli, Leeson, Sliwinska, Timberlake and White), new books by Arnold,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Williams and Massey, as well as seven edited books (Arnold, two by Deepwell, Kokoli, H.
 Robinson, Spinks, Husbands). Two films received significant awards nationally and
 internationally (Billingham and Hodgson). Our staff have been involved in one-person solo
 exhibitions or retrospectives (Cavusoglu, Piper, Timberlake), international biennials
 (Cavusoglu, Mumberson) and festivals (P. Barritt, Billingham, Spinks). Staff are actively
 involved in editorial work and arts organisations and in projects that have a demonstrable ‘real
 world impact’ in culture and society.

 1.2 Research Structure

 Between 2014 and 2016, the Visual Arts and Design Departments formed a distinct school with
 its research infrastructure managed through the Art and Design Research Institute (ADRI). In
 2016, Middlesex University reduced its six schools to a three Faculty structure and the School of
 Art and Design merged with the School of Media and Performing Arts (reported in UoAs 33 and
 34) becoming part of a Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries (ACI), led by Executive Dean and
 Pro Vice Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange, Professor Carole-Anne Upton. In
 this reorganisation, research structures, governance and leadership were streamlined into one
 Faculty structure. Leadership and management come from the Executive Dean; alongside two
 Deputy Deans for Research and Knowledge Exchange (Igweonu, UoA 33) and Teaching
 (Hunter, UoA33); the Faculty Director of Research (Cobley, UoA34); Faculty Director of
 Research Degrees (Midgelow, UoA33) and the four Heads of Department. Our Faculty’s
 research governance structure (see 1.2; 3.2) encourages and financially supports research
 collaborations, networks and partnerships. The Faculty is supported by the University’s
 Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO), and the leadership and faculty work with
 University and Faculty-level committees for Research and Knowledge Exchange, Research
 Degrees and Ethics. Deepwell and Cavusoglu represent UoA32 in the Faculty Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee. All supervisors attend ACI’s Research Degrees Board.

 Eight research clusters, which developed pre-2014, were active in this period: 1) Making Places;
 2) Art Practice as Investigation; 3) CREATE/Feminisms; 4) Diasporic & Transcultural Practices;
 5) Electronic, Digital Arts and Animation); 6) Science Fiction; 7) Socially Engaged Practices; 8)
 Visual and Material Cultures and Curating (see 1.3.2 below). These clusters have fostered
 interdisciplinary and cross-Faculty working and provided significant opportunities for staff for
 mentoring, support and co-operation, leading to many public-facing research events and
 publications.

 Art and Design research staff have been awarded more than £235,000 (2014-2020) from the
 Faculty Research Support Funds to support research towards the production of outputs and


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 impact. This investment supported staff to participate in and organise international conferences
 (individually and in research clusters); research and produce publications (Arnold, Burke,
 Deepwell, Dick, Duman, House, Kokoli, Mac an Bhreithiún, Massey, Morariu, Murialdo, A.
 Robinson, H. Robinson, Sliwinska, Spinks, Timberlake, Williams); develop practice as
 research work and research exhibitions (Billingham, Bird, Buchan, Cavusoglu, Leeson,
 Morariu, Mullaniff, Read, A. Robinson, Sherwin); and organise research workshops (Evans,
 Leeson/Duman), as well as research leading directly to impact (Leeson, Read, Raina),
 including training for field research in conflict areas (Raina).

 1.3 Research Strategy

 1.3.1 Realising our 2014 strategic aims

 We have actively pursued the four specific aims from the REF 2014 strategy, which have
 strengthened the relation between critical theory and practice-led research in the UoA:

    1. Support staff’s individual research while encouraging research collaborations within the
        institution, nationally and internationally, including non-academic institutions. The
        achievements reported in section 4 and as outputs demonstrate the extent of support at
        Faculty and University level and indicate our investments and vitality in building on the
        previous REF.
    2. Expand PGT and research degree provision. Between 2013 and 2020 an increase of
        21.5% is reported in our unit (see 2.2).
    3. Enhance influence on national and international boards and councils through increased
        representation. Since 2014, our staff have become influential in decision-making
        structures of significant professional bodies (see 4.5).
    4. Strengthen performance in competitive research/KE income.
        Between 2014 and 2020 we have increased our external research income by more than
        £545,500 from funding bodies such as AHRC, NERC, and Leverhulme. Major projects
        that received more than £180,000 were Transformation and Empowerment (GCRF Hub)
        (led by Raina), Hydrocitizenship (led by Evans) and Black Arts and Modernism (led by
        Boyce, with Lok as Co-I) (see 3).

 1.3.2 Research clusters as the cornerstone of our strategy

 Our eight research clusters have helped develop vibrant disciplinary and inter-disciplinary
 collaborations at institutional, national and international levels as well as supported publications,




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 exhibitions, projects and impact. Equality and diversity in research as well as amongst and
 between researchers are fostered through them to create a sustainable and vital environment.

 The Create/Feminisms cluster represents a distinctive critical mass in feminist research. It has
 collectively supported two international conferences at Middlesex: Local/Global dynamics in
 feminist research on contemporary art (2017) and Feminist Art Activisms and Artivisms (2018),
 both led by Deepwell. An anthology (Deepwell, Valiz, 2020) was published after the last event,
 which included six staff and three PhDs at Middlesex amongst the thirty-nine contributors. Earlier
 national conferences include: Misogyny: Witches and Wicked Bodies (Deepwell, ICA, 2015);
 Dis/Identifications (Kokoli, ICA, 2015); Feminisms and curatorial collaborations (Kokoli and
 Dormor, 2015); PhD student Suzanne van Rossenberg’s and Abi Shapiro’s (McGill University)
 Teach-in about Women artists who stopped Making Art (2015); Feminist thinking in today's Art &
 Design School (H. Robinson, 2014). Kokoli’s project on Greenham Common’s Art Activism
 also received financial support by ACI.

 Socially Engaged Practices draws on longitudinal environmental art, major socially engaged
 work and citizen-led arts innovation. Here, Leeson’s Active Energy project promoting citizen-led
 innovation in East London, and Duman’s Music for Masterplanning responding to corporate-led
 regeneration of London’s Newham, are paradigmatic. Highlighting the benefits of bringing their
 research into teaching, Leeson and Duman, who teach MA and BA specialisms in art as social
 practice, received faculty support to organise several study days and initiated, in 2015, an online
 symposium on art and social practices, chaired by artist Roxane Permar (University of the
 Highlands and Islands), bringing together twelve different sites in England, Scotland and the US.

 Within the Making Places research cluster, an interdisciplinary approach to spatial design that
 explores the diversity of human occupation from garment to object to city, Evans (cat A-eligible)
 involved Leeson and Read in the AHRC funded project Towards Hydrocitizenship. Evans also
 co-organised together with Jonathan Ward and Kate Oakley, researchers at University of Leeds’
 Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity, a discussion about the role of the
 cultural industries in creating sustainable prosperity (March 2017). The same cluster organised
 the Body and Space conference (2014), where Interior Educators (IE) (the national subject
 association for all Interiors courses in the UK) was a partner, with Murialdo on their board.

 Within the Visual and Material Cultures and Curating cluster, which builds on the legacy of
 visual culture at Middlesex, Morariu organised a series of interdisciplinary research staff
 presentations in 2017 and 2018 (Deepwell, Duman, Hendon, Morariu, Read, A. Robinson,
 Bird) as well as partnered with Jaakko Karhunen in organising the Reading the Enemies (Spring
 2018) series at Middlesex University. The cluster became a partner for the 11th Creative Time


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Summit, broadcast live from Miami (2018). The Faculty supported the development of Collection
 Collective (co-initiated by Morariu, Judit Angel and Raluca Voinea). Other events within this
 cluster include: Them! The visual cultures of ‘Othering’ in post-referendum UK and post-general
 election USA (2017); Public Programming? Pedagogical Practices in a Missing Europe
 (organised by Graziano (research fellow, 2013-2018) and Evans in 2016); as well as Design and
 Time, the Design History Society’s 2016 conference (Massey, Hendon, MoDA).

 The Science Fiction research cluster explores science fiction as twenty first century critique. It
 supported Timberlake’s book, Landscape and the Science Fiction Imaginary and Piper’s
 Breaking the Banker’s Bones exhibitions. Mullaniff’s and Dick’s research at the Dean Castle
 and the Dick Institute in Scotland (2016-2018) received faculty support, within the Art Practice
 as Investigation research cluster. Graziano co-organised, together with Janna Graham and
 Susan Kelly (Goldsmiths) and Alba Colomo and Mercè Santos (Nottingham Contemporary), the
 international symposium New Institutionalities #3: Public Programming, Social Movements and
 Solidarity (2017). Spinks produced her anthology (with Dack, UoA33) on sound art.

 The Diasporic and Transcultural Practices research cluster was centred in The Black Arts
 and Modernism project (Boyce’s and Lok’s collaboration with UAL). Outputs from this three-year
 research project (2015-2018) included Now & Then, Here & There exhibition and conference
 (Chelsea, UAL, 2016); and Conceptualism – Intersectional Readings, International Framings.
 Black Artists and Modernism in Europe after 1968 (conference, Van Abbemuseum, The
 Netherlands, 2017). After leaving Middlesex, Lok co-edited an ebook with the same title (2019)
 and Boyce an edition of Art History (due 2021). In 2017 Lok participated in the Diaspora
 Pavilion, Venice Biennale (2017) and Boyce in several key exhibitions. Piper, Boyce and Lok
 were also speakers at the symposium The Work Between Us: Black British Artists and Exhibition
 Histories (Bluecoat, Liverpool, 2016). The transcultural dimensions of this cluster were also
 pursued by Cavusoglu (cultural mobility and migration) and Dick (collaborations with Central
 Asia).

 The Electronic, Digital Arts and Animation cluster facilitates and develops interdisciplinary
 approaches and creative works in sonic arts, music, still and moving image, illustration and
 games. Buchan organised the symposium From Human Experience to Radical Experiments:
 Animation, 3D and VR in Teaching, Learning and Research (2017); the Faculty also supported
 Buchan’s Animated Wonderworlds, Museum for Design, Zurich (2015), a large-scale exhibition
 that uncovered the origins and development of animation in everyday life. Husbands co-edited
 Experimental Animation: from analogue to digital (Routledge, 2019), which focuses on both




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 experimental animation’s deep roots in the 20th century and its current position in the 21st century
 media landscape.

 Between 2014 and 2016 the School of Art and Design had an institutional partnership with ICA
 London to organise public events and fostered research collaborations, such as: Bird’s Looking
 Gift Horse in the Mouth: A Symposium on Hans Haacke (2015); and Just What Is It That Makes
 Today's Art Schools So Different, So Appealing? (2014), an event that discussed the legacy of
 Hornsey College of Art, with Boyce, Bird, H. Robinson, Mirzoeff, Leeson and PhD researcher
 Lucy Bayley. Bayley’s PhD at Middlesex focused on the ICA; Massey published her history of
 the ICA in 2014.

 1.3.3 Taking our research strategy forward

 After two REF cycles of continued growth, we are now embarking on a new ten-year research
 strategy to 2031, under the leadership of recently appointed Vice-Chancellor and British
 Academy of Management President, Nic Beech. Middlesex’s 2031 strategy places practice at
 the intersection of research, education and engagement. Our UoA’s research and its
 environment are well placed to develop the University’s 2031 ambitions for social justice, equity,
 radical creativity and technological innovation; developing environmental goals and sustainability
 in socio-economic development; ensuring global health and well-being initiatives, and
 connecting people, places and communities. Within this strategic framework, we will seek to:

       1. Develop further the work of individual researchers while encouraging a diversity of
           research collaborations operating at local, national and international levels.
       2. Develop the activities of our research clusters in new inter-disciplinary and cross-
           faculty collaborations as well as with external partners.
       3. Support and strengthen the ability of researchers in competitive bids for external
           support in research and knowledge exchange and in positions of influence on
           national/international boards and councils.
       4. Develop our post-graduate research activities.
       5. Strengthen the contribution of research in design.

 1.4 Impact strategy: interdisciplinary research and real-world impact

 Historically, research in Art and Design at Middlesex University has distinguished itself through
 its interdisciplinary/transdisciplinary character (e.g. in visual culture), its social and political
 engagements for social justice and concern for the environment. Our approach to impact is
 informed by three further objectives: (i) to produce research relevant to the creative industries,


                                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 cultural policy makers and wider society; (ii) define and respond to social and political issues in
 practice-led as well as academic research; and (iii) routinely involve key stakeholders. Realising
 impact is integrated into our research governance and supported by our staff development
 programme (detailed in section 2.1), current infrastructure and financially through the activities
 supported by the Faculty Research Fund (see 1.2 and 3.2). Within our 2031 strategy, we will
 continue to broaden the scope of impact through inter-disciplinary collaborations and the
 development of new partnerships with academic and non-academic organisations nationally and
 internationally.

 1.4.1 ICS Selection

 The selected case studies demonstrate our approach to impact, the different types of users and
 beneficiaries of our research and our longstanding commitments to social purpose and
 engagement with political aspects of art and culture.

 1.4.1.1 Case Study 1

 Bird’s work over two-decades on Leon Golub’s art practice has had a demonstrable impact
 upon creativity, culture and society, which materialised in highly visited exhibitions at London’s
 Serpentine Gallery (2015); National Portrait Gallery, London (2016) and Metropolitan Museum of
 Art, Met. Breuer, New York (2018), among others. Bird’s curatorial and scholarly work has
 contributed to extending public awareness of Golub as an artist whose politically charged artistic
 discourse remains relevant for contemporary audiences. As a leading expert on Golub, Bird’s
 testimony provided in the 'Hall vs Gascard’ court case (2018), based on material analysis of
 eighteen paintings, was essential in the Federal District Court in Concord’s ruling that the
 ‘Gascard Golubs’ were forgeries (ICS1).

 1.4.1.2 Case Study 2

 Since 2007 Leeson has developed Active Energy, a project that promotes citizen-led innovation.
 It is led by the artist in collaboration with The Geezers, a group of senior men in Bow East
 London, and engineer Toby Borland. Leeson’s work becomes a paradigmatic example of the
 impact of socially engaged art upon local communities, which culminated with the installation of
 two floating water wheels in the Thames tidal basin at Three Mills heritage site (2017), and
 Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park (2019), thus generating sufficient power for an aerator that helps
 oxygenate the water to counteract the effects of pollution and support the survival of fish (ICS2).

 1.4.1.3 Case Study 3



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Read’s research-driven art practice critiques romantic notions of landscape as sublime and
 picturesque; and seeks to understand the UK’s coastal and estuarine environments as dynamic
 and complex ecological systems. The originality of his work stems from the unique manner of
 visualising environmental change; his methods propose an integrated approach to landscape
 decision making for stakeholder communities. Read’s work had a decisive role in establishing a
 new paradigm for the management of Deben Estuary, Suffolk, balancing cultural and emotional
 attachment to landscape, the economic stability of communities with the need for flood risk
 management and habitat protection (ICS3).

 1.4.2 Future Impact

 In this REF period, we have actively invested in broadening the scope of impact in our research
 expertise, particularly in public policy and international development, offering considerable
 potential for future impact case studies. For example, Raina’s The Value of Culture in Conflict
 provided women in the Neelum Valley of Azad Kashmir, Pakistan, training within craft and
 design to enhance their ability to generate incomes in their local economy, in partnership with
 the regional NGO partner SABAH and academics from the National College of Arts, Lahore.
 Raina’s work in conflict areas, including projects in Sri Lanka and Iraq, has led to the ‘Culture
 and Conflict’ Field Research Pack (2020), a toolkit for NGOs to work with craft communities.
 Dick’s work with SPINNA developing education and connections in the fashion industry in
 Central Asia also offers significant potential in the future. Other noteworthy research endeavours
 engage with marginalised communities, e.g. communities experiencing the traumatic effects of
 terrorism and war (Raina); histories of black arts movement (Piper); queer film histories
 (A.Robinson) and questions of feminist art (Deepwell, Kokoli). Thus, this unit is well placed to
 develop and broaden the impact of future research building on the knowledge of this existing
 work.

 1.5 Open Research Environment/Open Policy

 Awareness of the issues surrounding Open Research has increased significantly within ACI,
 including compliance with Open Research Data requirements for RCUK/Research England,
 ORCID registration of all researchers, and increased circulation of research outcomes through
 Figshare, academia.edu, Google Scholar, and researchgate.

 REF compliance and Open Access publishing requirements have been developed through the
 Middlesex Eprints Research Repository, with training provided by the Research Support
 Services team. Staff in Art and Design have published nearly 1900 research outputs on Eprints.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.6 Research Integrity: ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and
 standards.

 Middlesex University was an early adopter of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (2012) and has a well-established Code of Practice for Research (updated in 2016), providing
 guidance for research conduct and integrity. Our strategy promotes high standards for research
 integrity combined with an inclusive approach focused on enhancing individual and collective
 research capacities; attracting and retaining staff with high potential and as research leaders;
 and promoting equality and diversity (see 2.3).

 Ethics is fully integrated in research activity. The Research Ethics Review Framework (revised in
 2014 and 2019) is overseen by the University Research Ethics Committee (REC) and research
 by staff, doctoral candidates and taught programmes are subject to ethical review, risk
 assessment and GDPR compliance. Since 2016, the ‘Middlesex Online Research Ethics’
 (MORE) system has been used across the Faculty; MORE enables standardised application and
 assessment processes, and robust, regularly updated, guidance/compliance information to be
 shared across disciplines. All applications are assigned clear risk levels, with corresponding
 procedures. Ethical competences are enhanced via workshops for staff and PgRs, with
 representative researchers from each disciplinary area receiving training/refresher sessions to
 serve as reviewers of ethics applications.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our staffing and development strategy are closely aligned with our research strategy and the
 Concordat’s principles. Central to realising our potential in research, teaching and knowledge
 transfer activities, is prioritising the best use of our staff’s expertise in roles and through staff
 development, while promoting equality and diversity opportunities. Staff workloads include
 allowance and remission for research and sabbaticals may be given for significant research
 projects. Half of our staff have part-time posts and maintain their professional practice in the arts
 and creative industries. A reflexive critical approach to practice that employs entrepreneurial
 skills is central to our ethos and our active engagement in external arts organisations,
 partnerships and communities.

 We aim to develop our research through our research clusters and to achieve a sustainable
 balance across our staff profile in different subject areas, promote interdisciplinary exchanges
 and the value of research into teaching. These ambitions will continue to be supported in the


                                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Middlesex 2031 strategy formulated after extensive consultation with staff, which is
 accompanied by a people strategy entitled ‘Changing lives – A world class community in a world
 class University.’

 2.2 Changes to our staff (2014-2020)

 The current composition of our unit is sustainable and demonstrates our focus on the
 development of potential in mid-career researchers (76.2% of headcount: 6 Lecturers, 18 Senior
 Lecturers and 8 Associate Professors), who will become research leaders in the next REF cycle.
 The unit has 11.9% early career researchers (Bell, Fried, Lippett, Morariu, Rebernjak) and
 11.9% Professors (Billingham, Cavusoglu, Cleaver, Deepwell, Williams). 57% of our
 research staff are over 50 years of age and several will retire post-2021. Two Researchers have
 a recognised disability. Three of our researchers are BME. A key revision to the staffing scheme
 (2014) was the creation of Associate Professors (Bradley, Cowan, Fern, Lok, Martin,
 Mumberson, and Piper), rather than Readers. Associate Professors appointed since 2014 are
 Hodgson (2016), Raina (2017) and Read (2014).

 Twelve Professors and Associate Professors moved to significant new appointments at other
 Universities (10% of submitted outputs): H. Robinson moved to Loughborough University;
 Haywood to UAL; Fortnum to RCA, Sutton to Coventry University; Massey – moved to UAL,
 before retiring; Arnold moved to UEA; Boyce to UAL; Buchan to RCA; Evans to UAL; Mirzoeff
 returned to NYU, New York; Associate Professor Lok was promoted to Professor at UAL and
 Associate Professor Cowan is now working as an independent artist. Their initial and pro-active
 role within research clusters (2014-2016) has been taken over by current mid-career
 researchers (e.g. Morariu in Visual and Material Cultures and Curating; Husbands in
 Animation; Kokoli in Create/Feminisms; Piper in Diaspora, Timberlake in Science-Fiction).

 Senior Leadership has been reinforced by staff promotions: Mac an Bhreithiún (Senior
 Lecturer) became Head of Department for Visual Arts; and Burke, Spinks, Maude-Roxby
 (Senior Lecturers) and Husbands (Lecturer) have become Programme and Course Leaders.
 Progressions from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer were awarded to A. Robinson (2019), Burke
 (2014), Dick (2016) and Parker (2015). In this period PhDs were achieved by longstanding
 members of staff – Fern and Spinks; and new appointments made of staff who were about to,
 or recently completed their PhDs (Bell, Fried, Husbands, Morariu, Rebernjak). Two research
 fellows have been employed: Edizel (fixed term, 2014-2017, AHRC-funded) and Graziano
 (open-ended, 2013-2018).




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.3 Staff development

 In 2014, the University undertook an institution wide staff mapping exercise resulting in
 recognition of two pathways: ‘teaching & research,’ for staff with significant responsibility for
 research, and ‘teaching & professional practice’ (55.9% of all FTE) representing staff who have
 not been returned in the REF. Scope exists to move between these pathways depending on staff
 members’ developing interests, career trajectories and potential future growth in research
 capacity amongst all staff. Clear criteria regarding teaching and leadership, research outputs,
 external funding, PhD completions and excellence in scholarship and research determine
 progression from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor/Professor. All staff benefit from the
 University’s central research development programme, which provides regular training events,
 including writing for publication, doctoral supervision, preparing funding applications, managing
 research and knowledge transfer projects, and ensuring that research has impact beyond
 academia.

 All departments operate with standard workload models in which research, supervision and
 personal-development planning are allocated on a yearly basis, based on past performance and
 career development plans. Staff complete an annual Appraisal, where they report on outputs,
 research income, professional practice, teaching and how they intend to develop their work.
 Remission from teaching and other duties is provided on this basis, including support for post-
 graduate education through staff development budgets. Staff new to academia complete the
 Middlesex University PGCertHE and undergo doctoral supervision training, organised jointly by
 the RKTO and the Faculty. They are assigned a mentor on appointment to support their
 integration and development. Researcher development is also part of some staff development
 courses in management. 25 of 42 staff reported as researchers are supervisors. Our supervision
 teams combine new and experienced supervisors and there remains capacity for new
 supervisors to develop among existing researchers.

 Additional mentoring structures were developed by HR, alongside the University Research Staff
 Forum initiated by Deepwell and Penning-Rowsell (UoA 17) (2014-2018); as well as
 developmental seminars and study days organised by ADRI between 2014 and 2017. Other
 initiatives, including the collaboration with the ICA (see 1.2), were launched to profile the work of
 Middlesex staff. Staff presentations of research in progress have been the subject of meetings
 within research clusters (see 1.3). In 2020, Igweonu (UoA 33) initiated a monthly Monday
 conversation on research for ECRs and PGR students. Our culture is supported by regular
 announcements of staff achievements in research and professional practice.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.4 Research Students

 Art and Design at Middlesex offers MAs by Research; MPhil and ArtsM; as well as PhD and
 ArtsD. The MPhil/PhD has three formats: dissertation based; mixed-mode (for research students
 who wish to undertake a practice-led project) and Published Works. Over the period 19 PhDs, 4
 ArtsDs, and 3 PhDs by Public Works were awarded.

 This unit has had a 21.5% overall increase in completions during the REF2021 cycle, from 18.50
 doctoral degrees awarded (2008-2013), to 22.5 (2013-2020), and a small rise in numbers,
 comparing the cohort at the start and end of the period (15 in 2014, 18 in 2020). The majority of
 our students now take the MPhil/PhD route, and 50% of these are practice-led research in art
 and design. We operate fully in accordance with the QAA's Code of Practice for the assurance of
 academic quality and standards, and have enhanced our PgR provision, application processes,
 innovative doctoral training, progression and quality assurance processes. The University sets
 out the policy and regulatory frameworks, which the Faculty informs and operates, with
 administrative support provided by the Research Degrees Administration Team (RDAT). Careful
 monitoring takes place in the Faculty’s bi-annual progression boards and core milestone events
 echo the viva process. Due to the global pandemic, we have established clear and well received
 protocols for online milestone panels/viva’s. We promote equality, diversity and inclusion in
 postgraduate student recruitment and support through staff training in fair selection/interview
 practices and effective supervision. We work closely with Advice & Counselling, Disability &
 Dyslexia and Learning Support Services, identifying and supporting students with specific
 learning difficulties or disabilities, including dyslexia (4-9% of the cohort), with Thomas (UoA
 23), Senior Lecturer in Academic Writing and Language with an arts background, providing one-
 to-one tutorials. Students are offered support returning to study, if they interrupt their studies,
 with special measures in place through the Covid19 pandemic.

 University funded studentships were offered between 2014 and 2016 (two fee waivers and five
 full Middlesex scholarships) triggering an increase in recruitment and enrolment. In the same
 period, this unit was also a partner in the London Graduate School with three studentships.
 Several students have had external educational awards from institutions in Saudi Arabia
 (Baslouh); Turkey (Dogonay); and UK (Chambers). Most PhDs have been part-time (32-67%)
 UK Home students (53-68%) / Europe (10-22%) (N.B. Figures vary as they are drawn from
 annual charts). International full-time students have increased to 30% of the current 18 PhDs in
 2020. BME students have varied between 12 and 30% of the cohort.


 Candidates in the Faculty have a high degree of satisfaction with their supervision: 92% report
 good contact and 85% report receiving helpful feedback and specialist knowledge/skills, as well

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 as PGR seminars, workshops and presentation opportunities to support their research (PRES
 Survey 2019). Research intensives (five days), writing retreats, conferences at Faculty and
 University levels, as well as induction weeks and weekly seminars in the Researcher
 Development Programme are offered. Doctoral students are accommodated in a dedicated
 office with good computing facilities in the Grove Building and have access to technical support
 and facilities in the Grove’s technical workshops.

 PhD students may apply for support for international conference presentations: e.g. Mohamedi
 (Migration Conference, Macedonia, 2020); Iles (Housing and Regeneration Struggles in South
 London, November 2017, South Bank University); van Rossenberg (After the Recognition of
 Intersex Human Rights, University of Surrey, 2016); and Suoyrjo (AWARE conference,
 University of Lisbon, 2016). Amounts of up to £750 are also offered for research projects: e.g.
 Lucy Bayley’s curatorial collaboration with Juliette Desorgues (ICA) for the research exhibition
 Art into Society – Society into Art (ICA, 2016).

 2.5.1 Equality and Diversity

 Middlesex is proud to be one of the most diverse universities in the UK with nearly five times the
 average number of Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BME) students: 37% Asian (compared to
 8% national average); 20% Black (compared to 4% nationally). In total, 28.7% of staff at
 Middlesex at our main campus in Hendon are from a BME background (compared to 9%
 national average) (compare with Art & Design PhD figures in 2.4).

 Middlesex was the first University to be awarded a Corporate Gold/Embedded Charter Mark by
 the UK Investor in Equality and Diversity. In 2021 it plans to implement a Race Equality Charter
 and install Diversity Champions to organise reverse mentoring events on ‘decolonising the
 curriculum.’ Art and Design academics participate in the different Staff Equalities For a, which
 provide an integrated and supportive environment for both staff and students. These fora have
 been reviewed and are now constituted as Equalities Networks, including anti-Racism, Interfaith,
 LGBTQ+, Gender, Disability and Carers. The wellbeing of staff and students is high up on our
 agenda.

 Robust arrangements exist for ensuring equality of opportunity. The University tries to ensure
 provision is above statutory levels and often ahead of the sector. ACI has fully open and
 transparent processes for accessing internal funds and awarding research funding and
 opportunities are offered to less experienced researchers (see 2.1). The Faculty advertises and
 interviews for all key leadership roles to ensure equality of treatment and key positions are
 allocated based on ability and motivation. Flexible working to accommodate family, health or


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 other circumstances, and a commitment to reintegrate staff on their return to work, are all
 supported by clear policies. Between 2014 and 2020, two academics in UoA 32 have been on
 parental leave and returned to work.

 The average (mean and median) institutional gender pay gap for academic staff in 2019/2020
 was 8.8% between men and women. The University recognises that the gender pay gap is
 impacted by the different roles men and women tend to undertake, rather than inequalities within
 grades or roles. A number of initiatives are in place to address this issue, including: progress
 towards an application to Athena Swan for bronze in 2020; rolling out unconscious bias online
 training for all staff; identifying unconscious barriers to the progression of female staff; and
 identifying areas most likely to influence positive changes. Significant progress has been made
 in the LGBT charity Stonewall; Middlesex rose in the Workplace Equality Index from 264th out of
 439 entries in 2017, to 154th place out of 445 employers in 2019.

 Our unit’s commitment to equality and diversity is apparent in the research projects we pursue
 (eg.Piper’s research of ‘black futurity’ in his ongoing Jet Black Futures project; Sleet’s Sensory
 Workshops; Raina’s The Value of Culture in Conflict; Dick’s work with Spinna Circle; Mac an
 Bhreithiún’s work on graphic design, public sphere and minority rights; Kokoli’s research on art
 activism at Greenham Common); within our research clusters (eg. CREATE/Feminisms;
 Diasporic and Transcultural Practices); and the values which inform our staff development
 programmes. Changes in the number of senior women employed has left 2/11 (headcount,
 women/men) amongst current Associate Professors/Professors and reduced our previous level
 of BME representation amongst staff. However, the 9/6 women/men (part-time) and 8/6
 women/men (full-time) at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level demonstrates positive room for future
 promotions.

 There is an inclusive, supportive and collaborative research culture in Art and Design where staff
 interact with and help their colleagues in various staff development activities. Individuals feel free
 to share not just successes, but also fears and failures. Collaborations with Professional Practice
 track staff (not returned in our REF submission) are encouraged because their invaluable work
 contributes significantly to our research environment: e.g., Fernandez (Professional Practice
 route) and Bell’s collaboration on strategies to decolonise the curriculum in Fashion.

 2.5.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion in the REF submission

 In our REF submission, 45.2% (headcount) of submitted staff are women and 1 out of 3 Impact
 Case Studies is led by women. 25% of outputs were produced by non-UK born staff.




                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The selection of publication outputs and ICSs was conducted by a REF UoA Panel composed of
 eight members. Chaired by Morariu (ECR), it included two professors, four mid-career
 researchers and a second ECR; 50% were female. All members of the UoA Working Group
 attended unconscious bias training, which informed our peer-reviewing processes for both
 output and ICS selections. All eligible staff were invited to self-nominate their strongest research
 outputs, including double weighting, and to propose examples of impact. These items were then
 all scored against REF criteria by two reviewers without the use of citation data or other metrics
 (as per the UoA working methods).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Strengthening performance in competitive research income was one of the four key objectives in
 REF 2014, and we accomplished this by diversifying our funding sources. UoA32 researchers
 attracted £965,722 in research funding (2014-2020), an increase of 130% in comparison with
 income generated before REF 2014 (£420,177). Despite RCUK income becoming increasingly
 competitive, 83% of our grant income was generated from Research Councils. Our practice-
 based researchers are experienced in attaining individual and collaborative arts funding from
 research councils (Boyce, Evans, Raina, Read), governmental bodies (MoDA), Arts Councils
 (Barritt, Billingham, Cavusoglu, Maude-Roxby, Morariu, A. Robinson, Wheele, Sherwin)
 and charities and foundations (Deepwell, Kokoli, Leeson, Lok, Sleet, Raina).

 Success in raising research council grants was rooted in our consistent focus on research with
 cultural and societal impact. This is exemplified by Raina as Co-I and University partner in the 5-
 year AHRC funded GCRF Gender, Justice and Security Hub (£251,618 between 2018 and
 2020); Evans leading Towards Hydrocitizenship (£271,585-MDX) where Middlesex was partner
 in an AHRC Cross-Disciplinary Research Network grant (£1,190,036) with five University
 partners, (2014-2017); and Boyce and Lok as Co-Is in the AHRC-funded Black Arts and
 Modernism project (£194,230-MDX) in partnership with UAL (2015-2018; see 1.2 and 4.1).
 Three further projects of note were: Raina’s Value of Culture in Conflict (GCRF - AHRC/ESRC
 Innovation Fund, £68,021, 2018), which investigated the sustainable livelihood generation of
 craftswomen in Azad Kashmir (Pakistan); Raina’s Post-conflict textile crafts of Iraq (Nahrein
 Network, £28,796, 2018-2019), a scoping study of craft practices and actors engaged in the
 sector of textile crafts in post-conflict Iraq; and Katagami in Practice, a MoDA project (Arts
 Council, £88,000, 2016-2018), which explored the history and creative potential of katagami
 Japanese stencils in the MoDA collection. Another key project was Sleet’s charity funded



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Sensory Craft Workshops (Ajahma Trust, £25,000, 2018-2019) which focused on developing
 craft skills for people with acquired brain injury.

 Recently funded projects include: Read’s participation in NERC funded Coast-Web (£39,254),
 leading Work Package 4.2: A saltmarsh poem, developing an audio app for walking the Taf and
 the Mawddach estuaries; and Kokoli’s Andrew Mellon mid-career Fellowship (2020) and
 Leverhulme Fellowship (2020-2021) (together: £45,805) for research on art activism at
 Greenham Common.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 Research infrastructure at the University level is provided through the well-established Research
 and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO), which closely supports our research and knowledge
 transfer work. Led by the University Director of Research (Comley) and Director of Knowledge
 Exchange (Gray), the RKTO supports research active staff in relation to gaining and managing
 research funding, delivering impact, knowledge transfer activities and doctoral student support.
 At Faculty level, ACI’s priorities for research management have been driven by supporting
 activities and research projects in coherent research clusters (see 1.3), securing and managing
 research funding, and deepening and widening engagement and impact with the external
 research environment and relevant key stakeholders.

 3.3 Facilities

 Since the mid-2000s Middlesex has invested over £250 million in developing the Hendon
 campus, including the provision of a £80m purpose-built facility for creative arts (The Grove)
 completed in 2012. In 2016, Middlesex completed the innovative and sustainably-designed
 Ritterman building on Hendon Campus, (3300 m2, PBR architects), which now houses the
 Design Department’s work in Interior Architecture and Interior Design, Foundation Year students
 and parts of the Faculty of Science and Technology. The Grove and the Ritterman provide
 extensively equipped specialist facilities for art and design and the campus offers valuable space
 for exhibitions, seminars and conferences (see 4.4). In 2019 The Pavilion, a small, low-cost
 construction, led by BSc Architecture Technology students, opened on the campus for
 exhibitions and projects.

 A significant resource, internally and externally, is the Museum of Domestic Design and
 Architecture (MoDA), located in Colindale. MoDA has made an important contribution to the
 fields of art and design history, visual culture, the history of interiors, and film and photography
 studies in conservation, collection research and touring exhibitions of design. External


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 researchers often use MoDA collections. MoDA collaborates with University researchers and
 curators (e.g. Maude-Roxby’s Resist: be modern (again)); and has lent objects to a number of
 high-profile international exhibitions (e.g., Katagami Style: Paper Stencils and Japonisme, 2016;
 and Radical Disco: Architecture and Nightlife in Italy, 1965-1975, ICA, 2015). Its collections are
 an important resource for postgraduates; e.g. Hollie Price, a history of domestic interiors in films,
 (PhD, Queen Mary’s, University of London, 2015).

 Since 2014 further investments have been made in the Sheppard Library, which currently
 provides access to over 150,000 serial titles via Library Search, the University’s Library
 discovery tool, in addition to a collection of over 250,000 print and 50,000 electronic books.
 Librarians provide expert and specialist subject support and termly training sessions on citation
 searching and RefWorks for all Research students, as part of an expanded Researcher
 Development Programme. The Library’s Research Support Services Team manages the
 Figshare Data Repository and the Eprints Research Repository, which support discovery of
 research by Middlesex and Middlesex-affiliated authors.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We continue to play a leading role in the UK and overseas in the development of art and design
 as a catalyst for social change and in innovative approaches to contemporary art/photography
 and critical theory in art and design. We are active in securing the future of the disciplines
 through editorial contributions and work with subject associations, and in strategic engagement
 with prominent research funders, NGOs and arts organisations both nationally and
 internationally. Collaboration and contribution are also evident through advisory group and board
 memberships.

 4.1 National and International Collaboration with academic and non-academic institutions

 Our selected ICSs as well as projects funded by research councils, governmental bodies and
 NGOS demonstrate our strategic engagements in the creative industries, both academic and
 non-academic, nationally and internationally. For example, Evans collaborated in the AHRC-
 funded Towards Hydrocitizenship (2014-2017) with Dr Alex Plows (Bangor University), artist
 Irene Janze (Buro jan-ZE, Amsterdam), and environmental scientist James Baker (Selor EEIG,
 Netherlands). The project combined academic research with community participation and
 creative activities and reflected on the notions of citizenship and sustainable society focusing on
 environmental and water-related issues. Black Artists & Modernism (BAM) was developed as a
 collaboration between UAL and Middlesex (Boyce, Lok) (2015-2018) and investigated how


                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 artists of African and Asian descent in Britain feature in the story of twentieth century art,
 documenting their presence in art collections in the UK and in collected oral video histories.
 Collection Collective, which Morariu initiated in 2017 in collaboration with Judit Angel and
 Raluca Voinea of the tranzit.org network (Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania)
 constitutes a collection of contemporary art which is collaboratively managed and collectively
 owned by more than 50 artists, curators and other cultural workers. Middlesex’s MoDA’s
 Katagami Style: Paper Stencils and Japonisme exhibition toured the Mitsubishi Ichikogan
 Museum in Tokyo; the National Museum of Modern Art in Kyoto and the Mie Prefectural Art
 Museum in Tsu and helped to cement MoDA’s reputation as a holder of one of the key European
 collections of nineteenth century Japanese stencils. This contributed to MoDA’s successful bid
 for Arts Council England funding for the research project Katagami in the Art School (2016).

 International research collaborations with Universities abroad are also well established.
 Deepwell offered post-graduate seminars to PhD students at UMPRUM and AVU, Prague
 (2018) (funded by Erasmus) and was a Visiting Professor at Malmo Art Academy, Lund
 University (2018-2019). She became external advisor on The Research Council of Norway
 project The Feminist Legacy in Art Museums, which plans a conference in 2021, a book and
 exhibition project, and employs a range of European researchers, two at post-doctoral level
 (2020-2025). Mac an Bhreithiún participated in an international research project on graphic
 design, public sphere and minority rights (LGBTQ+ and Minority Languages) at Universidad de
 Habana, Cuba (2014). Fern, House and Murialdo have all collaborated in workshops with staff
 at the Politecnico di Milano, who have reciprocated this arrangement. Francisco Javier Moral
 Martín, Assistant Professor in Film and Media Studies at the Polytechnic University of Valencia,
 spent four months in 2019 researching documentary and animation at Middlesex, on a grant
 provided by his University. In 2019 Husbands was a research consultant for M+ Museum of
 Visual Culture, Hong Kong.

 Our staff are initiators and participants in different national and international research groups. As
 a recognised expert in art as social practice, Leeson is often invited to be part of research
 projects and grants; for example, in 2014 she was part of the AHRC funded workshops: Curating
 Community? The Relational and Agonistic Value of Participatory Arts in Superdiverse Localities
 (Goldsmiths, University of London); and Art, Recognition and Social Science: Re-Thinking
 (E)valuation, at Liverpool Central Library. In 2019-2020 Deepwell established the Advance HE
 Connect forum/ network: Feminist Art in an International Curriculum. Morariu is member of the
 Politicised Practice Research Group at Loughborough University and was co-convenor in the
 Critical Citizenship, Activism and Art (2014-2015) series (with Nottingham Contemporary). White
 is Advisory Board member for the Martial Arts Studies Research Network (AHRC funded). Bell


                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 is part of a funded research group based at Nottingham Trent University which also includes,
 among others, Zara Arshad (Victoria and Albert Museum), Vivien Chan (University of
 Nottingham), Di Liu (Hong Kong Asia Art Archive) and Professor Susan Reid (Loughborough
 University). Since 2016 Kokoli is Research associate at the Visual Identities in Art and Design
 Research Centre at the University of Johannesburg. A. Robinson has been active in the Artistic
 Research Working Group for Performance Studies international (2012-15); and Read in the
 Ramsar Cultural Network, born after the Ramsar Convention, an international treaty overseeing
 the management of wetlands (2016-). Williams was a participant in an AHRC funded project
 ‘SOLD! The Year of the Dealer’ (2019-2020) in collaboration with the Universities of
 Southampton and Leeds, the V&A Museum, National Museum of Scotland and the Ashmolean
 Museum.

 4.2 Editorial and Guest Editorial Roles; Editorial Board Memberships

 Our staff include editors of peer-reviewed journals. For example, Deepwell was founder and
 commissioning editor of the academic journal, n.paradoxa: international feminist art journal (KT
 press, 1998-2017) and edits feminist/art theory books for KT press (nine ebooks, since 2014).
 Since 1997 Martin is a long-standing member of the editorial collective at Radical Philosophy.
 Buchan (now at RCA) was founding editor of animation: an interdisciplinary journal (Sage); the
 relationship to this journal continues with its co-editor, Husbands, who also co-edits the Society
 for Animation Studies (SAS) Biannual Newsletter (2015-2020). Since 2018 Murialdo has been
 book reviews editor for Home Cultures (Taylor & Francis); and co-founded and edits the
 Middlesex Interior Architecture and Design journal DRAFT MAGAZINE. Recent guest
 editorships include House’s and Murialdo’s ‘Hidden Interiors’ for Interior Educators (IE):
 STUDIO magazine (2019); and Kokoli’s ‘Trauma and Repair in the Museum’ issue for
 Psychoanalysis, Culture, and Society (forthcoming 2021).

 Colleagues hold editorial and international advisory board positions for academic journals.
 Kokoli was appointed in the editorial board of Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy
 (Cambridge University Press/Wiley) in January 2020. Since 2016 Murialdo edits INNER, The
 Interior Architecture Magazine (European Interior Architecture Research Association, Turin,
 Italy) as well as the book series Design& for MAGGIOLI EDITORE, Italy (2019 -). Other
 positions are held by Raina (International Journal of Traditional Arts, PKP/PS, UK); Piper
 (Artist’s Newsletter, UK); Cleaver (International Journal of Applied Arts Studies, India; and
 Communication Arts Research, Plymouth University); Martin (Philosophy of Photography,
 Intellect, Bristol); Spinks (Art and Design in Higher Education Journal, Intellect, Bristol); and
 White (Martial Arts Studies Research Network).



                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3 Peer Review Activities

 Book manuscripts and proposals have been peer reviewed by Deepwell (gender studies/art
 criticism/art theory for Routledge, Taylor and Francis, Demeter Press, Oxford University Press,
 Liverpool University Press); House (Routledge and RIBA Publishing); Husbands (animation
 studies for Palgrave MacMillan); Murialdo (architecture and interiors for Bloomsbury, Taylor and
 Francis, Routledge and Emerald Publishing); Martin (philosophy/art for Routledge and Pluto);
 Leeson, Mac an Bhreithiún, Spinks (manuscripts for Bloomsbury Publishing); and White
 (Martial Arts Studies series for Rowman and Littlefield). Journal articles and special editions
 were peer-reviewed by Deepwell (Arts, AfterImage, Cultural Critique); Kokoli (Art History, Third
 Text, Feminist Media Studies, and Psychoanalysis, Culture & Society); Mac an Bhreithiún
 (Contemporary French Civilization - ‘ExcentriCITY/ExcentriCité’; and Journal of Linguistic
 Landscapes); Maude-Roxby (Photography and Culture); Morariu (Third Text and ephemera);
 Murialdo (Journal of Retailing and Consumer Service; Journal of Interior Design/Interior
 Architecture Educators Association/ IDEA Journal, URBAN + INTERIOR); Martin (Diacritics:
 Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism); A. Robinson (Journal of Artistic Research); and White
 (Journalism, Media and Cultural Studies journal).

 Our staff regularly assess research bids for national/international funding councils/foundations
 and competitions. Billingham was Adjudicator for the Royal Photographic Society and Jury
 Member for Midlands Movies (2020) and for the International Competition, FIDMarseille Film
 Festival (2019). He was also a Selector for Swansea Open Exhibition (2018), Rome Fellowship
 in Contemporary Art (2017), Spectrum Art Prize (2017), Sussex Open and Reclaim Photography
 Festival (2015). Cavusoglu was a Nominated Assessor for awards at Apexart, New York
 (2016). Bell was Co-Chair (2017) [award] of the Design History Society; and an invited Judge for
 Fatidical Design Prize (2014), hosted by Bow Arts London and Fatkyds. Deepwell was invited to
 review applications for international academic competitions, including the Serra Húnter
 Programme (University of Barcelona, 2020); a Professorship at Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman
 (Malaysia, 2018); the Killam Research Fellowships (Canada, 2018); tenure track positions for
 staff at the University of Alberta (2017) as well as research grants for the Austrian Science Fund
 (2018 and 2020), the National Science Centre/Narodowe Centrum Nauki, Poland (2019), and
 Valand School of Art, Sweden (2016). Husbands was an evaluator of Applications for Animation
 Projects for The Israel Science Foundation (2019) and The Austrian Science Fund (2015); as
 well as jury member for London International Animation Festival (2019) and the Society for
 Animation Studies’ McLaren-Lambert Best Scholarly Book in Animation Award (2017). Kokoli
 was invited to review the curatorial project Perceptions by the British Council (Matica Sprska,




                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Novi Sad, 2018); and Mac an Bhreithiún was a judge for the essays in Irish Design Awards
 (2018 and 2019).

 4.4.1 Organisation of conferences, workshops and seminar series

 Beyond the cluster events at Middlesex (see 1.3), our researchers lead and prepare colloquia
 externally. Conferences and symposia were organised by Bell (‘Imagining the international:
 repositioning peripheral narratives in global design histories’, CAA 106th Annual Conference
 panel, Los Angeles, 2018); House (Beyond the Internet of Things, 2017; What’s Cooking? – The
 Contemporary Culture of Food, 2016; The CSI of Things – Crime Scenes and Suspect Objects,
 2015; and The Affective Turn, 2014 – all at RCA); Massey and Hendon (MoDA), in collaboration
 with UAL and the V&A Museum (Victorian Futures: Culture and Democracy from The Reform
 Act to Olympicopolis at Chelsea College of Arts, 2015); Martin (‘5,4,3,2,1…’, Radical Philosophy
 conference at Haus der Kulturen der Welt, Berlin, 2015); and Piper with Paul Goodwin (‘Mic
 Drop’, performative symposium within Jet Black Futures I at Beaconsfield, London, 2017). Raina
 chaired the panel, 'Mountain Economies & Lived Realities of Culture' that included Dick, Mari
 Miyomoto (National Museum of Ethnology, Japan) and Sarah Lawton (Manchester School of Art)
 at the 28th Annual Conference of The British Association of South Asian Studies, Royal
 Holloway (2014). Between 2016 and 2019 Bell also co-organised and hosted the annual
 Curating Contemporary Art and Design Summer School (RCA) and Making Enhanced Pin-Up
 Symposium (RCA 2017).

 4.4.2 Keynote speeches at international events.

 Our staff are in demand as keynote or invited speakers at international events. This includes
 Billingham (City of Luxembourg Film Festival Masterclass, Casino Luxembourg, 2019);
 Cavusoglu (the Solomon Guggenheim Museum, New York, 2016; Galleria d’Arte Moderna
 Milan, 2018; Extra City Kunsthal, Antwerp, 2016; Ghent University and KASK, Ghent, 2015);
 Cleaver (Y-Type at ADM, China, 2019; Alicante Design Education Forum, 2019; First City
 University College, Petaling Jaya, Malaysia, 2016; HOW design conference in Chicago, 2016;
 2nd International Colloquium on Design, Branding and Marketing, Nottingham Trent University,
 2014); Deepwell (Congreso Internacional Géneros y subjetividades en las prácticas artísticas
 contemporáneas Universidad Malaga, 2019; Kjønnsforskning NÅ! – Norway’s national gender
 studies conference, UiT Norway’s Arctic University, Tromso, 2019; Feminist Histories, Radical
 Women, MASP, Sao Paulo, 2018; Diversity and Gender conference, Tokyo University of the
 Arts, 2017; Gender and Diversity in the Art Museum, University of Bergen, 2016; Association of
 Art Historians Student Conference, Loughborough University, 2016; Endarkenment conference,
 Dovecot Studios, Edinburgh, 2016); Dick (RUNDGANG, Academy of Fine Arts Vienna, 2017);


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Hodgson (NEF Animation conference, Abbey Fontevraud, France, 2019; GLAS Animation
 Festival, 2018; Edge of Frame Weekend, BFI Southbank, 2018; Stuttgart FMX conference,
 2017; Filmakademie Baden Württemberg, 2017; KASK, Ghent, Belgium, 2015); Husbands
 (Under the Radar Symposium Vienna, 2020); Kokoli (Endangered Bodies International
 Conference, 2018; Feminist Perspectives on Artistic Productions and Theories of Art, 5th edition,
 Azkuna Zentroa, Bilbao, 2016; Artists’ Critical Interventions into Architecture and Urbanism,
 University of Warwick, 2016); Leeson (Building Complicities: Collaborative artistic practices Arts
 Santa Mònica, Barcelona, 2019); Mac an Bhreithiún (8th Linguistic Landscapes International
 Workshop ‘Regeneration, Revitalisation, Reterritorialisation’, University of Liverpool, 2016);
 Martin (Art in the Age of Real Abstraction, UCL, London, 2014; …macht aber viel Arbeit,
 Universität der Künste, Berlin, 2014); Maude-Roxby with Stefanie Seibold (Writing Photography,
 Tate Modern, 2018; Fast Forward, Slade, UCL, 2018; Fast Forward, Tate Modern, 2019);
 Morariu (Upon Us All Equally, tranzit.ro/Bucharest, 2019); Mumberson (IMPCAT 9 International
 Printmaking Conference, China Academy of Art in Hangzhou, 2015); Piper (New Art Exchange,
 Nottingham Contemporary and Nottingham Trent University, 2017); Raina (British Academy,
 London, 2017; Durham University, 2016); and White (World Youth Martial Arts Mastership
 International Academic Conference, Cheongju University, Korea, 2017).

 4.5 Contribution to professional associations and other bodies

 Staff are also involved in organisational roles in other arts/research institutions. Organisations
 have been founded by Deepwell (director of KT press since 1998); Hodgson (Hodgson Films)
 and Leeson (director of cSPACE since 2002, formerly Art of Change (1991-2002)). Since 2019
 Cavusoglu has been a Member of the Board of Advisors of Open Space, London and Istanbul;
 Morariu was Board Member (2014-2016) of the Administration of the National Fund for Culture,
 Romania; and Leeson an advisory member for the project, A Greater London: The GLC Story
 (2016-). Dick is Director of Projects & Training for SPINNA Circle. Leeson is Chair of Trustees
 for Four Corners, London (2012 -) and Chair of policy strategy group Arts for Labour (2017-).
 Murialdo is Co-Director and Trustee of Interior Educators UK, (2018-) and Co-Chair for
 Research EIE - European Interior Educators (2019-). Since 2017 Williams has been Chair of
 the charity Gabo Trust for Sculpture conservation. Since 2017 Raina has been special adviser at
 UKRI’s Global Challenges Research Fund and a peer reviewer and policy strategist across all
 nine research councils and three academies. She is regularly invited to speak in inter-
 governmental forums internationally and at the United Nations on women’s empowerment
 following conflict, as well as cultural and creativity in international development work.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.6 Awards and esteem indicators

 4.6.1 Awards in the form of external grants and commissions

 Grants have been awarded towards the realisation and completion of artworks. For example,
 Billingham received a Leverhulme Artist’s Grant (2016) to produce his film, Ray & Liz; he was
 also the recipient of a Creative Wales Award (2017) and an Arts Council Wales Award for
 Individuals (2015). During the REF2021 cycle, Leeson obtained National Lottery funding (2017
 and 2019) for the development of two floating water wheels within her Active Energy project; and
 Read’s Falkenham Saltmarsh Restoration was one of 33 projects supported by the Heritage
 Lottery Fund within the Touching the Tide programme. Arts Council England awards include
 Maude-Roxby (Resist: be modern (again), 2019), A. Robinson (Over Time, 2014; Inspiral
 London, with Dr Charlie Fox, 2017; Wakeful, 2018; and for organising Supernormal Festival,
 2014-16); Piper (commission from Arts Council Collection’s 70th Anniversary fund, 2016);
 Sherwin (new work developed in Japan, 2016) and Wheele (Top 5 Animation Containers
 through Channel 4/Random Acts, 2018). A. Robinson also received a commission to produce a
 new work for Queer Times (2019), which is now in the collection of Gallery of Modern Art
 Glasgow; and Morariu (together with Judit Angel and Rauca Voinea/tranzit.org) received a
 Romanian Administration of the National Fund for Culture grant for Collection Collective (2018).
 The theatre company 1927 (with Barrit and Andrade as co-artistic directors) joined the Arts
 Council England’s National Portfolio Award scheme in 2018. Bursaries and travel grants were
 obtained by Bell (Decorative Arts Society for research in Hungary, 2018; Design History Society
 for research in the Czech Republic, 2014); and Fried (Design History Society Travel Award,
 2015). Husbands received research funding as part of the Los Angeles Filmforum and Getty
 Foundation Pacific Standard Time: Art x Science x Los Angeles (Research Project and
 Screening Series (2020-2022). Kokoli was awarded a Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2020-
 2021), after being a Paul Mellon midcareer Fellow in 2019. Deepwell founded the ‘Feminist Art
 in an International Art Curriculum’ network with a grant from Advance HE Connect networks
 (2018).

 4.4.2 Artist’s residencies

 Duman was a recipient of a Leverhulme Trust Artist-in-Residence Grant Scheme at the
 University of East London (2016). Spinks spent time at the National College of the Arts, Lahore,
 Pakistan (2018) and at Culture Vultures, a residency in Sefrou, Fez, Morocco (2017). H.
 Robinson received an AICA study abroad award to Cuba (2016); and a Writers residency,
 Tyrone Guthrie Centre (2015). Timberlake was selected as the Bow Arts / Birkbeck Artist in



                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Residence at Birkbeck's Peltz Gallery (2015). Between 2013 and 2014 Morariu was
 theorist/curator in residence at Künstlerhaus Büchsenhausen (Innsbruck, Austria).

 4.4.3 Awards and nominations for work

 Hodgson’s animation film Roughhouse received a BAFTA award for Best British Short
 Animation in 2019. Besides broad critical acclaim, Billingham and his feature film Ray & Liz
 were nominees for London Critics Film Awards, 2020 (Breakthrough British/Irish Filmmaker),
 BAFTA, 2019 (Outstanding Debut by a British Writer, Director or Producer); Palm Springs
 International Film Festival, 2019 (Grand Jury Prize), Buenos Aires International Festival of
 Independent Cinema, 2019 (Best Film); Locarno International Film Festival, 2018 (Best
 Film/Golden Leopard); and European Film Awards, 2019 (European Discovery Prix FRIPESCI),
 among others. Between 2018 and 2019 the film received awards at the Subversive Film Festival,
 Croatia; Luxembourg City Film Festival; Vilnius Film Festival; Yerevan International Film Festival
 and Batumi International ArtHouse Film Festival. Billingham won a Douglas Hickox Award for
 Best Debut Director, 2018; a Special Jury Prize at the Locarno Film Festival, 2018; a Prix de
 l'expérimentation - Special Mention at the Montréal Festival of New Cinema, 2018; a Golden
 Alexander at the Thessaloniki Film Festival, 2018; a Silver Star at the El Gouna Film Festival,
 Egypt, 2018; and a Jury Special Prize at the Lisbon and Estoril Film Festival, 2018.

 Several of Cleaver’s book designs and books have been shortlisted and won prizes at the
 British Book Design and Production Awards. An Original Copy; The Door Opened: 1980s China;
 and A Celebration of British Craftsmanship were shortlisted in 2019. In 2017 his David Holmes’
 Book was winner of Best British Book and White Plains: Pieces & Witherlings for Literature; Jon
 Bannenberg – A Life of Design was winner of Best British Book in 2015. Cleaver’s books What
 they didn’t teach you in design school and Dutch & Flemish Drawings in the Victoria and Albert
 Museum Vol. 1 & 2 (2014) were runners-up in the University Sains Malaysia British Book and
 Production Awards for Scholarly, Academic and Reference Books.

 Mumberson received several awards for his work: The Special Prize of Jury at the 4th Gold
 Panda International Cartoon and Illustration Competition, Beijing (2016); Humorist Prize at the
 5th Red Man International Humour Art Biennal, Beijing (2015); Theme Prize winner at Sicaco,
 the international cartoon competition in Seoul, South Korea (2015); and an Excellence Prize at
 the 3rd International Caricature Art Competition, Red Man Art Biennial, Beijing (2014). Leeson’s
 Active Energy received a RegenSW Arts and Green Energy award in 2016, while A. Robinson’s
 See Red: Feminist Posters 1974-1990 was nominated and shortlisted for Bread and Roses
 Award - Radical Publishing prize in 2017.



                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Conclusion

 Overall, the distinctive and growing contribution of Art and Design’s research activity since 2014
 provides powerful evidence of the vitality and sustainability of our research environment.
 Investments in staff and facilities made across the REF period and our clear strategies and plans
 for ongoing research development will enable us to continue to build on these achievements
 moving forward.




                                                                                              Page 25
