Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UOA22 Anthropology and Development Studies

 Section 1: Unit context and Structure, research and impact strategy

 Development Studies at the University of Birmingham sits within the International Development
 Department (IDD), and has an international reputation for its critical contributions to political
 analysis, public sector management and governance in low- and middle-income countries. The
 department’s approach (1) puts the politics of development at its centre, specifically asking
 how power, legitimacy, leadership and governance influence development outcomes; and (2)
 works at the intersection of research and policy, with a high proportion of faculty contributing
 to academic, public and policy debates.

 Since 2014, IDD’s strategic aim has been to strengthen its international reputation in these areas,
 informed by taking stock of past successes and anticipating new challenges, building on our 50+
 year history and links to practice. The Department’s location within the School of Government (one
 of four Schools in the College of Social Sciences) strengthens capacity for interdisciplinary
 engagement.

 Our research environment has delivered impactful research, as evidenced by our impact case
 studies and external awards, including the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize for outstanding
 international impact. IDD has more than doubled the number of research-active staff over the
 period, successfully leveraging significant university investment in new permanent staff and
 nurturing Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Expansion in research capacity and strengthening
 our research environment has led to this separate submission to UoA22. The significant
 investment includes two ‘Birmingham Fellows’ – early career academics provided space and
 resources to launch their research careers (see REF5a 3.4.1). This scheme represents a major
 investment by the university in early career research, awarded on a competitive basis across all
 disciplines, including STEM. The School’s commitment to research excellence and equal
 opportunity has also supported staff recruitment and development, as evidenced by the Bronze
 Athena Swan Award in 2019 and departmental leadership in co-founding a School LGBTQ+
 Network.

 Research structures
 Our strong research culture is supported by a Department Research Committee, responsible for
 planning, review and mentoring. Chaired by the Director of Research (DoR), it includes at least
 one ECR and one Postgraduate Researcher. The DoR sits on the School Research Committee,
 represented on the College Research Committee, chaired by the College DoR, a position held by
 IDD’s Jackson since 2018.

 In addition, the department hosts the Governance and Social Development Resource Centre
 (GSDRC), led by Marquette (2014-17) and Fisher (2017-present) who provide intellectual
 direction, leadership and mentoring of the Centre’s research fellows. The Centre has an
 international reputation for providing knowledge management services to the development sector,
 principally supported by the UK Department for International Development/Foreign,
 Commonwealth and Development Office (DFID/FCDO), the Australian Department of Foreign
 Affairs and Trade (DFAT) and the EU. GSDRC’s extensive networks of international experts
 connect IDD with researchers, practitioners and policy makers. It hosts the secretariat of the


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thinking and Working Politically Community of Practice led by Marquette; an influential global
 initiative bringing together researchers, policy makers and practitioners to better understand and
 translate the politics of development.

 Research objectives during the assessment period
 As articulated in the 2014 Politics and International Studies submission and a subsequent internal
 review, the unit’s strategic aims have been to further strengthen its distinctive contribution to the
 politics of development and development policy by:

 (1) Delivering world-leading research that shapes international debate

 IDD has become known internationally for research in leadership for development, democracy and
 the agency of African states. Delivery of world-leading research has been achieved by attracting
 high-quality staff and maintaining a welcoming, vibrant and inclusive research culture. External
 appointments were made at senior (Cheeseman and Hudson) and ECR levels (see Section 2).
 The appointment of Cheeseman and Hudson led to further research collaborations within the
 department and expansion of external partnerships. Our success in staff recruitment demonstrates
 IDD’s vitality and sustainability, supported by access to study leave and internal funding to initiate
 research, build networks and deliver impact (see Section 3).

    (2) Support impact and engagement activity

 Support impact and engagement activity to influence public policy was achieved by strategically
 forging close links with three major international aid donors/influencers: the UK’s DFID/FCDO,
 Australia’s DFAT and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. These links were developed and
 maintained through ongoing partnerships and secondments (see Section 4), creating a shared
 understanding of how research and practice can inform one another. Engagement and impact
 activity have been encouraged through staff taking on senior advisory or secondment positions,
 providing mentoring, workload planning and encouraging applications for internal University
 funding. School and College Impact funds – as detailed in Section 3 – have supported research
 impact.

 Our approach to impact has been to work collaboratively with research users throughout the
 research process. Hudson’s Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation-funded Aid Attitudes Tracker
 research on public opinion is co-produced with NGO and government partners three times a year
 in four countries (see ICS ‘Transforming development communications and campaigns’), whilst
 Cheeseman’s collaborative project with WFD similarly co-produces research questions and
 publications.

 The Developmental Leadership Program (DLP) (Marquette, Hudson and Mcloughlin) works
 closely with DFAT staff and subsequently worked with DFID staff to produce an ‘Everyday Political
 Analysis’ tool, which is used extensively throughout the development sector (see ICS ‘Changing
 How Organisations Support Leadership for Development’). The MIGCHOICE project, managed
 by the GSRDC, worked with the IOM and the FCDO to understand migration choices in West
 Africa, resulting in co-designed programming and evaluation on youth training and cash grants.

 Further impact achieved by members (and former members) of IDD include the commitment to
 reparation associated with the UN involvement in Haiti and the cholera epidemic and on donor
 support to democracy promotion in Africa. The inclusion of impact activity involving IDD staff


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 elsewhere in the University’s submission reflects both the integrated approach to impact activities
 within the School of Government and wider College, and their better fit within the UoA19 subject
 criteria.

 Interdisciplinary research
 Cross-University, multi-disciplinary and multi-stakeholder activities have been supported by the
 Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) and the Institute for Global Innovation (IGI; REF5a 2.3.3). The
 IGI was launched in 2018 to facilitate interdisciplinary research addressing global challenges.
 Cheeseman co-led the IGI theme on tackling gender inequality for two years. Marquette leads a
 workstream on organised crime, corruption and development, convening a cross-University
 workshop on data and methods to investigate illicit and informal flows with colleagues in Law and
 Economics as part of a Distinguished Visiting Fellows grant, bringing Professor Nikos Passas from
 Northeastern University.

 IDD is joined in this submission by Fontana, a Birmingham Fellow based in the Political Science
 and International Studies (POLSIS) department, specialising in education and conflict-affected
 states and mentored by IDD’s Jackson, and by Jørgensen, working in post/colonial heritage in the
 Ironbridge International Institute of Cultural Heritage, with which IDD collaborates in research and
 PhD supervision. These collaborations reflect IDD’s interdisciplinary approach to research and
 illustrate our collaborations across the University. Fontana’s interdisciplinary research on
 education and peace agreements was supported by an IAS Visiting Fellows Grant for Dr Markus
 Siewert (TUM School of Governance, Germany) and an IAS workshop on ‘Education in Societies
 in Transition’, leading to a GCRF Grant on ‘Developing a High-Impact-Teacher Network between
 Practitioners in Lebanon and Northern Ireland’ (2018-2019). Jørgensen won funding from the
 Newton Fund/GCRF and the Indian Council for Historical Research to build capacity of heritage
 activists in India.

 Nunan’s work on natural resource governance, supported by IAS and IGI, led to a successful
 GCRF Network Grant application in 2020, ‘Sustainable resource governance solutions in sub-
 Saharan Africa’, involving multiple disciplines and partners in five African countries. Nunan
 facilitates interdisciplinary research as the Programme Lead of the Forum for Global Challenges,
 led by IGI.

 Open research
 To expand our international reputation and work at the intersection of research and policy, many
 research outputs and underpinning datasets have been made publicly available. University
 guidelines require pre-publication versions of all journal articles to be uploaded to Pure within 3
 months of publication and made publicly available on the University Research Portal.

 IDD has also been committed to making data publicly available. Examples of open access
 datasets are Dasandi’s United Nations General Debate Corpus (downloaded over 3,000 times)
 and Ottmann’s Power-Sharing Event Dataset (PSED), which records power-sharing practices in
 the aftermath of civil war in 41 countries between 1989 and 2006, both available from Harvard
 Dataverse. Hudson’s publicly-available Aid Attitudes Tracker is widely used for secondary data
 analysis, including by NGOs and government agencies looking to understand public support for
 development assistance.

 Fontana’s Dataset of Political Agreements in Internal Conflicts, on education reform, power-
 sharing, transitional justice, international involvement and territorial self-governance provisions in


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 286 political accords concluded worldwide between 1989 and 2016, was made publicly available
 on the University’s Online Repository in 2020.

 Cheeseman has published two major data sets with UK Data Service. The ESRC-funded Moral
 Economy of Elections dataset features over 300 interviews and nationally representative survey
 data conducted in three countries in sub-Saharan Africa. The Coalitional Presidentialism dataset
 features 350 interviews with MPs and legislative data for nine countries across three continents.

 Research integrity
 Research integrity is integral to our departmental research culture, in line with the University’s
 commitments and expectations in this area (REF5a 2.2). The University is a signatory of the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), which promotes fair and robust
 approaches to research assessment.

 Staff and PGRs receive training based on the UUK Concordant to Support Research Integrity and
 peer review of proposals and projects. Procedures for dealing with cases of misconduct are
 detailed in the University’s Code of Conduct on Research. All research projects are required to go
 through a rigorous ethical review process. This formal process is facilitated by the University’s
 Humanities and Social Sciences Ethics Review Committee, in which IDD staff consistently have
 played a significant role. Jackson has served as the Co-Chair of the committee and has been on
 the University’s Research Governance Ethics and Integrity Committee since 2017 and Marquette
 and Nunan have served as members.

 An innovative example of how research integrity is embedded in our research culture is Weber’s
 work on gender-based violence. Weber, with staff in the Schools of Nursing and Social Policy at
 the University of Birmingham, established a multinational network involving NGO partners in
 Kenya, Uganda and Guatemala to produce guidelines on best practice for research engagement
 with survivors of gender-based violence in low- and middle-income countries.

 DLP’s portfolio has been deliberately and strategically developed to produce research that is
 genuinely locally-led. It partners with 18 research institutions, many of which are in the Global
 South, with fieldwork continuing during the COVID-19 pandemic. DLP supplements the
 partnership approach with capacity building among less well-resourced partners, e.g. Bandung
 Independent Living Centre in Jakarta – a Disabled People’s Organization.

 The Future: Aims and Goals 2021-2025
 To further strengthen its contribution to scholarship on the politics of development and maximise
 contribution to policy and practice, IDD will:

 1) Be responsive to new international realities. The challenges and priorities of a post-COVID
    world are changing, but the importance of power, legitimacy, leadership and governance
    remain constant. IDD is well-placed to influence debates and practice around populism and
    authoritarian leadership, reform coalitions for democratic renewal, international cooperation,
    and governance of the environment. Our commitment to working on the environment and
    climate change is strengthened through the appointment of Bersaglio, and Dasandi and
    Hudson’s work with the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change.
 2) Develop a more diverse voice and staffing profile. Our success in addressing gender
    balance within IDD, detailed in Section 2, has reinforced the department’s belief that through
    active recruitment and support processes, as well as developing networks and partnerships,
    IDD can become even more vibrant and inclusive.

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3) Build equal partnerships to enhance capacity, support locally led research and
    decolonize the study and practice of development. We will emphasise global knowledge
    and resource inequalities throughout our curriculum, promote exchange programmes for PhD
    researchers and faculty, and form equitable networks. New global partnerships will include
    further collaborations with user communities, delivering wide contribution and a thriving and
    inclusive research environment through the co-development, co-design and co-delivery of
    research.

 Section 2: People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 IDD’s staffing strategy has focused on expanding capacity to deliver excellent research, impact
 and engagement, whilst also extending expertise on the politics of development and diversifying
 our staff profile. This has involved three strands: targeted career development of existing staff,
 paying particular attention to the advancement of female researchers and promoting diversity;
 recruitment of high-quality ECRs to develop the next generation of research leaders; and,
 professorial hires to bring in additional leadership and link to established impact networks.

 Over the current REF period, four new Professorial appointments have been made, two internally
 (Nunan and Marquette) and two externally (Cheeseman and Hudson). The promotion of Nunan
 and Marquette recognised their contribution to external research funding, research outputs and
 leadership. Nunan served as the first female Head of Department in IDD’s history from 2014 to
 2020, whilst Marquette led GSDRC from 2014-17. The appointments of Cheeseman and Hudson
 strengthened IDD’s leadership capacity and external engagement further, and built critical mass
 in developmental leadership and democracy. Cheeseman served as Director of Research for three
 years and Hudson serves as the School Impact Lead, whilst both have contributed to path-
 breaking external engagement activities.

 At ECR level, IDD expanded with two external lecturer appointments in 2019 (Bersaglio,
 Thompson), two Birmingham Fellows (Dasandi and Ottmann), one Leverhulme researcher
 (Weber) and one British Academy Fellow (Da Silva). These expanded research capacity in
 environment and livelihoods (Bersaglio and Thompson) and in political and conflict analysis
 (Dasandi and Ottmann, with Fontana of POLSIS), including from a gender perspective (Weber).
 Mentoring and internal support (see Section 3) contributed to the promotion of individuals from
 fixed-term research positions to permanent Lecturer (Mclouglin) and Senior Lecturer (Lemay-
 Hébert), from Lecturer through to Reader (Fisher) and from Birmingham Fellow to Senior Lecturer
 (Dasandi, Ottmann). Weber began as a Research Associate in IDD, going on to win a Leverhulme
 post-doc award and a GCRF grant as Co-Investigator. Two fixed-term Research Fellows left over
 the period to take up lecturing posts elsewhere. Lemay-Hébert left in 2019 to join the Australian
 National University as a Fellow, demonstrating his progression from Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Individual Fellow in IDD to Senior Lecturer and onto ANU, having been mentored by senior IDD
 staff (Jackson and Marquette). Of the Category A eligible staff, 14 of the 16 are on permanent
 contracts and 2 on fixed-term contracts (post-doctoral research awards).

 Given the competing demands on academics, creating time and space to focus on research is
 critical. PDR meetings provide a particularly important opportunity to reflect on progress and plans
 for the year ahead, whilst also identifying professional development opportunities. Three IDD staff
 members – Beswick, Fisher and Hudson – completed the University’s Research Leadership
 programme (REF5a 3.4.4), which brings together senior and mid-career staff and prepares them


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for research leadership roles through workshops, mentoring sessions and overseas institutional
 visits.

 IDD is proactive in ensuring that eligible staff effectively use the University’s Study Leave.
 Permanent staff become eligible every three years for at least one term. Between 2013 and 2020,
 5 staff took up study leave for one or two terms. Altogether, these instances of study leave resulted
 in 19 outputs.

 Support for Early Career Researchers and their careers
 IDD has been highly effective in supporting and integrating ECRs into the departmental research
 culture. ECRs are provided with a mentor and benefit from additional time for research. All ECRs
 have access to department, School, College and University research funds, making effective use
 of these to run workshops, attend writing retreats and present at conferences. Weber and Da
 Silva, for example, were awarded IDD and School funding to hold a workshop on ‘Researching
 Gender in Development, Conflict and Security’ in 2018 and a workshop on ‘Memories of Political
 Violence, Transitional Justice and Europe across Time and Place: Interdisciplinary Perspectives’
 in 2019.

 The University’s Birmingham Fellowship scheme, introduced in 2014, provides five years of
 protected time for high-quality research for outstanding early-career researchers (REF5a 3.4.1).
 In addition to the two Fellows appointed within IDD, the department has benefited from the
 recruitment of a Professorial Fellow (Hudson), with three years of funding to protect time for
 research (REF5a 3.4.1). Hudson was one of just 23 recruited across the University, representing
 a high level of investment by the University in IDD.

 In addition to holding a Birmingham Fellow position, Fontana secured a Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship. The protected time is particularly conducive to furthering diversity of the workplace
 and ability of women to progress. Since being appointed as a Birmingham Fellow in 2016, Fontana
 had two periods of maternity leave and generated substantial grant income, high-quality
 publications and complete the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education (PGCert).

 ECRs recruited to lecturer position benefit from a probationary development plan and reduced
 teaching and administrative workload in the first two years, providing them with time to prepare
 teaching materials, complete the PGCert and develop as independent researchers. Fisher, who
 joined IDD in 2011 started as an ESRC post-doctoral research fellow, moved into a Lectureship,
 and quickly rose to a position of research and administrative leadership. He was awarded the
 SCOPUS (Elsevier/US-UK Fulbright Commission) Young Researcher of the Year (Social
 Sciences) in recognition of the high quality and contribution of his research in 2015, promoted to
 Reader in 2018 and became Head of Department in 2020.

 Our mentoring and support strategy has yielded tremendous publication and research grant
 success for our ECRs. Dasandi has published articles in the Lancet, British Journal of Political
 Science, Research and Politics and a book, Is Democracy Failing (Thames and Hudson Ltd., part
 of The Big Ideas Series). Dasandi was also a recipient of a 2018-19 British Academy Rising Star
 Engagement Award (BARSEA) for his project on ‘Foreign aid donors, diplomacy, and human rights
 in the Global South’. Ottmann has published articles in leading journals, such as World
 Development and Journal of Peace Research.

 Research students: research training, skills development, funding, integration to
 research culture

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NB: We did not award any research-based professional doctorates during this assessment period.

 Doctoral researchers are highly valued and vibrant members of IDD’s research community. They
 are recruited through direct application, some with funding from their own governments, and
 through securing a range of scholarships (ESRC, AHRC and competitive University Leverhulme
 and Global Challenges). Our doctoral researcher community is diverse in country of origin, with
 many supported by, and returning to, government, including in Indonesia, Thailand, Jamaica and
 the UK. The completion and review of an annual Developmental Needs Analysis enables
 supervisors to effectively support doctoral researchers. Research training provided by the College
 and Graduate School (REF5a 3.2) is complemented by English language support from the
 Birmingham International Academy and academic skills training by the library.

 IDD is a member of the Midlands Graduate School ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP).
 We have secured 8 studentships since 2014, including a collaborative doctoral award with a
 conservation organisation in Ghana. An AHRC-funded student with a cross-disciplinary project is
 co-supervised by Beswick and Law at Nottingham. IDD staff successfully won funding for three
 projects for PhD study from a University-wide Global Challenges scheme, with PhD students
 undertaking interdisciplinary research on tackling gender inequality and on local knowledge, law
 and climate change.

 Since 2014, IDD has substantially enhanced its doctoral training provision, combining College-
 level general social science research training with dedicated pathway-specific training within the
 School. Ottmann and Dasandi convened a core module in research design in 2018, and Ottmann
 developed a module in Advanced Quantitative Methods for doctoral researchers across the
 University.

 Doctoral researchers have a dedicated resource and support structure, including departmental
 contributions towards the cost of fieldwork; access to School and College conference and
 fieldwork funds; an annual School PGR conference; dedicated facilities for PGRs, including an
 office suite in the Department and space in the University’s dedicated Westmere House PGR
 centre. IDD also runs a doctoral research seminar series where doctoral researchers present their
 research at least once a year to fellow doctoral researchers and staff, as well as being included in
 the Departmental Seminar series.

 IDD created new opportunities for PGRs to network within the Midlands region and enhance their
 skills. Through the Midlands African Studies Hub, Cheeseman brought together students working
 on development in Africa, holding regular workshops that rotate between Birmingham, Coventry,
 Warwick and Nottingham Universities.

 This supportive environment has borne fruit. Since 2014, there have been 25 PhD completions,
 of which at least 7 have gone on to academic roles. Excellent performance is indicated by the
 award to PhD students of the Christiane Rajewsky Prize at the 2018 Annual Conference of the
 German Association for Peace and Conflict Studies and a $10,000 grant from the National
 Geographic Society to undertake interdisciplinary research on Lake Tanganyika in Tanzania and
 the Democratic Republic of Congo.

 Approach to equality and diversity
 There had been a historic gender imbalance in IDD, with women making up 33% of staff in 2013
 (no female professors). Since then, the department has had a female Head of Department and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promoted two female staff to professor (40% of all professors). The proportion of female Category
 A-eligible staff has increased to over 50% (9 of 16).

 Recent efforts to correct the gender balance reflect IDD’s deep commitment to gender equality,
 further demonstrated by the School of Government’s successful 2019 application for the Athena
 Swan Bronze Award. The department has committed to holding meetings within core working
 hours and ensuring that those on hiring committees have taken unconscious bias training. Looking
 ahead, we will continue to build a more equal and diverse department by achieving a higher
 number of applications from female, BAME and candidates from the Global South, adopting the
 College strategy of shortlisting at least one BAME candidate who meets the job description.

 We are working towards the achievement of these goals through a number of mechanisms. The
 School has appointed a Head of Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (ED&I), who sits on the School
 Management Team and works with a School-wide ED&I Team, monitoring progress and
 overseeing the annual Equality and Diversity Survey. The School offers funds and activities to
 combat inequality in career progression, for example for academic writing retreats dedicated to
 female and LGBTQ+ colleagues and events organised with female ECRs to address the ‘leaky
 pipeline’. IDD routinely reviews the wording of job advertisements to remove gendered language
 and to encourage female applicants. IDD is equally committed to supporting equality and diversity
 with respect to disability. In addition to the University’s accessible campus and equality scheme
 and support, we provide a module on Disability and Development and undertake research on
 disability and inclusivity, for example DLP’s project on Disability Leadership in Indonesia.

 A number of measures have been put in place to ensure respect for equality and diversity. All
 selection panels must be gender-inclusive and complete Equality and Diversity as well as
 Recruitment and Selection training. It is also mandatory for shortlists to include women. If no
 women are identified as meeting the job description, academic posts would be re-advertised, once
 the job description and advert have been reviewed for unconscious bias. Additional time is given
 for research to staff on their return from parental leave and the School induction process for every
 new member of academic and professional services staff includes ED&I training. Finally, we have
 adopted a “no-manel” policy for internal and external seminar events.

 IDD staff are founding members of the School’s LGBTQ+ Network, which provides a safe and
 welcoming network for anyone who identifies as LGBTQ+ or as an LGBTQ+ ally. The network has
 organised seminars, informal meetings and a writing retreat. Fisher has played a leading role in
 this Network and in 2020 became IDD’s first LGBTQ+ Head of Department.

 E&D considerations informed the output selection of the REF return through several mechanisms,
 including unconscious bias training of internal reviewers and members of the output selection
 group, equal inclusion of women and men in the output selection group and inclusion of ECRs in
 the group. In addition, in line with the University’s Code of Practice, the list of potential outputs
 was reviewed to ensure that the output selection reflects the gender and ECR composition of the
 UoA.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 IDD has been extremely successful at securing research income over the period, with a total of
 £8,941,497, equating to £558,844 per submitted staff member. Our large grants include the award


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of £4.4 million in 2014 for the Developmental Leadership Program (DLP) (Marquette) and a further
 £1.4 million in 2019 (Hudson and Mcloughlin) to support work on how leadership, power and
 political processes influence development and £1.4 million (IOM and DFID) for MIGCHOICE
 (Hudson).

 Our strategy for generating research income has included: applying for diverse sources of funding;
 securing internal funding to build ideas and networks; and, establishing mechanisms including
 ‘pitch to peer’ and peer review of research ideas and proposals. Staff are supported to apply for
 research awards through annual PDR meetings and study leave (see Section 2) and through
 annual department meetings at which ideas and details of ongoing research are shared.

 Applying for a diversity of funding sources increases potential for success and supports diversity
 in collaborative and impactful research, working directly with research users. Research funding
 was secured from WhatsApp/Facebook, the Westminster Foundation for Democracy, United
 States Institute for Peace, the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy, DFID, DFAT, ESRC, AHRC,
 NERC, the Newton Fund, Challenges Research Fund, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation,
 multilateral organisations (e.g. the EU; IOM), Folke Bernadotte Academy (FBA) of Sweden and
 the Leverhulme Trust.

 Significant research funding has resulted from close collaboration with research users, as
 described in Sections 1 and 4. DLP has worked closely with its funder, DFAT, leading to high-
 quality impact. Examples including reference to DLP research in DFAT’s overarching policy
 ‘Australian Aid: Promoting prosperity, reducing poverty, enhancing stability’ and its ‘Effective
 Governance Strategy for Australia’s Aid Investments’. These documents inform DFAT internal
 country strategies, aid investment plans and sector investment plans, as well as specific individual
 programme designs. DLP’s research on gender and politics influenced DFAT’s Gender Equality
 and Women’s Empowerment Strategy and the related Pacific Women Shaping Pacific
 Development delivery strategy and programme design, which cites DLP research.

 The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation-funded Aid Attitudes Tracker (Hudson) has generated
 findings that have had significant and high-level impact. This is enabled by the collaborative
 approach taken, working with over 30 official partner organisations across the UK, US, France
 and Germany (e.g., ONE, Save the Children, Water Aid, Oxfam, Welthungerhilfe, Coordination
 SUD, Agence Française de Développement, and DFID). High-level impact has been achieved
 through findings on the public’s understanding of Official Development Assistance (ODA) and the
 need for ‘relatability’ in the messenger. This led to the transformation of government and NGO
 aid-related campaigns and strategies, resulting in greater support for ODA and development
 NGOs.

 Working collaboratively with the WFD led to high-level impact through informing their programming
 and spend. Cheeseman made recommendations concerning the mix of projects that aim to
 support democratic development, with more appropriate consideration of the nature and level of
 risk. WFD changed its approach to explicitly integrate civil society partners in its work, leading to
 stronger legislatures and civil society groups in 30 low- and middle-income countries.

 Funding from the FBA to support research into the reintegration of former Maoists in Nepal
 following the end of the civil war built on Jackson’s advisory role to the Government of Nepal,
 enabling a close working relationship and uptake of research findings. It also contributed to a
 paper on Maoist intelligence in Intelligence and National Security.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The strategy of securing funding from diverse sources and working collaboratively with research
 funders has facilitated delivery of high-level impact as well as robust, rigorous research.

 Securing internal funding to support the development of ideas and networks
 IDD strategically uses its annual Research Fund, managed by the Department Research
 Committee, to pump prime research applications, disseminate research findings and support
 impact activities, distributing almost £250,000 to staff members between 2014 and 2020. These
 funds – which are available on an equal basis to all staff regardless of contract type – have resulted
 in strong representation at international conferences by ECRs (on at least 10 occasions) and more
 senior colleagues. ECRs have been particularly active in using the funds to support workshops
 and present at conferences. The Fund has also supported book workshops that led to book
 manuscripts appearing with some of the world’s most competitive presses including The Moral
 Economy of Elections in Africa (Cambridge University Press, Cheeseman) and East Africa after
 Liberation: Conflict, Security and the State Since the 1980s (Cambridge University Press, Fisher).

 School research funding enabled Dasandi to attend an Essex Summer School course on ‘Machine
 Learning’ in 2017, where he acquired the skills needed to publish ‘Multiplex Communities and the
 Emergence of International Conflict’ in PLOS ONE. In 2017, Fontana attended the European
 Consortium on Political Research Winter Methods School on Advanced topics in Set-Theoretic
 Methods and QCA, which enabled her to publish a multi-methods paper on ‘Managing War-to-
 Peace Transitions after Intra-State Conflicts: Configurations of Successful Peace Processes’. She
 further disseminated her skills within the department and school through a School and IAS-
 supported workshop on ‘Qualitative Comparative Analysis and Process-Tracing (with Siewert).

 Staff competitively secured other support from within the University to produce research outputs.
 For example, Fisher produced the monograph East Africa after Liberation (Cambridge University
 Press, 2020) as a result of funding from the IDD Research Fund over several years for fieldwork
 and presenting material at conferences. Funding from the College through the Quality Outputs
 Scheme supported teaching buyout for one term enabling Fisher to focus on writing, and the
 School Research Fund supported a workshop at which feedback on draft chapters was received.
 Funding from the University’s Research Engagement and Collaboration Hub paid for research
 assistance to Beswick, leading to the publication of ‘A missing link in understanding Party policy
 change? Conservative Party international volunteering projects and UK development policy
 (2007–2017)’ in the British Journal of Politics and International Relations.

 Incubation Scheme to Inspire Innovative Research and Impact
 Through the DoR, the Department runs an innovative research and funding incubator that enables
 staff to access internal review on all aspects of their work including impact plans, research
 applications, journal articles, book proposals and ethics applications. The incubator enables staff
 to receive two constructive peer reviews of draft outputs that focus on both method and empirical
 material, with senior members of staff partnering with junior colleagues to give them greater
 understanding of the review process. Writing retreats supplement and reinforce this approach,
 enabling researchers to come together to work on and discuss publications intensively around
 different research themes. To date, 15 journal articles submitted to the Incubation Scheme have
 been published in leading journals.

 Organisational structure to support to research income
 Organisational structures in place to support research grant capture include the College Research
 Support Office (CRSO); the European and International Research Support Office; College Impact
 Development Officers; Data Management support services; the Library and associated resources;

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professional services and IT support for research, including investment at College level in pre-
 and-post-award support, a University Public Engagement team, secure research storage, a new
 research management system (Worktribe) and high-performance computing. This range of
 support and facilities has facilitated the strengthening of IDD’s reputation for research in the politics
 of development through significant and sustained research grant capture.

 CRSO organises peer review of draft applications and ‘pitch to peer’ sessions, where research
 ideas receive feedback before extensive time and effort is put into a research application. CRSO
 support was instrumental in securing Phase 3 of the DLP, Nunan’s Governance for Ecosystem
 Services and Poverty Alleviation (GESPA) project (ranked first of all proposals received for the
 call by the interdisciplinary NERC/ESRC/DFID Ecosystem Services for Poverty Alleviation grant
 review panel) Fisher’s AHRC award, Witchcraft and Conflict: Exploring alternative discourses of
 insecurity and Hudson’s Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Aid Attitudes Tracker.

 Once research funding has been secured, the department benefits from the College Post-Award
 team for grant set-up administration. These large grants then provide further infrastructure for
 carrying out fieldwork, hiring research staff and professional services staff, and facilitating policy
 engagement and impact work with the funders and other stakeholders, as well as career
 progression; for example, GSDRC and DLP were instrumental in the hiring of Mcloughlin, Dasandi
 and Hudson as well as the promotion of Marquette.

 IDD staff have benefitted from the University’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), the IGI
 GCRF QR Impact Fund and College and University-level impact funds, securing £49,500,
 £37,000, £9500 and £2,625 respectively. IDD encourages staff to apply for funds to strengthen
 and amplify existing excellent research to achieve our strategic goal of working at the intersection
 of research and policy. Cheeseman secured over £12,000 of ESRC IAA funding, combined with
 financial support from UK HMG representatives in Malawi, to take advantage of new opportunities
 to ensure significant research impact. This enabled him to travel to meetings with the UK High
 Commissioner and the Head of DFID Kenya to advise on the design of the UK’s electoral support
 programme for the 2022 elections. In Malawi, this enabled him to visit the country on 5 occasions
 to advise the UK High Commissioner and DFID representatives on how to strengthen the country’s
 electoral system after the Constitutional Court nullified the presidential elections of 2019. Through
 the GCRF Impact Fund, Marquette co-authored a Corruption Functionality Framework tool, in
 consultation with DFID and the x-HMG Serious Organised Crime Network (SOCnet, led by the
 Home Office). The Framework has been tested in partnership with the Global Initiative Against
 Transnational Organised Crime and partner community organisations in 5 countries (Guinea,
 Zimbabwe, Vietnam, Serbia, Colombia).

 Nunan secured ESRC IAA support to co-fund a workshop with stakeholders involved in Lake
 Victoria fisheries in East Africa, at which research findings were shared and ongoing collaboration
 agreed, and Jackson secured support for a workshop in Nepal on transitional justice. Beswick
 received an ESRC IAA Urgency Grant and secondment funding to support the Parliamentary
 Academic Fellowship with the International Development Committee. She also secured a separate
 award as an uplift to the IAA for work on supporting UK legislatures to improve their knowledge
 exchange with academics, with the award shared with the University of Edinburgh. In 2019, the
 IAA established an impact and engagement mentoring scheme, designed to support researchers
 to maximise the impact and influence of their research. Of the 10 mentors selected from across
 the entire University, two (Beswick and Cheeseman) come from IDD, which demonstrates the
 unit’s relative strength in impact and work with non-academic beneficiaries. Weber secured
 mentoring through this scheme to co-produce with research participants a non-academic book in

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Spanish based on interviews with female ex-combatants in Guatemala. This book received
 matched funding from the Civil Service for Peace of the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale
 Zusammenarbeit. Beswick is also a member of the IAA Management Panel, a group of academics,
 professional services staff and non-academic representatives, which reviews applications for, and
 distributes, impact funding.

 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The Department has a consolidated location at the heart of the College of Social Sciences,
 enabling social and academic interaction and fostering collaboration and exchange. PGRs benefit
 from dedicated facilities, including an office suite in the same building and access to the Westmere
 Hub, a PGR centre opened by the University in 2015. Westmere provides a training and social
 space for all PGRs and hosts activities that encourage exchange between PGRs across the
 University.

 Commitment to equality and diversity is reflected in physical infrastructure. For example, in
 response to School Equality and Diversity survey findings, the School installed new EDI notice
 boards in mid-2018 that provide a public, visible space for publicising EDI events, initiatives on
 mental health and wellbeing, and the School’s LGBTQ+ Network and its activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Arrangements for research collaboration
 Our collaborations, networks and partnerships are based on contracts and agreements to ensure
 that responsibilities, communication mechanisms, reporting and deliverables are clear. Support
 for the development of mutually beneficial collaborations, networks and partnerships are a result
 of the many initiatives set out in Section 3. This includes support provided by the CRSO for
 research bids, helping partners set up accounts, drafting letters and proposal text; School, College
 and central University funds to support joint impact and engagement activity; and, post-award
 support.

 An example of research collaboration is DLP’s partnership with the Indonesian Cakra Wikara
 Institute. Hudson and Mcloughlin co-designed an embedded survey experiment, co-analysed the
 findings, co-presented the findings to high-level diplomats in the Australian Embassy in Indonesia,
 and co-published the research in the peer reviewed journal, Politics and Governance, paying for
 open access. Marquette’s British Academy/GCRF-funded research resulted in journal articles co-
 authored with partners in South Africa and Uganda, where the research was presented to UK
 government, Government of Uganda and civil society stakeholders and featured in Uganda’s
 Independent.

 IDD encourages internal collaboration through workshops at which staff members present their
 research to each other, get to know more about each other’s work and identify possible synergies.
 As a result, numerous publications have been co-authored by UoA staff including Cheeseman and
 Fisher (Authoritarianism in Africa, Oxford University Press), Dasandi and Hudson (in the Lancet
 Global Health), Batley and Mcloughlin (in World Development) and Jackson and PGR Shearon
 (British Journal of Criminology).

 Support for interdisciplinary research collaboration has been facilitated through IDD’s engagement
 with the IGI. IDD played a central role in the formation of the IGI research programme on Ending
 Global Gender Inequality in Healthcare. The programme draws together colleagues across the


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University from development studies, political science, sociology, anthropology, healthcare and
 medical science to generate solutions to the barriers women face in gaining access to healthcare
 in the Global South. The programme, which received £400,000 of seed funding over three years,
 involves a number of non-academic external partners who play a leading role in providing
 healthcare, including ABANTU (Ghana), HEARD (South Africa), UNAIDS, WFD and Oxfam GB.

 Engagement with research users, beneficiaries and the public
 Engagement with research users, beneficiaries and the public has been facilitated through
 secondments, committee membership and building long-term relationships with research users.

 Marquette’s has been seconded to FCDO’s Research & Evidence Division (RED) since 2017, on
 a 20% basis, as a Senior Research Fellow (Governance & Conflict). In this role, Marquette has
 shaped the RED Governance, Conflict, Inclusion & Humanitarian team’s approach to
 commissioning research as well as helping to shape the investment portfolio, both thematically
 and through innovations in data and use of technology. She has worked extensively with FCDO
 colleagues on strategy and on applying insights from TWP across sectors and x-HMG, particularly
 around anti-corruption, illicit finance/economic crime and serious organised crime, and played a
 leading role in responding to COVID-19 within governance and conflict programming and
 evidence.

 Beswick’s was seconded to the UK Parliament’s International Development Select Committee,
 between 2018 and 2019, undertaking research into witness profiles. Through this, she provided
 advice not only to this select committee but across select committees on how they could
 encourage evidence from a more diverse group of stakeholders. This research was cited in the
 Liaison Committee's flagship report on select committee effectiveness and powers (2019) and
 directly connected to three recommendations in that report: that committees continue knowledge
 exchange schemes with academics including fellowships; that they invest in dedicated video-
 conferencing facilities to take evidence via video-link; and that parties seek to implement gender
 quotas to improve the proportion of women members of committees. The secondment fed back
 into the research environment through contributions to an annual University Research
 Conference, on applying for and getting the most out of fellowships and secondments (one
 session included Marquette on her FCDO role), and sharing experience through serving on the
 ESRC IAA management group.

 Committee membership enables direct engagement with research users and contributes to the
 wider research environment of IDD. Jackson is a member of the 24-person UN Committee of
 Experts on Public Administration (UN-CEPA), one of only two standing UN Committees where
 membership is accorded as a result of expertise rather than country nomination. This Committee
 has a responsibility across UN approaches to governance, but also specifically to SDG16, and
 reports directly into UN ECOSOC as a key policymaking body of the UN. Jackson is the thematic
 lead for security and inclusive justice. Cheeseman is one of Oxfam GB’s Trustees, sitting on
 Oxfam Council and taking an active role in its governance and activities. Marquette is an Expert
 Network Member of the Global Initiative Against Transnational Organised Crime.

 An example of a long and substantial engagement with a research user is the work commissioned
 by the Westminster Foundation for Democracy (Cheeseman), the main UK organization funded
 by FCDO responsible for democracy promotion. In addition to enhancing WFD’s efforts to
 strengthen legislatures and political party institutions in new democracies, this led to an article in
 African Affairs, “The Promise – and Pitfalls – of Collaborating with Development Organizations in
 Africa”, that sets out ethical principles for cross-national research collaboration.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Engagement with diverse communities
 Engagement with diverse communities has included hosting events within the ESRC Festival of
 Social Science each year. Beswick ran an event with BEACONS Development education charity
 in 2016, focused on UK aid policy, which invited sixth-form students to the University for discussion
 on aid priorities. A second event on fake news and UK aid was held at the University of Birmingham
 School with its sixth form. Jackson also ran ESRC Festival of Social Science events in 2015 and
 2016, with sixth form students from local schools studying Geography. The aim of these events
 was to raise awareness about the complexity of international development and aid, and increase
 interest in international development more broadly. ECR Da Silva ran events in 2016, 2018 and
 2019, engaging the public, teachers, policymakers and academics on topics such as talking about
 terrorism and how to cope with political backlash.

 Engagement with diverse communities has been facilitated through Cheeseman writing a column
 for two of Africa’s most read newspapers, Kenya’s Daily Nation and South Africa’s Mail &
 Guardian. He also edits a website, Democracy in Africa, to promote the voices of African
 researchers, especially ECRs, which is followed by over 10,000 people on social media, most of
 them in Africa. In addition to enabling researchers to reach a broader audience for their work, this
 website shares research on African politics with policymakers and ordinary citizens. Cheeseman
 has also played an important role in the success of a wholly new form of news and research
 communication in Africa, The Continent. This free online publication of the Mail&Guardian is
 designed to bring high-quality journalism and research to the broadest possible range of citizens
 through circulation via WhatsApp. Every week Cheeseman curates a special feature that brings
 the work of a different African researcher to an estimated audience of 10,000 people, and mentors
 researchers to publish with other popular websites and newspapers. This project epitomises IDD’s
 commitment to using its position to strengthen the voice of researchers who at times find it difficult
 to reach an international audience.

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Staff have further contributed to the sustainability of the discipline through serving on professional
 association boards. Nunan served on the Development Studies Association Council between 2010
 and 2016, including as Honorary Secretary between 2013 and 2016. Fisher has served on the
 Development Studies Association Council since 2020. Beswick served as a trustee of the British
 International Studies Association (2018-19) and continues as Treasurer (2019-2021). In addition,
 Beswick was co-convenor of the BISA Africa and International Studies Working Group (2014-18).
 Nunan formed a DSA Study Group on Environment, Natural Resources and Climate Change.
 Through these groups, workshops were held, research grants won, edited books published and
 conference panels organised, involving researchers from numerous institutions and countries, and
 at different levels of seniority.
 IDD worked closely with the UK Development Studies Association in 2020 to host the annual
 conference online, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. This was a first for the DSA and
 lowered the carbon footprint as well as made the conference far more accessible. Around 480
 participants attended, with over a third from the Global South. The conference theme of ‘New
 Leadership for Global Challenges’ reflected IDD’s expertise in leadership.

 Further contributions to the sustainability of the discipline have been made through initiatives such
 as Cheeseman’s “Decolonizing the Academy Reading List”. This features authors from Africa in
 order to encourage fellow academics to diversify their reading lists, and has so far been
 downloaded over 8,000 times. A similar “Decolonize the Commentariat” contact list, which enables


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 global media outlets to contract researchers and experts in African countries, has been
 downloaded over 6,000 times, and led to an Ethiopian author writing an editorial for the Guardian.

 Indicators of wider influence
 Indicators of wider influence are demonstrated through prizes, fellowships, acting as reviewers of
 research grants, and journal editorship and refereeing.

 In 2019, Cheeseman was awarded three major prizes: the Joni Lovenduski Prize for outstanding
 professional achievement by a mid-career scholar by the Political Studies Association; the ESRC
 awarded a team (including a collaborative research and impact project in Kenya that featured five
 UK and five Kenyan researchers) led by Cheeseman the Celebrating Impact prize for outstanding
 international impact; and the Market Research Society awarded Cheeseman and three colleagues
 their prestigious President’s Medal, awarded for ‘extraordinary research’. His co-authored
 monograph, How to Rig an Election, was selected as one of the books of the year by the Spectator
 magazine. Fisher also won the prestigious SCOPUS award for his high quality research on the
 agency of African states.

 IDD’s success in these areas has been recognised at the School, College and University levels
 through Research and Impact Prizes. In 2018, Marquette won the School of Government’s Prize
 for Policy Advancement and was nominated for the University of Birmingham Founders’ Award for
 Policy Advancement. In 2018/2019, Cheeseman won the awards for Outstanding Academic
 Achievement and Outstanding Impact in Public Policy, while Beswick was shortlisted in the
 category of ESRC IAA project prize and David Hudson was runner-up in the category of Business
 Engagement.

 Jackson and Fisher are Research Fellows at University of the Free State, South Africa; Fisher
 was a Visiting Fellow at the Institute for Security Studies, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in 2015 and at
 the Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study in 2019; Hudson has held visiting positions at the
 Australian National University, La Trobe University, Melbourne, and University College London.

 Members of IDD have served as members of peer review colleges. Almost all staff have reviewed
 for the ESRC, UKRI/GCRF and BA. Nunan is a member of the ESRC peer review college and the
 UKRI International Development Peer Review College, and has undertaken project reviews for
 DANIDA, Austrian Development Cooperation and the National Research Foundation of South
 Africa. Marquette has additionally undertaken reviews for the Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research, and Research Council of Norway. Fontana has reviewed for the Israeli
 Science Foundation and Mcloughlin acts as a reviewer for the Netherlands Research Council and
 as an advisor to 3ie.

 IDD hosted two journals focused on the politics of (in)security and development, Civil Wars
 (Jackson, Fisher) and the Journal of Intervention and Statebuilding (Lemay-Hébert). Both of these
 journals also have Routledge Book Series attached to them: Statebuilding (Lemay-Hébert) and
 Conflict and Development (Jackson). Cheeseman was a Co-editor of African Affairs and is on the
 editorial boards of African Affairs, the Zambia Social Science Journal and Modern Africa. Fisher
 is on the editorial board of African Affairs, Mcloughlin on the editorial board of Governance,
 Marquette is on the editorial boards of Journal of Global Ethics and International Journal of Public
 Administration and Nunan is an Associate Editor of Society and Natural Resources. Staff
 consistently review manuscripts for a wide range of journals.



                                                                                             Page 15
