Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)


 Institution: University of Bedfordshire

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 17 Business & Management


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 i. Overview


 UoA 17 is managed at the university by the Business and Management Research Institute (BMRI).
 It is one of 10 research institutes at the University of Bedfordshire. Its remit is to provide a
 framework for focussing and developing research within the University of Bedfordshire Business
 School (UBBS), one of the four faculties. Within the BMRI there are five research centres:


    ●   Business and Information Systems Research Centre (BISC);
    ●   Centre for International Business And Marketing (CIBAM);
    ●   Centre for Leadership Innovation (CLI);
    ●   Research Centre for Contemporary Accounting, Finance and Economics (ResCAFE);
    ●   Centre for Research in Law (CRiL).


 An exception request for UoA 18 Law for CRiL has been approved.


 Each Research Centre has priority research areas clustered around two core research themes:


            1. Information Systems and Operations Management:
                    ●   Big Data, analytics and information systems;
                    ●   Operations management and environmental sustainability issues.


            2. Culture, Branding, Organisational Development and Leadership:
                    ●   Organisational development, leadership & management education;
                    ●   Consumer and cross-cultural behaviour;
                    ●   Diversity, gender issues and the third sector.


 BMRI’s activities are guided by the university’s Research Degrees Committee and Research &
 Knowledge Exchange Committee.


 Each research centre within BMRI has a designated leader to manage research activities and
 report to the director of BMRI. Centre leaders also work closely with staff line managers to provide
 support and monitor research performance. Post-graduate (PGR) students in BMRI are managed
 by a dedicated PGR co-ordinator.




                                                                                                        Page 1
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 ii. Research strategy


 BMRI’s research strategy is guided by the university’s research strategy. It is directly aligned with
 the university’s core missions, thus receiving resources to support its implementation.


 BMRI’s research strategy since 2014


 As mentioned in the previous environmental submission in REF2014, efforts have been made to
 strengthen on-going research themes (e.g., Big Data and gender issues) that build on existing
 strengths, but also to develop new dominant research themes (e.g., environmental sustainability)
 that can help shape the current REF submission. These objectives have been fully achieved with
 some substantial, external research grants (e.g. Interreg NWE, UK-Institutional Links, and
 Chartered Association of Business Schools) and internal Quality Related (QR) funding. One of the
 two staff members newly included in REF2021 (Dr Lohithaksha Maiyar) has been recruited to work
 on Big Data and sustainability. This has been reflected in the current priority research areas
 highlighted above.


 The post-2014 research strategy focused further on producing higher quality research outputs,
 increasing research student numbers, engaging with local and global businesses, and increasing
 income generation by targeting a variety of national, European and international funding bodies.
 During this period, staff members engaged with more than 250 local businesses via various ERDF-
 funded initiatives (e.g., the Innovation Bridge, ICT Escalator, IMAGE, ALPHAS, Growth Curve and
 Innovation Bridges projects) that are managed by the University’s Innovation & Enterprise Service
 (www.beds.ac.uk/ies/we-mean-business/). These research activities resulted in the creation of
 nearly 20 new companies in the region. The total project value awarded by all of the above projects
 equated to £230,311.17 by November 2020.


 UBBS was one of the first business schools in the country to successfully apply for and receive
 the Small Business Charter award from the Chartered Association of Business Schools. The award
 was reaccredited in 2019. The award recognises the contribution made by the business school in
 support of our SME community and the impact of this engagement on both the academic
 environment and the wider economy. In the academic year 2017/18, UBBS became the first UK
 Business School to go through the prestigious Business School Impact System (BSIS)
 (www.beds.ac.uk/howtoapply/departments/businessschool/bsis/) process and to be awarded the
 BSIS label. BSIS is a tool developed by the European Foundation of Management Development
 (EFMD) to enable business schools to measure their impact on the world around them in seven
 key areas, such as business development, and societal and intellectual effects. Utilising such a
 tool allowed the business school to further support and strengthen its business development
 capacity. These opportunities form part of the ongoing business development cycle for UBBS and
 will include an increase in activities to support local employers, based upon existing relationships,
 and the identification of development funding that enables UBBS to work alongside local
 employers.


 Some of the other important developments post-REF 2014 are:


    ●   The annual BMRI Day conference in January showcased the activities of research centres,
        projects, and research by staff members and students;


    ●   Events for and by PGR students (e.g., interdisciplinary one-minute thesis presentation quiz
        night, 4th July 2018);


                                                                                                         Page 2
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)


    ●   Closer working with the Chartered Association of Business Schools: attending the directors
        of research meetings, founding membership of regional liaison network; regular attendance
        of a core group of staff at the learning and teaching conferences for the last four years; and
        recipients of a Chartered ABS Award on Equality Diversity and Inclusion;


    ●   Engaging with more than 250 local businesses, leading to the creation of nearly 20 new
        companies;


    ●   The Business School has invested in PGR with bursaries for three PhD students in both
        2014 and 2017;


    ●   QR funding has been used to support research by awarding funds for BMRI internal funding
        during 2016 and 2017. In total, eight projects were awarded funding in January 2017 and
        six more in December 2017;


    ●   Organising writing retreats every year plus additional publications workshops;


    ●   The business school allocates funds for staff research development. Staff members are
        strongly encouraged to attend international conferences and present their research results
        for knowledge sharing and networking;


    ●   Centres host regular research seminars, involving both external and internal speakers to
        share research findings, strengthen collaborations and stimulate intellectual debate;


    ●   There has been a positive trajectory in our PGR completions and income generation as
        discussed later in this document;


    ●   Visiting scholars:


           o    Dr Xiaoping Zheng, China Agricultural University, PR China, visited UBBS as an
                academic scholar between August 2014 to July 2015;


           o    Dr Ruiqian Li, Harbin University of Commerce, China, visited UBBS as a visiting
                PhD student between November 2015 and April 2016;


           o    Professor Xiaoshuan Zhang, from China Agricultural University, visited UBBS as
                an academic scholar for two months from Jan – Feb 2016;


           o   Dr Elena Iarmosh, Dean of the Faculty of Economic, Administrative and
               Educational Technologies and Dr Babenko Christine, Head of the Management
               Department from Ukrainian Engineering Pedagogics Academy in Ukraine, spent a
               week in UoB in February 2019;


           o   Dr Emrah Bilgic from Mus Alparslan University, Turkey, visited UBBS as an
               academic scholar for one week in April 2019.


                                                                                                         Page 3
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

 Future research strategy


 BMRI’s future research strategy emphasises high quality research, focussing on the needs of
 businesses and organisations working closely with local businesses identified via the Innovation
 Bridges project, and other outreach activities. Key components of our future research strategy are
 to:


  ● Recruit additional research-active staff, especially in research leadership roles such as
    professors, professors in management practice, and readers;


  ● Increase the quantity and quality of research publications;


  ● Consider research impact in all research activities and encourage staff to engage with
    research users to ensure maximum research impact;


  ● Increase research income from collaborative projects with a variety of stakeholders, including
    governments, the third sector, other public and private bodies, and from research funding
    bodies (at national, EU and international levels).


 New initiatives with potential to produce strategic outputs and research impact in the future


 Implementation of the BMRI’s research strategy includes:


 ●   Expanding current research themes to wider but related areas (e.g., Big Data, the Internet of
     Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI);


 ●   Creating a cluster of themes around sustainability, equality and human rights;


 ●   BMRI members are allocated dedicated research time as part of their workload plan.


 2. People


 i. Staffing strategy and staff development


 The research group in UoA17 has recruited new research active staff members (e.g., Lohithaksha
 Maiyar, Alia El Banna and Banita Lal) and supported existing staff members to be more research
 active (e.g., Alexander Kofinas, Yongmei Bentley, Guangming Cao, Guy Parrot, Usha
 Ramanathan, Qile He and Sandar Win). Yongmei Bentley has been promoted to principal lecturer
 role.


 Following university policy, formal annual reviews are conducted to appraise staff performance.
 Research performance is considered during the annual reviews. Early career researchers are
 provided additional support to be research active. BMRI collects information on research activities
 from staff members every month and submits a report to the Faculty Executive Group. They are
 discussed at the monthly meetings of the Faculty Executive Group, and are used to prepare annual
 reports of the institute. Meetings of the BMRI board are held three times a year, which provide a

                                                                                                       Page 4
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 forum for discussion of all research-related matters, including university decisions linked to
 research administration, staff research projects, progress on grant applications, PGR student
 issues, research seminars, and other research-related activities. Two PGR student
 representatives attend the BMRI board meetings and raise student-related matters. Staff members
 in BMRI present papers in national and international conferences using the Dean’s staff
 development budget.


 Staff development strategy


 BMRI regularly arranges staff development workshops for the benefit of its staff members. Newly
 recruited staff members attend research induction by the BMRI director so that they get to know
 the research support and other options available to them. Some of the research-focussed
 workshops included the following:


 Regular workshops on academic publishing for the benefit of staff members and PGR students


    ●   28th April 2015, 'How to get published in Emerald Journals' by Mr Simon Linacre, Emerald
        Publishers


    ●   14 May 2015, 'Publishing research in academic journals', by Professor John Edwards,
        Aston Business School


    ●   28 June 2017, 'How to publish in top journals', by Professor Yogesh K. Dwivedi, Swansea
        University, and Professor Ravishankar Mayasandra-Nagaraja, Loughborough University.


 Writing retreats with an external expert as a mentor


    ●   19-21 Apr 2017, 30-31 Jul 2018, 29-30 Jul 2019: Annual BMRI writing retreats with Prof Jo
        Brewis (Leicester/The Open University) as the mentor for most of them;


    ●   31 March - 1 April 2017, and 16 November 2018, writing retreat in accounting, finance and
        economics with Professor Teerooven Soobaroyen, Essex, as the mentor
    ●   29 May 2019, A workshop on academic publication and managing peer reviews in
        accounting, finance and economics, with Professor Collins Ntim, Southampton, as the
        mentor;

    ●   12 June 2017, critical writing workshop (Reading Club for Sustainability and Business
        Research), with Dr Mohamed Saeudy (internal).


 Regular funding workshops:


    ●   16 November 2016, 'How to be successful at winning EU research funding – some
        experiences', Dr Johann C.K.H. Riedel, Nottingham University Business School.


 Hands-on Workshops on qualitative research methodology and Nvivo training



                                                                                                    Page 5
Section 1.01    UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

     ●  13-14 May 2014, June 2016, 23-24 May 2017 and 9-10 April 2018, 'How to use N-vivo for
        qualitative data analysis', Training workshop by Patsy Clarke, external consultant.
 Hands-on Workshops on quantitative research methodology and training on statistical/structural
 equation modelling software


     ●   30 June and 1 July 2015, 'Two-day workshop on using structural equation modelling',
         Professor Mark Shevlin from University of Ulster;
     ●   1-2 June 2017, 'Structural equation modelling two day hands on workshop', by Dr Bruno
         Schivinski, Nottingham Business School;
     ●   March 2017, 'SPSS and SEM workshop', Professor Daniel Boduszek, the University of
         Huddersfield.


 Early career researchers are supported in a number of ways, including a mentoring scheme that
 involves a senior researcher, lighter workloads, conference support, peer review, collaboration
 where appropriate with senior researchers in publishing papers, developing bids and joint PhD
 supervision in collaboration with senior research staff.


 Workload planning for research active staff reflects the commitment of the School to conduct
 research in line with the university’s REF Code of Practice.

 The Innovation and Enterprise Service of the university provides support to academic colleagues
 during preparation of grant applications.


 Equal opportunities and ethics procedures

 BMRI follows the equality and diversity policy of the university. Staff members are treated equally,
 and no one receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, transgender, marital
 status, disability, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation, religion, faith or belief.


 In line with the university’s REF code of practice, a review of the data on the profile of all Business
 School staff and those who have significant responsibility for research (SIGREF) in terms of
 gender, ethnicity and disability, has been conducted for UoA 17. Compared to the corresponding
 ratio for the entire Business School, a slightly higher proportion of female staff members have
 been identified with SIGREF. A higher proportion of staff members in the BME category are being
 considered as staff with SIGREF. The proportions are similar for disability. The difference in
 proportions could be attributed to the small sample size of the number of staff with SIGREF.


 The Business School will continue to explore strategies to further promote equality and diversity
 in relation to the recruitment of staff; in the research careers of staff with a disability and in
 reviewing research opportunities. It will assess the impact that caring responsibilities (child and
 elder care) may have upon staff development and explore how the Faculty might mitigate any
 barriers to progression. It will assess the impact of Covid-19 on research funding and research
 output and the impact on staff health.




                                                                                                                 Page 6
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 ii. Research students


 Research student recruitment

 A dedicated team in the research graduate school receives PGR applications and conducts a
 preliminary scrutiny. These applications for BMRI are then sent to BMRI. A dedicated PGR student
 coordinator, in consultation with the director of BMRI, manages these PGR applications. These
 applications are checked by the PGR co-ordinator and sent to the leader of the relevant research
 centre(s), who in turn sends them to relevant members of staff. Interested staff members contact
 the applicant for an interview and at least two staff members conduct the interview. Decisions on
 accepting an application for admission are based on performance at interview, and the research
 proposal may need to be revised to bring it up to acceptable standards. The university’s equality
 and diversity policy is followed for student recruitment.


 This unit has seen substantial increase in PGR recruitment since 2014 with 63 completions
 (2013/14: 7.00, 2014/15: 7.50, 2015/16: 9.00, 2016/17: 9.50, 2017/18: 4.33, 2018/19: 13.75, and
 2019/20: 12). This is 450% increase compared to our previous REF submission.


 Research culture


 With an increased number of research students, BMRI’s research culture has been significantly
 strengthened in the last few years (see section 2.i). BMRI has invested heavily (time and funding)
 in staff and students’ research development, such as providing funding for conferences and
 training courses, holding regular research seminars involving internal staff and students, and
 external speakers. Research students work closely with their supervisors, participate in research
 centre events, have dedicated work space and are expected to participate in business school
 events.


 A comprehensive programme of training sessions in research methods has been developed in
 BMRI since 2013. This programme is aimed primarily at PGR students in their first year. The
 programme consists of 30 sessions organised around three stages: foundational topics,
 introductory sessions in qualitative and quantitative methods, and more advanced workshop
 sessions on these techniques. Students are also regularly invited to attend staff research training
 programmes, such as the funding workshops, publishing workshops, writing retreats, and hands-
 on training workshops on qualitative and quantitative research methodologies mentioned earlier
 in this section. Advanced training is made available to PGR students on a case-by-case basis. For
 example, some of the advanced training events mentioned in Section 2.i above are based on the
 requests of PGR students.


 The leaders of research centres and a dedicated PGR student coordinator provide targeted
 support to PGR students. Furthermore, two volunteers are appointed as PGR student
 representatives to liaise directly with students.


 In order to develop their research skills further, BMRI encourages PGR students to attend external
 conferences that are deemed prestigious, and has set aside funds for conference attendance by
 PGR students. It is a requirement that students should have presented their research in an internal
 seminar within BMRI for conference funding.




                                                                                                       Page 7
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

 Equal opportunities


 BMRI recruits PGR students from all parts of the world, without any bias on the grounds of gender,
 transgender, marital status, disability, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation,
 religion, faith or belief. A break-down of ethnicity of BMRI research students who completed their
 studies since 2014 shows rich cultural diversity (10% white, 45% Asians, 28% Black, and the rest
 comprising Arab, unspecified and other ethnicities). 36% per cent of the students awarded a PhD
 since 2014 have been female.


 Research student links with business, industry and the public sector


 Almost all BMRI research students are engaged in projects involving contact with business
 communities or public organisations. Some examples are:


    ●   Victor Akunna (on social capital in Nigerian SMEs);
    ●   Lakshmi Belavati (on the use of Big Data in spiritual organisations);
    ●   Shantanu Banerjee (on trust in outsourcing relationships, involving a number of
        outsourcing businesses);
    ●   Ma Jun (risk management in supply chain collaboration in Chinese SMEs);
    ●   Sonal Arjun Godhania (Project Management in the Fashion Industry);
    ●   Tahseen Anwar Arshi (Entrepreneurial Orientation and Innovation Intensity in Oman
        Corporate Sector);
    ●   Muhammad Tariq Abro (Sustainability Compliance in Major UK Food Retailers);
    ●   Hadil al Moosa (Women entrepreneurs in Oman);
    ●   Janice Johnson (Experiences of Black women academics in post 1992 UK universities);
    ●   Gbemisola Oyedepo (Examining the factors affecting UK manufacturing SMEs’ corporate
        sustainability behaviour);
    ●   Roopa Aruvanahalli Nagaraju (Role of Innovation Strategy in the Business Growth of High
        Technology SMEs).


 Monitoring and support mechanisms


 Newly joining research students undergo a week-long induction process organised centrally by
 the research graduate school. This central induction covers all aspects of research practice, ethics,
 progression, the virtual learning environment, record keeping of PGR student supervision
 meetings, research training and more. Discipline-specific BMRI induction is conducted by BMRI,
 where the research strategy of the institute is discussed, existing PhD students talk about their
 experience of being a BMRI PhD student, PGR representatives speak about their role and the
 PGR coordinator discusses the institute-level PGR training programme, followed by a question
 and answer session. Finally, new PGR students are given a tour of the dedicated PGR students’
 room. Each student has two members in the supervisory team – the director of studies (also known
 as the first supervisor), and the second supervisor. Supervisory meetings are conducted at least
 once a month. The discussions at the supervisory meetings are recorded via email and a dedicated
 platform (PebblePad).


 Students’ progress in research is monitored through regular meetings with the supervisory team,
 progression point assessments and annual monitoring. Weaker students are provided additional


                                                                                                           Page 8
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 support via the academic progress panels. The following processes are outlined in the UoB
 Academic Regulations, Section 4 – Postgraduate Research Degrees:


    1. Meetings: The director of studies and/or another supervisor have recorded meetings with
       the student on a regular and frequent basis. Students are required to maintain a record of
       meetings with their supervisory team using the university’s preferred system. Full-time
       students are expected to devote a minimum of 37 hours per week to their research and
       related activities. Part-time students are designated 0.5FTE and therefore expected to
       devote a minimum of 18.5 hours per week to their research and related activities. If the
       students do not engage with their studies, the supervisors may call for an academic
       progress panel (as explained below).


    2. Progression point assessments: For master’s by research students there is a single
       progression point assessment (MiPP) at the mid-point of their studies which must be
       completed successfully prior to submission of the final thesis or portfolio. For MPhil,
       MPhil/PhD and professional doctorate students, there are two progression point
       assessments – progression point 1 (completion of Stage 1 of the programme), and
       progression point 2 (completion of Stage 2 of the programme). The outcomes of
       progression point assessments are confirmed by RDC.


    3. Annual monitoring: Students’ progress is reviewed through an annual monitoring process
       set up by the Research Degree Committee and administered by the Research Graduate
       School. Academic progress panels (APPs) may be undertaken to address any issues
       negatively affecting the students’ progress.


 Preparing research students for future careers

 The university and the business school have made arrangements to prepare research students
 for a variety of careers. BMRI’s research training programme has undergone continuous
 transformation during the period on the basis of feedback from students and staff members. As
 mentioned in various parts of this document, research culture in the business school has been
 strengthened by organising an annual conference, regular research seminars, workshops, and
 other research events. These events, provided both at the business school level and at the
 university level, aim to enhance not only academic research and writing capabilities but also
 general and communication skills to prepare students for a successful future career.


 In collaboration with the Centre for Learning Excellence in the university, the Business School
 organised sessions to help PGR students acquire necessary teaching qualifications. Many of our
 PGR students have gained employment in academia (e.g. Petya Koleva and Abdulrahman Al-
 Surmi in Coventry University; Victor Akunna, Claudette Kika, Sajeel Ahmed and Saira Sultana in
 University of Bedfordshire; Sonal Arjun Godhania in Srishti University, India; Hassan Amar in
 Nottingham Trent University). While most students work in academic institutions after graduation,
 some students have joined other careers too. For example, Shantanu Banerjee completed a part-
 time PhD in 2016 and went back to his business as an outsourcing specialist but maintains links
 with academia by engaging with the university in multiple ways.




                                                                                                     Page 9
Section 1.01    UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 There has been a marked improvement in the research infrastructure of the university since 2014.
 Consequently, there has been a significant increase in research income since the last REF. A total
 of £588,917 of income has been generated in this unit since 2014. This represents an increase of
 more than 350% compared to the income recorded in the previous REF period. The full
 breakdown, year by year is below:




               Academic Year                        Income

               2013/14                              -£1,216.01

               2014/15                               £44,610.65

               2015/16                               £30,049.53

               2016/17                               £11,730.66

               2017/18                               £18,565.33

               2018/19                               £168,639.24

               2019/20                               £316,537.65




 The following will be updated to reflect latest developments:


 To support the preparation of research bids and the generation of external grant income, the
 Innovation and Enterprise Service (IES) of the university regularly sends targeted details about
 funding opportunities. Research support provided by the IES includes


 (i) Identifying suitable funding opportunities and informing staff about these opportunities;


 (ii) Helping with bid writing, including searching/contacting potential partners and the preparation
 of budgets;


 (iii) Grant submission;

 (iv) Supporting the post-award process. In addition, faculty members have been advised to
 subscribe to Research Professional, the portal for research opportunities. Information on further
 funding opportunities are received via social media (Twitter and LinkedIn) regularly. The BMRI
 director and individual researchers share information on funding opportunities.


 Staff members have been very active in the REF period in submitting research bids, with
 increasing success. Examples include:


                                                                                                        Page 10
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
    ●   Professor Yanqing Duan secured funding from Innovate UK and BBSRC, Erasmus and
        Erasmus+ (six projects), the DFID Agri-tech project, and the British Council;


    ●   Professor Ram Ramanathan secured funding from the British Academy, the Newton Fund
        (UK-Institutional fund), and from the Interreg NWE programme;


    ●   Dr Christina Schwabenland and Dr Alexander Kofinas were awarded one of only three
        research grants made by the Chartered Association of Business Schools for developing
        the use of Lego Serious Play in the EDI curriculum. Furthermore, Dr Alexander Kofinas
        secured a grant from HEFCE as part of the Catalyst Fund focussing on further developing
        a game-based pedagogic approach, and narratives in learning and teaching;


    ●   Dr Violet Cuffy won a grant for the project 'Dominica as a Centre of Excellence for the
        Preservation & Celebration of the Creole Culture through Language, the Arts & its
        Indigenous Kalinago' from AHRC / ESRC GCRF, and a further grant from HRC/ESRC
        GCRF for indigenous engagement, research partnerships, and knowledge mobilisation to
        produce a best practice case study in working with indigenous communities.


 This is in addition to the income worth £230,311.17 secured by BMRI staff members for the
 business-facing initiatives managed by the University’s Innovation & Enterprise Service
 (www.beds.ac.uk/ies), which was highlighted in Section 1.ii earlier.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the discipline or research base


 Our staff members have collaborated with a number of external stakeholders and contributed to
 ongoing debate in the discipline via networks, collaborations, editorships and keynote talks. Our
 extensive national and international collaborations have created impact with relevant academic
 and non-academic stakeholders. These contributions have resulted in incomes and outputs for
 BMRI. In the following pages, we demonstrate the outstanding academic leadership of our staff
 members in their disciplines.


 Interdisciplinary research, research collaboration with industry and other academic
 collaborations


 BMRI continues to strongly support interdisciplinary research aimed at addressing issues faced
 by business and industry. Members of BMRI are active in interdisciplinary research with other
 academics and in collaboration with industry/the third sector. In total this represents more than 50
 individual collaborations across sectors and geographies reaching out to an extensive list of
 academic and non-academic stakeholders. Examples include:
 Convenor and Founder of the UK Chapter of the Humanistic Management Network which was
 launched at the Young Foundation in London with support from the Reinventing Management
 Network, Organisational Development and Innovation Network (ODiN), Blueprint for Business,
 Humanists in Business and the Association of Management Education and Development (AMED);
 Co-researcher for the ESRC seminar series on Democratic Renewal in Civil Society
 Organisations; Researcher in partnership with Paradigm UK; organiser of the Equalpay@50 day
 conference with speakers from the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS), the
 Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), the University of London, The Equality


                                                                                                        Page 11
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
 Trust and ACAS; Member of the Board of the Standing Conference on Organisational Symbolism
 (SCOS); Consultant to the Indian Institute of Health Care Management (Christina Schwabenland)


 Cass Business School London, STFC Food Network (SFN) Annual Meeting UK; CABS Directors
 of Research meetings UK; Swansea University; Leeds City Council; Rutherford Appleton
 Laboratory, Didcot, Oxford; Henan University China; Harbin University of Commerce, China;
 Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India; Fishvet group in Inverness UK; Bedfordshire &
 Hertfordshire Local Medical Committee Ltd. UK; Jaipuria Institute of Management, Lucknow, India;
 Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India; Madurai School of Management, India; Delhi
 University, India; British Council Newton Fund (Ram Ramanathan)
 Sustainability Forum, University of Milan-Bicocca, Italy; Centre for Social and Environmental
 Accounting Research (CSEAR), St Andrews University, UK (Mohamed Saeudy)
 Images & Réseaux (France), University College Dublin (Ireland), University of Nantes (France),
 Levstone Ltd (UK), Nottingham Trent University (UK), Whysor BV (Netherlands), Institute of
 Technology in Tralee (Ireland), SenX Ltd. (France), Ulster University (UK), WD Meats Ltd. (UK),
 Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia Catarinense and artisanal farmers (Brazil)
 (Ram Ramanathan, Yanqing Duan)
 University of Surrey; China Agricultural University; Henan University, China; Kayseri University,
 Turkey; Ukraine Engineering Pedagogy Academy (UEPA) in Kharkiv and Simon Kuznets Kharkiv
 National University of Economics (KhNUE), Ukraine; Aston University; Swansea University;
 Portsmouth University; Ajman University in UAE; Ocean University of China; Ministry of
 Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in Cambodia; Chelsea Technology Group, UK; Perceptive
 Engineering Ltd. UK; Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China; Laizhou Mingbo Aquatic Co. Ltd.,
 China; Zhanjiang Guolian Aquatic Products Co. Ltd., China (Yanqing Duan)

 University of Craiova, Romania (Rudolphe Ocler); Carleton University and the University of
 Ottawa, Canada (Alia El Banna); University of Greenwich (Alexander Kofinas)
 Dominica High Commission; The International Creole Network; Economic Social Research
 Council National Social Science Festival; Ministry of Sports & Culture, Commonwealth of Dominica
 (Violet                                                                                   Cuffy)

 Hosting international scholars


 BMRI has actively promoted the dissemination and exchange of research ideas by hosting
 international scholars and research students. They are listed in Section 1.ii.


 Seminars organised


 BMRI has an established seminar series, in which leading academics from other universities and
 industry practitioners deliver lectures for the benefit of both staff and research students. The
 annual BMRI Day conference has been listed in Section 1.ii. Violet Cuffy organised several
 symposia/conferences:
    •   Creole Youth Symposium (Dominica), University of the West Indies Open Campus
        Dominica, August 19th, 2019;
    •   Creole as Cultural Heritage: Framing, strengthening and advocating, Dominica Country
        Conference 2019, in collaboration with University of the West Indies, Open Campus
        Dominica,               August               14-17th              ,            2019
        https://www.live.comeseetv.com/index.php?go=index&do=watchclip&iq=1564&tp=domini
        ca-creole-conference-2019-day-1-august-15-2019;

                                                                                                     Page 12
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
    ●   Creole Youth Symposium (UK), July 6th, 2019, Dominica High Commission, 1 Collingham
        Gardens https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/o/the-international-creole-network-20073756519 ;
        Building Bridges: fostering intercultural engagement/embracing diversity;
    •   Beds Talk, The International Creole Network, sponsored by the Vice Chancellor, University
        of          Bedfordshire           Wednesday            8th          May           2019
        https://events.beds.ac.uk/uniofbeds/detail/236/1557333000000 ;
    •   Creole Fest: Building Bridges Across Borders (2018) part Economic Social Research
        Council National Social Science Festival; part funded by Arts & Humanities Research
        Council & supported by UNESCO and University of Bedfordshire UniTwin programme, 8th
        &     10th      November      2018,      University    of     Bedfordshire,  United
        Kingdom https://www.beds.ac.uk/creolefest/ ;
    ●   The International Creole Research Network Youth Symposium, July 28th, 2018, Dominica
        High Commission, 1 Collingham Gardens, London.


 Several of the external speakers for workshops and writing retreats have been listed in Section 2.
 Other external speakers for the assessment period include Professor Rogerio Traballi, Brazil;
 Professor Joaquim Valverde, Brazil; Professor PC Jha, India; Professor Martin Parker, Dr Birgitte
 Bhiel-Missal and Dr Jenna Ward, UK.


 Indicators of wider contributions to the research base and relevant esteem indicators (such
 as fellowships and awards, involvement on panels and journal editorships).


 BMRI staff members have been active in reaching academic and non-academic stakeholders via
 keynote speeches, contributed to the discipline of business and management by editing scholarly
 journals, and receiving award/esteem indicators.



 Keynote and Plenary Speeches


 By Yanqing Duan

    ●   International Conference on Digital Technologies in Education (ICDTE 2020), Online
        conference. 16-17 September 2020;
    ●   International Conference on Management Education and Innovation, online conference. 1-
        3 April 2020;
    ●   International Conference on Intelligent Agriculture (ICIA 2019). 18-20, Oct. Beijing;
    ●   International Conference on Digital Technologies in Education, Tsuru, Japan. 25-27 Oct.
        2019; Invited talk and panel member for the workshop on AI applications in School of
        Management, Swansea University, 13 Jun 2019;
    ●   STFC funded project workshop on ‘Data-driven agri-food supply chains for sustainability
        and productivity’ in Henan University, China, 12-14 Sep 2018;
    ●   International Conference on Business and Information Management (ICBIM 2018) in
        Barcelona, 20-22 Sep 2018;
    ●   Women in Data Science (WiDS) Buckingham Conference on Business Data Science for
        Public Good, The University of Buckingham, 10 Oct 2018;
    ●   Advances in Management and Informatics Conference, Cardiff Metropolitan University, 5th
        May 2017;

                                                                                                      Page 13
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
    ●   The 'Information Systems' stream in the UK’s Operation Research Society’s annual
        conference (OR58) in Portsmouth University on 6th September 2016;
    ●   International conference on business and information management (ICBIM), Beijing,
        China, Jul 2017


 By Ram Ramanathan


    ●   3rd International Conference on Industrial Engineering and Operation Research, Istanbul
        Aydin University, Istanbul, Turkey, 25 June 2020;
    ●   STFC funded project workshop on ‘Data-driven agri-food supply chains for sustainability
        and productivity’ in Henan University, China 12-14 Sep 2018;
    ●   Henan University Business School, China, 11 Sep 2018;
    ●   6th International Conference on Business Analytics and Intelligence (ICBAI) at Satish
        Dhawan Auditorium, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India, 20-22 Dec 2018;
    ●   International Conference on Emerging Innovations in Statistics and Operations Research
        at Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak, India, 27-30 Dec 2018;
    ●   1st      International Conference on ‘Reenvisioning Economies: Inclusive Growth &
        Sustainability’, St Xavier’s College, Jaipur, 20-21 Dec 2016;
    ●   49th ORSI (Operational Research Society of India) International Conference, Bimtech,
        Greater Noida (National Capital Region – Delhi), 12-14 Dec 2016;
    ●   Fourth International Conference on Business Analytics and Intelligence (ICBAI) in
        Bangalore, India, 19-21 Dec 2016;
    ●   International Workshop on ‘A pathway to global sustainability - Role of local food and
        logistics SMEs in global sustainability’
    ●   Unidavi, Rio do Sul, Brazil, 29 May 2017;
    ●   International Conference on ‘Recent Trends in Operations Research and Statistics
        (RTORS-2017)’, Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee, 28-30 Dec 2017;
    ●   International research workshop titled ‘Sustainable Development - Exploring Energy
        Efficiency Opportunities through Supply Chain and Operations Innovation’, Universidad
        Autónoma de Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes, Mexico (organised jointly by the University
        of Derby, UK, and funded by the Newton Fund, the British Council and the Consejo
        Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia (CONACYT) of Mexico), 25 May 2016;
    ●   International Conference on ‘Power and Energy Systems (ICPES ‘17)’, Velammal College
        of Engineering and Technology, Madurai, India, 21 Dec 2017;
    ●   Rodolphe Ocler - 9th edition of the iCOnEc conference 'CSR, Pharmakons and Rules of
        Languages', Oct 2017; Urbino University (Italy) as part of their PhD Global programme,16
        Apr 2019
    ●   Lohithaksha M Maiyar - Virtual faculty development workshop organised by Mahatma
        Gandhi Institute of Technology, JNTU, Hyderabad, India (2020);
    ●   Yongmei Bentley - Invited presentations at Yichun University, China (, March 2019);
    ●   Christina Schwabenland - Dublin Institute of Technology (DIT), Ireland, 29 Mar 2017;
        ESRC Seminar Series: 4th seminar on ‘Democratising the workplace’ held at Nottingham
        Trent University.




                                                                                                   Page 14
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

 External Examination for PhD/MPhil/MRes


 Yanqing Duan


    ●   Aston University, December 2014; Brunel University (two candidates), January 2018 and
        September 2020;
    ●   Swansea University, June 2016;
    ●   Portsmouth University August 2019;
    ●   Universiti Putra Malaysia (two candidates), September 2019;
    ●   Cardiff Met University, March 2020;
    ●   Victoria University, Australia (two candidates), Nov 2014 and Nov 2017;
    ●   Essex University, Nov 2017;
    ●   Curtin University, Australia, Nov 2020


 Mohamed Saeudy


    ●   University of Reading (three candidates) - June 2019, March 2019 and Feb 2021


 Ram Ramanathan


    ●   Universiti Putra Malaysia, Selangor, Malaysia, September 2015;
    ●   Manchester Business School, November 2015;
    ●   Victoria Institute of Strategic Economic Studies (VISES), College of Business, Victoria
        University, Melbourne, Australia, March 2016;
    ●   Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, India, June 2016; Indian Institute of Technology
        Madras, India, September 2016;
    ●   Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India, February 2017;
    ●   Indian Institute of Technology Madras, India, October 2017;
    ●   Department of Management Studies, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli,
        India, July 2017;
    ●   National Institute of Technology Calicut, India, September 2018; Indian Institute of Science,
        Bangalore, India, February 2019;
    ●   University of Nottingham, 08 Feb 2019;
    ●   Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India, February 2019; Jain University, Bangalore,
        India, June 2020;
    ●   The Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi, India, February 2019;
    ●   University of Pretoria, South Africa, Jan 2017


 Christina Schwabenland


    ●   University of Leicester, 16 July 2020;
    ●   Macquaire University, Sydney, January 2019;
    ●   University Technology Sydney, Jul 2017
    ●   Alia El Banna - University of Salford, 30 Apr 2018 ;

                                                                                                        Page 15
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

    ●   Annie Danbury - University of Western Australia, Jul 2018
    ●   Yongmei Bentley - University of Greenwich, Nov 2016
    ●   Sarah Williams - Cardiff Met University, Dec 2017
    ●   Violet Cuffy - University of the West Indies Dec 2018; University of the West Indies Aug
        2020 .


 Journal Editorships


 Yanqing Duan is an Associate Editor of the 'International Journal of Information Management' from
 April 2018 and Associated Editor of the journal 'Decision Support Systems' from July 2014


 Editorial Boards of Journals


 Appointments include:
    ●   International Journal of Internet of Things and its Applications, Sustainability, Journal of
        Contemporary Development and Management Studies, International Journal of Quality
        and Standards, International Journal of Advanced Operations Management, and
        International Journal of Business Performance and Supply Chain Modelling (Ram
        Ramanathan);
    ●   Frontiers in Sustainability: Sustainable Organisations Journal (Mohamed Saeudy);
    ●   Murmurations (Christina Schwabenland);
    ●   Journal of Carnival Arts (Violet Cuffy);
    ●   Information Processing in Agriculture (2013- present) (Yanqing Duan).


 Awards (External to the university)


    ●   Best Paper award in the Administrative Sciences Association of Canada Conference, April
        2019 (Alia El Banna), Highly Commended Paper award in the International Journal of
        Operations and Production Management (4* journal). This is also the most downloaded
        article for the year, June 2018 (Guy Parrott); Centre for Leadership Innovation has been
        nominated for the Influential Leadership Research category, hosted by the Leadership
        Awards: http://www.leadershipawards.org.uk/most-influential-leadership-research-of-the-
        year/ (25 Nov 2016)


    ●   Best Paper Nomination, ‘A Path Model Linking Business Analytics, Data-Driven Culture,
        and Competitive Advantage’, the 22nd European Conference on Information Systems
        (ECIS 2014), which took place on 9-11 June 2014, Tel Aviv. One of eight nominations from
        548 submissions. (Yanqing Duan)


 Other honours


 Ram Ramanathan


    ●   Peer reviewer for research proposals submitted to UKRI;
    ●   Evaluator for UNESCO for evaluating applications for Newton Prize, June 2019;

                                                                                                       Page 16
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)

    ●   Interview with BBC 3CR on reducing food waste, 31 July 2019;
    ●   Invited lecture on Big Data, Business Analytics and e-Commerce to practitioners and
        Senior executives of Jiangsu state-owned enterprises for an executive training programme,
        8 Nov 2017;
    ●   Invited Research Seminar at Roehampton University, 21 Feb 2018;
    ●   Invited seminar in Cass Business School, February 2020;
    ●   Visiting professor in Henan University, China, and Jaipuria Institute of Management,
        Lucknow, India ;


 Yanqing Duan


    ●   Expert evaluator for various research funding programmes between 2014-2020, including
        H2020, ETH Zurich Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich;
    ●   UK-India Education and Research Initiative (UKIERI);
    ●   Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, ESRC, The Hong Kong Institute of Education;
    ●   External evaluation of the REF2021 outputs and impact cases as a critical friend of a UK
        HEI;
    ●   Chair of a one-day forum on 'utilising data effectively across Higher Education', London,
        23 Nov 2016


 Mohamed Saeudy


    ●   Peer reviewer for proposals submitted to UKRI;
    ●   Impact measurement and management in the development of alternative forms of
        capitalism, Research, Development and Innovation Funding, 2020
    ●   Blog on Greening accounting and finance curricula (https://charteredabs.org/greening-
        accounting-and-finance-curricula/)
    ●   A Policy Paper for The House of Commons Treasury Committee Regarding the inquiry of
        Business Rates, May 2019
    ●   Founder member of Regional Liaison Network- Small Business Charter at the Chartered
        Association of Business Schools, October 2020 (Also Ram Ramanathan)


 Yanqing Duan and Ram Ramanathan


    ●   Workshops on ’How to make Big Data and analytics work for SMEs’, 27th May 2018 in
        Yantai, China Agricultural University, and 31 May Harbin, Harbin University of Commerce
        in collaboration with China Agricultural University and Harbin University of Commerce, May
        2018


 Banita Lal


    ●   Invitation to write a blog post for CABS: ‘Social isolation during Covid-19: what can
        managers do?’, June 2020;
    ●   Member of the conference organising committee (as programme secretary) for IFIP WG
        8.6 in Accra, Ghana, 21-22 Jun 2019;



                                                                                                     Page 17
Section 1.01   UNIT-LEVEL ENVIRONMENT TEMPLATE (REF5B)
    ●   Co-author of a monthly column in a leading Tanzanian newspaper (The Citizen) examining
        the use/impact of social media towards the 2020 general election, from June 2019 (Banita
        Lal);


 Alexander K. Kofinas


 Three Blog entries in Chartered ABS website:

    ●   https://charteredabs.org/what-makes-a-duck-a-duck-a-playful-introduction-to-equality-
        diversity-and-inclusion/
    ●   https://charteredabs.org/cross-year-student-led-teams-playful-team-formation/
    ●   https://charteredabs.org/in-favour-of-a-gamified-narrative-based-assessment-regime/


 Rodolphe Ocler


    ●   Member of the scientific committee for the International Conference of the Academy of
        Management (USA) meeting Liege, France, June 2019 (Rodolphe Ocler);


 Christina Schwabenland


    ●   Board member of the Standing Conference on Organisational Symbolism (SCOS) Board
        meeting, 10 Nov 2018;
    ●   Launch of the UK chapter of the Humanistic Management Network at the Young
        Foundation in London, 17 Nov 2017;
    ●   Launch of Murmurations: on-line journal: Christina Schwabenland is a member of the
        editorial board, 24 Nov 2017;
    ●   Workshop on humanistic management delivered to the Organisational Development and
        Innovation Network (ODiN), 9 Jan 2018.




                                                                                                   Page 18
