Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Economics and Econometrics (UoA16)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context & structure

 The Economics and Econometrics subject group at the University of Northampton is being
 submitted to REF2021 for the first time. The development in research has been led in part by
 structural changes at the University level, but more significantly by the appointment of a new Dean
 in the Faculty of Business and Law in 2014 who placed more emphasis on research, illustrated by
 the appointment of a Head of Research in 2015 and in forming a clear coherent strategy to grow
 and support research activity. This support is illustrated by the formation of two research centres
 which members of this unit contribute to and in the identification and creation of support activities
 for all research active staff. As a small UoA we regularly collaborate with Business who provide
 support to colleagues helping sustain a healthy research culture.

 Much of the research undertaken in the unit is linked to the University of Northampton Strategic
 Plan 2015-2020. This plan is heavily influenced by the fact that the University of Northampton is
 the first UK member of the Ashoka U network of socially impactful universities. We consequently
 have a number of institution-wide Changemaker Challenges that focus on social impact generally
 but also specifically on social impact in Northamptonshire. These challenges are themed around
 children and young people, health and wellbeing, culture and heritage and business. The
 University is also committed to aligning its impact work with the United Nation’s Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs) and is making its first submission to the Times Higher Education
 Impact Rankings in 2021. We have aligned ourselves to the SDGs ‘To build resilient Infrastructure,
 promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation’, ‘to promote sustained
 inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for
 all’ and ‘Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns’.

 This area of sustainability is approached from various angles within this unit including how
 sustainability is measured globally, (Dsouli), at firm level (Egergeni), and also within the informal
 economy (Igudia). Deane looks specifically at the impact that HIV has had on the economy in
 Tanzania and Aftab and Samad examine social marketing in terms of controlling diabetics in
 United Arab Emirates. Much of the research in this unit is international and based in developing
 countries. This also includes the examination of the role of the state and banks in a developing
 economy (Arif, Aftab) and the impact of political risk (Mshelia, Ghalia). In addition to this work,
 the house-building industry and policies that govern it are explored by Field and Ghalia.

 This research activity is underpinned by the two research centres, which many of the researchers
 are members of. The Centre for Sustainable Business Practices (CSBP), brings together
 colleagues researching sustainability within profit-making businesses across numerous disciplines
 including Economics. The Centre for China and Emerging Economies (CCEE) has evolved from
 the China, Transitional and Developing Economies Research Centre (CTDERC) which was in our
 2014 REF Business submission, and supports the research being undertaken in developing
 countries.

 1.2 Research objectives

 The overall research strategy of the faculty since REF 2014 has been to support our staff members
 to undertake research at every stage (PGR, ECR, mid-career and late career) of their research
 journey by creating a vibrant and supportive research environment. This has been implemented
 within the unit through the use of several initiatives such as the Research Development Awards,
 allocating research hours into their workload allocation, and Research Seminars, giving staff and
 PGRS opportunities to present their research in a supportive environment (see Section 2 for more
 details). As a new research area, it has been important to encourage these colleagues to publish

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and collaborate with more experienced staff members both internally and externally. The research
 centres have been key in enabling this collaboration to take place by providing training and
 development and opportunities to present between staff at all levels.

 We have also focused on the internationalisation of our research, specifically with a focus on
 developing countries. Deane, Aftab, Samad, Arif, Mshelia and Ghalia’s research have all look
 at the social impact of business within the developing world. Examples of these include Ghalia’s
 work with the King Abdulaziz University in Saudi Arabia and Mshelia’s collaborations with African
 institutes such as Lulutho Academy (South Africa) and Unibridge (Kenya).

 Our research objectives, moving forward to the next REF cycle, are based on building on our
 progress so far in this Unit in terms of an increase in quality outputs, national and international
 collaboration and successful bidding activity. To support this our strategy is to appoint research
 active staff where possible and continue to invest in researcher development. This is in line with
 the University Research Plan (2020 – 2025), creating a clear researcher development path from
 ECR to professor, supported by a strong ECR development course, appointments to Associate
 Professor and opportunities to apply for professorship. The recent introduction of the Teaching
 and Research contracts is a positive step in recognising the support that is needed for our research
 active staff. The institution’s move towards semesterisation in 2021/2022 is also seen as an
 encouraging development in terms of workload planning. There has also been recent investment
 in the Research and Innovation Funding Support (RIFS) team who work closely with the research
 centres to provide bespoke support in terms of the identification, submission and running of funded
 projects.

 This is a unit very early on in the development of its research culture. Moving forwards as a unit it
 is important to develop knowledge and experience in terms of research impact. This will be
 addressed by appropriate workshops and support from both internal and external experts and the
 sharing of good practice from other parts of the Business faculty.

 The University supports the Concordat to Support Research Integrity building this into a rigorous
 Research Ethics policy. This is implemented at a Faculty level by the Faculty of Business and Law
 Ethics Committee. Aftab is one of the representatives from the different Subject Groups on the
 committee. It assesses all ethics applications submitted by research-active staff and is also
 responsible for overseeing the ethics and integrity procedures undertaken within undergraduate
 and postgraduate taught modules.

 1.3 Open research

 Staff receive training and support in open access, copyright and data-management. In 2019 the
 University launched its CRIS (Current Research Information System) enabling greater visibility of
 not only research outputs, but also research activities and datasets. In 2020 the University
 purchased a platform for digital preservation, and staff are now moving towards a more open
 research environment, where open research has progressed from being encouraged, to becoming
 an integral part of the research life-cycle. Datasets are uploaded to the CRIS on submission, where
 they are checked for replicability and long-term digital preservation. A data management plan is
 required for all research projects as part of the ethical approval prior to any research being carried
 out. To facilitate this, staff are encouraged to use DMPonline and examples of well-written data
 management plans, and one-to-one training sessions are available to all staff. A strong emphasis
 is placed on ensuring that our data adheres to the FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and
 reasonable) principles of sharing of data, striving to be as open as possible, but understanding
 when necessary restrictions are required.

 Staff have been provided with training in the selection of places for publication, use tools such as
 Sherpa/Romeo and the creative commons to check funder requirements, restrictions relating to
 copyright, and the selection of appropriate licencing of research outputs. An institutional fund is
 available to cover the cost of open access where a green (non-payment) route is either not an
 option, or where the embargo period is extensive. This fund covers the payments for articles,

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chapters and monographs. Where possible scholarly chapters are made open access. Research
 activities, such as presentations at conferences, workshops and educational resources are made
 available under a creative commons licence.

 1.4 Research integrity

 Economics supports a culture of research integrity. It works within the University of Northampton’s
 Research Integrity Policy, which seeks to: maintain the highest standards of rigour and integrity in
 all aspects of research; ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal
 and professional frameworks, obligations and standards; support a research environment that is
 underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers; use transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with
 allegations of research misconduct should they arise; and work together to strengthen the integrity
 of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy & development

 Staff development is embedded in the structure of the Economics unit. A number of initiatives have
 been put in place over the last seven years to create a supportive environment for all staff, from
 early career to experienced researchers. To assist in this challenge the Faculty research lead and
 the head of Doctoral Programmes were supported to attend the Development Programme for
 Directors of Research run by the Chartered Institute of Business Schools and the British Academy
 of Management.

 In order to ensure that research is considered during the recruitment process, the Research Lead
 contributes to the selection process, by discussing research plans and publication records with
 each candidate and feeding back to the interview panel. This involvement has led to the
 recognition that support is essential for our ECRs from the beginning of their employment and has
 led to the organising of specific sessions for ECRs to not only to provide training and impart
 knowledge but also to enable them to meet each other across subject groups and create their own
 support network.

 The most significant initiative in terms of research support in this unit has been the Research
 Development Awards (RDAs). This is a faculty-led program where staff members at all levels have
 the opportunity to apply for research hours to be included in their workload allocation. These
 ringfenced research hours allow staff members to undertake further research alongside their
 reaching obligations. The provision of this time has played a fundamental role in enabling all the
 staff members in this unit to move forward with their research. These awards have now been
 superseded, to some extent, by the introduction of the Teaching and Research Contracts at a
 university level which provide research active staff with designated research hours on their
 workload.

 In line with our commitment to developing our researchers, and this being a new unit of
 assessment, a mentoring scheme has been running for the last three years. The mentorship
 scheme provides support for producing research outputs, networking, skills development and
 evaluating impact. This collaboration between experienced academics and ECRs helps develop
 careers, broaden networks and increase collaborations. A Small Grants Award Scheme was also
 made available in 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 for staff members to apply for up to GBP2000. In this
 application it was necessary to demonstrate how the money would be used to move their research
 forward as well as how this opportunity would assist in applying for external funds in the future.
 During that time numerous projects have been supported, enabling colleagues to collect data,
 disseminate information and form important networks. An example of this is Igudia who was
 successful in winning this award in 2018/2019 which enabled him to travel to Nigeria to collect
 data for his study on street venders.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other Faculty programmes include supporting bid writing with the introduction of writing retreats
 supported through external facilitators. These writing retreats have led to the formation of several
 research bids such as Mshelia who recently submitted a bid to the Department of International
 Development to support the Skills for Propensity Programme in Kenya. Impact is a key area for
 development within the economics team and we have begun to develop our capacity in this area
 through Professor Johnston from SOAS, one of our Visiting Professors, providing one to one
 support and facilitating workshops on writing impact case studies.
 A weekly Research Seminars Series is run during term time giving a platform for all doctoral
 students and research staff to present their research and receive feedback from colleagues. This
 originally was only available for doctoral students but has expanded over the last four years to
 enable staff at all levels as well as visiting professors/speakers to contribute. It provides an
 opportunity for staff to become aware of and get involved with research being undertaken in other
 subject areas and thereby lead to interdisciplinary research. Colleagues within this unit, including
 Eigergeni, Aftab and Ghalia have all recently contributed to this activity.

 A further development opportunity for staff and students to enhance their presentation skills and
 to network across the different faculties is the University Annual Research Conference. This
 conference was originally a faculty run research conference but was collaborated with other faculty
 led conferences in 2018 to create a University wide event which has grown from strength to
 strength and is now run over two days. This is now in its third year, and both Ghalia and Mshelia
 presented their research in 2020.

 Central resources such as The Graduate School and Research and Innovation Funding Support
 (RIFS) assist with our strategy to develop researchers. The importance of providing support for
 ECRs is recognised across the institution with the Graduate School offering a comprehensive
 programme of over 40 workshops and seminars running throughout the year on such subjects as
 “Designing Research with Impact in Mind”, and “Making External Partnerships Work for You”.
 The University of Northampton’s Equality and Inclusion Policy and Procedure establishes honesty,
 fairness and consistency in the recruitment and progression of research staff. All staff undertake
 an e-learning module on Equality and Diversity and unconscious bias as part of their induction
 programme. The individual needs and wellbeing of all UoA colleagues are supported through the
 PDR process, with sensitive, bespoke arrangements in place in the faculty to support, for example,
 flexible and remote working, career development for part-time and fixed-term researchers,
 conference attendance for colleagues and PGRs, and appropriate adjustments for colleagues with
 disabilities, long-term illnesses, caring responsibilities and returning from leave periods.

 In addition, many UoA colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led institutional
 support and advocacy groups such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group and Staff
 Disability Network. Many UoA colleagues have also benefited from the University’s ‘Springboard+’
 staff development programme for women, trans and non-binary colleagues in academic or
 professional services roles which provides an opportunity for staff to undertake personal and
 professional development and support for leadership, goal-setting and strategic visioning skills.

 2.2 Postgraduate researchers

 A head and deputy head (Aftab) of Doctoral Programmes were appointed in 2018. These new
 appointments are driving our programme of PGR development within the faculty putting
 sustainability and vitality at the heart of our PGR offerings. The more senior colleagues in this Unit,
 have made an important contribution to our supervisory capacity for level 8 students which
 includes both PhD and DBA students. For example, Aftab is presently supervising two PhD
 students and one DBA student. One of his PhD students is on our John Lowe Scholarship and is
 looking at the effectiveness of a company board of directors to enhance environmental, social and
 governance practices. This sustainability topic is linked to the overall research objectives of the
 unit.

 The FBL Research Seminar Series (RSS), as mentioned earlier, is key in bringing together
 researchers at all levels, including our PGR students. It provides a regular forum for a constructive

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and supportive discussion about research and introduces our PGR students to our wider research
 community. The programme schedule includes the discussion of research from staff within this
 unit as well as external speakers from other faculties and institutions. It also includes our doctoral
 students’ transfer seminars (when they are required to present their progress after one year of
 study). Each PGR must present at least one research seminar per year as well as being
 encouraged to present his/her work at internal and external conferences.
 In addition to these seminars, the need to provide discipline specific research methods and
 methodology workshops for our PGRs has led to the recent introduction of the Doctoral
 Development Programme which runs parallel to the university Graduate School workshops. It runs
 as a series of workshops covering topics such as Research Philosophy and Quantitative Analysis
 facilitated recently by Aftab. The programme consists of informal round table sessions that allows
 members of staff and supervisors to offer their shared experience back to the community.

 It has been important to expand our pool of supervisors in this unit and to involve as many research
 active staff in supervision as possible. To this end, supervisor training is run regularly by the
 Graduate School and is mandatory for all new research active staff. These recently trained
 colleagues are then often matched with a more experienced supervisor (2 completions minimum)
 to share knowledge and provide supervisory opportunities. Eight colleagues in this unit have
 completed the first of two modules of this supervisory training course, which is the minimum
 required to be given supervisory responsibilities and two are currently attending. Two colleagues,
 Aftab and Igudia have also completed the second module and been awarded the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Research Degree Supervision.

 As the number of supervisors has increased, the need for a monitoring system of supervisory
 support has been recognised. This approach was developed as a recommendation from the
 University Research Degrees Committee. The reviews ensure that Doctoral Researchers (PhD
 and DBA) receive regular supervision meetings with their supervisory team, and that the core
 discussion points arising from these meetings are appropriately recorded. The review includes the
 transfer process deadlines and requirements. The reviews take place twice a year in Autumn and
 Spring.

 Both the Faculty and the Graduate School have worked hard to increase opportunities for PGR
 career development, for example by providing paid teaching roles, in the SuCCEED@8
 programme which enables doctoral researchers to gain experience and teaching qualifications,
 and to include PGR representatives on all Faculty and University committees. Evidence that these
 initiatives are having a positive impact can be clearly seen with UoN performing exceptionally well
 in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, coming 4th overall in 2018 progressing to 1st in
 2020. In this latest survey, PGRs have rated the support to research and development offered by
 the university in the top 8 in all categories including 1st for resources and responsibilities and 2nd
 for progression, research skills and professional development.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income

 As a new unit of assessment one of the key areas we are looking to develop is research funding.
 Most members of the unit are presently gaining experience by applying for either internal or smaller
 funds. For example, as mentioned previously, Igudia was successful in winning a Small grant
 award of GBP2,000 in 2018/2019. We have identified key funders and funding areas to target,
 focusing on our research strengths of sustainability and developing economies. Examples of some
 of these new funders we are targeting are evident with Deane’s application to Wellcome Trust,
 Igudia applying to the Private Enterprise Development in Low-Income Countries (PEDL) and
 Mshelia applying to the Department of International Development.

 Where the university has identified new research disciplines, such as Economics, there is a
 commitment to providing bespoke support and dedicated resources to build up a mass of
 colleagues who are ‘bid ready’. These support mechanisms include sourcing bids in suitable

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas, bid-writing support, building pathways to impact and how to deliver impact beyond the
 project lifecycle.

 The central Research and Innovation Funding Support (RIFS) is crucial in supporting colleagues
 to identify and apply for external funding and they run numerous drop-in sessions and tailored
 workshops to provides that support. Moving forward, the University has recently extended its
 institutional support by investing into Funding Institutional alongside GRANTfinder to support the
 faculty in discovering new, relevant research opportunities for staff to apply for.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University has recently invested heavily in its facilities, having completed the move to the
 purpose-built Waterside Campus in 2018 at a total cost of GBP330,000,000. The campus has
 been heralded as the cutting edge of university infrastructure, winning the 2019 Royal Institute for
 Chartered Surveyors’ coveted ‘Design Through Innovation’ award. While it is not possible to
 attribute a precise portion of this investment to Economics, the department has benefitted from
 the new working environment with state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, new office space and a new
 library. The new workspaces facilitate scholarly dialogue and the exchange of research knowledge
 between disciplines creating a more interdisciplinary environment.

 The new campus has also transformed the experience and working environment of the UoA’s
 PGR community. Whereas PGRs previously were separate and located across the campus, the new
 senate building provides an impressive, purpose-built, co-designed suite for the University’s whole
 multidisciplinary PGR community. The success of this strategic investment in PGR workspace is seen
 in strong, improving PRES results for PGRs at the University of Northampton.

 The Bloomberg suite is an area dedicated to Economics and Accounting and Finance staff and
 students, located on the ground floor of the Senate building. This new suite consists of nine Reuters
 terminals which provide research students and staff access to exclusive live financial trading data in
 a user-friendly manner in order to make economic forecasts and trading strategies. This is a great
 facility for researchers in this area moving forward.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 Because much of the work in this Unit is of an international nature, the staff members are often
 collaborating with colleagues based in other overseas universities or institutions. These include
 Ghalia who has written with staff members at King Abdulaziz University in Saudi Arabia and
 Deane who worked with the National Institute for Medical Research Tanzania in his research on
 HIV. Mshelia collaborates with a number of African colleagues and institutions including Lulutho
 Academy in South Africa and Unibridge in Kenya, who together put together a proposal for the
 Skills for Prosperity Programme. Aftab also publishes work with colleagues from South Africa at
 University of Witwatersrand. There is also collaboration and joint publications taking place with UK
 universities including Loughborough, Brunel, Reading and SOAS.

 4.2 Contributions to the research environment

 Several of our research active staff are key contributors to their research specialism by being on
 editorial panels and reviewers of prestigious academic journals. Mshelia is one of the track chairs
 for the AIB Africa chapter for Governments, NGOs, Global Institutions & State-Owned Enterprises
 and a member of British Academy of Management’s Research Methodology Special Interest
 Group (SIG) Steering Committee. Ghalia is a reviewer for the Journal of Current Issues in Tourism
 and the Journal of Hospitality and Tourism Research. Aftab is a reviewer for Structural Change
 and Economic Dynamics journal. He is a member of the Economic History society and presents
 papers at the Economic History Society conference.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 7
