Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 10 Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Organisation and structure of the Unit

 The Department of Mathematics (DoM) is a thriving centre of expertise in dynamical systems,
 partial differential equations, nonlinear waves, geometry, data science, and their applications. Its
 backbone is an outstanding group of staff, who have excellent international profiles and publish in
 top-ranking journals. The DoM has a strong track record in creating and sustaining research
 partnerships, integrating PhD students and early career researchers into the department, and
 driving staff development via University promotions.

 Research programmes are invariably inspired and nurtured at the level of individuals, but broader
 agendas, representing critical masses of activity, are embodied in the DoM’s five research groups;
 Mathematics of Life and Social Sciences, Dynamical Systems and Partial Differential Equations,
 Nonlinear Waves and Geometric Fluid Dynamics, Fields, Strings, and Geometry, and Data
 Science and Dynamics. Some academics integrate their research across more than one group.

 Mathematics of Life and Social Sciences (MoLSS)
 Much of the research is interdisciplinary and group members typically collaborate closely with
 researchers and practitioners in biology, ecology, sociology, and medicine from a range of
 universities, research institutes and industries (see Section 4.2). MoLSS uses an exceptionally
 broad range of mathematical techniques, encompassing the full range of current applied
 mathematics, including dynamical systems and stochastic/statistical approaches in a combination
 of life and social sciences settings, which has expanded considerably since REF2014. The work
 spans a wide range of applications including developmental biology and tissue morphogenesis,
 epidemiology and ecology, sleep and circadian rhythms, systems pharmacology, design of
 experiments and data science. A notable development since REF2014 has been the interaction
 with the new School of Veterinary Medicine, whose purpose-built facility was opened in 2015. The
 activities of the MoLSS group are aligned with Lifelong Health, a university strategic research
 theme established in August 2019, and with the university-wide Centre for Mathematical and
 Computational Biology. A more recent development has been the creation of the Surrey Centre
 for Criminology, which is a joint venture between the DoM and Sociology.

 Dynamical Systems and Partial Differential Equations (DSPDE)
 Research in this area spans topics in analysis from pure to applied. On the pure side, topics
 include ergodic theory, functional and fractal analysis, and the rigorous analysis of ordinary and
 partial differential equations (PDEs). On the applied side, methods are used to analyse PDEs in
 various contexts such as nonlinear elastostatics, pattern formation, dispersive waves, Navier-
 Stokes equations, delay equations and liquid crystal theory. Analysis on unbounded domains is of
 particular interest. Among DSPDE's current research interests are:
     • Quasiconvexity, elasticity and the calculus of variations
     • Interaction of patterns
     • Qualitative analysis of dissipative partial differential equations
     • Interactions of fronts with localised inhomogeneities: existence and stability
     • Hamiltonian systems with symmetry
     • Time semidiscretizations of semilinear PDEs.

 Nonlinear Waves and Geometric Fluid Dynamics (NWGFD)
 The main themes are geometric mechanics, geophysical fluid dynamics, hydrodynamic stability,
 water waves, wave fronts and nonlinear patterns. NWGFD focuses on large scale environmental
 fluid flows such as atmospheric flows, oceanic flows, and plasma dynamics. Methodology includes

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 analysis, geometry, numerics and data analytics. A key area that is attracting attention
 internationally is data assimilation and its application to weather, crime modelling (an overlap with
 MoLSS), climate, and carbon budgeting. This area includes key links with both the National
 Physical Laboratory (NPL) and UK Met Office. In water waves, the University is now a leading
 centre for sloshing and its applications, and this area forms the basis for the analysis of wave
 energy extraction devices, joint with industry (OWEL, ITPower Ltd). These examples (data
 assimilation and sloshing) exemplify where both core mathematics and interdisciplinarity are
 important. Other links include the Advanced Technology Institute, the Centre for Environment and
 Sustainability, and EnFlo, all at Surrey; the NERC National Centre for Earth Observation (NCEO)
 and the NERC DTP SCENARIO (SCience of the Environment: Natural and Anthropogenic
 pRocesses, Impacts and Opportunities), with Reading.

 Fields, Strings, and Geometry (FSG)
 This group was formed in 2011-12 and has since expanded and flourished. Group members are
 primarily interested in fundamental aspects of quantum field theory, string theory, general
 relativity, and in the interplay between mathematics and physics. It is the synthesis between
 theoretical physics and mathematics that forms the foundation of FSG's research. The key
 strengths of this group are a high international profile and excellent outputs. The interests of the
 FSG group encompass differential geometry, black holes, integrability, twistor theory, categorified
 differential geometry and string theory phenomenology. Published papers number about 100, with
 1800 citations. FSG is part of a network of six mathematical physics groups (Cambridge, City,
 Hertfordshire, Kent, Kings College and Surrey) running the LMS funded seminar series South-
 East Mathematical Physics Seminar (SEMPS). Surrey has organised two events so far (2015 and
 2018). FSG and the Theoretical Physics group at the University of Milano- Bicocca (UNIMIB) have
 strong collaborative ties, which created the stimulus for a new International Dual Doctorate
 between the DoM and UNIMIB. A major ERC fellowship grant was awarded in 2014 to Pasquetti,
 who moved to UNIMIB in 2016, but continues to collaborate with FSG via a Visiting Professorship.


 Data Science and Dynamics (DSD)
 This is a new group, formed in 2019. The DoM made strategic appointments (Brody (2018) and
 Klus (2020)) to enhance both research and teaching activities in mathematical data science.
 These appointments complement the existing expertise of Aston, Santitissadeekorn and
 Roulstone. These additions will enhance research in mathematical data science, together with the
 development of new taught courses (particularly at master’s level).

 Among the new collaborations established during the REF period is a partnership with NPL. This
 arose from the strategic alliance, established in 2015, between Surrey and Strathclyde, and what
 is now the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). The DoM and NPL
 agreed to establish a joint appointment, which is designed to enhance expertise in mathematical
 modelling and data science, particularly methods of analysis of “big data”. NPL invests in data
 science to enhance confidence in data and to address the scientific challenges that arise in all
 areas of society -- manufacturing, energy and environment, life and social sciences, health and
 wellbeing. In particular, NPL is expanding its research portfolio in data analytics to develop a
 mathematical, statistical and computational capability to improve our understanding of the world
 from measurement data. The role of the joint appointment (held by Aston) is to develop and lead
 projects in these areas, and to foster new collaborations with industry and academia within the UK
 and internationally.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2. Research Objectives, Strategy and Impact

 In 2017 the DoM conducted a five-year strategic review, and the leading mission statement
 captured the over-arching objectives: “To exploit our expertise, as one of the UK’s long-
 established research centres in nonlinear mathematics and dynamical systems, in the
 advancement of fundamental mathematics and its applications to engineering, physical, life and
 social sciences. To sustain our reputation for excellence in teaching through a lively, innovative
 and stimulating learning environment, thereby preparing our graduates for a numerate career and
 providing them with excellent employment prospects. To capitalise on our demonstrable and
 fundamental achievements in mathematics for collaboration across all faculties by bringing added
 value to the pursuit of the University of Surrey’s strategic goals”.

 Since 2014, the DoM has pursued the following goals with regards to research strategy and
 impact:
    •   Enhance the portfolio of research projects via strategic collaborations across the
        University, and with external partners, to create critical mass in key themes, thereby
        bringing added value to strategic investment at university level.
    •   Expand our interdisciplinary expertise to align the DoM with the priorities of the
        University and allow members of the DoM to maximise opportunities to extend
        collaborations within Surrey and beyond.
    •   Increase research grant income to support core mathematics and collaboration within
        research themes at the University of Surrey and with partners such as NPL.
    •   Enhance PGR (postgraduate research) funding via new opportunities for partnerships in
        doctoral training via activities in which we can contribute to critical mass, within the
        University, nationally, and internationally.
    •   Continue to focus on sustaining the excellence in our core areas (as demonstrated by
        the examples in Section 4 below). To achieve this, we have recruited strategically into key
        areas such as data science.
    •   Nurture and recognise impact by working closely with the University via the Impact
        Acceleration Account and via strategic partnerships.

 Among the key targets of the 2017 plan, to achieve by 2022, were:
    •   A significant portfolio of interdisciplinary research collaborations, acting as a source of
        external funding (over and above EPSRC/NERC/STFC) and contributing to impact case
        studies (status: several established and others ongoing)
    •   New undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in data analytics and applications
        (status: programmes developed and commencing 2022)
    •   An elevated national and international profile evidenced by co-authorship of papers,
        research partnerships, plenary talks at international conferences, and student exchanges
        (status: positive progress made and activity rapidly increasing)
    •   Establish three permanent teaching-only posts, thereby creating more research time for
        lecturers (status: completed)

 Since 2017, new partnerships have been established with NPL, Surrey Centre for Criminology,
 School of Veterinary Medicine, Surrey Police, Public Health England, Transport for London, utility
 companies (e.g. Scotia Gas Network), and SMEs in the University research park and beyond.
 These collaborations are starting to lead to future impact and grant initiatives, and the joint
 professorial position with NPL is part of this broad agenda. Meanwhile, existing partnerships
 continue to thrive and underpin our current impact. Among these partners are the Surrey Sleep
 Research Centre, the pharmaceutical industry (AstraZenica), and the Met Office.

 A new MSc in data analytics and applications will commence in 2022, and our PGR programme
 is enhanced by a new international dual doctorate with the University of Milano-Bicocca. The
 SCENARIO (NERC DTP) run by Reading and Surrey, which includes the departments of



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mathematics, Civil and Environmental Engineering, and Centre for the Environment and
 Sustainability at Surrey, was funded for its second five-year period.

 Sustained RG&C income (£4.3M) and over 325 outputs, with in excess of 68% produced with a
 national or international co-author, have resulted from the successful implementation of our
 research strategy over the REF period.

 1.3. Faculty and University research support structures

 The Head of Department (HoD), Director of Research (DoR), and Impact Champion, are
 responsible for defining strategic aims and coordinating the research programmes within the DoM.
 This activity is monitored and discussed at Faculty level by the Faculty Research Committee and
 the Faculty Research Strategy Group, whose membership is drawn from HoDs and DoRs. These
 groups are chaired by the Dean of Faculty, and provide a bridge between departments and the
 University Executive Board. The Pro-VC for Research and Innovation makes regular visits to all
 departments and developing the University’s research strategy is a collective effort.

 The Innovation Strategy Directorate have teams that work with university departments to help
 generate impact from research. As well as managing intellectual property matters (patents and
 licences) and supporting University start-ups and spin-outs (the Technology Transfer team), there
 is a Partnerships team that manages schemes such as the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account
 (IAA). During this REF period, the DoM has received 12 grants from the IAA, totalling £201k, with
 matching funding from industrial partners worth £182k. Among our collaborators are the Surrey
 Police, Papworth Hospital, CrossRail (TfL), Ford Motor Company, the US Army Medical Research
 Institute, and the Royal College of General Practitioners.

 1.4. Strategic priorities

 The research groupings will continue to act as key mechanisms for ensuring that strategic aims
 are achieved (see above). The Head of Department (Derks) in collaboration with the Director of
 Research (Skeldon) and Group Leads (Lloyd (MoLSS), Zelik/Bevan (DSPDE), Gutowski (FSG),
 Bridges/Turner (NWGFD), Brody (DSD)) will ensure that these aims are reviewed and reflect on
 internal and external factors, ultimately ensuring the DoM continues to provide a sustainable
 environment producing world-leading research.

 The key enablers include:
    •   Targeting appointments to maintain a balance between core mathematics and
        applications.
    •   Supporting and encouraging staff to make use of funding opportunities for impact, e.g. IAA.
    •   Targeting use of reduced teaching load/sabbatical (see Section 2) to give staff time to
        develop new programmes and industrial contacts.
    •   Emboldening staff to engage and develop new networks, creating critical masses of activity
        in key disciplines, thereby gaining traction in terms of research funding (e.g. Centre for
        Criminology, Surrey Sleep Research Centre, EPSRC Networks (see Section 4)).


 1.5. Open research culture and ethics

 The Department culture emphasises transparency, open communication and making research
 findings available to other researchers and the public. Since 2014, staff throughout the Department
 have uploaded 402 items in the University’s repository, which have been accessed over 93,400
 times. It also ensures research is undertaken within ethical and legal requirements, drawing on
 support and guidance offered by the University Ethics Committee and Research Integrity and
 Governance Office.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 The Department’s current Category A eligible staff includes two Lecturers, four Senior Lecturers,
 nine Readers, eight Professors, and one STFC Rutherford Research Fellow. All of these are
 permanent posts.

 Four Category A eligible staff have joined the Department since 2014, including two lecturers
 (Klus, Santitissadeekorn), one Professor (Brody) and STFC Rutherford Fellow (Hanada). Further,
 Gutowski held a STFC Rutherford Fellowship in the DoM from 2012 to 2016, whereupon he was
 appointed to a permanent position as Reader.

 2.1. Staffing strategy

 Since REF2014 the DoM has prioritised recruitment in key areas to support the research agenda,
 while utilising strategic partnerships to augment collaborations. The professoriate recognises and
 promotes leadership potential to ensure the long-term vitality of the Department. Over the REF
 period mentoring, managing, training, promoting, and the provision of sabbaticals, have all been
 instrumental to ensuring the DoM has a supportive staff environment. The academic staff comprise
 11 different nationalities. For line management, all academic staff and the administrator report to
 the HoD. PDRAs report to a member of academic staff, normally the principal investigator or co-
 investigator on the research project on which they are employed.

 At department level, equality of opportunity is promoted effectively and applies to all research
 activities including bidding, conference attendance, promotion, and flexible/remote working. For
 example, all meetings are held between the core hours of 10am and 4pm and the University
 flexible work policy considers a wide range of arrangements (including part-time working, term-
 time working, job-sharing, annualised hours and additional planned unpaid leave).

 The DoM was granted (summer 2020) an Athena Swan Bronze Award. An Implementation Team
 has been formed and among the actions planned, we are aiming to:
    •   increase the numbers of female students at all levels by improving the appeal of
        recruitment and admissions processes to women applicants
    •   maximize women’s promotion and career prospects by creating a supportive and
        welcoming work environment, which better respects gender equality within the DoM
    •   identify and support high-performing female undergraduates, raising their awareness of
        opportunities for further study, including at PhD level.

 In 2014 the DoM had only one member of staff on a permanent teaching-only contract, and now
 has four (3.3FTE) posts with this type of contract, who play a crucial role in freeing research time
 for other colleagues and ensuring top-quality research-led teaching. To ameliorate imbalances
 between individual responsibilities, revised job descriptions of key managerial roles were agreed,
 which resulted in a more equitable division of labour. Our female colleagues are well-represented
 in these roles (including the current HoD and DoR), but without over-burdensome commitments.
 Two members of REF eligible staff have taken maternity leave during the latest REF period. One
 member of staff returned to full time working in January 2014, having previously been part-time
 for many years; she has subsequently been promoted to Reader (2015) and Professor (2018).
 Another member of staff took one period of maternity leave (Sept. 2015-April 2016); and has since
 been promoted to Senior Lecturer.

 The DoM paid full regard to equality, diversity and inclusion in the construction of the REF2021
 submission. Output selection adhered to guidance set by the University’s REF2021 Team.
 Membership of the output selection panels included suitable representation from across the areas
 of speciality within the UOA and took account of the population characteristics of the UOA.
 Membership was reviewed by the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) Working Group ahead
 of scheduled meetings and all attendees completed REF2021 ED&I training. A member of the
 REF2021 Team was present at all output selection meetings.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Department remains committed to advancing equality and diversity. Members of the
 Department have taken up leadership roles within Faculty and University equality initiatives, for
 example Bridges sat on the REF 2021 Staff Circumstances Committee.

 2.2. Staff Development

 The Department considers its collegial environment and approach to the development and support
 of staff as crucial to sustaining a thriving research culture, and utilises institutional development
 opportunities, such as dedicated research time and staff development courses.

 A total of 23 staff promotions have occurred in the period, including five to Professor and nine to
 Reader. Female staff have been promoted to Professor (2), Reader (3), and Senior Lecturer (1).
 The gender balance of the department is broadly in line with the sector but as recruiting
 opportunities present themselves, we will aim to augment the proportion of women.

 Research time is built into a transparent workload allocation model (WAM). Where research time
 is specified in funding applications, this is also built into the WAM irrespective of whether the funder
 directly covers overheads or salary costs. The Department continues to operate an informal
 sabbatical system and all academic staff (part-time and full-time) are eligible for one semester
 of research leave every five years. All staff have an annual appraisal with their managers which
 focuses on progress towards meeting targets and career development. Colleagues within the
 Department are also invited to attend mid-year reviews to discuss progress against targets, and
 to have one-to-one meetings with the DoR. As noted in the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, promoting good mental health and wellbeing is a core component
 of good research. During the assessment period the Department established the role of ‘wellbeing
 officer’ who ensures that colleagues are aware of wider support mechanisms.

 Mentoring is a key part of the staff development process for new appointments. New lecturers are
 assigned a senior colleague as a mentor, and appraisals are conducted by the senior colleague
 and the HoD. Annual targets will typically include a first grant application and recruitment of a PhD
 student, and to support the pursuit of these targets, light teaching and administrative loads are
 given to new staff. New professors are given a start-up fund (which will include discretionary
 research and travel funds, computing facilities, and internally-funded PhD students).

 The Department proactively supports staff in carrying out research and achieving impact. All new
 bids have to be approved and logged at Faculty level, and signed off by the HoD. Depending on
 the amount of resource requested, formal or informal peer reviews are carried out. Importantly,
 detailed discussions take place at an early stage if a proposal includes extended leave from the
 Department. To facilitate research networking, both within the UK and overseas, the DoM provides
 a modest travel budget for all staff, supplemented by the Faculty Research Support Fund.

 In addition to regular staff meetings to discuss routine departmental business, away days are held
 on an annual basis to discuss strategy and policy for research and teaching. These events
 facilitate the sharing of best practice and raise general awareness of challenges and opportunities
 facing the department.

 2.3. Recruitment

 As a strategic appointment to strengthen data assimilation, especially in meteorology and crime
 modelling, Santitissadeekorn was appointed to a lectureship in August 2014. He came with a PhD
 from Clarkson University and nearly six years of postdoctoral experience at universities in
 Australia and the USA. He is co-author of the SIAM monograph Applied and Computational
 Measureable Dynamics which establishes his reputation in bridging the gap between dynamical
 systems, data analysis and machine learning.



                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brody (formerly Brunel) joined in April 2018. Brody’s wide-ranging interests include geometry,
 information theory, quantum foundations, the Riemann hypothesis and mathematical finance.
 Brody is a Visiting Professor at Imperial College London and at St Petersburg National Research
 University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics. He is a Fellow of the Institute of
 Physics. Since joining Surrey, Brody has become a founding member of the newly created Centre
 for Quantum Foundations. This is a joint venture between the Physics and Mathematics
 Departments initiated by Al-Khalili OBE FRS in Physics, with Brody leading the Mathematics
 contribution.

 Gutowski held a STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship in the DoM from 2012-16, and was then
 appointed to a permanent position as Reader.

 Hanada, formerly Southampton University and a pioneer in the numerical study of gauge theories,
 joined us in April 2020. Hanada holds a Rutherford Fellowship (10/2018 – 10/2023)
 “Computational Approach to Quantum Gravity via Holography” (£447k). This post is destined to
 become permanent at the end of the fellowship.

 Klus (formerly FU, Berlin) joined as a lecturer in July 2020. This appointment strengthens the
 department’s expertise in a number of areas including data driven model reduction, molecular
 dynamics, tensor decompositions, graph theory and high-performance computing.

 2.4. Utilising strategic partnerships to expand collaboration

 The Department encourages exchanges between academia, business and industry. Over the
 assessment period we have increased the number of Visiting Professors and Visiting Researchers
 in the Department and facilitated staff secondments (see Section 4). The Visiting Professors are
 Gentile (Roma Tre), E Godolphin (formerly Royal Holloway), Lorenc (Met Office), Pasquetti and
 Penati (Milano-Bicocca), Timokha (NTNU), and A White (formerly Met Office). Pasquetti and
 Penati are key partners in the International Dual Doctorate that the DoM runs with Milano-Bicocca.
 Lorenc, Timokha and White have contributed to research and impact in NWGFD; Gentile and
 Godolphin have contributed to research in DSPDE and MoLSS, respectively.


 2.5. Early Career Researchers

 Working within the framework of the HR Excellence in Research framework, all staff within the
 Department are offered a mentor/senior colleague and encouraged to meet with them at least
 twice a year. ECRs are encouraged to use their mentor for peer review of papers and research
 proposals. Peer feedback is required of all grant applications prior to submission and many staff
 act as peer reviewers, reinforcing the transfer of expertise between more experienced staff and
 ECRs. Where a grant is unsuccessful, colleagues are invited to discuss this with senior colleagues
 and the DoR (for both support and advice on where else to target). Evidencing the success of
 these strategies, since REF2014 colleagues have had considerable success in securing fellowship
 and development grants at an early career stage (see Section 3).

 More informally, the Department continues to encourage more established staff to collaborate with
 early career colleagues, including Research Fellows and PhD students, in submitting bids and
 writing journal articles. Two former ECRs were recruited by Exeter and Hertfordshire as lecturers,
 and another is now a scientist at NPL.

 2.6. PGRs

 Currently the Department has 22 students registered for a doctoral degree (20 full-time and 2 part-
 time), and co-supervision of students in other departments at the University is undertaken as part
 of collaborative projects (e.g. Skeldon co-supervises two PhD students with the Surrey Sleep
 Research Centre director Prof Dijk). Recruitment is governed by a postgraduate research
 admissions policy which makes clear that the University is committed to equality of opportunity.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The PGR programme in the DoM is managed by the PGR Director (PGRD). The PGRD is
 responsible for overseeing recruitment, admissions, research training, transferable skills training,
 progress monitoring, PhD confirmation examination, fundraising, and the overall welfare of
 students within the DoM. The Faculty PGR Committee reports to the University’s Doctoral College
 (DC) Board, chaired by the Director of the DC. Awards are confirmed at Senate Progression and
 Conferment Executive.

 The DoM recruits PGRs through PGR Open Days, organised by the Department and the Faculty.
 Project-specific adverts are placed on jobs.ac.uk, findaphd.com, and on the DoM’s website.
 Internal targeting of excellent students and contacts at other institutions aid the recruitment drives.
 Application and admission of research students are subject to the University's Equality and
 Diversity Policy, the associated Code of Practice for Students and the University Student Disability
 Policy. Prospective students are interviewed prior to admission, with the use of video-link
 technology as appropriate.

 All PGR students are members of the DC. The recruitment and progression monitoring of PhD
 students is carried out via the Surrey Self-Service system (SITS). The students, along with their
 supervisors and co-supervisors, complete progress reports on a six-monthly basis, and these are
 checked and signed off by PGRD before being submitted for approval at Faculty level. All students
 undergo a formal assessment within the first 12 to 15 months in order to have their status as a
 PhD student confirmed. The DC also coordinates a range of training modules and runs an annual
 flagship event for the University’s PGR and ECR community. Additionally, the DC also runs a
 scholarship competition and an internal PGR conference.

 Thirty PhD students have graduated during the REF period, and of these nine have proceeded to
 postdoctoral positions. The supportive research environment at Surrey significantly benefits PGR
 students, and has also assisted with the supervision of a graduate student with complex
 neurodiversity requirements.
 Several PhD students have been nominated and awarded prizes at Faculty and University level,
 and beyond. In 2016 the Faculty PhD Student of the Year award went to DSPDE student
 Kostianko. PhD student Ratliff (NWGFD) was awarded Faculty and University PhD student of the
 year in 2017. Lyle (MoLSS) won the JRSM Cardiovascular Disease Young Investigator of the Year
 Award. Hill (DSPDE/NWGFD) has been nominated for the 2021 IMA Lighthill-Thwaites Prize.
 Recognition for our PGR students beyond the university is evident from the invited presentations
 by Solowiej-Wedderburn and Lyle at STEM for Britain events in the Houses of Parliament.

 SCENARIO (NERC DTP) students are hosted by the University of Reading, the University of
 Surrey, the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, the British Geological Survey and the Institute of
 Zoology. Their projects involve a wide range of industry and public sector partners.
 “SCENARIO@SURREY” students benefit from cohort-building events and programmes at both
 Surrey and Reading.

 Research students receive subject specific and generic training. For subject specific training,
 students are sent on the intensive one-week courses organised by LMS & EPSRC, the MAGIC
 consortium courses via video link, as well as internal training courses organised during the period.
 The DoM runs an MSc in Mathematics, which provides further training for current PhD students,
 and a forum for sharing staff expertise. A new MSc in Mathematics for Data Science will
 commence in autumn 2022 and draws very naturally on the many Level 6 and 7 modules on
 dynamical systems and applications, in addition to new bespoke modules being created for the
 MMath and MSc.

 The DoM has consistently performed well in PRES, scoring 100% satisfaction for a number of
 years (and 91% running average over 5 years). The University ranked 7th in the first PRES league
 table released in 2020.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over £4.3M in income was generated over this REF period, with all Category A staff having had
 successful bids.

 3.1. Income strategy and coordination

 A key element of the DoM’s strategy to augment research income is to network with other groups
 within the university, and with other institutions, in order to create programmes with critical masses
 of activity. This increases leverage and facilitates bids for significant levels of funding. This has
 been successful over the years and resulted in awards such as MILES, ERIE, NCEO, SCENARIO
 DTP, and other grant awards listed below.

 Since 2014, colleagues within the Department have received support from a Research Facilitation
 Officer (RFO, employed by the University) keeping staff informed of opportunities as and when
 they arise. Funding bids must undergo formal peer review, as part of institutional quality assurance
 measures, if:
 - The PI has not been awarded a successful grant as PI over the past 3 years
 - It is an EPSRC New Investigator Grant
 - The value of the proposal to Surrey is over £500k FEC
 - The HoD/C requires that the proposal has a formal peer review.
 Informal mechanisms are also in place to help staff as all colleagues are offered a mentor and are
 encouraged to use this person for informal discussions and review prior to submitting their
 proposal. This system has proved particularly useful for early career colleagues as evidenced by
 successes – Dunlop: £96k EPSRC First Grant: Modelling the mechanics of epithelial sheets on
 soft substrates: nonlinearity, feedback, and dissipation; Morris: £92k EPSRC First Grant:
 Distributional analysis of GCD algorithms via the ergodic theory of random dynamical systems;
 Santitissadeekorn: £101k EPSRC First Grant: Data assimilation and forecasting for urban crime
 models.

 A key component of our strategy for generating grant income has been encouraging and
 supporting colleagues to build interdisciplinary research applications. Examples include Gourley:
 £45k from Leverhulme Trust, Research Fellowship for 2014-15 providing teaching and
 administration buy-out. Project: Larval competition and its intriguing role in malaria spread; Tronci:
 £253k from Leverhulme. Project: From geometry to kinetic-fluid systems (and back); Gourley (Co-
 I): £560k from Medical Research Council. Project: Zoonotic transmission of intestinal parasites:
 implications for control and elimination. PI: Martha Betson (School of Veterinary Medicine, Surrey).

 3.2. Research income

 Since 2014, colleagues have received competitive awards from the ERC, STFC and EPSRC,
 amongst others.

 Significant grants:

 Consolidation grants of £296k from STFC to the Fields, Strings and Geometry Group. Project:
 Fundamental Implications of Fields, Strings and Gravity. Grant, Gutowski, McOrist, Pasquetti,
 Torrielli, Wolf. Two STFC Advanced Fellowships (£857k) for Gutowski and Hanada, and three
 JSPS grants (£106k).

 Pasquetti (left in 2016 for Milano-Bicocca): £1.03m from ERC, five-year starter grant: Holomorphic
 Blocks in Quantum Field Theory: New Constructions of Exact Results.

 Morris: £268k from Leverhulme: Lower bounds for Lyapunov exponents.

 Zelik: £385k from EPSRC: Finite-dimensional reduction, inertial manifolds, and homoclinic
 structures in dissipative PDEs (joint with ICL).

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Torrielli was awarded an EPSRC-SFI standard grant “Solving spins and strings”, jointly with De
 Leeuw (Trinity College Dublin). The total value to Surrey is £488k, with a commensurate amount
 from SFI to Trinity College.

 The Leverhulme Trust awarded Cheng (PI) a four-year grant (£281k) in 2017 “Mathematical
 analysis of near resonance in the physical world of finiteness”, with co-applicants Wingate
 (Exeter), Mahalov (Arizona State), and Schochet (Tel Aviv). Cheng (co-I), with Wingate (PI) and
 Cotter (co-I, ICL), were awarded £850k from EPSRC in 2018 for “On the way to the asymptotic
 limit: mathematics of slow-fast coupling in PDEs”. These projects employ mathematical analysis
 to explore finiteness of small physical parameters and its effects on resonances for systems of
 nonlinear partial differential equations modelling multi-dimensional geophysical fluid dynamics.

 NERC, via NCEO, have funded a PDRA in the Department (Co-I Roulstone) from 12/08 to 03/20.

 Tronci: Fellowship from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation in Germany, paying for salary
 and expenses for a 10 month visit to the Max Planck Institut für Plasmaphysik.

 In his capacity as a Visiting Professor, Brody applied (via St Petersburg National Research
 University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics) for two research grants from the
 Russian Science Foundation (as sole PI), both of which were successful: (1) “Quantum Computing
 and Non-Hermitian Quantum Theory” (Contract: 16-11-10218, Value: £157k, Duration: 2016-
 2018); (2) “Quantum Navigation for Open Systems” (May 2020; same value; but due to Covid-19
 the awarding process is on hold).

 The DSPDE group is to become part of an EPSRC network (£55k) grant ‘Generalised and Low-
 Regularity Solutions of Nonlinear PDE’, which is led by Bath. Surrey is a part of the south-east
 node (Reading, Sussex, Surrey). The application was made by Moser and Matthies (Bath), and
 includes Heriot-Watt, Edinburgh, Warwick, Oxford, Cambridge, Cardiff and Swansea. The grant
 runs for three years from July 2021.

 Conference Contributions

 1 Galileo Galilei Institute, Florence, Conference Grant (£150k)
 1 EPSRC/LMS Durham Symposium Grant + 1 EU Cost Action Conference Grant (£9k + full board
 for 50 participants), Durham.
 1 Clay Institute Conference Grant (£18k) in Oxford
 1 LMS Conference Grant (£4.4k) in Kings College London

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The Department occupies the entire fourth floor of the Thomas Telford Building, which includes a
 common room, with additional capacity (moveable partition) to accommodate informal seminars.
 All Category A staff have their own offices, with a state-of-the-art computing environment and PC-
 Linux machines on every desk for staff, RAs and postgraduates, supplemented by laptops or
 tablets where appropriate. It also owns three multi-processor servers for CPU-intensive numerical
 computations, and access is available to the Faculty High Performance Computing facilities.
 Support is provided for all IT by a team of specialists (Faculty Computing Service). Smart
 whiteboards are now mounted in the main mathematics seminar room and the main tutorial room,
 and DoM has access to a range of shared video link setups, including a state-of-the-art, high
 definition, screen videoconferencing system for hosting seminars and meetings. In 2019, a new
 undergraduate common room/study room was created within the department, which provides a
 valuable home base for our students.

 A departmental intranet system was developed by a member of staff (Wolf) and this serves as a
 focal point for all administrative matters from student records to research grants and recording


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 annual leave. It has proven to be a valuable time-saving resource, which has been implemented
 in various forms in other departments within the University.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Academic Collaborations and Contributions

 The DoM maintains a research blog, https://blogs.surrey.ac.uk/mathsresearch/ , which is used to
 disseminate the most up-to-date news about the research activities of staff and PGR students.
 Morris has been a major contributor to the recent flowering of research in fractal geometry,
 particularly in the field of self-affine fractals. A fundamental problem in this area is the construction
 of measures on self-affine sets which have maximal Hausdorff dimension. In the last five years
 Morris has established himself as the world’s leading authority on Käenmäki measures, which
 are the class of measures expected to typically have this property. Additional to his work in fractal
 geometry, Morris has worked on applications of ergodic theory to diverse problems including the
 joint spectral theory of sets of matrices, the combinatorial geometry of measurable subsets of the
 plane, and the study of arithmetical algorithms; in the latter field Morris resolved a 40 year old
 open problem posed by Richard Brent and Donald Knuth on the running time of the binary
 Euclidean algorithm, resulting in an article published in Advances in Mathematics and which is
 cited in current editions of Knuth’s celebrated textbook series The Art of Computer Programming.

 Bevan’s research centres on the calculus of variations and its applications to problems arising
 in nonlinear elasticity theory as well as on “purer” variational problems in which a change of
 topology can exert an influence. His 2017 paper, published in the Archive for Rational Mechanics
 and Analysis, on the Holder regularity of strong local minimizers in nonlinear elasticity in two
 dimensions, makes definitive progress towards solving the 40-year-old problem of the regularity
 of minimizers. Bevan collaborates with Kružík (UTIA, Prague) on novel variational problems which
 explore concentration/oscillation effects in polyconvex functionals. This work is supported by a
 Royal Society International Exchanges grant (IES/R3/193278). A separate strand of research
 includes detailed modelling of physical phenomena, such as the Wirtz pump and the shape of a
 flowing rope fountain, and is part of a long-running and productive collaboration with Deane, in
 which analysis and innovative computing join forces. The most prominent work in this direction
 appeared in SIMA, and has been presented at numerous international conferences and
 workshops, including in the Czech Academy of Science, UTIA, Prague (October 2019). The work
 builds on Bevan and Zeppieri (CVPDE 2016) and characterises, explicitly in terms of parameters
 dictated by the elastic material being modelled, bounds on the class of radial, affine boundary
 conditions at which the stored-energy function is quasiconvex. The results can be interpreted from
 both analytical and materials science perspectives.

 Lloyd’s paper, Invasion fronts outside the homoclinic snaking region in the planar Swift-Hohenberg
 equation (SIAM J. Appl. Dyn. Sys. 18(4), 1892– 1933 (2019)), solves the open problem of how to
 carry out a numerical bifurcation analysis of the depinning of fronts near but outside the
 homoclinic snaking region. It involves a spatial stripe cellular pattern embedded in a quiescent
 state, in two space dimensions. This problem was flagged by Knobloch as an open question at his
 2016 Lorentz Centre talk (Workshop on Analysis and Applications of Localized Structures in
 Nonlinear Media). The idea was that invasion fronts cover most of parameter space in the bistable
 region, but no one knew if there were any interesting instabilities or bifurcations associated with
 them. Indeed, prior to Lloyd’s work, there was no numerical method available to compute multi-
 space dimension localised patterns where the quiescent state was periodic with an unknown
 wavenumber and frame speed that have to be selected as part of the solution. Joint work with
 Scheel (Minnesota) provided a rigorous mathematical explanation of why localised patterns should
 be seen in a ferrofluid experiment, together with an explanation for the existence of localised
 hexagon patches seen in the ferrofluid experiment of Richter (Bayreuth).




                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interests of some NWGFD members overlap with those of FSG, especially in the areas of large
 scale atmospheric flows, optimal transport and complex geometry. Wolf, McOrist and Roulstone
 organised a Clay Mathematics Institute workshop on Geometry and Fluids in 2014 that focussed
 on elliptic Monge-Ampere equations, hyper-Kahler geometry, optimal transport on manifolds and
 applications to atmosphere/ocean flows.

 In June 2020, Tronci was appointed Adjunct Professor at Tulane University (USA) within the
 Department of Physics & Engineering Physics. As part of his Leverhulme grant (2014), Tronci led
 an international collaboration composed of Tassi (Marseille), Lapenta (KU Leuven), and Philip J.
 Morrison (UT Austin), which focussed on applications of geometry to kinetic-fluid systems. Further
 collaborations with Bondar (Tulane, New Orelans), Gay-Balmaz (CNRS/ENS Paris), and
 Rawlinson (Leeds) spawned new results on quantum-classical dynamical models in chemical
 physics. Under a London Mathematical Society Scheme 3 award, Tronci is the coordinator of a
 national Network in Applied Geometric Mechanics involving three groups working on core
 topics in geometric mechanics: geometric quantum dynamics (Brunel), geometric imaging science
 (Imperial College), and geometric fluid dynamics (Surrey).

 Cheng is a co-I (EPSRC grant) with Wingate (Exeter) and Cotter (Imperial) studying oscillations
 in fluid dynamics associated with large but finite restoring forces. This entails the less studied
 notion of "near resonance" for which some exciting results have been discovered. PDRAs are
 involved on all three sides, with the Surrey effort further supported by Cheng’s Leverhulme grant.
 The Surrey team is the theoretical pillar focussing on rigorous analysis, informing and informed by
 teams in Exeter (GFD and computing) and Imperial (computing). This interdisciplinary endeavour
 really serves as an intellectual highway that links deep mathematical theory all the way to
 applications such as numerical weather prediction. Results so far have also suggested new
 fundamental understanding of the predictability of fluid motions in geophysics.

 Continuing with the theme of geophysical flows, Turner collaborated with Norbury (Oxford) and
 Cheng on problems relating to moist convection in the atmosphere. This is driven by the need to
 better represent convective processes in numerical forecasting models. In collaboration with
 Cullen and colleagues at the Met Office, and the EPSRC Network Maths Foresees (led by
 Bokhove (Leeds)), a small team tackled fundamental issues in the modelling and analysis of moist
 convection. The Department, under the auspices of Maths Foresees, organized and hosted a two-
 day meeting on `Coupling convection and large-scale dynamics in numerical weather prediction
 models’, held in March 2016.

 The fluid mechanics theme is further continued as the DoM is part of the EPSRC UK Fluids
 Network (led by Juniper and Linden (Cambridge)). This network comprises of 42 Special Interest
 Groups (SIGs), spanning 66 institutions, which address industrial, scientific and societal
 challenges as joint efforts. Turner is a member of the SIG `Boundary layers and complex rotating
 flows’, while Turner and Bridges are members of `Surface and internal waves’. Under this latter
 SIG the Department organised and hosted a two-day meeting on `Wave Structure Interaction’ held
 in January 2020.

 Hanada, working with Tezuka (Kyoto), Gharibyan (Stanford), and Swingle (Maryland) have
 pioneered numerical study of supersymmetric gauge theories. The numerical precision
 achieved enables testing the gauge/gravity duality, including the quantum gravitational
 corrections, which has had significant impact in the field. Torrielli and collaborators have
 established themselves as a leading group working on lower dimensional AdS/CFT integrability,
 with application to the massless scattering of excitations in AdS2 and AdS3 backgrounds. They
 have solidified collaboration with researchers in the UK (City, King’s College) and internationally
 (Utrecht, Torino, Berlin, ETH), and attracted major funding (EPSRC-SFI and Galileo Galilei
 Institute, Florence) to reinforce a program now in an intense phase.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Grant has a long-standing collaboration with Mathematics (Kunzinger, Steinbauer) and Physics
 (Chrusciel) in the University of Vienna. Recently, papers with Kunzinger and collaborators have
 resolved long-standing issues relating to low-regularity singularity theorems (Graf-Grant-
 Kunzinger-Steinbauer 2018) and causality theory (Grant-Kunzinger-Saemann-Steinbauer 2020).
 These papers were produced while Grant was an International Coworker on Kunzinger's 329k
 Euro FWF research grant (P28770). Grant's collaborative projects with Vienna are ongoing, and
 he is now involved in the 389k Euro FWF research grant (P33594) of Steinbauer, until 2025.

 Brody’s work on the classical Zermelo navigation problem is concerned with finding the time-
 optimal navigation under external, uncontrollable current. The quantum counterpart of the problem
 concerns time-optimal control of quantum state under external field. This has an important
 application in the implementation of quantum technologies. Brody obtained an exact solution to
 the problem, published in four papers including one in PRL. He has also made substantial progress
 in studying an operator for the nontrivial Riemann zeros. The Hilbert-Polya programme is
 concerned with (a) finding an operator whose eigenvalues correspond to the “imaginary” parts of
 the nontrivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function, and (b) establishing the self-adjointness of the
 operator.

 4.2. Contributions outside academia

 The MoLSS group has made significant contributions to projects that include partners outside
 academia. The EPSRC and TfL (Transport for London) funded work on sleep and circadian
 rhythms has contributed significantly to impact. As detailed in the case study, the work has been
 widely reported in the media including the New York Times, Die Welt and The Times and was
 referenced in the California Senate Bill 328 on pupil attendance and school start times and also
 quoted in parliament by two MPs (documented in Hansard).

 Skeldon is a Co-I on the Care and Technologies Centre, Dementia Research Institute, a £20M
 Imperial/Surrey project which began in June 2019 and will run initially for six years. She has also
 worked with TfL on an IAA funded project on biomathematical models of fatigue. Skeldon will
 run the two-day workshop Multilevel dynamics of human and animal sleep: mathematical models
 meet data (Surrey, 30-31 March 2020, but postponed to summer 2021), funded jointly by the
 Surrey Institute of Advanced Studies, Surrey Sleep Research Centre and DoM. She also ran an
 interdisciplinary seminar series called DREAMS (Data and Rhythms: Expertise, Analysis,
 Modelling and Simulation) from 2015-2017, which involved 18 cross-disciplinary seminars.

 Lloyd and his collaborators in the Surrey Centre of Criminology develop and apply continuum
 and agent-based modelling techniques. Lloyd has been involved in the development of a novel
 algorithm known as the Ensemble Poisson Kalman Filter (EnPKF). This improves our ability to
 provide forecasts of crime rates, particularly for short-term crime hotspots. This information will be
 valuable to the police in allocating resources. EnPKF also has the potential to monitor train delays,
 earthquake aftershocks and insurance claims.

 Aston and Godolphin, working in data science and statistical design, have focussed on
 experimental design, data assimilation and the application of techniques of attractor
 reconstruction and machine learning to time series analysis with applications in medical
 diagnoses and cardiology.

 Derks is co-investigator on the EPSRC/MRC funded Quantitative Systems Pharmacology network
 (led by Reading, in collaboration with Warwick and AstraZenica, GSK and Pfizer), and is part of
 the LMS-funded network Mathematics in Life Sciences (Nottingham, Southampton, Surrey).
 Non-academic collaborators include Pfizer (CASE-like PhD studentship and MMath integrated
 projects), APHA (CASE-like PhD studentship), McLaren (PhD studentship), Data Sciences
 International and AD Instruments (partners in IAA project), AstraZenica (MMath integrated
 projects) and Medimmune.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Work in the areas of epidemiology, ecology and population genetics, includes the genetics of
 rapidly growing populations, vector-borne diseases such as malaria and bluetongue and intestinal
 helminths in association with the School of Veterinary Medicine. Future plans in this research
 theme are likely to involve NPL, who have expressed an interest in issues relating to surveillance
 data and remote sensing/climate monitoring which is important in modelling the spread of
 infectious diseases.

 Further evidence for the contribution that research in the DoM makes to society can be found in
 our three impact case studies: Mathematical models for sleep, light and the body clock: influencing
 school start times, permanent daylight saving and shiftworkers (led by Skeldon); Advancing the
 development, public understanding and benefits of global weather forecasting (led by Roulstone);
 and Symmetric Projection Attractor Reconstruction (SPAR) improves the quality and relevance of
 respiration monitoring device data (led by Aston).

 4.3. Wider influence and contributions to the discipline

 Members of the department have undertaken over 65 talks at International Conferences/Schools
 and have been involved in organising a range of international events, notably;
    •   Bridges was a plenary speaker at the SIAM Nonlinear Waves Conference in Cambridge in
        August 2014.
    •   The department hosted the British Applied Mathematics Colloquium at Surrey, 10-12
        April 2017. Organisers were Lloyd, Roulstone and Skeldon and there were 335 attendees,
        one of the largest outside Oxbridge.
    •   Aston was on the organising committee for the workshop The Mathematics of Machine
        Learning, University of Bath, 3-8 August 2020.
    •   Bridges was the principal organiser of a Summer School for PhD students titled Theory of
        Water Waves held at the INI, Cambridge in July 2014, and was co-organiser of the four-
        week INI programme on water waves in Summer 2014.
    •   Derks is on the organising committee of the QSP-UK (Qualitative Systems Pharmacology)
        network, EPSRC funded from 2015-2018 and still ongoing, and was on the organising
        committee of the LMS funded network Mathematics in Life Sciences (2015-2018). Derks
        was on the programme committee of the 2018 SIAM Conference on Nonlinear Waves and
        Coherent Structures, and co-organised the Mathematical Pharmacology workshop at the
        Lorentz Centre,NL (December 2015).
    •   Lloyd co-organised (with Short (Georgia Tech) and Kolokolnikov (Dalhousie University))
        the workshop on Mathematical Criminology and Security at the Banff International
        Research Station, Canada, March 2019. Lloyd co-organised the ICMS workshop on
        Mathematical Criminology 2020. Lloyd was on the organising committee for Advanced
        Mathematical and Computation Tools in Metrology and Testing (29-31 August, 2017),
        University of Strathclyde.
    •   Skeldon organised a multidisciplinary workshop at the Lorentz Centre on Human Circadian
        Rhythms (co-organisers: Forger, Michigan, and Dijk, Surrey).
    •   Torrielli has been a principal or key organiser of several international events, including the
        Hamilton Institute workshop Integrability in Lower Dimensional AdS/CFT at Trinity College,
        Dublin, May 18-22, 2020; with Gutowski and Roulstone (Surrey), Penati and Pasquetti
        (Milan), the Bicocca-Surrey School on Prospects in Strings, Fields and Related Topics,
        Milano, September 2018; scientific advisor (with Gutowski) for the String Geometry,
        Supersymmetric Theories and Dualities conference, Summer 2017, Surrey; co-organiser
        of the Galileo Galilei Institute - GGI programme New Developments in AdS3/CFT2
        Holography, March 20 - May 12, 2017; co-organiser (with Prinsloo) of SEMPS at Surrey,
        2015 and 2018 editions; co-organiser (with Pasquetti and former postdoc Regelskis) of the
        conference New Trends in Quantum Integrability, 18-22 August 2014.
    •   In addition, Torrielli was co-organiser of the Tomorrow’s Mathematicians Today National
        Undergraduate Conference at Surrey. Torrielli also gave five lectures at the Durham YRIS
        school on integrable systems in 2015 and received the best lecturer award.


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Tronci was on the organizing committee of the International Conference on New Trends in
        Applied Geometric Mechanics, ICMAT Madrid, 3-7 July 2017, and was on the scientific
        committee of the International Conference on Geometry, Mechanics and Dynamics at the
        Bernoulli Center, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne, Switzerland, 20-24 July
        2020.
     Wolf was principal organiser (with Jurco (Charles), Saemann (Heriot-Watt) and Schreiber
     (Czech Academy of the Sciences)) of the 2018 LMS-EPSRC Durham Symposium Higher
     Structures in M-Theory.

 4.4. Fellowships and other marks of esteem

 Zelik was awarded the title “Thousand Talents Plan Distinguished Professor” by the Chinese
 government’s Thousand Talents Program. The award includes 5 Million RMB for research
 expenditure over three years, and Zelik spends six months each year at Lanzhou University.

 For three years from August 2014 until his retirement, Roberts was seconded from the DoM to
 the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences (AIMS), a network of six postgraduate training
 and research centres across Africa that recruits students from the whole continent. As Rector of
 AIMS Tanzania he had overall responsibility for establishing and leading a new centre established
 in partnership with the Tanzanian government. Over the three years the centre graduated 140
 masters’ students from 18 African countries, most of whom continued to further research training
 in Africa or overseas. Roberts continues to support the development of mathematics through his
 membership of the board for the London Mathematical Society’s Mentoring African Research in
 Mathematics (MARM) scheme.

 Derks has been awarded a Hedda Andersson Visiting Professorship at Lund (Sweden), from April
 2020 for three years.

 Editorial representation
    •   Bridges is an associate editor of Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems – Series S,
        and Water Waves, an Interdisciplinary Journal.
    •   Brody is an editor of the International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance, Journal
        of Physics A, and Information Geometry.
    •   Derks is an editor of the Journal of Geometric Mechanics.
    •   Wulff is on the editorial board of SIAM Review’s Survey and Review section and was re-
        appointed to a 3-year term of office (2016-2019) as Associate Editor of the SIAM Journal
        of Applied Dynamical Systems, having served as an editor since 2013.
    •   Zelik is on the editorial board of Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Section
        A: Mathematics.

 Peer review
    •   Bridges is a member of the UKRI Future Leadership Fellowships Peer Review College
        (2018-19).
    •   Derks: LMS Research Grant Committee (2015 onwards) and EPSRC mathematics
        prioritisation panels in Nov 2018, Feb 2018 (interviews for programme grants), Feb 2017,
        June 2016 and March 2016. She also chaired the prioritisation panel for the Hubs for
        Mathematical Sciences in Health Care in Dec 2019; chaired the interview panel in February
        2020 and was due to chair the mathematics prioritisation panel in June 2020 (postponed
        due to Covid).
    •   Dunlop was a member of the EPSRC prioritisation panels in June 2015 and Nov 2017, and
        interview panel for UKRI future leader fellowships (June 2019).
    •   Skeldon has been a member of the EPSRC College since 1998 and was a member of the
        EPSRC mathematics prioritisation panel Sep 2016, fellowship interview panel, Jul 2018
        and DTC interview panel, Nov 2018.
    •   Derks, Dunlop and Turner are also EPSRC Associate College members.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Roulstone remains a member of the NERC Peer Review College, and chaired the EPSRC
         Fellowship panel in July 2017.
    •    Wulff sat on the EPSRC mathematics prioritisation panel, Feb 2017.

 Prize Committees
 Aston was a member of the IMA Lighthill-Thwaites prize committee at BAMC 2017. Bridges was
 Chair of the prize committee for the SIAM Kruskal Prize 2014. Derks Chaired the J.D. Crawford
 Prize, awarded at the 2015 SIAM meeting May 17-21, Snowbird and was also a member of the
 selection committee for the 2017 prize.

 Roles in professional bodies or committees
    •    Aston was Chair of HoDoMS (2017-20) and was a member of the Bond Committee
         formed by EPSRC to support a “Review of Knowledge Exchange in the Mathematical
         Sciences”.
    •    Skeldon represented Surrey on the BAMC committee 2015-2019.
    •    Roulstone is a member of the IMA’s Research Committee. Roulstone has also chaired the
         Scientific Steering Committee, and the Strategic Advisory Committee, of Mathematics of
         Planet Earth (EPSRC CDT, ICL and Reading).
    •    Torrielli is the contact person for the Surrey node of the GATIS+ (Gauge Theory as an
         Integrable System) network.
    •    Bridges was Chair of the SIAM activity group on Nonlinear Waves and Coherent Structures
         (NWCS) from 2014-16.

 Books
 Aston is an editor of UK Success Stories in Industrial Mathematics, which is based on impact case
 studies submitted to REF2014. Santitissadeekorn is co-author of Applied and Computational
 Measurable Dynamics (Mathematical Modeling and Computation) SIAM 2014. Symmetry, Phase
 Modulation, and Nonlinear Waves by Bridges was published by Cambridge University Press in
 2017 and Hanada has recently published the Japanese edition of Foundations of Markov Chain
 Monte Carlo with S. Matsuura, and an English edition will follow.
 At an annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society, Roulstone was awarded the 2015
 Louis J. Battan Award for his book Invisible in the storm: the role of mathematics in understanding
 weather. The citation reads “For Invisible in the Storm, which illuminates the mathematical
 foundation of weather prediction with lucid prose that provides a bridge between meteorologists
 and the public.” German and Chinese translations are in production (see impact case study).




                                                                                            Page 16
