Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 19 (Politics and International Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UCL’s Department of Political Science achieves excellence in research through a distinct
 combination of three key features: intellectual breadth, collegiality, and public impact. By bringing
 together scholars who span the substantive and methodological breadth of political science, we
 enable cross-cutting conversations and collaborations that produce world-leading research. Our
 collegial environment is central to our identity and mission, supporting researchers as they develop
 their projects and careers. Our commitment to impact beyond the academy extends the benefits
 of our research in the UK and globally. These three strengths are foundational to our research
 strategy and inform how we support staff, train doctoral students, and organise the intellectual life
 of our Department.

 A research environment built on conversation and collaboration across the breadth of the
 discipline—including diverse theoretical and methodological approaches and global geographic
 coverage—requires a sufficiently large department. To that end, since REF2014, we have
 expanded our headcount by 50%, from 30 to 44 permanent academic staff, and doubled our grant
 income. As we have grown, we have organised our Department into nine research clusters with
 overlapping memberships, reflecting the breadth in topics we study—from constitutional change
 in the UK to the political survival of authoritarian leaders, decision-making in the European Union,
 the state’s use of violence against its citizens, the political morality of education, and the local
 effects of development programmes. Notwithstanding our expansion, staff and PhD students
 across the Department regularly come together, notably through our flagship weekly Departmental
 Research Seminar.

 We believe that a collegial environment encourages collaboration and inspires staff, PhD
 students, and visitors to produce their very best research. A strong norm of collegiality underpins
 every aspect of the Department’s activities and organisation: from how we developed our research
 clusters, run our seminars, deliver peer mentoring, onboard new staff, and run our PhD
 programme. One visitor to our Departmental Research Seminar in 2020 tweeted: “Thank you for
 inviting me to such a constructive seminar—that was probably the most positive and useful
 feedback of my career.” Similarly, our departmental research strategy (detailed below) and REF
 strategy have been developed through away days that include all staff and PhD students.

 Commitment to research for impact beyond the academy has been central to the Department
 since it was founded in 1997, first as a School of Public Policy. Our breadth and depth across the
 discipline have enabled impact in both developed and developing countries, including civil service
 reform, sustainable development policies, and citizens’ responsiveness to governments’ Covid-19
 measures. We have drawn on our research to contribute to public debate on free speech, human
 rights violations, police legitimacy, talking to terrorists, and US elections. Our oldest research
 cluster, the Constitution Unit, is a leading source of academic influence on constitutional change
 and political reform in the UK. In the REF period, the Unit has been central to public debate on
 Brexit, the conduct of referendums, the relationship between government and parliament, and the
 use of citizens’ assemblies. Moving forward, we will continue to expand our institutional support
 for impact-generating research through the new UCL Policy Lab, a joint initiative with the
 Department of Economics, aiming to address key global policy challenges with rigorous
 interdisciplinary research.

 Structure

 To foster ample opportunities for conversation and collaboration in a growing department, we have
 strengthened our research clusters. In addition to two weekly department-wide seminars—the
 Departmental Research Seminar and the public-oriented Policy and Practice seminar—the
 clusters enable regular exchange among staff, including post-docs, PhD students, and research

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 users. They reflect the Department’s solidification of strength across the discipline, with the
 longest-running ones—the Constitution Unit and the Legal and Political Theory group—joined by
 seven additional groups. Membership is overlapping, fostering exchange within and across fields.
 Clusters are diverse in their structures and activities, reflecting varying sizes and priorities.

       The Constitution Unit is a leading centre for research on constitutional change and the
        reform of political institutions, including the UK’s relationship with the EU, the composition
        and powers of parliaments, the mechanisms through which citizens can participate in
        politics, and the territorial nature of the UK. Led by Russell—elected a Fellow of the British
        Academy in 2020—and Renwick, the Unit shapes policy debates and outcomes through
        publicly available reports, regular media commentary, and direct input into parliamentary
        and governmental decision-making. The Unit hosts visiting researchers and holds frequent
        public and private seminars. Its honorary staff include current and former officials from
        government and parliament, and its council comprises senior officials and politicians from
        all major UK political parties.
       The Legal and Political Theory Cluster is recognised for its members’ research
        addressing a range of difficult ethical questions faced by citizens and policymakers. Is
        violent protest against the state ever morally justified? Should the state force social media
        companies to suppress hate speech? How should the state regulate religious schools?
        Should the state pay for fertility treatments? Led by Howard and Swift, the cluster
        organises a weekly seminar and hosts internal and visiting speakers in cooperation with
        colleagues from the Faculty of Laws and Department of Philosophy through the UCL
        Colloquium in Law, Politics, and Philosophy. Members regularly communicate their work
        to the general public, and Howard was in 2019 recognised as an AHRC/BBC “New
        Generation Thinker”.
       The Conflict and Change Research Cluster reflects the Department’s strength in the
        study of political violence and conflict, ethnic cleansing, human rights, peace and state-
        building, and authoritarian politics. Led by Bakke, the cluster organises a fortnightly
        seminar, hosts post-doctoral visitors, and, with the Global Governance Institute and
        Institute of Advanced Studies, organises public events and academic–practitioner
        workshops. An annual highlight is a conference for PhD students in UK and Europe
        researching conflict, with 20-30 PhD student presenters and with staff as discussants. Staff
        and PhD students frequently collaborate, facilitated by Metternich’s Conflict Analysis Lab.
        Members provide media commentary on topics ranging from forced disappearances to
        conflicts in the former Soviet Union.
       The Comparative, Political Economy, and Behaviour Cluster reflects the Department’s
        strength in comparative politics. Noteworthy is the range of both geographic expertise—
        from the UK and Europe to Africa, the Americas, Eurasia, and the Middle East—and
        methodological expertise—data analysis from individual to cross-country levels,
        experiments, fieldwork, and historical research. The cluster has developed particular
        strength in African politics, British political economy, and the measurement of both public
        and elite opinion. Led by O’Grady, the group holds a fortnightly seminar, and its members
        contribute to policy and public engagement in areas ranging from community monitoring of
        natural resources to election forecasting.
       The European Politics and Policy Cluster brings together the Department’s expertise in
        European politics, covering the normative foundations of the EU, regulation, pressure
        groups, policy learning, EU decision-making, as well as Europeanisation in the member
        states. Led by Wratil, the cluster has developed a new (2020) fortnightly European Politics
        Series of talks by leading experts and practitioners in EU affairs, open to the public. The
        cluster regularly co-organises events with UCL’s European Institute and the Faculty of
        Laws.
       The Human Rights Cluster includes scholars working on the politics of human rights from
        a range of disciplinary perspectives—legal, socio-legal, theoretical, and empirical—and
        exploring human rights governance from the local to the global level. Rather than
        organising separate events, cluster members coordinate the Department’s contribution to
        the interdisciplinary UCL Institute for Human Rights (Meckled-Garcia) and the Global
        Governance Institute (Pegram), facilitating collaboration across UCL and beyond.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The Public Policy and Public Management Research Cluster has long-standing
        research expertise in public policy, ranging from business lobbying to progressive taxation,
        judicial politics, corruption, and civil service management. Since 2014, the cluster has
        strengthened its expertise in behavioural public policy, public management, and public
        finance. Members engage with policymakers in major international organisations and
        national governments in Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia. Led by Schuster, the
        cluster organises academic and policy events, often in collaboration with the Global
        Governance Institute and the London Public Policy Seminar, and founded the Public Policy
        Research Network, which comprises PhD students at 13 universities in greater London.
       The UCL Centre on US Politics (CUSP), founded in 2020 and led by Gift, is our newest
        cluster. Members conduct research, host public events, and provide public commentary
        on political developments in the US and their global implications. Members made more
        than 250 media appearances in the lead-up to and aftermath of the 2020 US election.
       The UCL Global Governance Institute (GGI) reflects the global nature of the research
        conducted in the Department and fosters synergies across disciplines at UCL. Led by Coen
        and Pegram, the GGI undertakes research on global governance deficits, focusing on
        global justice and ethics, economy, security, public health, and environmental
        sustainability. It engages with policymakers, practitioners, and civil society through public
        lectures—highlights include Jeffrey D. Sachs and Mervyn King—workshops, podcasts, and
        publicly available policy reports. In the REF period, the GGI’s network has expanded to
        include partner institutions also in the global south, facilitated by a Horizon 2020 grant on
        global governance, in which the GGI leads on climate governance.

 Context

 The Department’s commitment to conversation and collaboration extends across disciplines, and
 staff actively lead and participate in the rich network of UCL institutes that bring together
 researchers from departments within the Faculty of Social and Historical Science (SHS) and
 beyond.
      UCL European Institute is a cross-faculty hub facilitating collaborative research, teaching,
         and public and policy engagement on Europe. It has become the go-to place for UCL
         expertise on the EU and Brexit. Bellamy was the Institute’s founding director, and Wratil
         and Weale are frequently involved in its activities. Staff from the Department contribute to
         its Brexit blog, Comment blog, podcasts, policy reports, and public events.
      UCL Institute for Human Rights promotes research and academic impact on global
         human rights issues, including human rights standard-setting, interpretation, and
         application. Co-directed by staff from the Faculty of Laws and the Department of Political
         Science (Meckled-Garcia), it facilitates collaborative research across disciplines and
         beyond the global north, hosts visiting researchers, and organises public lectures.
      UCL Institute for Law, Politics, and Philosophy curates discussion of cutting-edge work
         in legal and political philosophy. Co-organised by staff from our Department (Howard), the
         Faculty of Laws, and the Department of Philosophy, its central initiative is the UCL
         Colloquium in Law, Politics, and Philosophy, which hosts internal speakers and leading
         international scholars.
      UCL Institute of Advanced Studies is based in SHS and brings together researchers
         from the humanities, social sciences, and area studies to foster collaboration addressing
         ethical and intellectual challenges in an inter-connected world. It hosts visiting researchers
         and facilitates lectures and workshops. In the REF period, staff and PhD students from the
         Conflict and Change cluster organised workshops on political violence with the Institute,
         while Hudson co-hosted a high-profile public event on development aid.
      UCL Anthropocene is a new (2020) cross-disciplinary initiative addressing how social,
         political, economic, and destructive environmental changes are fundamentally entangled.
         It does so through collaborative research, interdisciplinary teaching, and engaging the
         public through exhibitions, public talks, seminars, and media commentary. Founding
         members from Political Science include Metternich and Pegram.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and impact strategy

 Our overarching priority is to generate knowledge that improves our understanding of core
 questions in political science and international relations, and that contributes to policy
 development and public debate. To do so, our strategic objectives are three-fold:
    i.  To conduct innovative and rigorous research, covering the breadth of the discipline.
   ii.  To foster and sustain an inclusive and collegial environment.
  iii.  To engage external actors and achieve public impact nationally and internationally.

 Our research strategy has been developed in consultation with all academic staff and PhD
 students, through regular research away days. The strategy outlined below draws on that
 document. The research strategy is implemented and monitored by the Research Committee, led
 by the Head of Research (Vanhala, 2017–2020, Lauderdale, 2020–) and two deputies, and
 comprising senior and junior staff from all fields, as well as the Head of Department (Coen 2010–
 2014, 2015–2018, Mitchell 2014–2015, Hudson 2018–).

    (i)     Innovative and rigorous research, covering the breadth of the discipline

 To promote innovative and rigorous research, we have, since 2014, undertaken a strategy of
 growth, strengthened research support, and developed processes enabling frequent and in-depth
 peer review.

 Growth strategy: Since REF2014, we have undertaken a strategy of growth, from 30 to 44
 permanent academic staff (Section 2). Our growth strategy has enabled us to hire world-leading
 scholars who bring new expertise as well as reinforce existing strengths. Through our broad
 coverage of the discipline and world regions, we can tackle the most important and pressing
 questions, which frequently cut across subfields and require methodological and theoretical
 diversity. Reflecting the breadth of our research, our output selection covers topics ranging from
 female leadership in political debates (Blumenau) to accountability for wartime sexual violence
 (Cronin-Furman), public support for immigrants’ social rights (Hoojer), everyday aggression
 towards marginalised groups (McTernan), diffusion of disability rights (Vanhala), and insurgent
 attacks on civilians (Monten). It covers archival and historical research (Bulutgil), case studies
 using both qualitative (Stroschein) and quantitative methods (Kappe), normative methods
 (Pasternak), fieldwork and field experiments (Hartman), public opinion surveys (Woodhouse),
 cross-national statistical studies (Abouharb), data science (Lauderdale), and forecasting
 (Metternich).

 Our growth is sustained by our research portfolio (Section 3) and large research-led teaching
 programme. In the REF period, we have developed two new undergraduate programmes—an
 interdisciplinary BSc in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics, supported by a £1.3 million Q-Step
 Centre (funded by ESRC/Nuffield Foundation), and a single-honours BSc in Political Science and
 International Relations—which will enable us to expand to 60 permanent academic staff by 2023.

 Strengthened research support: To allow staff the space and time needed to develop their
 research agendas, we have designed a new workload model that improves the teaching/research
 balance (Section 2). We have increased the departmental research allowance, which, in particular,
 helps early career staff who may not yet have applied for external grants, and we have bolstered
 our in-house support for securing and managing grants and pursuing public engagement and
 impact (Section 3).

 Embedded in-depth peer review: To enable rigorous research, a pillar of our research
 environment is in-depth peer review, reflected in three distinct ways.
     Through our weekly Departmental Research Seminar, staff and PhD students across all
        subfields give in-depth feedback on the work of a colleague or a visitor. The format of our
        seminar is designed to facilitate conversation. There is no presentation. The paper is
        circulated in advance and participants come with comments prepared. The tone is
        constructive, purposefully not adversarial. This format reflects our strong belief that

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           excellent research emerges out of in-depth and collegial peer review. Cluster seminars
           adopt a similar format.
          We have developed a robust system for grant application feedback, whereby grant and
           post-doctoral fellowship applications receive comments from multiple members of the
           Research Committee (Section 3).
          Reflecting our commitment to research integrity, we have developed an internal ethics
           review process, providing feedback on staff and students’ grant applications and projects
           involving human participants, before they are submitted to UCL’s Ethics Committee
           (Section 3).

 The evidence suggests that this strategy has successfully promoted innovative and rigorous
 research. Our 52 successful grants (Section 3) and publications show strength across the
 discipline. Three of the 11 books in our output selection have received best book awards: Bakke’s
 Decentralization and Intrastate Struggles, Bulutgil’s The Roots of Ethnic Cleansing in Europe, and
 Poulsen’s Bounded Rationality and Economic Diplomacy. Our output selection features research
 published in major journals across the discipline, including the American Journal of Political
 Science, American Political Science Review, British Journal of Political Science, Comparative
 Political Studies, European Journal of Political Research, Journal of Conflict Resolution,
 International Studies Quarterly, Journal of Political Philosophy, and Philosophy and Public Affairs.

 Our coverage across the discipline has also resulted in significant contributions to publicly
 available databases, reflecting our commitment to open research, including global data on armed
 militia groups (Mitchell), ethnic power relations (Vogt), states’ suspension from international
 organisations (von Borzyskowski), and policy ideologies of European mass publics (O’Grady).
 Indeed, in the REF period, 16 members of staff have compiled or contributed to original datasets
 publicly available on their websites or through repositories.

    (ii)      An inclusive and collegial research environment

 Collegiality underpins the Department’s activities and organisation. At the heart of our research
 environment are two weekly department-wide seminars. Our much-valued Departmental
 Research Seminar is designed to bring together staff, including post-docs, and PhD students
 across subfields to provide feedback on the work of either a colleague or a visitor (since 2017, we
 have hosted 51 visitors in our seminar, 50% women). The format of commenting on a pre-
 circulated paper requires significant commitment from participants. The seminar’s consistently
 high participation and good spirits—cherished by our own staff and visitors alike—symbolise the
 Department’s collegial research culture. Also bringing together staff and students across fields is
 our public Policy and Practice seminar, featuring dialogue between academics, policymakers, and
 practitioners on pressing policy issues—from Brexit to climate change, civic activism, and
 developments in China, Iran, and Russia.

 By organising ourselves into nine research clusters, we have multiplied the opportunities for
 conversation and collaboration among staff and PhD students. A commitment to mentoring of
 post-docs and PhD students is central to the research clusters, facilitating regular feedback on
 their work not only from their supervisors but from a larger group of scholars in their field.

 The clusters also facilitate peer mentorship of early career staff and onboarding of new staff,
 including post-docs, and they help overcome one of the challenges often facing women in the
 discipline—their exclusion from collaborative networks. This informal mentorship is accompanied
 by a new formal peer mentoring system for all new lecturers and, recognising that women remain
 a minority in the Department and discipline, a new Promote programme, including a twice-yearly
 women’s writing retreat (Section 2).

 Several indicators point to success in fostering an inclusive and collegial research environment.
 The high level of attendance and engagement among staff and PhD students at departmental and
 cluster seminars is one. Another is frequent collaboration. In our output selection, this includes
 Barnes and Hicks’s work on mass attitudes towards fiscal policy, Bakke and Mitchell’s work on

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 restrictions on civil society, co-authored with two of their PhD students, and Esteve and Schuster’s
 work on the effects of austerity on public employees’ job satisfaction. Staff also regularly
 participate in collaborative projects beyond the Department, exemplified by Hazell’s book The
 Politics of Judicial Independence in Britain’s Changing Constitution, Swift’s book Educational
 Goods, and Tertytchnaya’s article on financial remittances and incumbent approval across
 countries in Eurasia.

    (iii)   Engage external actors and achieve public impact nationally and internationally

 A founding principle of the Department is a commitment to research for public impact. The
 Department has a long record in public engagement and policy impact within the UK through the
 Constitution Unit, and our weekly Policy and Practice seminar is a hallmark of our public
 outreach—with a total audience of nearly 34,600 in the REF period, across 189 events. Since
 REF2014, we have expanded our external, and specifically international, engagement and impact
 activities—advising on issues from House of Lords reform in the UK (Russell), community
 monitoring of natural resources in Liberia (Hartman), and public finance infrastructure in Sierra
 Leone and debt management in Zimbabwe (Seiferling) (Section 4). External engagement and
 impact are core considerations in appointments and appraisals, and UCL’s Academic Careers
 Framework enables and rewards impact-generating activities in promotions.

 To support impact, since REF2014, the Department has appointed a Head of Impact and
 Engagement (Renwick) and established an Impact and Engagement Committee. Guidance in
 developing the impact of colleagues’ research is provided through one-on-one peer mentoring and
 impact workshops at the Department’s annual research away days. A key strategic aim—central
 to our strategy moving forward—has been to extend the reach of our research by creating a
 podcast series focusing on the relevance of staff’s research to policymakers and wider publics.
 The launch was planned for autumn 2020, but the Covid-19 pandemic accelerated this
 development. In spring 2020, we developed a podcast series in which staff discussed the social
 and political implications of the pandemic. In autumn 2020, we extended this to a regular podcast
 series, UCL Uncovering Politics, hosted by Hudson and Renwick. It has covered topics ranging
 from the role of checks and balances in UK democracy (featuring Bellamy and Russell), different
 conceptions of ‘the economy’ in politics (Killick, one of our research fellows), and the ethics of
 fieldwork in conflict-affected settings (Cronin-Furman).

 The research clusters and staff’s active involvement in Faculty and UCL-wide institutes are central
 in fostering impact-oriented activities. In the REF period, the Constitution Unit has organised 91
 public events. For example, prior to the 2016 referendum, the Unit, in cooperation with the
 European Institute, ran five public seminars (with 2,690 registered attendees), accompanied by
 four briefing papers, on the possibility of Brexit and its constitutional consequences. Similarly, the
 Global Governance Institute has organised 102 public events (circa 16,000 attendees) and 59
 workshops bringing together academics, policymakers, and practitioners (in total, 1,470) on
 pressing policy issues. Its workshop on “Climate Governance after the Paris Agreement”, for
 example, brought together 30 leading climate change experts.

 The evidence shows that our impact strategy has promoted external engagement and achieved
 policy impact nationally and internationally. Members of the Department have appeared in all
 major media outlets in the UK (e.g. BBC, Channel 4 News, Guardian, Times) and around the world
 (e.g. Al Jazeera, CNN, New York Times, Wall Street Journal), commenting on both domestic and
 international politics. Our colleagues in the Constitution Unit have appeared or been cited in the
 media more than 900 times, while members of the Centre for US Politics made more than 250
 media appearances in the lead-up to and aftermath of the 2020 US election. Our impact case
 studies—and further examples in Section 4—showcase the breadth and global reach of our policy
 impact: enabling public support for sustainable development (Hudson), training UK civil servants
 in trade policy (Poulsen), promoting the use of citizens’ assemblies in the UK (Renwick), and
 improving assessment of civil service management across developed and developing countries
 (Schuster).


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic objectives moving forward

 In the coming REF period, we will prioritise building on our strengths and addressing opportunities
 for greater diversity and interdisciplinarity.

    (i) We will continue our strategy of expansion. Having identified areas where we would
        like to further strengthen our expertise, we are expanding to 60 permanent academic staff.
        We have filled two of these posts, bolstering our expertise on immigration (Oltman and
        Spirig). Recruitment for 10 further posts is underway (two at the professorial level and eight
        at the lecturer/associate professor level), with another four planned in 2021–2023. We are
        particularly looking to add to our expertise in the politics of race, gender, and sexuality, the
        environment, authoritarianism, and regional expertise on Asia.

    (ii) We aim to become a demographically more diverse department. To that end, our
         Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion committee has developed an action plan committing us
         to implement the use of additional positive action recruitment tools to enable recruitment
         from under-represented groups; develop three staff–student networks (LGBTQ+, BAME,
         disability); and prepare for an Athena Swan application (Section 2).

    (iii) We will strengthen the interdisciplinary nature of the Department. A number of staff
          engage in interdisciplinary research, and the Global Governance Institute, as well as the
          Department’s close links to UCL-wide and Faculty institutes (listed above), have fostered
          interdisciplinary collaborations. Moving forward, we aim to strengthen research on the
          relationship between the environment and human activity through UCL Anthropocene.
          Also, recognising the growing need for interdisciplinary training in data science to address
          policy challenges, we will build on our strength to develop a new MSc in Data Science and
          Public Policy in cooperation with Economics, as part of the new Policy Lab. Providing
          students with interdisciplinary, data-literate skills is an investment in the future of the
          discipline and an essential part of the research pipeline.

    (iv) Strengthen global engagement and policy impact through the new UCL Policy Lab.
         A key strategic initiative as we move forward is the creation, in summer 2020, of the UCL
         Policy Lab, a collaborative project with UCL’s Department of Economics, supported by the
         Faculty and UCL via a £1.3 million investment from the Provost’s Strategic Development
         Fund. Anchored in the strong record of rigorous, data-driven research in both departments,
         the Policy Lab will foster interdisciplinary collaboration, convene public policy
         conversations, and broker academic–practitioner relationships to address global policy
         questions. In 2021, we will appoint a global leader in public policy as the inaugural Director,
         supported by two academic co-directors, as well as policy and research fellows, including
         10 Professors of Practice.

 2. People

 The Department devotes significant resources to recruiting and retaining leading scholars in the
 discipline and training PhD students. Since REF2014, we have increased the number of
 permanent academic staff by 50%, from 30 to 44. By the census date, staff comprised 12
 professors, 16 associate professors/readers, and 16 lecturers. The Department has also been
 home to 16 post-doctoral research fellows/associates in the REF period, eight present by the
 census date (one is REF-eligible). Our PhD intake in the REF period was 43, and 45 students
 graduated with a PhD from the Department.

 Staffing strategy and development

 At the core of our staffing and development strategy is an inclusive and collegial environment that
 gives staff the flexibility, support, and resources needed to conduct their research and advance
 their careers. We do so by:


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (i)     Integrating new staff. Key to staff development in the REF period has been integration
            of newly appointed staff, including post-docs, into the activities of the research clusters.
            More formally, the Research Committee pairs new lecturers with senior members of
            staff, who offer advice on grant applications, publication strategy, and promotions.

    (ii)    Fostering peer mentorship and feedback. Our department-wide and research
            cluster seminars enable ample opportunities for collaboration and conversation about
            works-in-progress. We have also strengthened formal peer mentorship. In 2018, we
            instituted the “Research Ideas Accelerator”, a formal system of grant application
            feedback through peer review. Research Committee members give feedback on grant
            applications to most ERC, ESRC, British Academy, and Leverhulme calls. We are
            expanding this process to cover all applications.

    (iii)   Protecting research time. Our workload model aims to ensure that all academic staff
            can safeguard research time while delivering high-quality teaching. In 2019, we
            implemented a new model that improves how we take account of growing student
            numbers and class size heterogeneity, to ensure equality among staff. Staff teach, on
            average, three modules per year. We recognise the importance of supporting new
            lecturers, who might not initially enjoy external grant income, hence they receive a one-
            module teaching reduction in their first year. Beyond preparing new courses, we
            encourage new staff to use this period to apply for research funding. Research time is
            also protected by UCL’s sabbatical leave policy of one term’s relief from teaching and
            administrative duties for every three years of service.

    (iv)    Enhancing research support. Academic staff members’ research allowance has
            doubled in the REF period, to £3,000 per year, supporting conference travels, research
            assistance, and fieldwork. The Faculty has provided additional support to the
            Department via a discretionary fund supporting research development (seed funding,
            book manuscript workshops, research assistance) and is available to all research and
            teaching staff on a competitive basis. Staff also have access to Faculty and UCL-wide
            funding opportunities, including the Dean’s strategic fund (members of the Department
            received £29,300 in the REF period), UCL Global Engagement Funds (£27,800), and
            UCL Grand Challenges grants (£38,500).

    (v)     Employing a rigorous and supportive promotion process. To support staff to build
            their careers at UCL, we have a rigorous and supportive promotions process, aligned
            with UCL’s updated Academic Careers Framework and its equal opportunity ethos.
            Individual staff discuss their promotion strategy at their annual appraisal conducted by
            the Head of Department or line manager, and with their mentors. The Promotions
            Committee consists of all members of the professoriate, who discuss each application
            and provide feedback before the application goes to the Faculty. In the REF period, 21
            members of staff have been promoted to senior lecturer/associate professor/reader
            and four have been promoted to professor. Of these promotions, 52% are women
            (100% of promotions to professor are women). In recognition of the research
            excellence of our staff, since 2018, all academic staff have received an equal annual
            salary supplement.

 An indication of the success of our recruitment and retention strategy is demonstrated in the
 recognition of research and impact in the REF period, including:
     Bakke, Conflict Research Society’s Book of the Year 2015.
     Bellamy, PADEMIA 2016 Journal Article Award for Outstanding Research on
        Parliamentary Democracy in Europe.
     Bulutgil, 2017 Best Book Award by the American Political Science Association’s (APSA)
        European Politics and Society Section.
     Cronin-Furman, 2020 Best Article Award by APSA’s Human Rights Section.
     Howard, 2019 BBC/AHRC New Generation Thinker Award; British Academy Rising Star
        Engagement Award 2015–2017.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Poulsen, 2015 Best Book Award by the International Studies Association’s (ISA)
        International Political Economy Section.
       Metternich, 2015 Best Paper Award by APSA’s Conflict Processes Section.
       Renwick, Political Studies Association’s (PSA) Democratic Innovation Award 2016.
       Russell, elected Fellow of the British Academy in 2020.
       Schuster, Haldane Prize for the Best Paper Published in Public Administration in 2017.
       Tertytchnaya, 2019 PSA’s Best Dissertation in the Field of Elections, Electoral Systems,
        and Representation.
       Von Borzyskowski, 2018 Best Article Award by APSA’s International Collaboration Section;
        2016 Dissertation Prize by the U.S. Institute of Peace and ISA’s Peace Studies Section;
        2016 Best Paper Award by the of the European Consortium for Political Research’s
        (ECPR) Comparative Political Institutions Section.
       Wratil, 2018 Best Article Award by APSA’s European Politics and Society Section.

 Research students

 Our PhD programme is intentionally small in student numbers and designed to train political
 scientists who conduct research of the highest academic quality. In the REF period, our intake
 was 43 (averaging six per year) and 45 students graduated with a PhD degree from the
 Department; nine more were awarded degrees from different departments with co-supervisors
 from the Department. Our PhD programme’s success is reflected in placement of our students in
 post-docs (e.g. Bocconi, European University Institute, Oxford, University College Dublin,
 University of Oslo) and permanent positions at leading universities in the UK and abroad (e.g.
 Brunel, Essex, King’s, Liverpool, Newcastle, Queen Mary, Royal Holloway, University of Zurich),
 as well as employment in the non-profit (e.g. Oxfam), private (e.g. The Economist, Fujitsu), and
 public (e.g. Alan Turing Institute, World Bank) sectors. Among PhD students graduating from the
 Department, 56% went on to post-docs or permanent academic jobs.

 Our PhD students are integral to the Department’s research environment and are active
 participants in the department-wide seminars and research clusters. Our research clusters provide
 key venues for mentoring of PhD students, who regularly present and get feedback on their work.
 While we train students to become independent researchers, we also encourage joint work
 between PhD students and staff, with four such examples in our output selection.

 To ensure our students are competitive in the global job market, our PhD programme offers a
 comprehensive and integrated training sequence. Students in the empirical stream take four
 methods/research design courses in the first year. Those in the theory stream take a required
 political theory seminar each year. Students may choose to further specialise and take additional
 substantive courses. In the REF period, our PhD students have also followed a “Big Books”
 seminar, organised with the other political science departments in the ESRC-funded UBEL
 Doctoral Training Partnership. All PhD students attend a weekly seminar in which they present
 their work to their peers. The Department also holds mock vivas, practice job talks, and workshops
 for conference presentations, an annual PhD away day dedicated to professional development,
 as well as an annual teaching workshop.

 Each PhD student works with a primary supervisor plus one or two co-supervisors. To ensure that
 PhD students have ample support and are exposed to a breadth of input—from different fields and
 theoretical and methodological approaches—in 2019 we implemented a three-person supervisory
 committee. To facilitate steady progress and timely completion, we have revised the PhD
 programme to incorporate several milestones. In year one, there is a required literature review
 due in the second term and a required methods paper due in the third term, with feedback given
 by the supervisors. In year two, typically in term one, students submit a PhD upgrade paper, written
 under the supervision of their committee, and are examined in an upgrade viva by two members
 of staff not on their committee.

 The Department offers two Bentham scholarships per year, which have funded 37% of our
 students admitted in the REF period. We have extended these scholarships to last for four rather

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 than three years. PhD students admitted in the REF period have also been funded by UCL
 scholarships (9%), AHRC and ESRC scholarships (12%), and other funders (23%), including
 grants from the Behavioural Insights Team, while 19% were self-funded, including through
 teaching assistantships within the Department.

 Every PhD student has access to £1,000 per year for external methods training. To facilitate field
 research, the Department has a £10,000 opportunity fund to which PhD students can apply for up
 to £1,500 each year. In recent years, students have conducted fieldwork in, for example, Colombia
 and Lebanon. PhD students regularly present their work at academic conferences, supported by
 a £500 conference allowance. Our students have also benefited from the UCL Doctoral School’s
 Skills Development Programme, its financial support for developing student-led networks, and its
 UCL–Yale PhD exchange programme.

 The Department has made a significant investment in space for PhD students, with a large open-
 plan office with 14 hot desks, increased to 16 in autumn 2020 as we expanded into our new
 building (Section 3). PhD students who teach have desks in shared teaching staff offices.

 PhD students are active in the discipline, publishing, developing research networks, and taking on
 professional roles. In the REF period, our PhD students have published in major journals in the
 discipline, e.g. American Politics Research (Sajuria), British Journal of Political Science (Perera),
 European Journal of Political Theory (Aitchison), International Political Science Review (Juon),
 International Studies Quarterly (Weber), Politics & Gender (Hargrave, Siow), and Journal of Peace
 Research (Smidt). In the last two years, PhD students in the Conflict and Change cluster and the
 Public Policy and Public Management cluster have organised conferences for PhD students in the
 UK and Europe. Beyond UCL, Bellodi created and organises the Public Policy Research Network,
 reaching out to PhD students in greater London; Rickard serves as the Secretary of the Conflict
 Research Society; and Schroeder, who graduated in 2019, served as the Social Media Editor of
 the Journal of European Public Policy.

 The Department’s PhD students also engage with policymakers and practitioners. For example,
 while at UCL, Kozman, who graduated in 2020, co-organised the Behavioural Science for Policy
 (B4P) seminar series, which aims to facilitate the flow of evidence into public policy, and Perera’s
 PhD research has been shaped by, and shaped, his work with CIVICUS, a global alliance of civil
 society organisations.

 To celebrate our PhD students, the first department-wide social function each academic year is a
 PhD prize ceremony, with awards for best published paper, best examined dissertation, and
 outstanding service to the Department. Our PhD students have also received recognition beyond
 the Department, including the Joni Lovenduski PhD Prize in Gender and Politics by the ECPR
 (Siow), the Cedric Smith Prize for best PhD paper in peace and conflict research by the Conflict
 Research Society (Smidt), and the Dina Zinnes Award for best PhD paper by the ISA (Smidt).

 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

 The Department is home to academics from a wide range of nationalities. In 2013, 51% of all
 research staff were from the UK, and our expansion since REF2014 has increased the global
 profile of our staff to 40% from the UK, 27% from the EU/EEA, and 33% from the rest of the world.
 In terms of ethnic diversity, the Department is predominantly white—77% self-reported white, 6%
 BAME, and 17% unknown—as it was in 2013. Similarly, the majority of PhD students graduating
 in the REF period identified as white (77%). We have increased the number and proportion of
 women among research staff in the Department (40%) compared to 2013 (34%). Excluding fixed-
 term staff, the proportion of women is 34%, compared to 30% in 2013. Among both our PhD intake
 and PhD graduating from the Department in the REF period, 51% were women.

 Reflecting our commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI), we recognise the need to
 strengthen demographic diversity. In 2018 we established our first EDI committee and developed
 an action plan with several key commitments.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Sex/gender: Among permanent academic staff, women are represented at all ranks. Among the
 12 professors, 33% are women; among the 16 associate professors/readers, 25%; and among
 the 16 lecturers, 44%. Since 2014, women have made up more than half of all promotions,
 including all four promotions to professor. Leadership roles have alternated between men and
 women (Head of Department, Director of Research, Director of Teaching, REF Coordinator).
 Women in the Department have a strong research record, as evidenced in our output selection
 (see below) and grant record (44% of our successful grants have a female PI or Co-PI). Women
 in the Department also hold leadership roles in the discipline. Among editor/associate editorships
 held by current staff, 38% are by women, and 45% of leadership roles in professional associations
 are held by women (Section 4).

 A key commitment has been to support and promote female colleagues. Three activities underpin
 our efforts. First, in 2019 we initiated the Promote programme to address challenges unique to
 women academics (citations, networks, leadership). Central to Promote is a twice-yearly writing
 retreat for all female-identifying staff and PhD students. The initiative has facilitated formal and
 informal peer-mentoring, career advice, successful funding applications, and publications.
 Second, we have financially supported professional development for women at all levels through
 UCL’s Women in Leadership programme. To date, five women in the Department have enrolled
 in the programme. Third, we have committed to submitting an Athena Swan Silver application (in
 2022) to provide a long-term framework for gender equality.

 Ethnicity: As part of our action plan, the Department financially supports a “Lunch and Learn”
 seminar series bringing staff and students together in a social space to discuss diversity,
 decolonisation, eugenics, and modern slavery. Moving forward, we will create a staff-student
 network to provide opportunities to discuss issues facing BAME staff and students.

 We have also sought to address diversity by examining reading lists across our modules. Our
 Inclusive Curriculum project, which began in 2018 and is an example of our research-led teaching,
 found that 77% of assigned readings were by white men, with fewer than 5% by women of colour.
 The findings from this first phase of the project have been shared with colleagues, with two key
 outcomes: colleagues were asked to review syllabi for diversity, and the Department has funded
 continuation of the project, led by Elliott (Senior Lecturer [Teaching]), to support further
 diversification.

 As part of our ongoing expansion, we are putting EDI at the centre of our recruitment activity. First,
 we have included two diversity statements in all of our advertisements and are working with UCL
 Human Resources to identify the share of candidates with protected characteristics, to enable
 greater diversity among shortlisted candidates. Second, adding to existing institutional hiring
 practices—ensuring 40% women on all hiring panels and monitoring gender ratios on shortlists—
 we have requested fair recruitment specialists on all hiring panels. Third, staff on recruitment
 panels must complete UCL’s fair recruitment training, with an additional training session to be held
 with search committee members prior to interviews.

 Protected characteristics: The EDI committee has also reviewed the Department’s diversity with
 respect to protected characteristics and identified areas for improvement. We are setting up an
 LGBTQ+ network, providing a safe space for students and staff to network and discuss LGBTQ+
 scholarship. For staff with disability-related needs, the Department provides reasonable
 adjustments and bespoke software, hardware, and other equipment, and we are setting up a staff–
 student network. We have worked closely with UCL Estates to ensure that the adjoining Georgian
 townhouses that form our home in Bloomsbury are wheelchair accessible. The necessary internal
 changes have been made in our newly acquired building (Section 3), and a planning application
 is pending for alterations to install external accessible lifts to our new and existing (Grade-II listed)
 buildings.

 More generally, to enable colleagues to fulfil their caring responsibilities while advancing in their
 careers, all UCL staff are eligible for parental leave. Research-active staff returning from more

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 than three months’ parental leave are entitled to one term’s sabbatical leave, allowing time to re-
 establish their research. To help foster work–life balance, the Department has appointed two
 “wellbeing champions”. In response to the Covid-19 pandemic, UCL developed a wellbeing survey
 designed to understand staff needs and enable support.

 REF submission and EDI

 The REF process has been led by the REF Coordinator (Bakke) and Impact Coordinator
 (Renwick), in close cooperation with the Head of Department (Hudson) and Head of Research
 (Vanhala, 2017–2020, and Lauderdale, 2020–). Committed to making the REF process inclusive
 and transparent, we have regularly discussed REF preparations with all staff, including post-docs,
 and PhD students at our away days and all-staff meetings. We asked all eligible staff to nominate
 their optimal outputs—with regular opportunities to update—and sought self-nominations for
 possible impact case studies. We worked closely with six prospective case study authors, four of
 whom were ultimately selected. Both staff and PhD students have submitted data for the
 environment statement.

 The ranking of nominated outputs was done by a committee consisting of all members of the
 professoriate and selected associate professors, ensuring REF experience, representation of all
 fields, and gender diversity. We ensured that outputs from staff who had left UCL were also
 considered. Each output was read by two members of the committee, one a specialist in the field
 and one outside the field, whose scores informed our output selection. The selection of impact
 case studies was done by members of the professoriate and an outside reader, supported by
 Faculty and UCL’s REF team.

 With respect to staff selection, our submission includes outputs from all 44 permanent staff on
 research contracts and one independent researcher (a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow). As
 we have more women than men on research contracts that do not fit the REF criteria for
 independent researchers, the share of women among REF-eligible staff is slightly lower (36%)
 than among all research staff (40%). Where sufficient data is available, there are no observed
 deviations on protected characteristics between REF-eligible staff and all staff on research
 contracts.

 In reviewing our output selection, our analysis showed that neither gender nor academic rank is a
 significant predictor for number of selected outputs. The gender distribution among REF-eligible
 staff is 36% women, and our output selection reflects that (35%). We have also reviewed the
 output selection with respect to anonymous data on ethnicity, disability, and sexual identity
 (compiled by UCL’s REF team). The observable patterns are varied, but in all cases the staff
 numbers are too small for clear inferences to be drawn. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
 we see it as vital to continue our active efforts to promote equality for all groups.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The sustainability of our research environment is underpinned by a large research-led teaching
 programme (Section 1) and our success in obtaining research grants, which we have strengthened
 by investing in research and impact support. This investment is a strategic initiative to enable
 sustained grant income in the future.

 Income

 In the current REF period, we have been awarded £10.9 million in grant income, not all of which
 has yet been spent. We have more than doubled our total spend against grants since REF2014,
 from £3.3 to £6.7 million (from an annual average of £656k to £951k). We have secured 52 awards
 from competitive funders, addressing key policy questions and reflecting the diversity of research
 within the Department.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples of major awards include Hudson’s Gates Foundation funded “Development
 Engagement Lab” (£3.1 million), Vanhala’s ERC Starting Grant “The Politics of Climate Change
 Loss and Damage” (£1 million), Barnes’s UKRI Future Leaders project “Mental Models and
 Political Economy” (£940k), Radaelli’s ERC Advanced Grant “Procedural Tools for Effective
 Governance Patterns, Outcomes, and Policy Design” (£639k), and Russell’s ESRC UK In a
 Changing Europe project “Brexit, Parliament, and the Constitution” (£488k).

 Staff have succeeded in winning competitive fellowships, including Bulutgil’s British Academy Mid-
 Career Fellowship “The Origins of Legal Secularisation”, McKee’s BA Postdoctoral Fellowship
 “The Political Representation of Ethnic Minorities in the UK”, and Pasternak’s BA Senior Research
 Fellowship “Irresponsible States, Responsible Citizens”. Staff have also been successful in
 winning ESRC Future Leader bids, including Blumenau’s “Measuring Political Debate”,
 Metternich’s “Predicting the Escalation of Conflict”, and Vanhala’s “The Judicialisation of Climate
 Change Politics”.

 We are prioritising research grant capture because it allows us to invest in activities that enrich
 our intellectual environment. First, research grants are instrumental in allowing time and resources
 to conduct archival work, fieldwork, and surveys, collect cross-national data, and develop new
 methodological skills. Grants are also essential for allowing timely and impact-oriented research
 on pressing policy matters, from the conduct of a potential Northern Ireland border poll (Renwick)
 to development aid (Hudson). Second, we fund directly through the Department or through the
 research clusters five weekly or fortnightly research seminars and four public speaker series. In
 addition, grant income allows staff to organise specialised workshops, enabling an intellectually
 stimulating environment and engagement with academics, practitioners, and policymakers from
 the UK and abroad. Third, in the REF period, 16 post-doctoral research appointments have been
 funded from grants. These appointments enable early career researchers’ professional
 development, networking, learning of new methodological skills, collection of new data, and co-
 authoring opportunities, thus contributing to the further development of the discipline.

 Research and impact support

 Central to our grant record in the REF period—and our 31% success rate for grant applications—
 is the Research Committee’s in-depth feedback on applications and our investments in research
 support. We have:

    (i)     Strengthened our research administration team. Staff who provide research-related
            assistance—support for grant applications, the PhD programme, and organisation of
            research seminars, public lectures, visitors, and workshops—have increased from 2.1
            to 3.5 FTE. This includes two new posts created in 2014 (Research Manager and GGI
            Manager) and one in 2019 (Deputy Departmental Manager). In addition, several
            existing posts provide research support (PhD Manager, Departmental Manager,
            Constitution Unit Manager, and the Events and Communications Officer). Two
            dedicated staff from UCL’s Information Services Division provide technical support.

            Central to our grant record is the Research Manager, who supports grant application
            preparation and grant management. Staff also receive support from the research and
            impact-facilitation team in the Faculty and the Office of the Vice Provost (OVPR), who
            help identify funding opportunities and prepare applications; the UCL European
            Research and Innovation Office, which facilitates Horizon 2020 collaborations; and
            UCL Research Services, who handle post-award administration.

    (ii)    Strengthened our administrative team supporting impact. The Research Manager,
            GGI Manager, Constitution Unit Manager, and Events and Communications Officer are
            central to realising our impact strategy, assisting with the planning of events (public
            events and workshops), the publication of publicly available reports, the development
            of our new website (2019/2020), and enhancement of our social media profile (our
            Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn accounts have more than 31,000

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            followers). Moving forward, the Policy Lab is an important vehicle for further
            strengthening impact support. Impact and dissemination are also facilitated by the
            Faculty’s impact officers, UCL Communications and Marketing, UCL Global
            Engagement Office, UCL Innovation and Enterprise, UCL Public Engagement, and the
            OVPR’s Research Impact Curation and Support team, including grants to facilitate
            impact.

    (iii)   Increased support for research ethics and integrity. All projects involving human
            participants are subject to UCL’s ethics procedures, led by UCL’s Research Ethics
            Committee. To strengthen support to staff and students in developing their ethics
            applications, the Department has developed an internal ethics review process, led by
            two staff on a rotating basis. This development reflects a growth in research involving
            human participants, including surveys and field experiments, and commitment to the
            discipline’s move towards pre-registration analysis plans (e.g. projects by Barnes,
            Blumenau, Gift, Harris, Hartman, Hicks, Lauderdale, Schuster).

    (iv)    Increased support for open access research. Central to our open access
            compliance is the support of UCL’s Library Services, who provide guidance and regular
            monitoring. Of all articles accepted from April 2016 (i.e. not only our REF outputs), 98%
            have been deposited in UCL Discovery, are Gold Open Access, or qualify for
            exceptions. Both the Constitution Unit and the GGI publish publicly available research
            and policy reports, assisted by their respective managers. In the REF period, the Unit
            has published 30 reports and the GGI has published 21 reports, freely available online.

 Research infrastructure and facilities

 The Department is situated in three adjoining historical buildings in the heart of Bloomsbury, at
 29–31 Tavistock Square, with offices for staff, post-doctoral research fellows, teaching staff, PhD
 students, and visitors, and a large kitchen/lounge (used for our weekly ‘elevenses’ for all staff and
 PhD students). In 2019, UCL supported a major new capital project to enable the Department’s
 growth with a £9 million investment in a neighbouring building at 36–38 Gordon Square. This
 investment provides the Department with beautifully renovated office space, state-of-the-art space
 for teaching and public events, and a home for the Policy Lab. Staff moved into the new building
 in autumn 2020.

 The Department’s research activities benefit greatly from the UCL Library, which holds an
 extensive research collection, provides access to a wide range of electronic resources, and offers
 assistance from the always helpful subject librarians. UCL infrastructure also facilitates the
 Department’s strength in data science. UCL Research Data Services assist with data
 management. For computationally intensive projects, staff have access to three high-performance
 computing clusters housed in the UCL Research IT services: Legion (general purpose), Myriad
 (parallel computing), and Grace (big data).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 Staff are well connected and play leading roles in international research collaborations and
 regularly collaborate with one another.

 As evidenced in our output selection, staff frequently engage in collaborative research with
 scholars both nationally and internationally, within and beyond the discipline. Collaborations are
 also manifest in large international research grants. Examples include Coen and Pegram’s
 Horizon 2020 project on global governance and the European Union, which has strengthened the
 GGI’s wide network of collaborators beyond the global north; Bakke’s collaboration with
 geographers in a joint ESRC-NSF project surveying geopolitical orientations in the states and de
 facto states in Russia’s near abroad; and Seiferling’s collaboration with economists,

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mathematicians, and experts in an Inter-American Development Bank-funded project investigating
 the emergence of cryptocurrencies in Latin America, Europe, and the US. Indeed, many of the
 examples of our contribution to the research base, economy, and society that follow below come
 from international collaborations.

 International research collaborations have also resulted in affiliate or visiting positions abroad,
 including ESADE Business School, Barcelona (Esteve), ETH Zurich (Vogt), European University
 Institute (Bellamy, Coen), Peace Research Institute Oslo (Bakke, Metternich), Princeton
 (Pasternak), Stanford (Gift), UC Berkeley (Vanhala), and University of Konstanz (Barnes).

 Our department-wide seminars, research clusters, and affiliated UCL institutes facilitate
 collaboration among staff, PhD students, and visitors. They also facilitate visiting appointments.
 In the REF period, we have hosted 59 visitors—from PhD students and post-docs to professors,
 policymakers, and practitioners—for research stays in the Department. The new Policy Lab will
 engender further opportunities for such collaborations.

 Contribution to the research base

 Staff contribute to the research base by developing research networks, contributing to new
 initiatives on research integrity, and holding leadership roles in the discipline.

 Recognising the importance of networks for early career researchers, the Public Policy cluster and
 the Conflict and Change cluster, in cooperation with the Global Governance Institute and the
 Institute of Advanced Studies, facilitate annual workshops for PhD students in the UK and Europe.

 Staff have also been instrumental in developing research networks that include scholars beyond
 the global north. Meckled-Garcia organises the UK–Latin America Political Philosophy Research
 Network. Harris is a founder of the Governance and Local Development Network, bringing
 together scholars in Europe with junior scholars from Kenya, Malawi, and Zambia in a mentoring
 programme—one result is his Comparative Political Studies article in our output selection, co-
 authored with scholars from Malawi. Similarly, results from Schuster’s multi-country collaborative
 research on civil service reform have been published with scholars from, among other places,
 Brazil, Bangladesh, and Chile.

 Reflecting a commitment to research integrity, staff contribute to new international initiatives that
 strengthen research transparency and ethics in the discipline. Hartman is a member of the
 Evidence in Governance and Politics (EGAP) network and a collaborator on its Metaketa Initiative.
 EGAP has been at the forefront of the move towards pre-registered analysis plans in the discipline,
 and the Metaketa Initiative is a novel model for upholding research transparency and conducting
 impact evaluations across coordinated research teams on/in different countries. Central to its
 objective is collaboration with partners in the global south. Cronin-Furman is a programme affiliate
 of the Advancing Research on Conflict (ARC) Consortium, which aims to remedy the discipline’s
 lack of training on the practicalities and ethics of fieldwork. To this end, ARC, which was founded
 by colleagues at the LSE and Johns Hopkins University in 2018, runs an annual summer school
 for PhD students, accompanied by a two-day conference that brings together scholars and
 students working in conflict-affected settings—in 2019 with contributors (Bakke, Hartman) from
 the Department.

 Staff serve as editors (two) or associate editors (11) of journals that shape the discipline: the
 American Political Science Review (Lauderdale), Critical Review of International Social and
 Political Philosophy (Bellamy, Weale), European Journal of Political Research (Radaelli), Ergo
 (McTernan), Journal of Peace Research (Bakke), International Review of Public Policy (Radaelli,
 editor), Local Government Studies (Esteve, editor), Political Studies (Hudson), Nationalities
 Papers (Bulutgil), Philosophy and Public Affairs (Swift), Political Science Research and Methods
 (Metternich), Problems of Post-Communism (Stroschein), and Res Publica (McTernan). In
 addition, staff serve on 46 editorial/advisory boards, including the British Journal of Political
 Science, Ethnopolitics, Journal of Political Philosophy, and Parliamentary Affairs.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff regularly give invited seminars and keynote talks and are active in the discipline. A testament
 to our contribution to—and leadership within—the discipline is the number of staff with roles in
 professional associations in the REF period, including Vice President (Stroschein) and Program
 Committee (Bulutgil) of the Association for the Study of Nationalities, the Council of the Conflict
 Research Society (Bakke), the Steering Committee of the ECPR Standing Group on Political
 Representation (Bellamy), the Political Economy Programme Chair of the European Political
 Science Association (Hicks), the Executive Committee of the International Association for
 Legislation (Radaelli), the College of the International Public Policy Association (Radaelli), the
 Governing Council of the International Studies Association (Bakke), Co-Convenor of the Elections,
 Public Opinion and Parties group of the Political Studies Association (Hudson), and the Governing
 Council of the Royal Institute of Philosophy (Meckled-Garcia). Weale chaired the Royal College
 of Physicians’ Committee on Ethical Issues in Medicine.

 Engagement with society, politics, and economy

 Policy impact and public engagement are integral to the Department’s research strategy. In
 addition to our public events and podcast (Section 1), staff across all fields regularly engage with
 policymakers, practitioners, and wider publics.

 The Constitution Unit—founded in 1995 to inform policy-making and public discourse on
 constitutional change in the UK—is a leading centre for such engagement. During the REF period,
 it published 30 reports on topics including appointments to the House of Lords, devolution, and
 the conduct of referendums. Its blog carried 734 posts, reaching over one million page views. Its
 thrice-yearly newsletter Monitor, summarising constitutional and political developments in the UK,
 has over 5,000 subscribers. These materials are freely available through its website. Over the
 same period, the Unit held 91 public events, across the UK and online—available as videos and,
 since 2020, as podcasts. Unit staff made 39 appearances before parliamentary committees and
 251 broadcast media appearances. They published 81 opinion pieces in outlets including the
 Financial Times, Guardian, Scotsman, Sun, Telegraph, and Times, and the Unit’s work was
 mentioned in at least 599 further media reports. The Unit maintains a lively social media presence,
 with 17,000 Twitter followers and up to 2.4 million monthly impressions.

 The Unit works closely with policymakers. Russell has been Specialist Adviser to two UK
 parliamentary committees. Renwick has been the adviser to a Council of Europe inquiry, a
 member of the Welsh Parliament’s Expert Panel on Assembly Electoral Reform, and on the
 advisory boards of four citizens’ assemblies. The Unit has organised private seminars and
 briefings for government ministers, senior officials, judges, and parliamentarians, on topics
 including the prorogation of parliament, a second Brexit referendum, regulation of elections, and
 processes of royal accession and coronation. It ran the first UK-wide citizens’ assembly, funded
 by the ESRC, in 2017.

 Other members of the Department also work closely with policymakers. Hartman has worked with
 the World Bank’s Gender Innovations Lab and the government of Côte d’Ivoire to evaluate
 property rights and women’s empowerment. Metternich, drawing on his forecasting expertise, has
 served as technical advisor to the European Commission’s Global Conflict Risk Index. Seiferling
 has advised government officials in Bangladesh, the Gambia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Jamaica,
 Kuwait, Maldives, Moldova, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tanzania,
 and Zimbabwe on improving national accounting systems. Esteve has consulted with the regional
 government in Catalonia on social service, health care, and justice provisions. Schuster has
 collaborated with the World Bank, European Commission, OECD, Inter-American Development
 Bank, UN, and ten governments to improve public management practices through surveys of civil
 servants. Poulsen, as an advisor to the Foreign Office, has played a key role in the design and
 delivery of Whitehall’s large training programme to prepare for post-Brexit trade policy. With UCL
 Consultancy, the Department won a 2019 bid to lead Whitehall’s Advanced Trade Policy
 Programme for senior trade officials and a 2020 bid for a policy skills programme for senior policy
 advisors in the UK Treasury.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Several research projects are funded by international development donors, with stakeholder input
 and impact. Hartman’s randomised controlled trial of community monitoring of natural resources
 in Liberia is funded by the UK Department for International Development. She has also conducted
 impact evaluation of community-based land dispute resolution in Myanmar, funded by the
 International Growth Centre and the Norwegian Refugee Council. Hudson, with the Development
 Engagement Lab, has worked with UK and French development agencies and more than 150
 development organisations to help develop campaigns that strengthen public support for
 development aid.

 Engaging with civil society, Vanhala has worked with charities such as Independent Age, BBC
 Children in Need, and the Baring Foundation, and with the governmental Equality and Human
 Rights Commission, on justice and equality challenges. Cronin-Furman’s work on human rights
 abuses has been informed by her collaboration with PEARL, a Tamil human rights organisation,
 and Adayaalam, the first English-language think-tank in north-eastern Sri Lanka.

 In the media, beyond the Constitution Unit, Cronin-Furman regularly comments on human rights—
 her New York Times op-ed on “The Treatment of Migrants Likely ‘Meets the Deﬁnition of a Mass
 Atrocity’” has 1,024 comments—while Gift, Plouffe, and Provost, along with Norman (Lecturer
 [Teaching]), frequently commented on the 2020 US election as part of the mission of the new
 Centre for US Politics, featuring on Al Jazeera, BBC, Bloomberg, CNBC, CNN, ITV, and Sky
 News. Howard often contributes to the BBC on ethics and public policy. Covering topics ranging
 from Labour’s relationship to the working class in the UK to public opinion towards Russia in
 Crimea, staff and PhD students have provided commentary or been cited in The Conversation,
 Financial Times, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Policy, Guardian, Independent, New York Times, Slate,
 Sun, Wall Street Journal, and Washington Post.

 Staff contribute to public debate in other ways, too. Weale’s The Will of the People: A Modern
 Myth—a book on democracy written for a general audience—led to a number of public speaking
 engagements, including at the Guernsey Literary Festival in 2019. Blumenau and Lauderdale are
 data science advisors to YouGov and have conducted forecasting for elections in the UK, the US,
 and Germany. This work featured prominently on front pages and commentaries of national
 newspapers in the 2017 and 2019 UK general elections.

 As a Department, we conduct rigorous research that addresses global policy challenges.
 Responding to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, several staff members developed collaborative
 research projects aimed at assisting policymakers and citizens around the world. Schuster,
 working with the World Bank and academic collaborators, developed a survey of public servants
 to help governments understand the needs facing public employees during the pandemic. It has
 been implemented in eight countries (Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ghana, Kazakhstan, Laos, Morocco,
 and Serbia), with over 150,000 participants. Hudson’s Development Engagement Lab provided
 rapid response message testing for UK and US NGOs to assist practitioners assess the public’s
 development priorities in the early months of the pandemic. Harris, working with experts on the
 ground, conducted panel surveys of citizens in Malawi and Zambia to foster better understanding
 of people’s willingness to get tested and comply with government directives limiting the pandemic’s
 spread. The team has discussed key findings, which were published in January 2021, with the
 Malawi Ministry of Health. Pegram and GGI collaborators have published research and policy
 reports on the climate governance implications of the pandemic—with the aim of securing an
 ecologically sustainable and socially equitable future—and are leading on this policy project as
 part of the COP26 Universities Network, which brings together 30 UK-based universities to help
 deliver climate change outcomes at the 2021 UN climate summit in Glasgow. And, addressing
 political challenges in the UK, Blumenau, Hicks, and O’Grady are collecting longitudinal data from
 a panel of British citizens to understand public support for the British government’s newly
 expanded role in society, with findings disseminated online and in our Policy and Practice seminar.
 Our research and impact strategies, and the steps we have already put in place moving forward,
 will enable us to continue tackling future global challenges.


                                                                                            Page 17
