Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 8: Chemistry
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 The School of Chemistry is a leading research centre committed to an ethos of rigorous
 interdisciplinary research in the chemical sciences, underpinned by outstanding research facilities
 and infrastructure. Our mission is to create fundamental scientific understanding and societal
 impact, through our ambitious strategy of delivering innovative research in collaboration with a
 wide range of international partners. Following our highly ranked REF2014 submission, and
 having achieved a strong performance in delivering education and impact through research,
 Chemistry was identified by Cardiff University (CU) as a key priority area for investment.
 Consequently, the School has grown considerably since REF2014, delivering a 20% growth in
 research active staff, resulting in 44 Category A staff (39.35 FTEs) (Section 2.2).
 The School has successfully grown research income over recent RAE/REF cycles (£49.7M in
 REF2021 compared to £27.7M in REF2014 and £13.8M in RAE2008) leading to our highest ever
 cohort of PDRAs and PGR students. This has been supported by a multi-million pound investment
 by CU into refurbished laboratory space, as well as expansion into a £131M Translational
 Research Hub in Spring 2022 (Section 3). Over this REF period the School produced 2100
 publications, delivered a range of impact (see Impact Cases and Section 4), was awarded the
 first ever Regius Professorship in Wales, played leading roles in national research initiatives
 (e.g. UK Catalysis Hub, National XPS Centre), established the UK’s first Max Planck Centre in
 the Physical Sciences, engaged with national and international scientific communities through
 organised conferences and outreach, and embraced the principles and practices of DORA whilst
 embedding all these activities within a culture of inclusiveness.
 Following REF2014, the School was transformed from a traditional Inorganic, Organic, Physical
 (IOP) structure into five new research sections (see below) to take advantage of our strengths and
 renewed opportunities. At the July 2020 census, the current and former (underlined) academic PI
 staff members, along with current PDRAs and PGR students, in these sections are:
 •   Biological Chemistry PIs: Allemann, Jin, Luk, Loveridge, Pickett, N.Richards (Head),
     Tredwell, Tsai. PDRAs: 17; PhDs: 24; Publications (in REF period): 234; Patent applications:
     1; Grants: £6.85M.
 •   Catalysis & Interfacial Science PIs: Bartley, Bowker, Catlow, Davies, Dimitratos, Hammond,
     Edwards, Golunski, He, Hutchings, Kiely, Logsdail, Meenakshisundaram, Roldan-Martinez,
     Taylor (Head), Wass, Willock. PDRAs: 23; PhDs: 76; Publications: 621; Patent applications:
     11; Grants: £25.06M.
 •   Materials & Energy PIs: Easun, Harris (Head), de Leeuw, Dzade, Leoni, Paul, Hatcher,
     Nanavati, Wu. PDRAs: 6; PhDs: 13; Publications: 617; Grants: £8.62M.
 •   Molecular Synthesis PIs: Amoroso, Bonifazi, Browne, Buurma, Casini, Fallis, Melen, Morrill,
     Newman, Pope, Ward, Wirth (Head). PDRAs: 10; PhDs: 52; Publications: 423; Patent
     applications: 2; Grants: £4.52M.
 •   Spectroscopy & Dynamics PIs: Beames, Carpenter, E.Richards, Knowles, Murphy (Head),
     Platts, Polyak. PDRAs: 3; PhDs: 17; Publications: 204; Patent applications: 1; Grants: £4.6M.
 Additionally, cutting across and drawing membership from all these research sections, catalysis
 research is delivered through the flagship Cardiff Catalysis Institute (CCI) (Director: Hutchings
 2008-19, Wass 2019-), designated a University Research Institute (URI) in recognition of its
 international achievements and reputation. Since 2014, catalysis research through the CCI has
 collectively raised over £28M and generated over 850 publications from across all research
 sections in the School, serving not only as a driver for catalytic science, but also enabling staff to
 collectively form unique partnerships that address diverse multidisciplinary research challenges.
 In the current REF cycle, computational chemistry (led by Catlow) has considerably strengthened
 the core CCI disciplines. The CCI is now one of the lead institutions for major international catalysis

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives, including the EPSRC UK Catalysis Hub, Max Planck Society Maxnet on Energy
 (2015-20), Max Planck Centre in Catalysis (2020-25) (Section 4) and hosted the EPSRC CDT in
 Catalysis (2014-2022).
 1.2 Research strategy
 Our strategic vision is to advance interdisciplinary research through the fundamental and basic
 understanding of chemistry. Our School is committed to solving significant societal challenges,
 whilst contributing to national economic growth through new discoveries. Several research areas
 were already well established in REF2014, particularly Catalysis and Chemical Biology, and we
 have since grown considerable strengths in other areas including Materials, Synthesis,
 Spectroscopy and Computational Chemistry. Since REF2014, all research sections have
 flourished, driven by strategic and diverse academic appointments (Section 2.2). Substantial
 improvements in core instrumentation and space (Section 3) have provided new world class
 facilities, underpinning our success and leading to the dramatic increase in postgraduate research
 student numbers. Building on these existing core strengths, six new cross disciplinary priority
 Research Themes (RT), will drive our continued growth over the next REF period. These multiple
 themes, to which all staff contribute, represent agile groupings with a critical mass of researchers,
 ready to respond to cutting edge and future challenges in the chemical sciences:
 •   RT1 Catalysis: This theme spans biological, homogeneous and heterogeneous catalysis,
     underpinned and supported by theory and characterisation, with broad expertise across the
     discipline that expands beyond traditional catalysis silos to deliver research of fundamental
     and technological importance. Areas of specific and targeted growth include catalysis for
     environmental remediation, water treatment, methodologies for fine chemical synthesis, new
     materials, and decarbonisation of petrochemicals and fuels (including CO2 conversion,
     sustainable synthetic fuels and intermediates, clean oxidations and hydrogenations,
     replacement of toxic, precious, or geopolitically-unfavourable metals). Working with partners
     in industry (producing 27 industry-funded projects since 2014), we exploit this research to
     deliver innovation and impact through the development of new catalytic processes. Selected
     publication highlights include: Small molecule activation by intermolecular frustrated Lewis
     pairs; Identification of single-site gold catalysis in acetylene hydrochlorination; Stable
     amorphous georgeite as a precursor to a high-activity catalyst; Efficient green methanol
     synthesis from glycerol; Aqueous Au-Pd colloids catalyse selective CH4 oxidation to CH3OH
     with O2 under mild conditions.
 •   RT2 Biological chemistry: This theme focuses on a range of problems at the interface of
     chemistry, biology, medicine, and ecology. School specific strengths exist in biocatalysis,
     mechanistic enzymology, bioorganic and bioinorganic chemistry, synthetic biology and
     biomolecular interactions, biomolecular NMR and MS, biophotonics and optogenetics,
     medicinal chemistry, organic synthesis, pheromones and other semiochemicals of plants.
     Selected publication highlights include: Chemical ligation and isotope labelling of dynamic
     catalysis effects by DHFR; Chemoenzymatic assembly of isotopically labelled folates;
     Investigation of structural rearrangements of the Ca2+ and voltage-activated (BK) channel;
     Optically switchable regulation of protein function in live mammalian cells; Plasmodium-
     associated changes in human odour attract mosquitoes; Formation of hexacoordite Mn(III) in
     Bacillus subtilis oxalate decarboxylase.
 •   RT3 Hierarchical functional materials & energy: Research here focuses on the tailored
     synthesis of organic-and inorganic-based materials and their study as functional architectures,
     for engineering light-harvesting systems, storage and conversion of energy, optoelectronic
     devices, sensing and molecular imaging. Areas of unique strength include organic synthesis
     of pi-conjugated molecular graphenes, polymer mediated drug-delivery systems, flame-
     retardant polymers, functional nano-fluidic devices, chemistry and physics of solid inclusion
     compounds, dynamic properties of crystal growth mechanisms, and metal-organic frameworks
     (MOFs). Selected publication highlights include: Borazino-doped polyphenylenes;
     Synthesis of the first BN-doped nanographene; Population and hierarchy of active species in
     Au-Fe oxide catalysts; Complexation of polyoxometalates with cyclodextrins; G-quadruplex
     organic frameworks for light-harvesting; Determining molecular orientations in disordered
     materials.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   RT4 Computation & modelling: Within this theme, emphasis lies in the development of
     computational methods for electron correlation, electron density analysis, QSAR, advanced
     methods of molecular dynamics and importance sampling, thermal and electronic transport
     calculations, correlated and many-body methods applied to the solid state. There is a strong
     interest in software development, and in the effective exploitation of high-performance parallel
     computers, supporting our research in adsorption / reactivity of oxide and metallic surfaces,
     microporous materials, mechanistic studies of organic reactions, structure and function of bio-
     molecules, proton exchange and transport in solutions, simulation of drug-receptor binding,
     and simulation of phase transformations in solids. Selected publication highlights include:
     Bio-inspired CO2 conversion by FeS catalysts; Understanding the role of molecular diffusion
     in liquid-phase Beckmann rearrangement; Revealing the unique mechanism of Au-NHC
     compounds binding to DNA G-quadruplexes; Polaritonic coupled-cluster theory.
 •   RT5 Enabling technologies for sustainable synthesis: This theme impacts not only on
     chemistry, but also fosters new interdisciplinary collaborations with engineering, mathematics,
     and computer science. It achieves a deeper understanding of modern chemical organic
     synthesis tools (e.g. flow chemistry, mechanochemistry, electroorganic synthesis) by
     integrating with robotics, AI and machine learning to demonstrate expedient and automated
     discovery of new materials. Collaboration with computer scientists enable the interfacing of
     discovery platforms with remote touchscreen intelligent control and programming robotic
     devices to execute bespoke optimising algorithms, for rapid learning and discovery. Selected
     publication highlights include: Providing a quantitative approach to predict rate constants
     for aqueous racemisation; Use of mechanochemistry to alter reaction kinetics; Machine-
     assisted syntheses of substituted Ir(III)-pyrazolate luminescence complexes; Electrochemical
     generation of hypervalent iodine; An easy-to-machine electrochemical flow microreactor.
 •   RT6 Development of advanced spectroscopies: Here we focus on the development and
     applications of advanced spectroscopic and characterisation techniques, to unravel
     fundamental properties of materials and biostructures, including a new X-ray birefringence
     imaging technique, new powder X-ray diffraction methods as well as in situ SS NMR studies
     for structure determination from non-crystalline materials, time resolved and perturbation
     methods in EPR, and cavity enhanced laser spectroscopies. We apply these developments to
     mechanistic understanding of chemical and biological pathways in catalysis, understanding
     structure and dynamics of reactive intermediates, selective detection of trace atmospheric
     gases and radicals. Selected publication highlights include: development of a new EPR
     microwave resonance cavity; Infrared-driven unimolecular reactions of CH3CHOO Criegee
     intermediates; In situ K-edge X-ray absorption of single-site Au/C catalysts; X-ray birefringence
     imaging; The role of peroxy radicals in benzaldehyde oxidation; An in situ NMR strategy for
     mapping time-evolution of crystallisation processes.
 School research leadership is provided by the Research Committee (RC), chaired by the Director
 of Research (DoR), with the Head of School (HoS), Director of PGR Studies (DPGRS), Director
 of Impact (DoI), Heads of Sections, Research Support Manager and School Manager, as well as
 ECR and Safety representatives. Since REF2014, the RC has expanded to include safety and
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) as standing agenda items, fully embedding them within our
 research culture. Research is a central agenda item at regular senior management meetings.
 1.3 Progress against REF2014 research strategy and future five-year plan
 Progress in successfully implementing our REF2014 strategic aims are summarised as follows:
 1. To recruit further high-quality academic staff to expand critical mass in Biological and Synthetic
    Chemistry (both organic and inorganic): From 2014-2020, we recruited high-quality full-time
    staff (Section 2.2) and gained critical mass in all research sections, particularly Biological
    Chemistry, Molecular Synthesis and Materials. Appointments include Chairs in Medicinal
    Chemistry (Casini), Biological Chemistry (N.Richards), Organic Supramolecular Chemistry
    (Bonifazi) and Catalysis (Wass). Other recruitments include academic staff in Biological
    Chemistry (Jin, Luk, Tsai, Tredwell), Molecular Synthesis (Browne, Melen, Morrill), Catalysis
    (He, Logsdail, Roldan); Spectroscopy and Dynamics (Beames, E.Richards,) and Materials
    (Easun, Wu). Additional part-time appointments (Catlow FRS, Pickett FRS, Kiely) and fixed

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    term ECRs (Dzade, Hatcher, Nanavati, Polyak) were also made, creating a sustainable
    research culture that is supportive of staff at every career stage.
 2. To attract and support high-calibre researchers by externally funded fellowships: Many of our
    ECRs were awarded prestigious Fellowships including those funded by the Royal Society
    (Hammond, Easun, Hatcher), UKRI (Melen, Dzade, Logsdail) and Wellcome Trust (Jin).
 3. To increase recruitment of high-calibre and international students to postgraduate research
    (PGR) and postgraduate taught (PGT) degree programmes. PGR student numbers and
    applications have doubled since REF2014. PGT numbers have grown to approximately
    40 p.a., following the introduction of new programmes in Medicinal Chemistry and Advanced
    Chemistry, complementing our existing programmes in Catalysis and Biological Chemistry.
    This was achieved through increased grant funding (e.g. Catalysis CDT), and by establishing
    dedicated PGR support (Section 2.8).
 4. To extend our equipment base and facilities. Central to the expansion of the School, CU
    invested over £7.8M in Chemistry to support new research infrastructure and facilities since
    REF2014, including new SAX instrumentation, high-field liquid and solid-state NMR, and
    expanding MS services. Responding to the growth in research activity and academic
    recruitment, extensive new research space (>1065 m2) was created, and existing space was
    repurposed through a further £3.15M refurbishment investment (Section 3.2).
 5. To relocate the School in a new purpose-designed building: A new Translational Research
    Hub - TRH (opening Spring 2022) will act as a hub for fundamental science, with translation
    into application realised and delivered by co-location with industrial partners. This £131M
    project, part of CU’s >£300M Innovation Campus investment (see REF5a), will deliver
    internationally leading, bespoke facilities for the School’s catalysis research (150 researchers)
    and state-of-the-art equipment; e.g. in situ AC-STEM funded by Welsh European Funding
    Office (WEFO) and Wolfson Foundation (Section 3.2).
 Following the successful outcomes of our RAE2008 and REF2014 research plans, over the next
 five years we will rise to the challenge and deliver the next stage of our strategic objectives. We
 will continue to grow the School and strengthen our wider influence, impact and standing based
 on the successful implementation and achievements of the following five key pillars:
 1. To invigorate and strengthen, through strategic staff appointments, the success of our six
    priority research themes;
 2. To sustain and foster our culture of innovation, driven by high impact research, and by
    deploying the full potential of the TRH facility as a platform for collaboration with industry,
    delivering new spin-outs, patents, licencing and consultancy activities;
 3. To develop and innovate our PGR/PGT programmes to meet the changing and dynamic
    needs of the modern chemistry sector, offering new academic and research opportunities,
    such as Chemical Ecology, and an MBA in Chemistry;
 4. To intensify and enhance our civic mission towards the Welsh economy, society and health,
    through engagement with the Welsh Government (WG) and partner organisations;
 5. To drive and shape our future research agenda in interdisciplinary science in Wales and the
    UK, by becoming lead partners on large scale research grants & major international strategic
    partnerships, and through committee participation and elected Fellowships of Learned
    Societies.
 1.4 Research impact
 Impact is a high priority strategic area for the School, overseen by the DoI who Chairs the
 Impact Committee, providing an effective support mechanism to introduce best practice. Impact is
 central within the Personal Development Review (PDR) of individual staff, with emphasis on
 identifying opportunities and development resources (including rewarding impact-active staff in
 workload allocation (Section 2.6). A healthy and dynamic pipeline of impact cases is monitored by
 the DoI, ensuring nascent cases are supported appropriately (examples in Section 4.3). For
 research within the URI remit, impact is facilitated by bringing together diverse researchers with

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 key stakeholders. The CCI has outstanding industrial links with a strategic focus on translation of
 fundamental research into application.
 1.5 Interdisciplinary research
 A culture of interdisciplinary research is successfully delivered in the School, directly evidenced
 by our research themes, and facilitated through the RC (Section 1.2). The DoR participates in
 College and University Research Forums that remove barriers and strengthen collaborations
 between the CU disciplines. Demonstrating the vitality of interdisciplinary research, Chemistry staff
 lead two CU Interdisciplinary Doctoral Training Hubs themed on Sustainable Plastics and
 Biosensors and Diagnostics, reaching across several Schools to create two new student cohorts.
 Chemistry collaborates with the schools of Architecture, Biosciences, Computer Science &
 Informatics, Dentistry, Engineering, Mathematics, Medicine, Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical
 Sciences, and Physics & Astronomy. We are lead partners in the CU Materials Network and the
 Cardiff Institute for Tissue Engineering Research (CITER).
 In addition, URI networks (including the CCI) act as a focal point for interdisciplinary research in
 key areas of strength. For example, a URI on water research brings together biology, ecology,
 engineering, social science and external stakeholders (Welsh Water), with chemistry-led projects
 on water treatment (e.g. Easun, Hutchings). We have also made a joint academic appointment
 (Tredwell) with the Wales Research and Diagnostic Positron Emission Tomography Imaging
 Centre (PETIC), strengthening biological chemistry research.
 1.6 Open Access (OA)
 The School is compliant with all funder requirements and Concordat on Open Research Data,
 ensuring full online access to scientific information (free of charge to end-users). Open data is
 managed through CU Converis system, with mandated datasets assigned a unique DOI. The
 Open Access Coordinator) manages OA for the School, overseeing training, recording and
 ensuring compliance with funders’ requirements. All post-print files and bibliographic details for
 outputs are held in CU’s digital publications repository. 100% of Category A staff are registered
 on ORCID.
 1.7 Research ethics and integrity
 Research Integrity training is mandatory for all academic staff and PGR students. We comply
 with all ethics protocols, while our Ethics Officer is responsible for managing ethical issues through
 the School’s Research Ethics Committee. The Ethics Officer monitors procedures, reviews issues,
 ensures researchers receive correct documentation, and conducts three-yearly reviews, reporting
 outcomes to the Cardiff University Open Research Integrity and Ethics Committee (ORIEC). The
 School’s Research Ethics Committee also considers research proposals involving human
 participants, human material or human data. Researchers regularly update the Committee for
 monitoring, providing written reports to comply with standard accountability procedures, with a
 retrospective review on project completion.
 2. People
 2.1 Staff development strategy
 The School developed a strategy to enable all staff (regardless of grade or career pathway) to
 attain their full potential, by providing access to a range of professional and personal training
 courses, including wellbeing and mandatory courses in EDI and Unconscious Bias. At institutional
 level, CU became a Global Stonewall Diversity Champion in 2019 and the top UK University in the
 ranking for the fourth year running, climbing to 10th place in the Top 100 Employers List. CU has
 held an Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze award since 2009, and recently created Deans for
 Research Environment & Culture, and EDI (2019). CU also has a network for LGBT+ staff and
 postgraduates, entitled Enfys (see REF5a). Our School holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award
 (2019), with a clear action plan implemented through our EDI committee. In 2018, CU introduced
 a mandatory Leadership & Management training course for senior staff (including Professors and
 Senior Line Managers), which all Chemistry senior staff have completed. ECRs take an additional
 Academic Practice training programme, leading to Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy
 (FHEA). Upon successful completion of probation, all staff participate in an annual PDR, receiving

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regular guidance and support for career progression; overall the School has >98% annual
 completion rates (in the past five years). The School has provided funding for two female academic
 staff to attend the Aurora National Leadership Programme, designed for HE institutions to take
 positive action to address the under-representation of women in leadership positions in the sector.
 2.2 Staffing and recruitment strategy
 The School has expanded considerably since REF2014, strategically recruiting new staff across
 all career stages, growing capacity in our research themes, whilst also ensuring robust
 succession and progression planning. Currently the School hosts 44 research active T&R
 academic staff, increasing from 35 in REF2014, supported by a further five FTE academic staff on
 the T&S career pathway.
 Following REF2014, the School identified staff retiring and leaving as a prodigious opportunity to
 progressively revitalise research activity, strategically recruiting many new staff to underpin the
 five research sections and establish the new innovative research themes (Section 1.2).
 Recruitment expansion was also facilitated in-part through a CU staff and capital investment
 plan (£7.8M). Strategic new appointments were made in Biological Chemistry (two Professors,
 N.Richards, Casini and four ECRs, Jin, Luk, Tredwell, Tsai), Organic/Inorganic/Materials
 Chemistry (one Professor, Bonifazi and five ECRs, Browne, Easun, Melen, Morrill, Wu), Catalysis
 (one Professor, Wass and three ECRs, He, Logsdail, Roldan) and Spectroscopy (two ECRs,
 Beames, E.Richards), all supporting our research themes. Simultaneously, a number of new part-
 time appointments of renowned scientists were also made, including Catlow FRS (Catalysis), Kiely
 (Electron Microscopy) and Pickett FRS (Chemical Biology), whilst Bowker, Carpenter and
 Hutchings FRS were retained in their senior positions. We also recruited two independent software
 engineers (Nanavati, Polyak) and two externally funded Research Fellows (Dzade, Hatcher).
 As a consequence of the strongly supportive research environment in the School, the
 accomplishments of some staff appointed since 2015 has facilitated their move to prestigious new
 academic positions in the current REF cycle, including de Leeuw (PVC-Leeds), Bonifazi (Vienna)
 and Casini (Munich). We are also proud that we facilitated ECRs to achieve their career choice to
 take up positions in other Schools outside Chemistry including Browne (Pharmacy, UCL), He
 (Material Science, NU Singapore) and Hammond (Chemical Engineering, Imperial). We have a
 clear strategy for replacement appointments, with recent examples including a Chair in Catalysis
 (Pera-Titus, September 2020) and a Medicinal Chemistry Lecturer (Serpi, October 2020), with
 more appointments to follow.
 In 2015, we introduced changes into the text of our job adverts, to include positive statements
 about gender equality, inclusivity, and flexible working policies to facilitate staff to achieve a good
 work-life balance. Academic recruitment panels now include at least one female staff member.
 Importantly, the HoS writes to all academic position candidates following their interview, giving
 detailed feedback on their performance at interview.
 The average age of our academic staff has decreased significantly since REF2014 (84% of staff
 are below 60 years, with 52% under 50 years.), demonstrating the long-term vitality of our
 environment. In addition to our nurtured home talent, we have a large number of international
 staff (ca. 30%) coming from 13 different countries. Commensurate with this growth in staff, the
 School has seen a progressive increase in the total number of PDRAs; up from 52 at census date
 in REF2014 to a maximum of 74 during this REF cycle. After recruiting 13 ECRs onto fixed-term
 University Fellowships in 2014-15, all were converted to open ended permanent positions, and
 four were additionally promoted to SL or Reader. All of our ECRs successfully secured funding in
 this REF cycle including multiple UKRI responsive mode grants. The School thus continues to
 build its reputation as a place for nurturing new talent.
 2.3 Supporting ECR staff
 Training courses specifically targeted at PDRAs and ECRs are available, with participation
 strongly encouraged. PDRAs are given the opportunity to develop their academic skills, by
 assisting in undergraduate (UG) workshops, through delivery of laboratory-based classes and
 through the School’s Post-Doctorate Lecture programme. Occasionally, senior PDRAs with a
 demonstrable aptitude for teaching are given responsibility for delivering UG lecture components;

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 some have successfully moved to new academic posts (e.g. Freakley, Bath; Kondrat,
 Loughborough; Miedziak, South Wales; O’Malley, Bath; Terranova, Buckingham; Wilcox,
 Manchester).
 Fellowship applications are thoroughly supported by the School, including the provision of practice
 interviews. During the REF period, seven ECRs were awarded externally funded Fellowships
 from the Royal Society (Hammond, Easun, Hatcher), UKRI (Melen, Dzade, Logsdail) and
 Wellcome Trust-Henry Dale (Jin), along with three Marie Curie Co-Fund Fellowships and several
 Marie Curie individual fellowships that are recruited annually. The School takes a proactive role in
 supporting the long-term career aspirations of talented PGR researchers; two former PGR
 students (female) progressed to permanent academic positions in this REF cycle. ECRs receive
 a generous start-up package whilst their teaching and administrative loads are managed
 accordingly in the first three years of appointment (increasing from 25%, 50% to 75%). This
 workload management greatly facilitated their success allowing them to focus on research.
 The University provides training courses for all staff when applying for research funding; e.g. the
 EPSRC New Investigator Forum, the Royal Society URF support programme and EU Fellowship
 support programmes. Opportunities are available for ECRs to sit on mock panels. All staff have
 access to a library of research applications, reviewers’ comments and PI responses. The School
 operates a mandatory grant application peer-review scheme, with feedback from two or more
 colleagues. No applications >£50K are submitted without undergoing formal internal peer review.
 After four years in post, our ECRs participate in committees within the School, in a deputy
 capacity, principally to learn about the role and gain experience of academic management duties
 without the administrative burden.
 2.4 Research leave & flexible working schemes
 CU runs an ongoing University Research Leave scheme (6-12 months) which is available to all
 academic staff, and the Cardiff Disglair Lectureship scheme facilitates longer periods of
 research leave, alongside funding postdoctoral researchers transitioning into their first teaching
 and research position (see REF5a). Applications for flexible working arrangements are also
 encouraged and supported in the School. Six staff members (three-female; three-male) have
 availed of this flexible working opportunity, with periods ranging from three months to four years,
 and we have a comprehensive Returners Support Scheme in place to assist staff returning after
 extended leave.
 2.5 Stimulating exchange
 A significant proportion of our PGR students obtain industrial experience, through direct
 collaboration and/or placements. Since 2014, the School has attracted 11 fully funded PhD
 studentships (ca. £160K each with partners including DSTL, FIRS Laboratories, RSR Ltd,
 ExxonMobil), 14 students through a matched-funding CU initiative, eight UKRI iCASE
 studentships (Johnson Matthey, Jaguar Land Rover, BP), and nine students through the
 Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship (KESS – WEFO and industry funding), all of whom spend
 time in industry. Several students have projects linked to the Diamond Light Source. Involvement
 of industrial partners is also manifested through our external advisory boards (e.g. the CCI board).
 One ECR held a two-month secondment at BBC Wales, gaining experience in science
 communication and broadcasting. EPSRC IAA funding has also led to two PDRAs undertaking
 secondments with Greenergy and Johnson Matthey.
 Our annual seminar series provides a regular vibrant forum for all staff and students, and we are
 currently moving to a blended delivery programme with on-site and virtual guest speakers. They
 are planned by the ECR seminar committee (enabling them to build collaborative networks) by
 soliciting suggestions from across the School. Final selection is decided in consultation with the
 RC. Crucially, guest speakers have lunch with PGR students during their on-site visits, enabling
 students to discuss their research with leading experts.
 2.6 Recognising, rewarding and supporting impact
 The School operates a Workload Allocation system published annually with tariffs covering
 teaching (modular, non-modular, scholarship), PGR supervision research, engagement,
 management and citizenship, including a generous 600 hours allocated to Research. Staff with

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded research grants (and student supervision) are therefore transparently accounted for
 through reduced teaching and administrative contributions. For non-professorial staff, successful
 performance is recognised through promotion (overall 14 successful promotions to SL, Reader or
 Professor in current REF cycle) or through the annual Outstanding Contributions Awards scheme.
 For Professorial staff, a bi-annual Senior Salary Review is conducted, and excellent research
 performance is rewarded. For staff developing research impact, a generous workload tariff is
 provided, with delivery facilitated through internal funding; e.g. 37 Impact Acceleration Awards of
 £920K value in the review period (Section 4.3).
 2.7 PGR recruitment
 In the 2014-20 period, PGR applications increased by 180%, up to a high of 279 in 2019. All posts
 are advertised via the university website and FindaPhD.com. Up to 60 PGR students start
 annually(via October/January/April/July entry points), with the total number enrolled each year
 increasing from 2014-15 to 2018-19, representing a near doubling of PGR numbers compared
 to REF2014. The small drop in 2019-20 was largely due to uncontrollable external factors (e.g.
 Covid-19) and resultant deferrals to enrolment. The quality of international PGR applicants is
 maintained via a mandatory interview process; the proportion of non-EU international PGR
 students has increased to 26% in 2019-20. We also host ca. 50 (capped for best experience)
 visiting PGR students annually, mostly from overseas, supporting a vibrant research culture based
 on ca. 250 PGR students. PGR recruitment is overseen by the School’s monthly Academic
 Recruitment Group.
                           2014-15     2015-16      2016-17      2017-18     2018-19      2019-20
  Applications             153         225          247          237         279          159
  Starters                 46          60           57           58          57           38
  Enrolled total           120         148          167          187         200          182
  Thesis submission        74%         82%          86%          100%        87%          96%

 Recruitment from diverse backgrounds is funded via EPSRC DTA, CU studentships, including
 Vice-Chancellor Scholarships, KESS and China scholarships (CSC). Industry, iCASE and UKRI
 are all commonly used, with further funding from the EPSRC Catalysis CDT.
 Since 2014, the School has attracted 11 fully funded PhD studentships (ca. £160K each) and eight
 iCASE awards. The Catalysis CDT attracted a total of 61 MRes starters (11 2014-15, 13 2015-16,
 12 2016-17, 13 2017-18, 12 2018-19), in addition to 58 fully funded School/College/University PhD
 studentships (11 2014-15, 7 2015-16, 14 2016-17, 13 2017-18, 4 2018-19, 9 2019-20). We support
 international applicants looking for funding via CSC (total 6), Commonwealth Scholarship (1), VC
 Scholarship (2), and CONACyT (3). We also have four Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN PGR
 students, across two different EU projects. Involvement in other CDTs include one PGR student
 who is part of the Bath Doctoral Training Initiative for Biosensors.
 2.8 PGR monitoring and support
 Students have one or more supervisor(s), and a review panel of two independent academics.
 Progress monitoring events occur at three, nine, 15, 21, 27, 33, 39, 45 months, with progression
 recommendation by the review panel at nine, 21 and 33 months. For each event, students submit
 a research plan, skills audit/self-assessment record, and a record of supervisor(s) meetings, while
 supervisors submit a report. At nine, 21 and 33 months, the students also submit a longer-form
 report (plus thesis plan at 33 months); an interview with the review panel determines the
 progression recommendation. The DPGRS reviews all PGR monitoring events, implementing
 corrective action if necessary; additional support is available through our dedicated PGR Office.
 This rigorous process has facilitated the increased thesis submission rates (see Table above).
 All PGR students and academic staff are enrolled on a dedicated online PGR module which
 supports all aspects of PGR activity (including counselling, health and wellbeing services; training,
 including ethics and integrity, unconscious bias, and equality and diversity; safety forms; career
 development; thesis submission checklist; demonstrating guidance; feedback mechanisms and
 PGR Forum/SSC/Board dates/minutes). All PGRs further benefit from numerous training courses

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the Doctoral Academy and the GW4 Alliance (universities of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff, and
 Exeter).
 Mentoring and supporting PGR scientists is facilitated in several ways. The HoS meets all PGR
 students twice per year. Through a quarterly PGR Forum, nominated PGR Representatives and
 the DPGRS liaise with the whole PGR cohort, key discussion points form the agenda and actions
 for subsequent PGR Staff-Student Committees and PGR Boards. PGR students also hold
 membership on School committees (e.g. Athena Swan; Safety). Submission of confidential
 feedback is encouraged, allowing the School to triage issues, formally record extenuating
 circumstances and process rapid actions. PGR students complete an exit survey allowing us to
 reflect upon their experiences and improve School policy. PGR is a standing agenda item at RC,
 SET and School Board, providing managerial oversight of all PGR related matters.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research funding
 The School has witnessed a dramatic uplift in Research income performance in the current REF
 cycle, primarily stimulated through our enabling strategy of strengthening the core equipment and
 research facilities. Some of the highlights evidencing this performance are outlined below. Our
 total research grant income over the assessment period has grown to £49.7M, up from £27.7M
 for the REF2014 period (79.4% increase). We received competitive funding from EPSRC,
 BBSRC, MRC, NERC, STFC, EU, RSC, HEFCW, Welsh Government, WEFO, Innovate UK,
 DSTL, MoD, US Secretary of State of Defence, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, Wolfson
 Foundation, Royal Society, Diamond Light Source, Academy of Medical Sciences, Analytical
 Chemistry Trust Fund, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Biochemical Society, British Council,
 Combatting Terrorism Technical Support Office, Daphne Jackson Foundation, Stapledon
 Memorial Trust and National Nuclear Laboratory. Research awards from industry have also
 grown (52 awards, £6.01M). Our research spend increased considerably (REF4a income data);
 from 2013-14 to 2018-19, annual income increased from £2.14M to £3.91M (+83%) for UKRI,
 from £42K to £433K (+1031%) for UK Charity competitive processes, and from £3.92M to £6.18M
 (+58%) for all income. Our income also increased in absolute terms per FTE.
 Research grant applications are aligned with the School’s research strategy and are managed
 through our five research sections (Section 1.1). All staff are supported in grant writing, as a core
 component of the annual PDR process, with specific emphasis on supporting ECRs through
 interaction with Line Managers and support programmes (Section 2). Our strong collaborative
 environment encourages ECRs to work with more senior colleagues on funding applications. The
 School operates a Rolling Grant Pipeline, staff discuss their grant application plans with Line
 Managers, along with an annual meeting with the DoR and Research and Innovation Support
 Manager (RISM) to construct a live pipeline document that evolves through the year. The pipeline
 facilitates our strategic planning of applications, avoids bottle necks in submissions, and provides
 on-going administrative support up to the point of submission and beyond.
 The School partnered or leads on a range of large-scale grants, with total funding of £21M from
 EPSRC. We are a central institution to the Catalysis Hub, with £9.1M directly awarded to Cardiff
 (Section 4.1). Another example is an EPSRC Centre-to-Centre Grant (£1.53M), to investigate
 fundamental aspects for conversion of CO2 to sustainable fuels. This approach builds on our
 success in the EPSRC Low Carbon Fuels Call (£1.88M).
 3.2 Operational infrastructure, including specialist equipment
 To support the strategic growth of all research staff and students, we significantly increased our
 estate footprint since REF2014. Housed in the historic Main Building of CU, we have expanded
 post-REF2014 to occupy new research space in the South Wing (increasing by 22% to 7717 m2).
 The new facilities have predominantly been allocated for research laboratories, providing an
 additional 1065 m2 of new space, allowing expansion of existing facilities and creating new ones.
 Simultaneously the School has also refurbished and repurposed existing research space within
 its original footprint through CU investment of £3.15M.
 These new facilities were created to support our strategic research themes, underpinning all
 research groups, including: laboratories for organic and inorganic synthesis, materials preparation,

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biological chemistry, heterogeneous/homogeneous catalysis, and dedicated computational
 research space. The Catalysis CDT Research Training Laboratory was also established and fully
 equipped. A number of facilities focusing on specific equipment were created, including
 laboratories for high-field EPR, Mass Spectrometry, SEM and data processing suite, solid-state
 NMR and high-throughput multifunctional catalyst testing reactor suite.
 Having occupied Main Building since 1927, our estate infrastructure will undergo a significant
 transformation in early 2022 when the CCI relocates into the nearby TRH building on the new
 CU Innovation Campus. The TRH will bring together all catalysis researchers, co-housed in
 purpose designed laboratories to engender interdisciplinary research, including the computational
 modelling groups. Vacated space in Main Building will be refurbished primarily for new UG/PGT
 teaching provision. The TRH building is part of a £131M investment by CU to deliver world-
 leading facilities for the CCI, alongside the Institute for Compound Semiconductors, and part of an
 overall >£300M investment in the new Innovation Campus. New facilities include an analytical
 suite for catalyst characterisation (330 m2), and laboratories for catalyst preparation/testing (830
 m2). The TRH also contains externally accessible industrial collaboration laboratories (210 m2),
 featuring configurable space for commercially focused projects, creating an important driver for
 innovation, enterprise and impact. The TRH will house a new EM facility with a suite of TEM and
 SEM instruments, including a unique next generation analytical in situ AC-STEM funded by
 Wolfson Foundation £0.75M, WEFO £3.66M and CU.
 The School has also established substantial new equipment to support research, mainly
 through external funding and matched CU support, including a new X-ray Photoelectron
 Spectroscopy facility for surface analysis (Sêr Cymru £543K, and Cardiff Research Infrastructure
 Fund) along with a School funded experimental officer post (Morgan). This facility underpins our
 catalysis and materials research and is complemented by the Cardiff led EPSRC National Facility
 in Photoelectron Spectroscopy (Section 4.1).
 Since 2014 the School has invested heavily in its core MS and NMR facilities, with financial support
 from EPSRC (£0.98M) and CU. New MS equipment totalling £1.60M (Perkin Elmer TGA-FTIR-
 GCMS, Waters Synapt LCMS, Waters Xevo LCMS, Agilent 7900 ICPMS, Bruker Autoflex MALDI-
 MS, and Thermo Finnigan Orbitrap Exact GCMS) has been installed in a suite of custom
 refurbished laboratories, strengthening our existing MS facilities. The Xevo (for small biological
 molecules) and Synapt LCMS (for analysis of biomolecules) instruments underpin much of the
 research in RT2. The TGA-FTIR-GCMS identifies volatiles evolved during controlled heating of
 solids, supporting projects in bioenergy, biomass processing and high-performance materials,
 underpinning research in RT3. Analysis and characterisation of proteins, peptides and polymeric
 materials uses the Autoflex Speed MALDI-MS system equipped with a Time-of-Flight mass
 analyser, whilst ultra-high resolution GCMS is achieved using the Orbitrap Exact system.
 To complement our widely used 600 MHz and other NMR spectrometers, a £1.26M investment
 established four new NMR spectrometers (Bruker solid-state 400 MHz, Bruker 500 MHz with
 Prodigy Cryoprobe, two Bruker 300 MHz), in addition to upgrading the existing 400 MHz systems,
 underpinning the successful outputs and grant income in all Research Themes. The solid-state
 NMR instrument is equipped with two CPMAS H/X double resonance probes for the
 characterisation of heterogeneous catalysts and functional materials. The 500 MHz liquid NMR
 system has an auto-tuneable cryogenic Prodigy broadband multinuclear dual resonance probe for
 analysis of 1H, 19F nuclei and nuclei in the frequency range 15N to 31P, with a 60-port sample
 changer allowing fully automated data collection. Both 300 MHz liquid NMR systems have a dual
 resonance probe for the observation of 1H and 13C nuclei, with 60-port auto-changer providing fully
 automated data collection.
 Over the past 50-years, the School has established a strong track record in EPR spectroscopy
 research and this has continued over the REF period, recently moving into a refurbished laboratory
 to accommodate a new W-band (90 GHz) EPR instrument (EPSRC £712K). Further hardware
 developments extending instrument capabilities include the design of new resonators for multi-
 modal spectroscopy (Royal Society), design of new dual-mode resonators (EPSRC £720K),
 tuneable light sources for ultra-fast time-resolved photochemical studies (EPSRC Cardiff
 Equipment Fund) and engineered surfaces for photocatalysis (EPSRC £304K), supporting close
 collaborative research projects with Industrial partners; e.g. Johnson Matthey, AstraZeneca.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A unique £1.6M 32-bed multifunctional high-throughput automated reactor for heterogeneous
 catalyst testing was installed in 2018 and commissioned in 2020 (EPSRC £874K; supported by
 Johnson Matthey, Invista and the Catalysis Hub). The reactor is custom designed to operate over
 a wide range of conditions for many versatile applications. Two 16-bed modules operate
 independently with robotic and automated analysis for gas/solid and gas/solid/liquid reactions,
 providing key data for research on valorising waste streams, sustainable feedstocks, CO 2
 utilisation and environmental catalysis.
 The School of Chemistry plays a central role in Supercomputing Wales (SW) and Advanced
 Research Computing @ Cardiff (ARCCA) facilities, with high performance computing
 underpinning research in RTs one, three and four, including fundamental quantum theory
 (Knowles), new materials (Leoni, Harris), homogeneous catalysis and life sciences (N.Richards,
 Platts) and heterogeneous catalysis (Catlow, de Leeuw, Logsdail, Roldan, Willock). The SW
 project (WEFO, £5.65M) provides the infrastructure and support for two dedicated software
 engineers (Nanavati, Polyak), with responsibility for supporting researchers on HPC resources,
 whilst developing their own independent research.
 Central analytical services underpin all operational research, and they are supported and
 managed by the School Manager and Deputy School Manager, reporting to the RC. A team of
 technical and professional services staff support our analytical facilities, increasing from 15 FTE
 in REF2014 to 19 FTE currently. CU supports technical staff to attain professional registration; as
 a signatory to the Technician Commitment, CU was awarded Employer Champion Status in
 2018. Infrastructure technicians (Blake, Cross, Griffiths, Halton) support operation of the research
 laboratories. Dedicated technicians support analytical services, ensuring method development,
 local management and data dissemination and archiving (Court-Wallace, Hicks, Perdjon, Waller,
 Williams). Fully equipped mechanical and electronic workshops provide bespoke manufacturing
 and specialised maintenance (Morris, Wescombe). Seven Experimental Officers are dedicated to
 specialist facilities, including high-throughput catalyst testing (Nia.Richards), EM (Davies), XPS
 (Morgan), catalysis (Shaw), crystallography (Kariuki), solid-state NMR (Hughes), and biological
 chemistry NMR (Mart).
 The School based RISM (Moseley) provides support on all aspects of research grant preparation,
 submission, and administration, liaising closely with investigators. Costings for research proposals
 are supported through the pre-awards team based in Research and Innovation Services (RIS),
 ensuring compliance with external funders’ conditions, they also provide support and training for
 Fellowship applications. The central Contracts Team support investigators, in drafting, reviewing
 and negotiating research-related contracts. Additionally, the University Commercial Development
 team has 15 staff, providing support with IP protection, translational research, licensing and
 spinout company creation.
 A specialised Science (Chemistry) Library is co-housed within the Main Building, with a dedicated
 chemistry librarian, and many specialist chemistry information resources including SciFinder
 Scholar, PubChem and Chemspider. The annual library budget is £6.4M and provides access to
 over 100,000 journal titles (see IREF5a).
 The School promotes EDI in its research culture, and continually works to make infrastructure
 and facilities accessible to all. Examples are the modification of specific research laboratories to
 improve accessibility to wheelchair users, and those with impaired mobility. The move to wider
 ranging electronic based resources, complying with W3C International Standards on Accessibility,
 now widens access to these resources for those with a range of disabilities.
 3.3 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise contributing to impact
 Access to School equipment is available to industry and other collaborators, creating an open
 access culture for research to deliver impact. New impact focused facilities have been established;
 e.g. a new reactor for kg scale-up polymer preparation, characterisation and a twin-screw extruder
 to manufacture prototypes for mechanical testing and 3D printing filaments (CU funded, £294K),
 led to collaboration with Kingspan. The School positively encourages industrial collaboration, by
 providing studentship and seed-corn funding to create new partnerships. Staff are readily available
 to work with external stakeholders on projects that focus on impact; the collaborative nature of


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 many teams and the structured Research Groups means that a wide range of staff can feed in
 their expertise.
 Chemistry actively engages with the CU Innovation Network, created in 1996 to establish contacts
 between business and CU for knowledge transfer, and now has more than 1,800 members from
 business, academia, and support organisations. IAA funding has allowed researchers to
 undertake secondment with industry on research projects that have a specific impact focus, with
 secondments to Greenergy, Johnson Matthey Sonning and Johnson Matthey Shanghai, the latter
 two supporting our impact case Golden Green Chemistry.
 3.4 Collaborative and shared equipment
 School equipment and infrastructure sharing has been identified as a means of promoting
 collaboration and ensuring efficient use of resources (particularly senior staff helping ECRs
 access specialist equipment). CU maintains a searchable equipment and facilities database,
 providing researchers with technical details of ca. 350 items of equipment available for research.
 This database also feeds into the national EPSRC-funded equipment.data.ac.uk database,
 publicly available to both potential academic and industrial users. Our equipment and facilities are
 also included in a regional equipment database maintained by the GW4 Alliance, which is
 committed to establishing shared infrastructure on a regional basis.
 Research is also underpinned by use of STFC facilities, including Diamond Light Source, ISIS
 neutron scattering/diffraction and RAL laser facilities. EPSRC National Facilities are regularly
 used, with a particular focus on crystallography, NMR and XPS. The School was a lead partner
 establishing the catalysis research laboratory in the Research Complex at Harwell, maintaining
 a permanent presence with resident PGR students and staff.
 3.5 Major benefits in kind
 For UKRI applications in the assessment period, 393 letters of support from companies and
 other non-academic partners were submitted, pledging £24.7M contributions in kind and cash,
 resulting in 92 successful awards and contributions of £5.38M. Sponsorship of prizes for several
 research meetings have been received (Section 4). Another example is that Bruker Biospin funded
 a one-year PDRA as project partners to support the establishment of a high field W-band EPR
 facility. We also received in kind access to many international large-scale facilities, for example,
 five competitively won days for neutron scattering at the Institute Laue-Langevin Grenoble
 (>£60k), as well as access to the European Synchrotron Facility at Grenoble, Electra Sincrotrone
 at Trieste, Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility, and advanced electron microscopy at the US
 Oakridge National Laboratories.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The School of Chemistry recognises its responsibility to promote collaboration across all the
 scientific disciplines, and this is reflected in the wide range of interactions that the School holds.
 Over 1000 publications are co-authored with external collaborators from national and international
 institutions, facilities and industry. In this REF cycle, staff have delivered 203 collaborative
 awards of total value £31.4M and 68 of these awards were industrially collaborative projects
 (£5.9M, UK, EU and overseas), including a Total Research & Technology heterogeneous catalysis
 consortium (£879K) involving four academic partners from the EU. Another specific example of
 international partnership from our Catalysis Theme is our recently established Max Planck Centre
 (MPC) on Fundamentals of Heterogeneous Catalysis, which combines leading expertise in the
 CCI with the Max-Planck-Institut für Kohlenforschung, the Fritz Haber Institute of the Max Planck
 Gesellschaft FHI and the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Energy Conversion, enabling this MPC
 to share key resources, including industrial interactions. Our MPC is only one of three in the UK
 and the first in physical chemical sciences. Another major collaborative activity for the CCI is the
 EPSRC Centre-to-Centre grant on trimetallic nanoparticles for CO2 conversion (£1.53M;
 Hutchings, Catlow, Taylor, and others), involving UCL, Utrecht and Fritz-Haber-Institute.
 Another significant collaboration is the UK Catalysis Hub, involving several members of the
 School (PIs Hutchings, Catlow, with nine other members of staff involved in projects) with 45

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partner institutions, creating collaborative projects with the Universities of Manchester, Bath,
 Oxford, Southampton, London (UCL), Sheffield, Durham, Bristol, Imperial and Glasgow, with 27
 industrial partners contributing nearly £1.5M (including Sabic, Johnson Matthey, Welsh Water,
 Unilever, Selden, BP, GSK, Lucite). The School of Chemistry remains a leading player in this
 venture.
 Other representative examples of large collaborative grants across our Research Themes
 include: 1) WEFO Supercomputing Wales (£5.65M; Catlow, Knowles and others) involving
 Cardiff, Swansea, Bangor, Aberystwyth; 2) Utilisation of Solar Energy and Electrocatalytic
 Processes for the Low Energy Conversion of CO2 to Fuels and Chemicals (£1.3M; Catlow, De
 Leeuw, Roldan), led by Cardiff with UCL, QUB and Johnson Matthey. The School is also involved
 in a number of EU doctoral training network programmes: 3) EU Industrial Doctorate
 CHARISMA led by Cardiff (€606K, Bonifazi), involving 3 academic partners and two companies,
 to study the concept of applied irreversibility to displays; 4) EU ITN PARACAT led by Torino
 (€2.6M, Murphy) involving five universities, one research institute, three industrial partners, and
 two academic partners, to investigate the role of paramagnetic species in catalysis; 5) EU ITN
 PHOTOTRAIN led by Bologna (€2.6M, Bonifazi), a network involving 13 global academic and
 industrial partners focussing on fundamental conversion of solar energy.
 From our Research Theme in hierarchical functional materials, staff (Fallis, Dervisi, Beames,
 Pope) have developed new scientific collaborations with UK and US governmental agencies,
 international defence agencies and industry to commercialise methods for chemical warfare agent
 detection, supported by a competitively tendered technology development contract from the
 Counter Terrorism Technology Support Office (US State Department). The ongoing contract will
 supply thousands of colorimetric test devices and iteratively refine their use by generalist military
 and first-responder personnel (see Impact Case Novel high fidelity point-of-use tests for chemical
 warfare agents).
 The School has always retained strength and excellence in X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy,
 and this unique collaborative position is exemplified through the EPSRC National Facility in XPS
 (£2.58M, Davies). This National Facility, led by Cardiff along with UCL and Manchester, is based
 on a cluster of versatile instruments in Cardiff (including UPS and ISS), with access to in situ EELS
 and angle resolved XPS primarily at the Research Complex at Harwell.
 The School of Chemistry collaborates with a diverse range of other schools including Pharmacy
 & Pharmaceuticals, on therapeutic proteins for targeted cancer treatment (Allemann, BBSRC,
 £510K), Medicine to develop new devices for portable anaesthesia (Paul, MRC, £741K) and
 Engineering on developing new microwave resonators (Murphy, EPSRC, £720K). Opportunities
 to develop collaborations between the disciplines are supported by university-funded networks
 (e.g., University Research Network in Materials Science) and URIs, based on themes that
 traditionally cut across several disparate disciplines. Many of the URIs have significant Chemistry
 involvement (Section 1.5). CU also has strategic partnerships with KU Leuven (Belgium), Xiamen
 University (China), Unicamp (Brazil), University of Namibia (Namibia) and Bremen University
 (Germany).
 4.2 Interactions with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 The contribution of staff in the School to the discipline including our wider beneficiaries is illustrated
 through the number of lectures at conferences, meetings and workshops and organised
 conferences locally. These are pivotal mechanisms for staff interaction, engagement, and
 relationship development with potential collaborators. A focal point in the School calendar is the
 annual Cardiff Chemistry Conference (CCC), a two-day event involving lectures from 6
 internationally eminent scientists, local ECR academic staff and PGR/PDRA researchers. A similar
 annual 2-day CCI conference includes lectures by 6-8 experts in catalysis research, including
 industrialist and academic speakers.
 Successful commercial collaborations between industry and the School are exemplified by a
 series of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships with Selden, transferring fundamental catalysis
 discoveries into commercial products (£492K). Interactions with external partners have also been
 strengthened by the appointment of staff to advisory roles (Section 4.5), including funding councils.


                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond academic and commercial arenas, more far-reaching connections have been made with
 key audiences in societal and political settings through participation with political institutions (e.g.
 Science and the Assembly). Members of the School have also participated in RS, EU and UKRI
 policy development meetings, across a broad range of scientific fields, including the circular
 economy and CO2 conversion. Furthermore, members of the School have contributed to Welsh,
 UK and European governmental policy; e.g. Catlow on House of Lords EU Committee to hear
 evidence on the UK’s future relationship with the EU on research and education (Oct 2020).
 4.3 Wider contributions to economy and society
 Based on our vision of scientific excellence, investigators aim to dedicate a proportion of their time
 to disseminate research results to the general public and other sectors of society. These events
 couple our fundamental research with the natural enthusiasm of our staff to disseminate their
 research. Our impact cases (see below) and projects of wider interest (including those in
 environment, sustainability, energy, and security) lend themselves naturally to public
 dissemination, making our fundamental research readily accessible to non-expert audiences.
 Among our outreach events, we frequently participate at the Royal Society Summer Science
 Exhibition (2014, 2017, 2019), New Scientist Live, Manchester Science Festival, Harwell Open
 Day and numerous events at the National Museum of Wales, Soap Box Science and Pint of
 Science. We also participate in University community projects, funded through the RSC, First
 Campus and the WEFO Trio Sci Cymru. Members of the School also regularly contribute to
 programmes on national and local (Wales) BBC radio and television, such as In Our Time by M
 Bragg (N.Richards) and The Life Scientific by J Al-Khalili (Pickett).
 The School hosts the RSC Outreach Regional Coordinator for Wales (Mason), promoting RSC
 education activities with stakeholders and HE Institutes to support outreach activities. We organize
 many on- and off-site activities (e.g. Chemical Potions for younger audiences). These events also
 include teachers’ engagement activities, with whom we arrange two meetings per semester to
 gather their advice on aligning our outreach activities with their curriculum. We also target a wider
 audience through social media (e.g. Twitter, YouTube, LinkedIn, etc.). ECRs have received
 funding from the RS (Easun) and the RSC (E.Richards/Beames) to support such outreach
 activities.
 The School hosts the fortnightly meetings of the Cardiff Scientific Society, an external
 organization (established 1926), which aims to educate and enlighten members of the public on
 the latest scientific discoveries, with recent Presidents including Allemann, 2015-17; Harris, 2017-
 20 and Catlow 2020-22. The School also contributes to Welsh culture; the design of the 2018
 Eisteddfod Crown (sponsored by CU) incorporated aspects of the University’s research, involving
 quasiperiodic tiling patterns based on research in quasicrystal chemistry (Harris).
 As innovation is one of our core strategic aims, the School has placed renewed emphasis on
 developing and supporting research impact. Therefore, in addition to our four submitted impact
 cases, other examples of research by our staff that will underpin future innovation activities and
 impact cases in the School include: 1) new pest management potential from synthetic biology,
 focused on benign aphid control from engineered sesquiterpenoid natural products (Allemann); 2)
 Fuel from air, based on patented research using solar-energy produced H2 to reduce CO2 to
 methanol for energy storage and already at 500,000 kg pa pilot plant stage in Germany (Bowker);
 3) Innovative disinfectant products, using strong oxidants based on in situ generation of H2O2 for
 transient bacterial decontamination (Hutchings); 4) Molpro Quantum Chemistry Software, widely
 used in industry and academia; the software licence was spun out as a company in 2015
 (Knowles); 5) Multifunctional microemulsions as highly sensitive scintillants for detection of
 radiation at nuclear energy sites and effective bactericides against pathogens (Fallis, Pope); 6)
 Electrochemical sensors for miRNA in urine, a potential biomarker for kidney disease (Redman);
 7) Fuels from process waste streams, producing methanol from crude glycerol waste streams
 (Taylor, Hutchings); 8) Earth abundant catalysts for preparation of isocyanate pre-polymers,
 facilitating green production of commodity chemicals (Ward).
 The development and support of these impact cases comes from a number of sources. Project 1
 above (New Pest Management) benefitted from BBSRC Follow-on-Fund and Super-Follow-on-
 Funds (BB/N012526/1, £197K; BB/R019681/1, £551K), with results exploited as a new strategy

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for crop protection / growth and promoting population sustainability in the EU (patent EP3247799).
 For fundamental EPSRC-supported research, impact development is facilitated through Impact
 Acceleration Awards, including scientific projects on selective oxidation of methane to methanol
 for efficient upgrading of low value resources, conversion of waste bio-derived molecules to fuels,
 and hydrochlorination of acetylene to produce vinyl chloride.
 4.4 Contributions to sustainability of the discipline
 At subject-based level, Buurma was Chair of the ECR Panel for the EPSRC Directed Assembly
 Network (2012-2016) and is currently Champion for the theme Controlling molecular self-assembly
 in biological and biomimetic systems whilst Browne led the Emerging Reactor Technologies sub-
 theme of the Grand Challenge Network Dial-a-Molecule. Promoting the sustainability and vitality
 of the discipline, several ECRs hold roles on various national committees, including RSC Dalton
 Division Council (Melen); RSC Interest Groups in EPR (E. Richards), Main Group Chemistry
 (Melen), Chemical Biology and Bioorganic Chemistry (Tsai); RSC Wales Regional Steering Group
 (Logsdail). Other members of the School have served on committees that help sustain the
 discipline, including: RSC Interest Groups in Colloids and Interfaces (Paul), Surface Reactivity and
 Catalysis (Taylor, Willock, Hutchings, Bowker), Applied Catalysis (Taylor), Physical Organic
 Chemistry (Buurma); Biological Chemistry, ACS (N. Richards); Council, Microscopy Society of
 America (Kiely).
 4.5 Indicators of wider influence
 The research achievements of our School have been recognized through numerous awards,
 prizes, honours, distinctions, and esteem indicators, including appointments to leadership roles in
 the research community (nationally and internationally), learned societies and professional bodies.
 These awards have been conferred on staff across the spectrum of career stage, highlights
 include:
 Elections to international/national academies and learned societies: Foreign Associate, NSA, USA
 (Pickett, 2014); Member, Academia Europaea (Catlow, 2013; Harris, 2013; de Leeuw, 2017; Kiely,
 2019); Member, German Academy of Sciences Leopoldina (Catlow, 2020); Fellow, Learned
 Society Wales (Kiely, 2015; de Leeuw, 2016; Wirth, 2016; Catlow, 2017; Murphy, 2018; Bonifazi,
 2019; Pickett, 2020); Honorary Fellowship, Indian Society of Chemists and Biologists (N.Richards,
 2020); Member, International Academy of Quantum Molecular Science (Knowles, 2018).
 Prizes, awards and distinctions: 1) International Prizes: ENI Award for Advanced Environmental
 Solutions (Hutchings, 2017); Clara Immerwahr Award (Melen, 2016); Bruker Award,
 Phytochemical Society (Pickett, 2016); ACS Inorganic Chemistry Lectureship (Casini, 2019); 2)
 Royal Society Awards: Wolfson Research Merit Award (Murphy, 2014; Wirth, 2016); 3) RSC
 Prizes/Awards: Faraday Prize (Hutchings, 2018; Catlow 2020); Harrison-Meldola Prize (Melen,
 2019); Bader Award (Wirth, 2016); Industry-Academia Collaboration Award (Hutchings, 2017); 4)
 LSW Medals: Menelaus (Hutchings, 2017); Dillwyn (Melen, 2019; Edwards 2020); 5) Other
 awards: British Crystallographic Association Young Scientist Award in Chemical Crystallography
 (Hatcher, 2017); Institute of Chemical Engineering Innovative Product Global Award (Hutchings,
 2015); 6) Honorary degrees: DSc (Surrey), DSc (Neuchâtel), DSc (Hertfordshire) (all to Pickett);
 7) Named Lectures: Bergman Lecture, Berkeley (Carpenter); Dewar, QMUL, Xingda, Peking,
 Zhang Dayu, Dalian (all to Hutchings); C.N.R. Rao, Bangalore (Hutchings and Catlow); Lu Jiaxi,
 Xiamen (de Leeuw); Elizabeth Creak Distinguished Lecture, Warwick, Sterling B Hendricks
 Memorial Lecture, ACS, Rekunyk, Saskatoon, Keck Lecture, North Carolina State (all to Pickett);
 8) Collectively, members of the School have delivered 81 plenary/keynote lectures during the
 REF cycle.
 Visiting professorship appointments at foreign universities: Tokyo Metropolitan, Louisiana State,
 Cape Town (Hutchings); Shanghai Tech (Harris); Kyoto (Wirth); Parma (Bonifazi); Technical
 University Munich (Casini); Utrecht (de Leeuw); Northwest, China (Jin).
 Appointments on international advisory boards and committees: selection panel for the Alexander
 Todd – Hans Krebs Lecture, German Chemical Society (Wirth, 2015-18); selection panel for
 Inaugural Bragg Prize, International Union of Crystallography (Harris, 2020); Vice Chair, European
 Section of the Electrochemical Society (Bonifazi).

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership roles in learned societies, professional bodies, government committees and research
 councils: Foreign Secretary of the Royal Society (Catlow, 2016-21); President, Faraday Division,
 RSC (Hutchings, 2012-15); Member of Council, RSC (Knowles, 2013-17); Chairman, Audit
 Committee, RSC (Knowles, 2015-17); Member of Council & Head of Chemistry Section, Academia
 Europaea (Hutchings, 2017-22); EPSRC Physical Sciences Programme Strategic Advisory Team
 (Knowles, 2008-14; de Leeuw, 2017-19); Expert panel, Research Council of Norway (de Leeuw,
 2014-18).
 Chairs of Conferences: Staff members have also chaired major international conferences in
 Chemistry and related disciplines; Organic Solid State Chemistry (Harris, 2013), Computational
 Methods in Quantum Chemistry (Knowles, 2017), Hypervalent Iodine (Wirth, 2018), Chemical
 Ecology (Pickett, 2019), Reactivity and Mechanism in Chemical Biology (N.Richards, 2021),
 Metals in Medicine (Casini, 2020).
 Editorial Roles: Members of the School have held senior editorial positions (Pickett, Phil. Trans.
 Royal Soc. B, 2016-present; Hutchings, J. Catalysis, 1999-present), whilst 16 other staff held
 appointments on journal editorial boards and guest edited 12 special journal issues.
 Royal Appointments: Hutchings received a CBE in 2018, whilst Catlow was knighted in the delayed
 2020 Queen’s Birthday honours. The School was also awarded a Regius Professorship in 2016,
 one of only twelve to mark Her Majesty’s Diamond Jubilee in 2012, conferred to Hutchings.




                                                                                           Page 16
