Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment: 27 - English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Over the period since REF2014, the Unit has followed three strategic imperatives to maintain
 and extend the research culture. These are:

    Aim 1. To build on the existing research culture within the Unit;
    Aim 2. To expand existing networks of researchers within the University and beyond, and
    develop new ones;
    Aim 3. To build on and expand links with the local and wider community beyond academia to
    engage with issues of contemporary relevance and create impact.

 These aims materialise throughout this Statement, sometime more explicitly (as in the case of
 Section 1.2.d), and at other times woven throughout the activities and culture of the Unit.

 1.1.a. English at Sunderland comprises seven full-time members of academic staff: one
 professor (Smith, female), one associate professor/reader (Mandala, female), and five senior
 lecturers (two female – Dobbs and Younger, three male - Gomes, Lockwood and Pearce),
 with two leavers (Nash and Fallon, both male senior lecturers). All staff are research active and
 hold relevant PhDs. The professor (Smith) is the Humanities research lead. Since REF2014,
 three ECR researchers have left (Fallon plus one other have moved to other institutions as part
 of their career progression; one has changed to a career outside academia) and four members
 of staff have retired.

 1.1.b. From 2014 to 2019, the English team was based in the School of Culture, Faculty of
 Education and Society. Since September 2019, the team has been based in the Faculty of Arts
 and Creative Industries. Although relatively small, the team has been responsible for innovative
 research carried out in relation to post-colonial theory, gender in language and literature,
 regional dialect, Anglo-Saxon literature, science fiction writing, and environmental writing. The
 English team has developed a strong research base in the areas of factual creative writing,
 politeness theory, gender, regional cultural history, and eco-writing. The unit staff also contribute
 to the Humanities research culture in relation to local history, and Smith leads the institution’s
 Gender Studies network (SunGen) (see Section 3, paragraph 3.c). In addition to publication in
 books and journals, the unit’s research is recorded and publicised in a research blog, run by
 Pearce.

 1.1.c. During this REF audit period, the Unit has published the following outputs (Aim 1):

  Monograph        Edited          Book            Journal       Encyclopaedia
                  collection      chapter           article          entry
        4              4             22               27               3
      Novel         Short          Edited            Blog
                    story        collection
                                    (CW)
        3              3              3               2

 1.1.d. As REF requirements for Open Access became clearer and more detailed, all members of
 the unit were briefed by the Library staff in charge of the University’s research repository, SURE,
 and thus made familiar with both the principles and the technical aspects of the new system. In
 addition, REF briefings organised by the Humanities research lead reminded staff of the OA
 requirements, and followed this up with details that included hyperlinks on the Humanities
 research page. In encouraging all staff to have their research promoted on the Humanities
 research blog, publications are also offered there as a hyperlink to the SURE entry.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.1.e. All staff in the Unit are involved in research networks outside the University where fruitful
 interdisciplinary relationships have developed over the years, making Sunderland’s English
 department one that is well known both nationally and locally (Aim 2). For example, Professor
 Karen Boyle from Strathclyde University is Visiting Professor for English.

 1.f. Since 2014, the Unit has continued to expand its research-active curriculum with the
 publications listed above all being relevant to the Unit’s teaching, from Foundation level up to
 PhD (Aim 1). For example, Smith’s Language of Journalism (Bloomsbury, 2013, second edition
 2020) is a core textbook for a module at Stage 1 and at Stage 2. The book is used internationally
 across a range of media and communication and journalism programmes, as well as
 sociolinguistic programmes. Pearce’s work on regional dialect is directly linked to a Stage 3
 module. The Creative Writing edited collections include the work of academics as well as
 students, and form part of a Stage 3 module, Creative Writing and Publishing, that is open to all
 English students (see also Section 2, paragraph 2.h).

 1.g In line with the research strategy from REF2014:
     • existing links with the wider research community have been strengthened, and new links
          made (see particularly Section 4, paragraphs 4.k, 4.l and 4.m);
     • more applications for external funding have been submitted, and there are plans in place
          for more (see Section 3);
     • our postgraduate research provision has been strengthened through investment in three
          fully funded PhD studentships (see specifically Section 2.e);
     • all research-active staff in the unit have been submitted to REF2021.

 2. Research strategy
 Since REF2014 the University has taken a much more active approach to the support of
 research.

 1.2.a. Institutionally, research active staff are supported through the automatic allocation of 10%
 workloading for research and/or scholarship activities, with the offer of additional resources,
 such as extra research time and financial support, available on an annual application basis.

 1.2.b. The research strategy for the unit was refined post-REF2014 and has been guided by the
 common elements of Faculty of Education and Society (from 2017) and the Faculty of Arts and
 Creative Industries’ Research Institute strategies (from September 2019).

 1.2.c. To promote and sustain a lively and inclusive research culture, providing a
 supportive framework and a sense of collective purpose for those academic staff and
 postgraduate students in the faculty (Aim 1).

        1.2.c.i Staff have been supported in their research with central funding via the annual
        individual research plan scheme. This allows research-active academics to request
        additional time for research activities, as well as more immediately financial resources
        such as funding to attend conferences, archive visits, subscriptions, and teaching-buy out
        to allow for time to complete publications. All staff in the Unit have been supported in this
        way. (See also Section 2, paragraph 2.d.) For more ad hoc research support that may
        arise during the academic year, the Faculty has supported all seven staff in the Unit. At
        both institution and faculty level, the application process is subject to robust internal peer
        review, and is followed up through the annual staff appraisal system. This has led to all
        the academics in the Unit receiving support over the last three years. (Faculty funding
        was £1300 in 2017/18, plus £600 to support hosting the Humanities research seminars,
        and £225 to support PhD students going to conferences; and £60 in 2018/19, plus £900
        for research seminars and £750 for PhD student conference attendances.) The Faculty
        has also given financial support to the postgraduate research conference, which started
        as an annual event in 2015 and is organised by some of the Unit’s PhD students. It
        includes papers by the postgraduate students as well as keynotes by the unit’s


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       academics. PhD students also take part in the university’s annual research conference
       (see also Section 2, paragraph 2.f).

       1.2.c.ii. The online student journal, Codex, was launched in 2013 to publish the “best”
       undergraduate dissertations from English Language, English Literature, and History (Aim
       1). This is edited by Pearce and a colleague from History. It is publicly accessible, and
       offers other students the chance to see the best work in their subject area whilst also
       giving them something to strive towards.

       1.2.c.iii The development of the Creative Writing specialism (Aim 1) led to the
       appointment of an early career researcher, Dobbs, in 2015. This has allowed the Unit to
       expand its creative writing remit. Dobbs’ developing research interests are in the
       creative possibilities of aerial narrative performance, in which she transposes poetic
       narrative into aerial hoop performances. This has already been successful in reaching
       the wider community with workshops being fully subscribed. Dobbs and Lockwood have
       also been supported by the Faculty in 2019 for a joint book launch event, held at
       Waterstone’s book shop in Sunderland, and attended by members of university staff as
       well as members of the wider public.

       1.2.c.iv Mentoring is provided across the Unit according to need (Aim 1). The online site
       for the Humanities Research Hub has a list of academics across the specialisms who are
       able to offer help in terms of expertise in academic writing for specific output destinations
       (book chapter, journal, etc), bid writing, conference presenting, and so on. This form of
       mentoring allows academics to seek help for specific areas of expertise rather than being
       tied to just one mentor (see also Section 2, paragraph 2.b). Smith also acts as mentor
       more specifically for those who are considering academic promotion within the institution.

       Future Plans
       1.2.c.v To forge new links with the creative industries and further interdisciplinary
       research through the university’s Co-Lab initiative (that seeks to bring together the Arts
       and Humanities with Health Sciences). The intention is to create an ever-stronger
       research environment for our staff and postgraduate students (Aim 2).

 1.2.d To develop and support research initiatives via collaborative research projects and
 collaborations with other institutions and organisations (Aim 2).

       1.2.d.i As a small Unit of Assessment, academics in the team recognise that it is
       essential to develop research links with colleagues in the wider academic community,
       both in the University and in the wider academic world.

       1.2.d.ii Pearce has close links with colleagues in Newcastle University in respect of their
       research on North East dialect, and has been invited several times to present his work at
       their Centre for Research in Linguistics and Language Sciences’ one-day symposia (in
       2015, 2016, 2018, and 2019).

       1.2.d.iii Smith is one of the founder members of HAStEN: NE (Humanities, Arts, Social
       Sciences Equalities Network: North East), which is an Advance HE Network involving the
       five regional universities. This network was launched in November 2019 and seeks to
       develop and share good practice in equality issues, and is linked to the work of the
       SunGen network, including the Gender Equality in Changing Times collection (see
       1.2.d.vii below). Events planned for 2020 are being re-arranged for 2021. (See also
       Section 4, paragraph 4.u) This has meant that a research project linked to exploring the
       experiences of academics with declared disabilities has been deferred for a year.

       1.2.d.iv Dobbs has established links with the regional performing arts, and has set up an
       aerial performance company, Uncaged, that employs the performance of creative writing
       pieces. This is in conjunction with local creative writers and the University. Dobbs is

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        working with colleagues in Dance to develop an innovative undergraduate module to
        engage students in creative writing and aerial performance. This will also help her
        develop new ideas to feed into her research.

        1.2.d.v Smith is co-convenor of the Ross Priory Broadcast Talk Group, an international
        interdisciplinary group of academics who specialise in the uses of language in broadcast
        media. This group meets annually in various locations across the world. She is drawing
        on this network in a funding bid to explore conflict culture in a transnational context.

        1.2.d.vi Lockwood has been able to develop links nationally between colleagues at
        Sunderland (by leading the university-wide sustainability project), and other universities
        (eg the Spectacular Environmentalism network) and with the wider community (Animal
        Policy Consortium). This is demonstrated through his collaborative research publications.

        1.2.d.vii Smith has run the university’s gender studies network, SunGen, since 2015.
        This network brings together academics, postgraduate students, and members of the
        professional services who have an interest in gender and sexuality. Events staged at
        different times of the year allow for networking, including contacts with the wider
        academic community in the regional universities. Informal discussions after one such
        event led to the first edited collection of papers following the British Library’s digitisation
        of Spare Rib magazine. This collection included contributions from established and less
        experienced academics, and PhD students from across the region’s universities. The
        launch event was hosted by SunGen at the University, and attracted an audience that
        included those who are interested in equality issues in the wider community. The
        Gendered Worlds conference that Smith organised for SunGen in summer 2019
        included a keynote from visiting professor, Karen Boyle. Other speakers included
        England rugby captain Tamara Taylor, Aderonke Apata from the African Rainbow Family,
        and DIVA magazine’s deputy editor, Roxy Bourdillon. (See also Section 3, paragraph
        3.c) An edited collection similar to the Spare Rib one, Gender Equality in Changing
        Times, was published in 2020. A joint online launch event was conducted with Prof
        Alison Phipps of Sussex University, whose book Me, Not You: the trouble with
        mainstream feminism reflected several of the chapters in the edited collection and was
        attended by about 100 people, including a wide range of academics and interested
        members of the public from across the country.

        Future Plans
        1.2.d.viii A cross-faculty project will mark the 150th anniversary of Through the Looking-
        Glass in 2021, to highlight the links to Sunderland. This project also involves Sunderland
        Libraries, Sunderland Culture, and local creative writing groups and will comprise a
        series of community-focused events throughout the summer of 2021. This will link with
        Dobbs’ work on aerial performance, and is part of an ACE bid generated by the SunGen
        network (Aim 3).

        1.2.d.ix Smith is working with colleagues in Scotland, Sweden and Italy to submit an
        AHRC funding bid to explore conflict culture in its transnational contexts, which will build
        on links already established with OfCom in the UK and comparable organisations in
        Sweden and Italy (see 3.f) (Aim 2).

        1.2.d.x Lockwood is lead author on a major study for the Vegan Society to produce a
        plant-based food system policy for the UK (to be launched at re-arranged COP26 in
        Glasgow in November 2021). His work with the Animal Think Tank which will be used to
        help train a range of organisations in the UK and US in the delivery of animal advocacy
        messages (see Section 4, paragraph 4.t) (Aim 3).

 2. People
 2.a The University Research Strategy embeds the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers into the various policies relating to training programmes and

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 courses for academic staff. The provision of both equal opportunities and diversity in
 recruitment, support and pay is underpinned by a holistic approach that takes account of
 individual researchers and their aims (the comprehensive 'institutional practice' as described on
 Vitae's website). For example, in keeping with the university’s staff development strategy, all
 new academic staff are offered the chance to study the Cert. Ed. HE qualification to lead to
 Higher Education Association Fellowship. Since 2014, Dobbs has benefited from this
 opportunity. An extensive range of such opportunities are open to all staff, and range from skills
 development and training, and more general courses as part of continuing professional
 development. There are also workshops to mentor those who are considering applying for
 promotion. Fallon and Dobbs benefited from this in their applications to gain promotion from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.

 2.b The Humanities Research Centre offers writing workshops which are open to all staff and
 postgraduate students (Aim 2). These are held twice a term. There are also writing-for-a-journal
 workshops run by Smith and Mandala, which again are open to all staff and postgraduate
 students. The central web site for this Centre is used to coordinate such events, and to record
 outcomes where appropriate. In addition, the Unit has a dedicated web page which offers a list
 of “expertise” in the School, relating to specific areas of academic life. This list allows anyone
 (including postgraduate students) considering developing their research profile to seek out the
 most appropriate person to contact in the School (see also Section 1, paragraph 1.2.c.iv).

 2.c In line with university policy, Dobbs was allowed a three-month career break in 2018 to
 pursue a course that would expand her creative potential in the longer term (see1.2.d.iv) . Nash
 was allowed two weeks’ leave in term time to pursue a visiting professorship in India (2018), and
 Smith worked 20% of the year in Örebro University, Sweden (2018/19) as guest professor.
 Lockwood has been able to work flexibly in order to develop his links with the wider community
 of animal rights activists and policy makers, and environmental networks. (Aims 2 and 3)

 2.e The Faculty supported the appointment of three fully funded, full-time PhD studentships from
 2014. Through open competition, three students were appointed (two female; one male). Both
 female students studied within Unit 27 (one male student completed his PhD in History). These
 included one student whose research into the trans community proved very timely and has
 informed the institution’s HR policy on trans positivity. All PhD students and staff have had the
 opportunity to be supported financially to attend conferences, including travel and
 accommodation. PhD students regularly present their research at academic conferences, and
 several have published their research with the help of their supervisors (see section 3,
 paragraph 3.c).

 2.f PhD students have also been supported in other expenditure, such as paying for the
 purchase of specialist computer software licences (£220). Staff have also been supported
 financially in paying for society memberships as part of small-scale research projects (Pearce
 £522); open access (Nash £203); and conference organisation (various conferences, £1,800).
 Through the Culture Beacon, which managed research funding for the Humanities until 2016, a
 Writer in Residence was also employed for one year (£9,602). The Beacon also subsidised
 specialist library databases until 2016, at around £16,700 per year. This is now funded from
 central resources. The library has also invested in discipline-relevant books to a value of about
 £10,000 per year since 2014.

 2.g There have been 14 successful PhD completions supervised in the Unit in this audit period.
 There are core modules dealing with research skills, including ethics, and online materials for
 more specific aspects of student life such as conference preparation, and an online hub on
 Canvas (see also section 1, 1.2.c.iv and section 2.b) for students to exchange ideas and good
 practice, as well as the annual postgraduate research conference (see section 1, 1.2.c.i). All
 PhD students complete a course on “Preparing to teach”, which is run by the Graduate Support
 Office, and is intended to prepare doctoral students for careers in academia. Where possible,
 PhD students are given experience of teaching in a supported environment through ad hoc and


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 paid teaching at undergraduate level. One of the PhD students had four months’ maternity leave,
 which was fully supported by the Institution.

 2.h The Creative Writing undergraduate programme’s innovative final year module, Creative
 Writing and Publishing, has proved to be a springboard for several students, including those who
 go on to post-graduate study. In 2019, one such English PhD student guest edited a special
 issue of the journal, Revenant. This involved attracting submissions from established as well as
 emerging academics and postgraduate students beyond Sunderland University and will appear
 in a special issue of the journal in early 2021.

 2.i Unit members’ research into post-colonial literature (Nash and Younger); non-standard
 English voices (Pearce and Dodds); and gender (Pearce and Smith) has been disseminated
 throughout the various programmes housed in and contributed to by the Unit, sustaining the
 decolonialisation of the curriculum from Foundation to PhD level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.a Since 2014, there have been three major funding applications from the Unit. One to the
 AHRC sought to explore the history, development and application of the “live two-way” in British
 broadcasting. Another, to the ESRC, sought to explore how financial advice is given to women
 by public service broadcasters, and was to include engagement with the so-called WASPI cohort
 of women and activists. The third was an Arts Council bid to engage local schools and creative
 writing groups in Sunderland’s cultural history through various activities around the city. Lessons
 learnt from these applications are carried forward into current bids. (Aim 1 and 3)

 3.b As described in Section 1, paragraph 1.2.c.i, internal research funding is managed initially by
 the Faculty, and then by the University. At Faculty level, this is organised through the Dean, who
 is Head of Research for the Faculty for Arts and Creative Industries, and all funding applications
 are reviewed through the research leads from the three schools in the faculty. At institutional
 level, the annual invitation to apply for individual research funding (through the submission of an
 individual research plan – IRP) is heralded by a process that begins two or three months before
 the application deadline. This allows time for workshops and briefings, which are open to all
 staff, and are run by the research leads for each school. The research leads also are available to
 read over drafts of IRP applications prior to them being submitted. Since 2017, these
 applications were then reviewed at Faculty level by all three research leads, the Head of
 Research, team leaders (who are responsible for workloading), and the Institutional research
 support manager. Applications are reviewed in terms of achievability, rigour, clarity, and
 relevance. All staff who identify as being research active are thus given additional support
 throughout their application process (Aim 1).

 3.c Since 2017, several of the university’s existing interdisciplinary research networks have been
 formally recognised and awarded institutional funding. These include the gender studies
 network, SunGen, run by Smith. SunGen is the longest established of these, having been
 formed in 2015 to bring together those from across the university who have an interest in gender
 and sexuality. This includes academics from all five faculties, as well as representatives from
 Human Resources, and postgraduate students. SunGen has hosted several workshops and
 events at the request of HR to explore such issues such as aspirational culture, lad culture, and
 intersectionality, all of which have been used to inform HR policies and have fed into the
 institution’s Athena Swan submissions. In 2018, SunGen was awarded official status as an
 institutional interdisciplinary network supported by a grant of £5,000 per year. This has largely
 been used to fund outreach events, particularly the institution’s Vote100 celebrations in 2018
 that primarily involved Y10 and Y11 local school pupils. SunGen has also brought together
 academics from across this institution and from other institutions to contribute to two edited
 collections: Re-Reading Spare Rib (2017) and Gender Equality in Changing Times (2020), both
 edited by Smith and published by Palgrave. The collections both include contributions by
 experienced researchers as well as those less experienced, and current or recent PhD students
 in the unit (see also Section 3, paragraph 3.c). In the case of inexperienced or early career


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers, edited collections provide a route into publishing that is robust but not as forbidding
 as external peer reviewing alone can be.

 3.d The University supports research through a robust infrastructure. This includes providing
 dedicated desk space to PhD students in a location close to their supervisory team; up-to-date
 software and computer hardware for all academic staff and students; and a dedicated support
 staff for researchers. Several PhD students have benefited from the purchase of technical
 equipment and software, as well as Pearce and Gomes to assist in their own research projects.
 In addition, since 2018 the University has subscribed to the Box of Broadcasting, which has
 been used extensively by students and academics in research across a wide range of
 disciplines, from undergraduate teaching to professorial research projects.

 Future plans
 3.f There are currently two major research bids under review with funding bodies.
 Smith (AHRC, Government Communication and COVID-19: Comparison between Scotland and
 Westminster) and (AHRC – Conflict Culture), and another with ACE to engage the community in
 celebrations of 150 years since the publication of Through the Looking-Glass. (See also Section
 1, paragraph 1.2.d.v) (Aim 3)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 English at Sunderland is characterised by a high level of collaborative activity and is at the
 forefront of developments in using the subject to enhance and inform the wider community. As
 seen in Section 1.1.c., unit members are highly productive and have their expertise drawn on for
 scholarly encyclopaedic entries. Lockwood, Nash, Smith and Younger have all been invited to
 give keynote addresses at conferences, both nationally (12) and internationally (5) in this REF
 period. The intersection of the three subjects within the Unit (Language, Literature and Creative
 Writing) is found in many of the activities outlined below.

 4.a Research activities are celebrated and recorded in the Humanities research blog (since
 2012). This is managed by Pearce and includes entries about the research of colleagues in
 History, as well as the School’s post-graduate community. This central record is drawn on by the
 institution’s media communications team and filters into their promotion of our research more
 widely via the University’s main web site and Twitter feed. In addition, the Humanities team have
 a research hub online, which is managed by Smith, but allows for discussion and sharing of
 content and news by all members of the Humanities team. This hub is housed on the
 University’s official online learning platform, Canvas, and so is also an archive of such
 communication that is accessible to all members of the Humanities team. As a small Unit of
 Assessment, academics in the team often develop research links and work with colleagues in
 the wider academic community, both in Sunderland University and in the wider academic world
 (Aim 2, see also Section 1, paragraphs 1.2.c.ii; 1.2.c.iv).

 1. Academic esteem (Aim 2)
 4.b Members of the Unit routinely serve as PhD external examiners and as external assessors in
 promotions processes, including professorial appointment panels (Smith), nationally and
 internationally.

 4.c All academics in the Unit are called on to review book proposals and journal articles from a
 range of sources, such as Social Semiotics; Discourse, Media & Context; European Journal of
 Cultural Studies; Journal of Language and Politics; Sexualities; Journal of War and Culture
 Studies; English Today; Journal of English Linguistics, Multilingua; Psychologies; Short Fiction in
 Theory and Practice; Environmental Humanities; Animal Studies Journal; Animals and Society.
 In addition, the Unit’s academics area also asked to evaluate book proposals for publishers such
 as Bloomsbury, Edinburgh University Press, I.B. Tauris, Open University Press, Palgrave,
 Routledge and Sage.

 4.d Smith founded and co-edits the Bloomsbury International Library of Gender in Popular
 Culture, which has been running since 2012, with a colleague at Northumbria University. As part

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the contract with Bloomsbury, Smith receives several complimentary copies of books
 published in the series, and donates a copy to the University library. Lockwood is on the
 editorial board of the Animal Publics series (Sydney University Press) and in Associate Editor for
 Animal Studies Journal.

 4.e Nash and Pearce are founding editors of the Journal of Intercultural Enquiry which has been
 running since 2015. Pearce is on the editorial board of English Today. Gomes is on the editorial
 board of the Journal of the Spanish Society for Medieval English Language and Literature.
 Another member of the Unit has been invited to join the editorial board of Crime Fiction Studies,
 which is a new journal due to have its first edition in 2020. Lockwood is a founding editor of the
 Journal of Class and Culture.

 4.f Smith has guest-edited a special issue of the Journal of Language and Politics, exploring
 gender and sexuality in relation to populism (2020).

 4.g Academics in the unit have been invited to submit entries to encyclopaedias and handbooks,
 based on their internationally recognised research. Such invitations have been levelled at Smith
 (Wiley Blackwell’s Encyclopaedia of Gender, Media and Communication; Sage’s Encyclopedia
 of Journalism), and Nash (The Oxford Handbook of the Arabic Novelistic Tradition and Wiley’s
 Encyclopaedia of Empire), amongst others. A member of the Unit has also acted as Editorial
 Consultant for a volume of contemporary literary criticism.

 4.h Smith has produced the second edition of a text book, The Language of Journalism, at the
 request of Bloomsbury. Within the Institution, it is used as a core text on a Stage 2 English
 module, and is also a recommended text across the Journalism programmes. This book is used
 in universities across the UK, the United States, Australia and New Zealand, and India.

 4.i Nash gave the annual Sir Syed Memorial Lecture to the Aligarh Muslim University Alumni
 Association in 2014 and also gave a keynote address at the International IDEA Conference that
 year. An invitation to Nash to deliver a paper at the Beyond Islamophobia conference in 2014
 resulted in a long association with SOAS and in 2019 he was appointed Research Associate at
 that institution (see also Section 4, paragraph 4.s).

 2. Community engagement (Aim 3)
 4.j Members of the unit (Dobbs, Gomes, Nash, Pearce, Smith, Younger) are regularly called
 on to present lectures to local branches of the University of the Third Age in Sunderland and
 Newcastle. Here, their research reaches audiences of around 100 per talk and has led to further
 invitations to speak about other aspects of their research to such audiences.

 4.k Academics in the Unit organised and took part in a North-East studies event held at Canny
 Space, Sunderland in September 2014. This was a public event that looked at literature, poetry
 and language in the North East, and was attended by an audience of academics, students and
 members of the public. This proved to be a springboard for the New North East Symposium,
 organised by Pearce, in July 2015. This event featured talks by academics from around the
 North East as well as local culture industry representatives. Like the Canny Space event, the
 audience comprised academics, students, and members of the public. The Unit’s research in the
 area of North East culture has expanded further through the Sunderland Literature Festival
 where various members of the Unit contribute talks on regional identity and workshops on
 regional creative writing. In particular, Gomes has regularly held talks and workshops on Anglo-
 Saxon Sunderland, in St Peter’s Church, Monkwearmouth, which are very popular with the
 community (often attracting the biggest audience of any of the large number of events that are
 linked to the Sunderland Literature Festival). Gomes’ particular research into Anglo-Saxon
 English in the North East has led to him being invited to give public talks in Newcastle and
 Sunderland beyond the Sunderland Literature Festival. He has also been interviewed on
 Spanish radio about his research, thus enhancing both the reputation of the University and the
 North East of England.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.l The collective research of the Unit’s academics in English Language, Literature and Creative
 Writing in relation to local studies is drawn together in the Seagull City web site (developed
 initially by Smith and Fallon), which offers users a guide to the cultural and literary heritage of
 Sunderland. The site was used to support the Sunderland City of Culture bid in 2016-18. The
 site garners in excess of 500 unique visitors per month, and has a global reach with repeated
 searches from users in South American, Asia and Australia as well as Europe and North
 America. More locally, the website offers a springboard for community creative writing projects
 run by the Unit’s Creative Writing team in conjunction with local creative writing groups to
 engage with “flash fiction” and “geo-writing” projects (see also paragraph 4.p). The Seagull City
 site was also used in 2020 by locals to engage with walks around Sunderland, during the first
 lockdown when only one ‘daily walk’ was permitted. This led to one person forming a Facebook
 group, Hidden Sunderland, with more than 2,000 members taking part by September 2020.

 4.m Academics in the Unit have been involved in the Sunderland Literature Festival since 2014.
 This festival is co-organised with the Sunderland Library Service and has its focus on local
 artists and creators with a range of activities going beyond traditional book launches. Sessions
 take place in the community in coffee shops, pubs and local heritage venues, making them more
 accessible to a wider range of public attendees. English academics routinely contribute
 workshops and reading groups to this annual festival, offering sessions on “World literature”,
 Islamophobia, Irish literature, local dialectology. In addition, the Creative Writing academics
 started two writing competitions in 2015: one for local schools, and another for a wider range of
 authors. The latter has developed into the Sunderland Short Story competition. This is organised
 by Dobbs and has been running since 2017. The competition is sponsored by the local branch
 of Waterstone’s and attracts entrants from around the world. In 2018, there were 1,800
 submissions and the international nature of these can be seen from the fact that the runner-up in
 that year was from the Netherlands. The 2020 event was held online, with contributions from five
 members of the Unit.

 4.n The overlap between the three subjects is found in the fact that several members of the Unit
 have engaged with the local immigrant community through the auspices of the University
 Chaplaincy, and the Young Asian Voices network. Younger is currently working on a project
 with these agencies and with colleagues from other parts of the university. This project, ‘Vocal,
 Local and Transnational Voices on Integration: A Participatory Action Research project emerging
 from the concerns of young British Asian Muslim Mackems’, is in partnership with the University
 of Bedfordshire programme leaders for Community Radio and Youth Work, alongside input from
 School of Oriental and African Studies.

 4.p Younger also works with the University Chaplaincy to engage overseas students in local
 community projects relating to life writing. Younger’s developing research interests in life writing
 are enhanced by such engagement, as is the experience of the participants themselves. (See
 also Section 4, paragraphs 4.k; 4.l; 4.m)
 4.q Academics in the unit have been supported by the Faculty to engage in numerous outreach
 events. In particular, the development of continuing professional development events for
 secondary school teachers has been very successful, with courses running on topics in English
 Literature and English Language at various times through the academic year. Of particular
 relevance has been the innovative research into contemporary gender issues by members of the
 academic team, which has helped enlighten teachers in several CPD events in 2018 and 2019.
 Positive feedback from the participants led to requests for repeated sessions in 2020, which
 were postponed until 2021.
 4.r These links with local schools raised the profile of the research of several members of the
 Unit. In particular, Smith’s research into gender equality issues led to her being the guest of
 honour at a local secondary school’s awards night (September 2019), where she was asked to
 speak about equality issues and inspire the students (see also Section 4, paragraph 4.s).

 3. Individual research continues to feature in the wider community (Aim 3)
 4.s Members of the unit have been asked to deliver plenaries and keynote addresses at various
 conferences, such as Smith’s keynote to the Swedish Association of Media and Communication

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies (May 2019), her theme-setting work at the Ross Priory Broadcast Talk network, and
 Nash’s work with SOAS.

 4.t Lockwood’s research and activities relating to veganism is drawn on nationally to inform and
 support organisations such as the British Vegan Society and Animal Rebellion. He is a member
 of the Vegan Society Research Advisory Committee, and a consultant for the Animal Think
 Tank. Lockwood has been invited to present to Alpro by the marketing agency Blood Global, in
 relation to developing a narrative for their marketing and branding teams. Since 2018,
 Lockwood has taken his research into the community through talks and presentations at vegan
 and food festivals around the country, He appears regularly in local, national (including BBC
 Radio 4’s Front Row, LBC, TalkRadio, and ITV News) and international media where he draws
 on his research into veganism, food systems, and climate change. He has an advisory role in
 Scottish CND. In 2020, Lockwood became lead author on a major study for the Vegan Society
 to produce a plant-based food system policy for the UK (to be launched at re-arranged COP26 in
 Glasgow in November 2021). His work with the Animal Think Tank will also result in the
 production of a narrative playbook for a range of organisations (UK and US based) which will be
 used to help train them in the delivery of animal advocacy messages.

 4.u Dobbs has been invited to judge a variety of creative writing prizes, and to give talks at the
 Leeds Literature Festival, and readings at Edinburgh Waterstone’s and New Art Social. The
 Unit’s support of her developing research into creative writing and performance has led to her
 been commissioned for a performance narrative based on an exhibition about grief at the
 Washington Arts Centre, Tyne and Wear. Her workshops on creative writing and performance
 pertaining to female empowerment were initially funded by SunGen, and in 2020 she ran a
 workshop at the Newcastle Women’s Centre. She was also commissioned for a summer
 residency based on female empowerment through creative writing and performance at Dance
 City, Sunderland in 2020, postponed to 2021 (see also Section 1, paragraph 1.2.d.iv).

 4.v Smith is an advisor to the BBC News web team on language relating the reports including
 trans people, in particular on the use of pronouns. Smith has also appeared on BBC local radio
 (across the UK), BBC News 24, BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, and local radio to discuss her
 research into politeness theory when applied to public participation television, and has appeared
 in national newspapers (The Telegraph, The Observer, The Metro, The Sun, The Daily Star) and
 international papers (California Sun, France’s News-24 and Japan’s Asahi Shimbun) in relation
 to this. Other members of the Unit have also appeared on BBC Radio 4, Channel 4, France 24,
 Tencent and local radio to discuss their research at various times. Smith’s research has also
 been submitted to the on-going Department of Media, Culture and Sport Select Committee on
 Reality TV, and has been used to inform feedback to OfCom in response to their proposed
 revisions of their regulations covering British broadcasting. She is working on a funding bid to
 explore conflict culture in a transnational context, building on this existing research (see also
 Section 1, 2.d.ix).

 4.w Nash was invited to present his research as part of a series of public talks held at the
 National Portrait Gallery, London, as part of their 2016 William Gifford Palgrave: Master of
 Disguise display (see also Section 4, paragraph 4.i).

 4.x Smith’s research into British widows of the First World War has led to her being invited to
 deliver talks to many public events over the period of the commemorations relating to the
 centenary of First World War during the period 2014-18, and these invitations continue in the
 case of local branches of University of the Third Age and local history groups. She has also
 acted as historical advisor for Wall to Wall’s Who Do You Think You Are? and TwentyTwenty
 TV’s A House Through Time, series 3. This series has won several broadcast and history
 awards in 2020/21.

 4.y The Seagull City web site was used to inform the city council’s response to Black Lives
 Matter campaigns, and is the principal source for information leading to the placement of a ‘blue
 plaque’ to mark the achievements of 19th century Black activists in the city, unveiled as part of

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Black History Month in 2020. There is a second blue plaque to celebrate the long-standing anti-
 slavery campaigns of the city’s Quakers, to be unveiled in April 2021. This will coincide with the
 opening of buildings renovated as part of the Heritage Action Zone project in that area of
 Sunderland.




                                                                                             Page 11
