Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages & Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 Modern Languages and Linguistics (MLL) enjoys an international reputation for
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research. Our Department, which was known as ‘Modern
 Languages’ was renamed in 2017 ‘Modern Languages and Linguistics’ to better reflect the
 unusually wide range of our research activity. The UoA, which includes 24 (18F, 6M) permanent
 academic members of staff (21.5 FTE) and just under 200 PGR students (currently enrolled
 during the REF period), is part of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities (FAH) including the School
 of Humanities and Winchester School of Art (WSA). In 2020, the Faculty launched the new SIAH
 Southampton Institute for Arts and Humanities with the aim of supporting and promoting multi-
 disciplinary research.
 The vitality and sustainability of our UoA research strategy is demonstrated by key indicators:
   •       We appointed 6 new members of staff covering key areas of strategic development for our
           research activity in Global Englishes, Linguistics, Medical Humanities and Post-Colonial
           studies to enhance our global research profile.
   •       We won over £1 million to fund both research and impact from research councils and other
           national and international sources with over 20 awards made during the REF period.
   •       We have seen a period of steady growth in the number of international PGR students we
           attract (14% increase).

   •       Our world-class research has also been successful in gaining prestigious PGR
           studentships, through both the AHRC-funded South, West and Wales Doctoral Training
           Partnership (5 as first and second supervisors) and the ESRC-funded South Coast Doctoral
           Training Centre (6 as first and second supervisors). A total of 87 scholarships were secured
           during the REF period with an annual average of 15.
   •       Staff have been involved in the organisation of over 50 major international conferences and
           workshops as well as a wide range of research and impact activities.

   •       Our research has tackled real-world problems by generating impact in our key areas, three
           of which are being showcased as Impact Case Studies (ICS). Each research centre has
           contributed an ICS.

 1.2 Research objectives
 Since REF 2014, our strategy has been to consolidate our strengths and deepen the breadth of
 our research in the following key areas (see §2.1):

       •    Applied Linguistics, Second Language Acquisition and Sociolinguistics;
       •    Ethnography;
       •    Global Englishes and Intercultural Communication;
       •    Language Education;
       •    Migration and Post-Colonial studies;
       •    Medical Humanities.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Building on our excellent REF 2014 return (ranked top 5 for research), our research strategy has
 focused on three main objectives:
       1. To refresh and reinforce our stimulating multi-lingual and multi-disciplinary
          intellectual environment through methodological, collaborative and conceptual
          innovations.
       2. To enhance interdisciplinarity and cross-Faculty collaboration to maximise our
          research strengths and their impact on society (REF5a,2.6).
       3. To expand practice-based research, particularly in global Englishes, intercultural
          communication and language education.
 Our three research centres have facilitated closer integration of our main research themes and
 research groups/clusters which support a broad range of research activities to take advantage of
 new opportunities as they arise, such as with the UK Global Challenges Research Funds. Our
 vibrant and diverse multilingual postgraduate community plays an instrumental role in setting the
 research agenda alongside the activities developed by staff (see §2.3). Our three research
 centres provide the structure for grant capture, ethics and impact development.
   •     The Centre for Transnational Studies (TNS) led by Armbruster (2014-2018) and Jones
         (2018-) continues to provide the focus for our distinctively transnational and interdisciplinary
         approach to language and culture, shared by researchers specialising in different linguistic
         and cultural contexts (Anglophone, Francophone, Germanic, Hispanic and Lusophone) and
         different intellectual and methodological traditions (sociolinguistics, literary and cultural
         studies, history, popular culture, ethnography and medical humanities).
   •     The Centre for Linguistics, Language Education and Acquisition Research (CLLEAR)
         led by Slabakova promotes collaborative research in formal and applied linguistics in a
         variety of topics including language and society, linguistic theory, multilingualism, language
         acquisition, heritage language and language education.
   •     The Centre for Global Englishes (CGE), directed by Jenkins (Emeritus since 2019) and
         by Baker (2020-) is leading the international research agenda on linguistic and sociocultural
         dimensions of global uses and users of English. One main area of interest is to assess
         conceptions and applications of English in academic settings, including a strong focus on
         intercultural communication and internationalisation in Higher Education. English as an
         international language is a major research theme in MLL.
 Since the last REF and due to staff departures, the ILC (The Institute for Language and Culture)
 has been closed. In a new strategic direction and in line with the development of the SIAH at
 Faculty level, we have focused on embedding our interdisciplinary approach to methodology in
 research groups/clusters. To facilitate collaboration and inclusivity across our multilingual and
 multidisciplinary community, four research groups/clusters bring together staff and PGR students
 working on the application of specific methods to new research problems: Formal Language
 Acquisition and Attrition (Slabakova and Domínguez), Foreign Language Testing (Zheng),
 Ethnography (Armbruster, Demossier and Patiño) and Critical Realism (Zotzmann).
 Furthermore, the UoA has a particular strength in research and teaching on Mexico with Mar-
 Molinero leading the interdisciplinary Centre for Mexico Southampton Collaboration (Mexsu).
 MEXSU is an outward looking unit which promotes and furthers the many links between the
 University of Southampton and the higher education sector in Mexico. Its role in distance-learning
 PGR programme has been seminal (§3.2).

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                 Figure 1: UOA Research overview


                                          CLLEAR                                TNS
           CGE                          Baker, Beswick,               Armbruster, Campmas,
     Baker, Jenkins, Mar-           Demossier, Domínguez,            Demossier, Jones, Lavery,
      Molinero, Morán-             Hicks, Kiely, Kranert, Mar-         Lewis, Mar-Molinero,
       Panero, Wang,               Molinero, Mitchell, Morán-         Orchard, Patiño-Santos,
         Zotzmann                   Panero, Paffey, Patiño,          Soo, Stevenson, Zotzmann
                                   Porter, Slabakova, Wang,
                                       Zheng, Zotzmann


                                      Thematic Clusters
                              Critical Theory & Cultural Studies
                                  Critical Discourse Analysis
                                     Digital communication
  Education-English as a Medium of Instruction-English Language Teaching-English as a Lingua
                               Franca-Internationalisation of HE
                                  Foreign Language Testing
                             Formal second Language Acquisition
                                        Language Policy
                                        Literary Studies
                            Medical Humanities- Disability studies
                                Migration and Refugee studies
                                         Multilingualism
                                     Post-colonial studies
                                  Sexuality & Queer studies



                                                         Foreign                  Formal
        Critical                 Debating               Language                  Second
        Realism                Ethnography               Testing                 Language
                                                                                 Acquisition


                            Transdisciplinary Research Groups/Clusters


 The primary objectives and aspirations for the next five years are:
    • To increase further the scale and reach of our research strengths and impact through
      new collaborative funded research projects, high-quality publications, internal and cross-
      disciplinary collaborations, as well as extra-academic activities with a wide range of
      beneficiaries while continuing to expand our postgraduate research community.
    • Providing a range of opportunities for staff research development through collaborative
      synergies and cross-Faculty initiatives. Our strategy is instrumental to the development of
      high-quality interdisciplinary research projects especially in the area of ethnography, second
      and foreign language education, linguistics, cultural studies and medical humanities/disability
      studies as well as intercultural communication.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3 Impact strategy
 During the REF period, the UoA has concentrated on consolidating its impact based on long-
 standing research specialisms in linguistic and cultural studies. A key feature has been to
 amplify the reach and impact of our research by engaging with real world problems and, more
 broadly, take specialist advice from UKRI and the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement as well as the UoS Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERu) (see REF5a).
 Since REF 2014, we have transformed our impact culture and increased our public-facing activities
 in conjunction with our research centres. This was achieved with the support of the
 Faculty/University as well as funded collaborative projects totalling £34,000 (through PERu, IAA
 Impact Accelerator and the Research & Innovation Services Impact Fund). We have moved to a
 more targeted approach to ensuring that our research benefits, informs, and engages those
 beyond academia. We have introduced the role of an “impact-leader” whose responsibilities
 include overseeing and co-ordinating impact across the UoA, identifying opportunities and
 associated funding, advising colleagues seeking to engage audiences beyond academia with their
 research, and promoting the impact of our research internally and externally. The impact-leader
 works closely with the REF impact champion, the Head of Research and the REF champion at
 departmental level. Impact development has been facilitated through the retained contribution
 funding awarded by the Faculty to staff in major administrative roles. Our impact strategy has been
 sustained through the regular involvement of all our research staff in impact-focused activities,
 regular discussions through research centres and groups and the celebration of success.
 The ICSs have grown out of our wider research strategies to contribute to society and the support
 we consistently offer to all of our colleagues. These represent three main areas of research activity
 in the UoA: transnationalism and culture (Demossier), Global Englishes (Jenkins and Morán
 Panero) and foreign language (FL) literacy in primary schools (Porter). The development of the
 three ICS was supported by the REF Impact Champion and the Director of Research as well as the
 appointment of a Faculty REF Officer. The three ICS leaders were given opportunities to plan and
 develop activities to facilitate the reach and significance of the impact generated. The three
 projects were also discussed in the UoA Research Away days in 2017 and 2018, when all staff in
 the UoA were able to provide useful feedback. A senior member of staff with extensive experience
 has served as a ‘critical friend’ and mentor to provide feedback to leaders as they develop their
 projects. Impact was further developed during University-funded research leaves (Demossier in
 2018-19 following her three-year as HoD). ICS leaders benefited from some internal financial
 support which helped to develop and support key strategic activities. Porter was able to secure
 three consecutive awards (£30k split with the University of Essex; £7.8k; and £5.1k totalling
 £42.9k) from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account which was used to deliver training, workshops
 with primary school teachers and school administrators and a MOOC for global CPD (Continuing
 Professional Development), based on her research.

 1.4 Support for interdisciplinary research
 Our research is fundamentally interdisciplinary as we work within both the ESRC and the AHRC
 remits. Our activity covers a wide range of topics, methodologies and philosophies which are
 brought together by our three research centres. The exchange of ideas is encouraged and
 facilitated by the invited seminar series, cross-centre debates, research away days and meetings
 of Café Research, a monthly hour-long event in which staff have the opportunity to discuss and
 share their research plans widely with staff in the UoA. After one of these sessions, Slabakova
 brought several staff working on various aspects of multilingualism together to lead a major bid for


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an ESRC Research Centre. This bid led to an interdisciplinary research project by Holmes-Elliott
 and Domínguez on heritage speakers which was awarded a full PhD scholarship by the ESRC
 DTP starting in 2019. Other popular initiatives include the ‘Annual Cross-centres Debate’ which
 explores issues across the disciplinary spectrum from formal linguistics to global Englishes,
 anthropology and cultural studies through key interdisciplinary themes such as bilingualism,
 multilingualism, language and identity.
 Strong links with other disciplines have driven much of our research activity in cultural and critical
 studies. Campmas is the founder and co-director of the cross-faculty Centre for Medical and
 Health Humanities. In the area of Jewish studies, Reiter has played leading roles within the
 Faculty’s multidisciplinary Parkes Institute for Jewish/non-Jewish Relations, together with
 colleagues in English, Film, History, and Music. Similar initiatives were developed by Jones in
 collaboration with CIPCS (Centre for Imperial and Post-Colonial Studies) and funded by PERu.
 Demossier has developed links with the Centre for Political Ethnography (Professor Rod Rhodes)
 for the organisation of joint seminars and projects and this collaboration led to the award of a
 cross-faculty PhD studentship. Zotzmann has founded an interdisciplinary discussion group in
 Critical Realism with the Business School and Health Sciences which in 2019 hosted the annual
 conference of IACR (International Association of Critical Realism) under the theme ‘Post-Truth’:
 Applying Critical Realism to Real World Problems. Lewis collaborates with colleagues in
 Environment and Geography through two GCRF (Global Challenges Research Fund) grants to
 support better water and food infrastructure and policy in three sub-Saharan African countries.
 Lavery has co-organised a gallery exhibition on Spanish American Multimedia artists and writers
 with the director of the Winchester Gallery (WSA).

 1.5 Open research
 We take a proactive approach to the open research environment (REF5a) and all staff members
 have completed extensive training. We are in full compliance with all new publications being made
 available three months after publication. Staff and postgraduates take advantage of University-
 wide resources including ePrints, its online repository (REF5a,§2.3), PURE, its research
 information system, and OA deals with publishers as well as funds from UKRI. The Faculty peer-
 reviewed multi-disciplinary journal Emergence led by our postgraduate community is another
 successful example of open access. In addition, departmental initiatives have led the way to open
 research in the area of Linguistics and Culture. The University has signed DORA which
 recognises the inappropriate use of journal metrics and how those can have an adverse effect on
 publishing in local language journals. A pioneering approach in the establishment and support of
 open research tools underpins our strong open research culture. Domínguez and Mitchell
 (Emeritus) are co-directors of the ESRC-funded ‘SPLLOC’ project designed to make a new corpus
 of learner Spanish available to the international research community. The impact of this free
 online resource is still visible with several users around the world accessing its data for their
 teaching and research. Domínguez and Hicks have received £578,951 from the AHRC for a
 research project which will see the creation of an open-access database of oral speech by native
 speakers of German, Spanish and English undergoing attrition.

 1.6 Research integrity
 The UoA is in full compliance with the University’s Concordat to support research integrity provided
 by the University Research Integrity Committee (REF5a,§2.4). The Concordat is a comprehensive
 framework which recognises responsible research of the highest ethical standards. We are fully
 committed to respecting the principles of this Concordat in all our research activity through mutual


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support as well as inclusiveness which are key to our multifaceted research culture. The Faculty
 offers annual research integrity induction sessions, and training and awareness-raising events for
 both staff and students organised by the Research Integrity Officer. Every research study proposed
 by staff and students undergoes a rigorous ethical review which starts with a comprehensive ethics
 and governance checklist. All studies involving human participants are registered on the
 University’s electronic document management system, Ethics and Research Governance Online
 (ERGO). Details of every study are checked and approved by the Faculty’s Ethics Committee
 through ERGO. We also encourage research ethics beyond the UoA with colleagues being
 members of the Research Ethics Committee (REF5a,§2.4). Subject associations also play an
 important role in relaying and debating the research integrity agenda. Research ethics is a
 standing item on the agenda of our research centres and research groups/clusters. The Debating
 Ethnography group has led on ERGO discussions related to ethnographic fieldwork at Faculty and
 University level.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing research strategy
 Our UoA has maintained a similar demographic profile compared to REF 2014 and despite a
 reduction in staff (see below):
   •   Gender: 75% female (78% in 2014).
   •   Ethnicity: 67% white, 13% of BAME, 21% undeclared;
   •   8% registered disabilities;
   •   Country of origin (or nationality): 46% UK, 46% EU/EEA, 8% RoW.
   •   The age distribution is broadly similar to the REF 2014.




 In line with our research strategy, the UoA’s recruitment strategy is focused on:
 1. Maintaining diversity and breadth of research excellence following resignations and
 retirements of senior staff. Expertise in language education following the retirement of Mitchell
 (2013) and departure of Huettner (2018), promoted to a Chair at the University of Vienna, has
 been maintained by the appointment of Porter and Morán Panero opening new directions in
 bridging language education, second language acquisition and EMI (English as a Medium of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Instruction). EMI is now a major area of research interest, further consolidated by the appointment
 of Wang. In French, the retirement of Kelly (2016) and the departure of Orr (2016) encouraged a
 re-alignment of our research strategy and appointing in new areas of development. Holmes-Elliott
 was appointed to lead our research activity in sociophonetics and language variation. In the area of
 German, the retirements of Meinhof (2018), Stevenson (2018) and the untimely death of our
 colleague Reiter were followed by the appointment of Kranert who combines expertise in critical
 discourse analysis and sociolinguistics with a focus on German. In Portuguese studies, Dinneen’s
 retirement (2015) has enabled the recruitment of Jones consolidating new research directions in
 both medical humanities (disability studies) and literature of Lusophone Africa.
 2. Broadening our opportunities for expansion by strengthening the key strategic areas
 prioritised for development. Our policy has been to invest in the best junior people. Expertise in
 medical humanities and linguistics is strengthened by the appointment of Jones, Holmes-Elliott
 and Kranert. New posts were created in the area of EMI (English as a Medium of Instruction) and
 multiculturalism with Wang and Morán-Panero.

 2.2 Staff development
 Our recruitment strategy ensures the viability of all key areas of our research community by
 ensuring a mix of junior and senior staff (see §2.1). When hiring, we follow the MLA (Modern
 Language Association) guidelines which contain best practice recommendations for hiring entry-
 level faculty members in MLA fields. All staff involved in hiring, appraisal and promotion have
 undertaken EDI training. Our advertisements explicitly encourage applications from members of
 underrepresented groups. These measures supplement numerous University EDI initiatives
 relating to staff recruitment (see REF5a,§3.5). Following probation, colleagues move to a system of
 annual appraisal (REF5a,§3.1), (Pro rata arrangements are in place for those in part-time or fixed-
 term posts).
 The overall success of our staff development strategy is demonstrated in our strong record of
 promotions since the last REF. Reiter and Domínguez have been promoted to Professor and
 Baker, Hicks, Huettner, Patiño, Soo, Zheng and Zotzmann to Associate Professors. Promotion
 is considered annually as part of the appraisal system. Five of our newly appointed colleagues
 were recently promoted to Lecturer B (level 5) (Kranert, Holmes-Elliott, Porter, Jones and
 Wang). All newly appointed staff during the REF period have completed the PCAP/PREP and were
 supported to get HEA accreditation. All ECRs have been confirmed in post at the end of their first
 year and promoted subsequently to level 5. Their lighter teaching load in the first year does not affect
 their entitlement to research leave.
 The UoA is committed to enabling individual staff members to engage in research. Time for
 research is protected by a Faculty workload model, which specifies that at least 40 per cent of
 individual lecturer effort will be devoted to research (40% for teaching and 20% for administration).
 All research active staff may apply for institutionally funded research leave for one semester in
 seven. Typically, 2 to 4 members of staff are granted a semester leave per year. In addition to this
 entitlement, researchers are encouraged to apply for externally-funded research leave
 opportunities. The effective use of the departmental workload model ensures a proportionate
 workload for part-time colleagues and makes allowances for those with caring responsibilities or
 health problems. Additional policies to support research include arranging timetables to ensure that
 each staff member has (at least) one day per week during term free from teaching commitments,
 and awarding tariff points in the workload model for impact to ensure that staff have time to devote
 to this in addition to that allocated for producing the underpinning research. Flexible and remote


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working has always been facilitated by arrangements with the HoD. Colleagues with caring
 responsibilities are also supported by the line manager, the Head of school and HR Business
 partners. Contributions to impact activities are recognised in probation and appraisals meetings
 and figure prominently in cases for promotions. The Faculty has a Strategic Research fund to
 which colleagues can apply that includes seed funding for larger external research applications.
 Institutional funds are available to all staff for conference attendance and other small-scale forms of
 research support, such as subsidies for organising conferences and impact events.
 Particular attention is paid to the inclusion in the UoA of our 4 ECRs (Early Career Researchers
 including lecturers as well as post-doc researchers) which are supported by policies and activities
 both by the UoA and the Faculty/University. The HoD allocates a lighter teaching and
 administrative load (typically 50%) to probationary research-active staff. ECRs are encouraged to
 develop a research-led teaching profile and to engage in the activities of relevant research groups.
 They gain experience in doctoral supervision as members of supervisory teams. Moreover, the
 CHEP (Centre for Higher Education Practice) gives particular support to ECRs, offering training
 and networking events across the University (see REF5a,§3.2). Our research centres hold regular
 exploratory research forums in which early ECRs present their ideas and more experienced
 colleagues offer advice on activities that may lead to impact. The Faculty has allocated a senior
 member of staff as a champion for all ECRs. This champion participates in the Faculty’s Research
 and Enterprise strategy group. The Faculty also has a research funding scheme specific to ECRs.
 The success of these initiatives is demonstrated by Porter leading on one of our ICSs and winning
 a prize in 2014 for best De Gruyter paper at the AILA (Network of European Applied linguistics)
 junior researchers Conference. Jones, Wang and Kranert have published their first monographs
 while Morán-Panero obtained a contract to publish her PhD as a monograph.
 All staff are supported by a senior colleague they have selected as a mentor who advises and
 supports them independently from the annual appraisal process. This informal mentoring has
 been instrumental to the disciplinary cross-hybridisation. The process provides systematic
 and proactive support for staff in producing high-quality research outputs and targeting these
 toward appropriate outlets, as well as greater integration of research groups. Mentoring aims to
 build an intellectual relationship which is both honest and supportive and we take great care in
 matching mentors with staff based on common interests and shared research activities.
 Beyond mentoring, the annual appraisal process (see REF5a) for staff involves target setting and
 discussion of achievement in all aspects of their role, career development, aspirations and plans.
 Where skill gaps are identified, staff are directed toward the programme of development
 opportunities offered by CHEP. The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers, which it promotes to faculties and members of staff via the
 CHEP (REF5a,§3.5). Staff policies apply equally to both full-time, part-time and fixed-term staff and
 conform to equality and diversity legislation forming an integral part of our wider equality and
 diversity agenda.
 Support for the writing and submission of research bids is offered at University, Faculty and UoA
 levels. Peer-review process is built across the UoA and the Faculty to encourage interdisciplinarity
 and develop methodological rigour. For example, all Research Council bids receive constructive
 feedback from colleagues across Humanities, and a European Office within Research & Innovation
 Services (RIS) (REF5a,§1.5) supports all aspects of EU bids with additional funds to assist
 meetings of potential partners. Between 5 to 17 applications are submitted annually by our UoA.
 We currently have two ERC Advanced Grant applications who have benefited from this Faculty
 support.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Postgraduate Researchers
 We are extremely proud of our diverse postgraduate community of researchers (PGRs). The UoA
 has a large and growing PGR cohort (around 200 in 2020/21), the largest in the Faculty. 88% are
 international students (mostly from Algeria, Chile, China, Mexico, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia and
 Thailand), 57% of postgraduates are women. The UoA is committed to sustaining the size,
 diversity and vitality of our current PGR community while maintaining a balance between its
 educational mission and research ambitions. This necessitated that we increase the training for
 both postgraduates and staff to meet the fast-changing expectations of Language and Culture
 researchers to work across the boundaries of traditional disciplines while preparing them for
 external internships and international networking (see 1.2 research groups/clusters).
 Our dynamic and extremely integrated postgraduate community relies on the following qualities:
   •   Our PGRs are supported from a variety of sources: prestigious ESRC and AHRC
       studentships (11 awards since 2014), and Faculty of Arts and Humanities, as well as
       University of Southampton studentships. Our international students have gained funding
       from government agencies in Thailand, Vietnam, Mexico, Malaysia, Algeria, Chile, Libya,
       Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Oman, Malta, Turkey, Iran, and Pakistan. In 2011, the UoA introduced a
       Distance PhD, with support from the Government of Mexico through PRODEP (Programa
       para el Desarrollo Profesional Docente, para el Tipo Superior). The programme hosted
       around 70 students and to date, 23 students in four cohorts are enrolled. The ESRC and
       AHRC-funded students are still a minority among our PGR students, but they are key to our
       diversity.
   •   Students are recruited according to standard University criteria, with a relevant Master’s
       degree including an element of research methods training as a standard prior requirement.
       Where students possess research aptitude but not a relevant Masters, they are directed to
       our Integrated PhD programme, which provides a year of assessed coursework before work
       on the research thesis; this programme provides access to doctoral study to around 10
       students annually. More targeted methodological training is also available through our
       research groups.
   •   PGRs are supported by a supervisory team with at least two staff members. This system of
       providing a first supervisor with specialised expertise and second supervisor with generic
       expertise has enabled the UoA to adopt an efficient and flexible supervisory support
       structure which has de facto facilitated the development of cross-disciplinary projects. Full-
       time students meet the supervisor at least fortnightly during a semester and progress is
       documented through activity reports, as well as an annual academic training needs analysis.
       Support with English language and study skills is available for international students from the
       Academic Centre for International Students and the Library.

   •   PGRs belong to the Faculty Graduate School and have representatives on its steering
       committee. The School provides funds for conference attendance and travel, and offers
       training to PGRs – concerning the viva, for example, or publishing – additional to mandatory
       University-level training in areas such as research ethics and equality, diversity, and
       inclusion. The Graduate School coordinates annual ‘milestones’ at which independent
       assessors together with the supervisory team review the progress of PGRs. While the
       outcome determines whether the candidate continues on the programme, these occasions
       are also opportunities to advise PGRs on their projects, to give feedback on their research,
       and to identify training needs. The School actively supports GradNet, a PGR-led group which

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       encourages networking and socialising, organises a seminar series and annual conference
       and publishes a peer-reviewed multi-disciplinary journal Emergence. PGRs have access to
       the University’s Enabling Services, which offer a variety of support for students with
       disabilities, mental health problems, or specific learning difficulties, and provide resources,
       host workshops, and offer advice promoting wellbeing.
 As a complement to the Faculty support, the UoA supports its PGRs to furthering their projects and
 developing their skills as researchers, while ensuring that they are well placed to pursue careers
 within or outside academia. Support includes:

   •   Attendance at research centres and regular seminars at which PGRs present work-in-
       progress, followed by a peer response that provides the basis for general discussion. The
       Modern Languages and Linguistics PGR group offers students the opportunity of presenting
       their work in progress. A weekly seminar for students is led by CGE and CLLEAR staff,
       where students present their research and discuss general research topics. TNS is
       represented by the postgraduate Modern Languages Group which runs monthly seminars in
       collaboration with WSA, History and the Confucius Institute. In 2019, it organised a series of
       intensive workshops for both postgraduates and ECRs ‘Using Theory in Research’ jointly
       with History. Staff and postgraduate students have built on the success of the research
       group Debating Ethnography through a Facebook virtual group attracting interest from both
       within the UK and internationally with more than 200 followers.
   •   PGRs have the opportunity to lead remunerated undergraduate seminars and give lectures,
       which provides invaluable experience for those pursuing academic careers or teaching posts
       outside higher education. PGRs are regularly observed by staff members, who produce
       reports offering feedback that serve as the basis for teaching references.
   •   PGRs organise workshops and conferences each year through the research centres or
       research groups (e.g. Language education). A member of staff provides oversight and
       advice, but the choice of topic, speakers, and format is the organisers’. In addition to
       furthering their research, this offers opportunities for networking and experience of preparing
       grant applications. PGRs were successful in securing funds for their data collection and
       fieldworks from subject associations such as the Language Learning journal dissertation
       program and the European Association of Social Anthropologists.

   •   For those pursuing academic careers, the Doctoral Programmes Director (DPD) for MLL
       serves as placement director. They ensure that PGRs can receive feedback on CVs, cover
       letters, research proposals and other elements of applications, coordinate mock interviews
       and job presentations, and advise PGRs in securing references and preparing teaching
       portfolios.
   •   To ensure that PGRs receive adequate guidance and support, we assign each a Personal
       Academic Tutor outside the supervisory team. The Departmental Senior Tutor and Faculty
       Senior Tutor provide additional assistance as needed.
 PGRs are instrumental to our research culture in the organisation and content of events. Our
 students led the Faculty Doctoral festival in 2019 with the theme of Language and Culture in the
 Academic World and Beyond, a clear testimony of their engagement. Language Testing has also
 grown as a new area of research led by PGR and staff with around 150 followers. In July 2020,
 Patiño as DPD, with the support of the student rep of MLL, organised the two-day virtual
 workshop: ‘Steps to getting published: opportunities and dilemmas for PGRs’. 26 PhD students had


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the opportunity to expand their understanding of how to improve their chances of being published.
 The first day was dedicated to the “Editor’s gaze”, and the second to the “Writer’s dilemmas”.
 Cross-centre research groups provide further support for in-depth discussion and preparation of
 research projects. PGRs are expected to play an active part in the research centre closest to their
 interests (e.g. fortnightly work in progress sessions, participating in visiting speaker programmes,
 important events such as the Three Minutes Thesis competition, and assisting with the
 administration of conferences and workshops).
 Several of our PGRs have been successful in obtaining and securing academic positions, earning
 internal and external recognition as well as becoming excellent reflexive language teachers. 20
 have secured academic positions in the UK, China, Mexico, Jordan and Japan. In 2019, Harkness
 was finalist for the best three-minute PhD presentation at University level. Morán-Panero, a former
 PhD student at Southampton, was recruited as an ECR and was the finalist for the Joshua A.
 Fishman 2018 De Gruyter Mouton prize for best PhD thesis on a topic in the sociology of language.
 Another PGR, Jaewon (Jane) Ra was selected by the faculty for a doctoral college research award
 for a publication based on her thesis. In 2020, Amber Dudley was awarded the ‘Runner-Up’
 Doctoral College Research Award for one of her PhD publications. We pride ourselves in training
 the next generation of linguists/cultural experts and educationalists eager to work across
 disciplinary boundaries.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is a key component of the University’s staffing strategy. It is
 embedded throughout our activities. Our UoA carefully monitors staff EDI training and reports
 regularly to the School/Faculty. It is mandatory that all researchers - staff and PGRs - complete an
 EDI training course. The staffing recruitment strategy at all levels is internationally oriented and
 pays consistent attention to equal opportunities. There is a balance of British and foreign
 nationalities represented by research active staff (11 are British, while the remainder includes 7
 different nationalities). The pattern of promotions during the assessment period provides evidence
 of the success of our approach to EDI. All female colleagues in fixed-term posts secured
 permanent positions at Southampton or academic posts elsewhere. 9 female full and part-time staff
 members were promoted during the assessment period in some cases more than once. The
 gender ratio among research active staff is currently 3:1 in favour of women, as only 6 members of
 staff are male. Staff and students promote equality and diversity through specific events and
 societies with for example LGBT+ Staff Network events organised by our 2 newly appointed ECRs
 in 2015.
 This commitment to EDI is reflected in the preparation of the present REF submission. We fully
 engage with the diversity agenda which is at the core of our multicultural, multifaith and gender
 diverse research culture. The EDI Lead who supports the implementation of the diversity agenda
 had regular opportunities to provide feedback on drafts of documentation. We ensured gender and
 ECR representation on the UoA’s subcommittee for selecting outputs. Staff leading the submission
 completed bespoke EDI training, focusing on implicit bias. These measures supplement those of
 the University (see REF5a,§3.6). Moreover, the UoA has been extremely careful to embed EDI at
 the heart of its REF preparations.
 The Faculty has participated in the EU Good Practice Pilot to extend the Athena SWAN scheme to
 arts, humanities and social sciences and is proactive in its implementation. The School of
 Humanities is working towards a Bronze award for 2021.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Development of Research Careers
 and in 2018 renewed the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award, first
 awarded in 2012, demonstrating our long-term commitment to the career development of
 researchers. This underpinned our commitment to our ECRs, typically Postdoctoral Fellows at level
 4 on the ERE-Research career pathway which are supported through an ECR network, together
 with overall ERE staff development through the CHEP. Due to our high number of PGRs and PGT
 students, we have the highest number of research projects in the Faculty going through a rigorous
 ethical review.
 The University is currently in the process of assessing the institutional barriers to racial equality
 and is working towards joining Advance HE’s Race Equality Charter. MLL is actively involved in
 this process and committed to enhancing its internationalisation agenda and advancing the
 awareness and promotion of race equality among its students and staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Since 2014, the UoA has continued to obtain significant external research grant income and after a
 brief dip following staff changes is now on a strong upward curve growing by 273% from £146,172
 (2013/14) to £544,848 (2019/20) in award value. In addition to generating multiple research
 outputs, the diversification of our funding stream has enabled us to develop major research
 projects across the three research centres, for example:
  •   In Applied Linguistics represented by CLLEAR, recent successes include the AHRC
      award of £578,951 to Domínguez and Hicks for their project, Vulnerable native
      grammars: the effects of limited input in native language attrition; Improving reading in
      Modern Foreign Languages: Can instruction in phonics and reading strategies improve
      students’ progress and motivation in Key Stage 3 (Porter £6,886 Nuffield Foundation);
      Assessing Language Progress: How to Measure, and What to Compare to? (Zheng 5
      projects totaling over £50,000 in total British Council and Pearson Education) and
      Generation Why: teenagers as leaders in linguistic change (Holmes-Elliott £9,994
      The British Academy).
  •   CGE has also gone through a demonstrable success: English as an ASEAN lingua
      franca: Implications for language and education policy and practice (Baker £37,300
      The British Council) and From English language learners to Intercultural Citizens:
      Chinese student sojourners development of intercultural citizenship in ELT and EMI
      programmes (Baker £9,980 The British Council).
  •   Finally, TNS successes include: UK Global Challenges Research Fund: Bridging
      national strategy on sustainable development of water-energy-food systems to local
      scale needs in Malawi awarded to co-PI Lewis (£165,761) and, more recently, under
      the ‘Clusters awards’ a follow-up funding on the same theme (Lewis £168,660);
      Continuation of transnational identities investigation of Madagascar musicians through
      AHRC impact funding (Meinhof £80,172) and Common Ground: Refugees and native
      residents create community in rural Hampshire, Arts Council England. (Armbruster
      £14,835).
 Participation in major funded projects has led to active engagement in a range of international
 research networks, which have provided supplementary scholarly infrastructure and contributed to
 research dissemination and impact. They include networks on Meaning in Language Learning

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (AHRC-funded, Slabakova), Language Attrition (ESRC-funded, Domínguez and Slabakova),
 World University Network project on multilingualism and mobility in the northern and southern
 hemispheres (Paffey, Patiño, Mar Molinero and Stevenson), English as a Lingua Franca network
 (as part of AILA, Baker, Jenkins and Wang), Changing English Consortium (Helsinki University,
 Jenkins), Diamond Jubilee Fellowship project (funded by Helsinki and Southampton, Baker,
 Jenkins and Wang), Research in Primary Languages Network (funded by Reading & Department
 for Education, Porter), Professional Development Consortium in Modern Foreign Languages (UoA
 for Education, Porter), Young Language Learning network (funded by AILA, Porter).

 3.2 Organisational structure
 The Faculty has a Strategic Research fund to which colleagues can apply which provides seed
 funding for larger external research applications, by way of supporting research trips, workshops,
 and networking. There has been regular investment using grants from commercial sources. This
 includes Santander support for Mexsu, which led to the development by Mar-Molinero of research
 links with several Mexican universities and support for the distance learning PGR programme with
 Mexican government funding. Funding from the British Council has also enabled research on
 English language policy in Mexico. New targets involve pump-priming funding from the Worldwide
 Universities Network, GCRF, the Alan Turing Institute and the Southampton Marine and Maritime
 Institute.
 A clear example of the University support is in the area of Applied Linguistics. In 2016, we secured
 a top-of-the-line eye tracker (major University strategic investment over £30,000) as a base for an
 applied linguistics lab used to support research in various aspects of language structure,
 acquisition and use. This Faculty and University investment has provided the UoA with the fantastic
 opportunity to build more high-level expertise in the area of second language acquisition. This has
 resulted into more high-calibre undergraduate and PGR recruitment in the field of second language
 acquisition, several collaborative publications and ESRC grant applications with Psychology
 (Professor Simon Liversedge now at UCLan and Dr Denis Drieghe).
 The Head of Department holds a research budget and allocates funds in line with strategic goals,
 in addition to funds available through University-wide competitions, such as its Global Research
 Initiator Scheme, and Faculty-level schemes, such as its Strategic Research Fund. These support
 the development and dissemination of research through conference attendance, workshops and
 conferences, including pilots for larger projects, and initiatives that aim to generate impact. The
 Faculty Impact Officer helps colleagues to improve and document the impact of their research. The
 research activities of the UOA are supported by a Senior Administrative Officer, who helps with the
 organisation and promotion of events, travel and accommodation for research visits, and staff
 recruitment, as well as a dedicated member of Finance, who assists in managing budgets for
 projects and other research activities.
 Support from RIS and Finance has been provided through the Faculty and been promoted through
 newsletters, dedicated research workshops and targeted research impact training events. The
 operational infrastructure for research in the UoA is provided largely by central University services
 (Library, IT and AV services, RIS and the Finance Research Hub), where dedicated staff provide
 specialist advice and support for Humanities research. Customised Library, research and IT/AV
 support is provided by staff located in the Faculty premises. MLL has designated contacts in the
 Library team. Its Academic Engagement Librarian assists staff and PGRs in accessing the library’s
 resources and in procuring new resources, while its Research Engagement Librarian advises staff
 and PGRs on open access, impact measurement, and data management. Staff needs are
 negotiated at Faculty level, and contracts with central services for the provision of operational

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure are regularly reviewed and updated in the light of changing research needs. For
 information about the range of institutional infrastructure and facilities supporting research and
 impact across the University (see REF5a,§4.2).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations and contributions
 We are a collegial, dynamic and innovative department demonstrating a strong and motivated
 engagement with the global changing Modern Languages and Linguistics landscape. Collaborative
 arrangements have been key to our international profile with 14 members of our staff involved in 36
 externally-funded programmes and networks across all areas of our three research centres.
   •   In Transnational studies, Demossier led the HEA-funded project Ethnographic Encounters
       and contributed to a joint publication to map ethnography onto the Modern Languages
       agenda through initiatives led by Dr Naomi Wells (AHRC-funded Cross-Language Dynamics:
       Reshaping Community project - Open World Research Initiative - IMLR Institute of Modern
       Language Research) which were both published in peer-reviewed language and culture
       journals; Lewis is a Co-Investigator in an RCUK-Global Challenges Research Fund Grant on
       Building Research Capacity for sustainable water and food security in drylands of Sub-
       Sahara Africa and more recently a ‘Clusters awards’ on the same topic;
   •   In socio-linguistics, Mar-Molinero, Patiño and Paffey are members of the WUN Research
       Development Fund (RDF) Grant, funded by The World Universities Network (WUN) on
       Multilingualism & Mobility in the Northern & Southern Hemispheres while in second language
       acquisition, Slabakova was a co-investigator of the AHRC-funded network on Meaning in
       Language Learning (MiLL) and the MiMS project at the UiT, Norway. Slabakova and
       Domínguez were members of an international ESRC-funded Network on Language Attrition;
   •   Global Englishes is represented by Jenkins and Baker who are collaborating with
       colleagues from Kasetsart University, Thailand and leading a project funded by the Newton
       Fund (Researcher Links Workshop Grant) on English as an ASEAN lingua franca:
       Implications for language and education policy and practice. Baker has been a partner since
       2018 in a project with NCKU Taiwan on Use of Linguistic Strategies in English Medium
       Instruction (EMI) Classrooms funded by Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST)
       Taiwan. This has involved collaborating on data analysis, the publication of findings and
       developing teacher education resources, as well as visits to and from NCKU.
 Memberships of national and international committees reflect the wide range of areas in which the
 UoA is well-represented. Slabakova and Hicks are members of the AHRC Peer Review College;
 Demossier, Slabakova and Domínguez are members of the ESRC Peer Review College.
 Slabakova has served on the ESRC Grant Assessment Panel and the US National Science
 Foundation linguistics panel. Demossier is a UNESCO Wine Network member. In terms of
 research advisory panels or review boards, Slabakova is a Member of the advisory board of IRIS
 (http://www.iris-database.org). Zheng is Steering Committee member for the new UK Association
 of Language Testing and Assessment (UKALTA). Patiño is a member of the executive committee
 of the International Association for the Study of Spanish in Society. Hicks is a Commissioning
 Panel member for the ESRC Transformative Research scheme and has been an Executive Board
 member for Southampton ESRC Doctoral Training Centre. Demossier sits on the Executive
 Committee of the AUPHF+-Association of University Professors and Heads of French
 (http://www.auphf.ac.uk/).


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A majority of our members of staff have been members of committees in 31 subject associations
 spanning the main areas covered by the UoA. Mar-Molinero has been the Honorary President of
 the International Association of Spanish in Society since 2010. Campmas is a member of the
 Executive committee for the Society of Dix-Neuviémistes and with Soo of the Association for the
 Study of Modern and Contemporary France. Soo is also a Member of The Society for the Study of
 French History. Domínguez was a member of the executive committee of the European Second
 Language Association (EuroSLA) from 2016 to 2019. Demossier and Armbruster are members of
 the European Association of Social Anthropologists, and Demossier a Fellow of the Royal
 Anthropological Institute. Jenkins is a fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences. Kranert is a
 board member of the newly founded international DiscourseNet Association, the association for
 discourse studies. Slabakova is a foreign member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and
 Letters and the Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences and Letters.
 All staff act as referees for major international journals in their field; many also serve as manuscript
 reviewers for major publishers and assess funding proposals for major funding bodies in the UK
 (Leverhulme, AHRC, ESRC) and abroad (e.g. Finnish Academy of Research, Swiss National
 Science Council, the Dutch Research Council, the Rockefeller Foundation and the US National
 Science Foundation).13 Members of staff are editors of 26 scholarly journals, for example: The
 Journal of English as a Lingua Franca (Baker, Jenkins) and Second Language Research
 (Slabakova). Our staff serve as members in editorial and advisory boards of well-esteemed
 international journals and editors of book series: Jenkins and Baker, Developments in English as
 a Lingua Franca (de Gruyter); Mar-Molinero the International Journal of Iberian Studies;
 Domínguez, Second Language Research; Journal of the European Second Language
 Association; International Journal of Spanish as a Heritage Language and Studies on Second
 Language Acquisition; Kranert is a member of the Editorial board of the open access Journal
 Springer Nature Humanities & Social Sciences communication (formerly Palgrave
 communications); Slabakova, Linguistic Approaches to Bilingualism; Journal of the European
 Second Language Association; Demossier, Aofood (Anthropology of Food); Soo, Diasporas:
 circulations, migration, histoire; Porter is co-editor of Language Learning Journal.
 Our UoA international expertise is represented by our staff who have acted as external examiners
 for 71 doctorates at institutions in the UK and other countries including Australia, Canada,
 Colombia, Germany, France, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Spain and the USA.
 The same energy applies to the organisation of conferences and workshops. Staff have (co)-
 organised over 40 events, including international conferences such as Language Testing Forum
 2014 and Ladder of Civilisation: History of Chinese Imperial in 2019 (Zheng); Researching
 Language in the City: exploring methodological and theoretical concepts, part of the AHRC-funded
 MEITS project, in June 2018 (Mar-Molinero); Generative Approaches to Second Language
 Acquisition 14 (Slabakova and Domínguez); Language Ideologies in the Spanish-speaking world
 context (Mar-Molinero, Patiño and Paffey); the Society for Latin American Studies annual
 conference (Jones, Lavery, Patiño, Mar-Molinero); Researching Language in the City, and the
 EuroCALL conference. Kranert has co-organised the DNC3 Congress in Paris, at which
 DiscourseNet, the international association for discourse studies, was founded. He is also co-
 organiser of the Open DiscourseNet Seminar in London and a DiscourseNet Research Group on
 discourses of the Corona Pandemic. Overall, we organised around 10 colloquia and panels at
 international conferences.
 Regular workshops have also been key to the development of our research with themes spanning
 from Moving stories: Exploring transcultural storytelling in contexts of migration (Armbruster) to a

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meeting of the BAAL Language Learning and Teaching Special Interest Group (Kiely), PGR
 student conferences such as the Conference in Global Englishes (Jenkins and Baker) and the
 ASMCF Annual Conference 2014: Language, politics and power in 21st Century France
 (Demossier). Zotzmann organised in 2019 the 22nd Annual Conference of the International
 Association for Critical Realism (IACR) hosted by MLL and the Department of Health which
 attracted 91 delegates from all over the world. Our newly recruited colleagues have been
 particularly active: Wang co-organised the Eighth International Conference of English as a Lingua
 Franca (ELF8) in 2015 and is the Lead China Coordinator for Global Englishes. In April 2019,
 Campmas organised the very successful international conference of the Society of Dix-
 Neuviémistes on the theme of Discovery and Exploration while Jones organised an international
 conference attended by scholars from the UK, the USA, Brazil, Portugal, Nigeria and Mozambique.
 In HEI consultancies, 7 members of staff have served as academic advisors or consultants for
 committees or programmes in the UK and abroad: Reiter (Leeds); Kiely (University of Tlemcen,
 Algeria, Sultan Qaboos University, Oman, and the University of Coventry); Mar-Molinero
 (Limerick, Swansea, Surrey, Houston and George Mason, USA); Hicks (Essex); Slabakova
 (Leeds, York, Arizona State, University of Illinois and UC Santa Cruz, USA); Baker (Manchester
 and Sussex).
 Staff have received prestigious scholarly awards or fellowships: Zotzmann has been awarded the
 prestigious UK Mexico Visiting Chair Mobility Grant; Lewis was a Visiting Fellow at the Institute for
 Latin American Studies, School of Advanced Study, University of London; Jenkins was a visiting
 scholar at Helsinki University. Slabakova has been a Research Professor II at UiT, The Arctic
 University of Norway and is currently a Research Professor II at NTNU; Baker was a visiting
 professor, at the Vietnam National University.
 Between them, our staff have been invited to give over 120 plenary of keynote presentations and
 guest lectures in the UK and abroad: Baker (Greece, Turkey, China, Taiwan, Thailand and UK);
 Demossier (Australia, Italy, France, New-Zealand, Switzerland, USA, UK); Domínguez (Spain,
 Netherlands, UK, USA); Holmes-Elliott (USA, UK); Kiely (UK, Thailand, USA, Oman, Indonesia
 and Dubai); Kranert (Germany); Lewis (USA, UK); Mar-Molinero (UK, Mexico, Germany,
 Netherlands, Switzerland, Croatia, Austria); Morán-Panero (Colombia, Greece, Spain, UK, Brazil);
 Orchard (UK); Reiter (Austria); Stevenson (Germany, Ireland and UK); Patiño (Mexico,
 Columbia, Spain and UK); Porter (UK); Slabakova (USA, Germany, Norway, China, UK); Soo
 (USA); Jenkins (China, Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, Finland, Switzerland). Most staff members are
 regularly invited to give lectures at seminars in the UK and abroad (Colombia, Austria, Finland,
 Germany, Luxemburg, France, Switzerland and China).

 4.2 Partnerships and contributions beyond academia
 We ensure successful contribution beyond academia through a range of events organised by our
 UoA. Our staff have been involved in public engagement through a wide range of activities. We
 have aimed to enhance public appreciation of cultural and linguistic diversity and enrich
 cultural life. Highlights include:
   •   Regular contribution to Pint of Science festivals (Armbruster on refugees voices in 2018)
       and through projects funded by the Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERu). Jones
       contributed to the public engagement programme ‘Interruption/Disruption’ associated with
       UKRI Voices in the Gallery project while Lavery has been involved with WSA in a project on
       multimedia Latin-American writers.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Zheng is the Director of the Confucius Institute established by the University of Southampton
       in association with Xiamen University and with the approval of and support from the Office of
       Chinese Language Council International (Hanban). It runs an annual series of local community
       events dedicated to Chinese culture and language and has supported the production of a
       podcast dedicated to Chinese language teaching in Hampshire by Patiño.
   •   In 2016 we secured funding from the German embassy (Armbruster) to organise the
       ‘Southampton German Festival’, an outreach event to launch our participation in the national
       ‘Think German network’. This included the successful collaboration with the Winchester
       Poetry Festival in October 2016.
 The main non-academic beneficiaries of our research are policy-makers (e.g. UK government
 education ministers, EU Commission and European Parliament); public institutions (e.g. local and
 national museums; educational sector); professional associations (e.g. Association for Language
 Learning) and practitioners, such as teachers and public service translators and interpreters;
 cultural organisations and venues (e.g. the Turner Sims Concert Hall in Southampton; the French
 Institute in London; the Musée des Confluences in Lyon; the Iwalewa Haus Africa Centre in
 Bayreuth; the general public participating in lifelong learning events and cultural activities (such as
 concerts, film screenings and exhibitions) arising from research projects; individual language
 learners using our e-languages materials. Kelly (Emeritus) remains actively involved in policy
 contexts, e.g. attending the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Languages and was a European
 Language Council Board member. Through her collaboration with the Public PolicyӀSouthampton
 unit, Demossier was selected by the European Commission JRC (Joint Research Centre) to join
 an interdisciplinary workshop to prepare the EC Enlightenment 2.0 Flagship report.
 In addition to these ongoing activities, we have also remained alert to the broader impact
 opportunities offered by the Higher Education changing landscape. We have launched a very
 successful MOOC ‘Understanding language: Learning and teaching’ which has reached global
 audiences (over 240,900 enrolments in 170 countries) and won a Vice-Chancellor's Award for
 internationalisation. A second MOOC, English Medium of Instruction for Academics has 30,000+
 enrolments from 160 countries. Finally, a third MOOC ‘Teaching Languages in Primary Schools:
 Putting Research into Practice’ (first run 4,657 in 139 countries) formed part of another ICS (FL
 literacy).
 Enterprise consultancies: Zheng has served as an external psychometric consultant for
 language testing organizations including Pearson Education and The British Council, yielding a
 total consultancy fee of £23,244.
 We also have a strong tradition of non-research staff engagement with business and public
 bodies. This work has been integrated within MLL, with Dickens acting as Director of Academic
 Innovation and Director of Lifelong Learning Programmes and Borthwick as Senior Enterprise
 Fellow. Both have played an important role in supporting the impact development strategy. The
 UoA has partnerships with The British Council (Online MA ELT, Understanding Language MOOC,
 online language learning materials for Mexican HEIs), Future Learn (Understanding Language and
 EMI MOOCs), China Scholarship Council (Courses for English Language teachers 2016 - present),
 Tomsk Polytechnic University, Russia (EMI and E-learning courses), Lobachevsky University,
 Nizhny Novgorod, Russia (EMI, E-learning and Teacher Development courses), Universidad
 Autónoma del Estado de Mexico (EMI courses), Santander Universities, Pearson (publisher) and
 the NHS - provision of language teaching and medical interpreting training courses for NHS staff.
 Clients of our online Toolkits include: AKU Pakistan, Bournemouth, Canterbury Christ Church,


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coventry, Cranfield, Durham, Essex, Harper Adams, Keele, Kingston, Leicester, Loughborough,
 Manchester Met, Nottingham, Nottingham Ningbo, Open University, Portsmouth, Reading, Royal
 Holloway, Sheffield Hallam, SOAS, St Andrews, Tomsk Polytechnic University, Russia, UCLan,
 UEA, Warwick, Winland Academy and the University of York.




                                                                                     Page 18
