Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 29 Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Unit Context and Structure

 UoA 29 combines the Egyptology and Ancient Near Eastern Studies (EANES) section of the
 Faculty of Oriental Studies (five post-holders and three ECRs in 2020), with the Faculty of
 Classics, the largest in the world. Some elements of Classics (Linguistics, and part of
 Archaeology) are included in other UoAs; these will nevertheless be part of the following
 discussion, as integral features of our research environment.

 In terms of FTE researcher affiliation, the UoA can be subdivided as follows:




                                       5.60, 6%




                41.42; 46%
                                                   36.30; 40%




                                  7.33; 8%




               Ashmolean
               Classics: Ancient History/Classical Archaeology
               EANES
               Classics: Languages and Literature


 Our members’ shared objectives are:
 a) contributing to the field, by producing fundamental tools of research into the texts, contexts
 and material cultures of the ancient world, and their subsequent reception;
 b) expanding the field, both by extending its chronological, geographical and conceptual range
 and by working across boundaries within it, and across frontiers with other disciplines;
 c) curating the field, particularly by fostering the development of future researchers at
 undergraduate, graduate and postdoctoral level, and also by active engagement in the
 protection of cultural heritage;
 d) communicating developments within the field, especially by engaging with new
 constituencies and audiences and responding to their concerns.

 The Oriental Studies and Classics Faculties both belong to the University’s Humanities Division;
 the Divisional Board devolves considerable financial authority and responsibility to faculties,
 whose Faculty Boards oversee the career development of postholders, maintain the public

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profile of the subject, oversee graduate activities, handle funds for research projects, and
 distribute grants to aid research and for conference costs and travel.

 What follows focuses on the Classics Faculty. The key elements of our research operations are:

 1) Two Sub-Faculties, Classical Languages and Literature (LL; 27 permanent postholders) and
 Ancient History and Classical Archaeology (AHCA; 21 postholders in Ancient History, AH, 12 in
 Classical Archaeology, CA) have drawn closer together: indicative is the programming switch
 whereby the separate sub-faculties hold their meetings directly before, and feeding into, the
 termly meeting of the Joint Sub-Faculties, rather than afterwards; the two sub-faculties chairs
 meet regularly to discuss common concerns and strategize. The potential of the single Ioannou
 Centre building, acting as a hub for the two sub-faculties, has been more fully realized: it now
 hosts over 80% of faculty seminars, all faculty meetings and committee meetings.

 2) three major Faculty Research Centres: the Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents
 (CSAD); the Archive of Performance of Greek and Roman Drama (APGRD); and the Classical
 Art Research Centre (CARC). All three have mounted major initiatives since 2014, and their
 activities will be prominent in what follows; so too will the research projects that are connected
 directly or indirectly with them.

 3) Our 91 Category A individual researchers (90.65 FTE). The increase in numbers since 2014
 (72; 68.65 FTE) largely reflects the greatly increased number of early-career researchers. These
 contribute to our research culture, and benefit from the linked principles of autonomy and
 support that govern our research strategy: guidance is offered, not prescription.

 The 2020/21 Covid crisis posed a stern test to the vitality and sustainability of our operations,
 and our responses to this challenge will be itemized below.

 b. Research Strategy

 (i) Formulation

 Research and Impact strategy are the principal concerns of the Faculty Research Committee,
 which now meets termly (reporting to Faculty Board). It has extended the scope of its activities
 since its establishment at the beginning of the last REF cycle. The Committee’s remit, described
 in 2014 as ‘collection of information … from researchers’, and dissemination of information on
 project funding, is now framed more ambitiously and dynamically: ‘to facilitate and encourage
 research within the Faculty, to review the Faculty’s research strategy once a year, to present a
 research Budget for the consideration of the Faculty Board, and to develop an overview of the
 Faculty’s research profile.’ It has become the major forum for large-scale strategic thinking in the
 Faculty; broader participation in the articulation of strategy is achieved through periodic meetings
 of all faculty members, convened by the Research Committee. We also follow the University’s
 research integrity policies (see IES) with our Research Director ensuring these are broadly
 communicated and a regular item of Research Committee business.

 There are two distinct elements in our research environment, identified in our 2014 submission
 and reaffirmed at a recent (February 2020) faculty meeting. Each generates its own strategic
 imperatives, as follows:

 ---(a) The Research Centres have become more central to research project development,
 graduate training and technological initiatives since 2014. Each of the three permanent centres
 is closely connected with at least one of our Impact Case Studies: Dahl worked with CSAD,
 using new digital imaging technology to decipher documents, for his Making Heritage for All;
 APGRD supported performances for D’Angour’s Ancient Music and has provided resources for
 Classics in Communities; the Empires of Faith, Roman Coin Hoards, and Exploring LGBTQ+
 projects, meanwhile, all strengthened the long-standing connections between the Ashmolean
 Museum and the Faculty which have been more recently catalysed by CARC. The Heberden

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coin Room, the Oxyrhynchus Archive and the Griffith Institute represent further elements in
 this constellation; the Lexicon of Greek Personal Names (LGPN) shares space and expertise
 with CSAD. All relate to the development of our taught postgraduate courses, where uptake for
 options in epigraphy, numismatics, papyrology and classical reception has increased.
 All these initiatives have involved constant development and application of digital technology;
 this was central to two major projects which won ERC funding in 2020: Meadows’ CHANGE: the
 development of the Monetary Economy of Anatolia 630- 30; and Prag’s CROSSREADS: Text,
 materiality, and multiculturalism at the crossroads of the ancient Mediterranean. This success
 has owed much to a strategic policy of keeping IT operations in-house where possible, so they
 can be tailored precisely to our needs. Our strategy is to maintain our position at the forefront of
 the Digital Humanities field and promote the FAIR principles of sustainability, accessibility, and
 interoperability wherever possible.

 ---(b) For many within this UoA, a prime environmental attraction is the freedom to create and
 pursue individual research agendas, and to follow arguments wherever these might lead; the
 diversity produced by this freedom of navigation is, in turn, a further enhancement. The Faculty
 plays an important role in supporting and coordinating these individual enterprises. It makes
 small grants available through the Craven Committee (which disbursed grants worth
 GBP97,880.69 to 84 faculty members, including students, in 2019-20) and facilitates
 applications at divisional level to the university’s John Fell Fund (supported by an annual transfer
 from the university press; we have secured 76 grants worth GBP308,184 since 2014, with three
 of our impact case studies--Dahl, Elsner, McKenzie--among the recipients). The Faculty helps to
 bring those with related interests into productive contact with each other, not only through
 research seminars but also by circulating statements, updated regularly, of members’ current
 and prospective research interests. A recent exercise identified some thirty ‘connections and
 groupings’: the most substantial included religion (sixteen postholders) and historiography (ten).
 The importance of individual work to the Faculty’s research activity can be illustrated from the
 contribution made to the close study of literary texts. Fundamental texts and commentaries have
 been produced on Stesichorus, Herodotus, phlyax plays, Lycophron, Varro (De Lingua Latina),
 Pseudo-Homer (Batrachomyomachia), Pseudo-Manetho, the epic and the periegetic Dionysii.
 Green-and-yellow commentaries—accessible to students, but primary resources for scholars
 and presenting original interpretation—have been produced on Homer (three different volumes),
 select lyric, elegiac, and iambic poetry, Herodotus, Xenophon, Virgil, Ovid, and Tacitus. Other
 work has taken close analysis in different directions, to investigate, for example, the relationship
 of Homer, and the Homeric Hymns, to Near Eastern texts, the exploitation of rhythmical prose in
 Plutarch, and the treatment of motion in Parmenides, Ovid, and Seneca; to pursue acrostics and
 telestics in Virgil and Ovid; or to explore cognitive linguistic approaches to Euripides or
 ecocritical approaches to Virgil.

 A core strategic objective is to ensure that these two elements continue to cohere, and to
 maintain between the two sub-faculties a sense of common purpose, consolidating the physical
 common ground of the Ioannou Centre by nurturing its intellectual counterpart, the shared
 readiness of all members of the Oxford classical community to respond to, and engage critically
 with, each other’s responses to any Latin or Greek text that might be presented to them, whether
 the Iliad or a papyrus tax receipt. In practical terms, this sustains our capacity:
 •        to support research across the field of classical languages, literature, history and material
 culture;
 •        to foster research that bridges the subdivisions (whether chronological, geographical or
 disciplinary) in this field;
 •        to encourage work that brings material from the classical world into dialogue with
 adjacent areas—Prehistory, Medieval/Byzantine Studies, Religious Studies, Philosophy, Modern
 Literary Studies, Music, Theatre and the Performing Arts, and Social Sciences;
 •        to build upon our high profile in digital humanities in order to promote sustainability,
 interoperability, and broader access to our research.

 The increased interactions since 2014 between Classics and EANES, the two components of
 this UoA, illustrate the point. Two recent Classics appointments, Metcalf (LL) and Stevens

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (AHCA), have strong research interests in the relationship between the ancient Mediterranean
 and Near East, reinforcing those pioneered by Martin West and developed by Currie and Kelly; a
 joint Classics/EANES supervision earned a doctorate in 2017 and another continues. The Covid-
 affected 9th Oxford Postgraduate Conference in Assyriology, scheduled for April 2020, reflected
 this interactivity at grass-roots level, with classicists among the prospective speakers. Meadows’
 CHANGE project begins in the traditional EANES territory of seventh-century Phrygia; the
 volume of LGPN currently underway includes Greek names attested in Demotic. Shared
 interests in heritage protection, reception studies and digital humanities provide further points of
 contact between the two disciplines. APGRD’s ‘Classical Theatre in the Middle East and Iran’
 conference (2019) contributed another dimension to the relationship.

 Externally funded research projects continue to play a major part in achieving our strategic
 goals. Our research facilitator remains fundamental in shaping and developing applications,
 which are also constructively reviewed by the Faculty Board Chair, the Research Director, an.
 the Head of Administration and Finance. Applications have risen significantly, from 24 in 2013/14
 to 34 in 2017/18; success rates have also increased (2013/14: 17%; 2017/18: 24%; see section
 3a(i), below). Between August 2018 and August 2019, Classics made 8 successful external bids
 with a total value of GBP3,872,151.
 Research Committee monitors applications and encourages individuals to discuss possible bids,
 aiming to broaden the pool of research grant applicants. 2014-2020 saw a total of 162
 applications, of which 32 were from non-permanent researchers and 9 from post-holders within
 five years of appointment.

 (ii) Implementation (a): Research Seminars

 The key forum for the presentation and consideration of research activity in Classics at Oxford is
 the seminar (where again that shared capacity to respond to Homer and the Hermopolite tax-
 man—and indeed to Hölderlin’s Lieder and the Housesteads latrines--remains central), and the
 Faculty is committed to making these inclusive and accessible as well as rigorously critical, and
 to providing opportunities for graduate students to participate, collaborate and take leadership
 roles.
 There are typically a dozen series, usually meeting weekly, every term. For Michaelmas 2019,
 for example, twelve series were advertised, divisible into four principal categories:

 --the three sub-faculty seminars (Ancient History, Classical Archaeology and
 Languages/Literature), each designed to appeal to a wide range of interests within, and beyond,
 its constituency, convened by a succession of postholders (often in partnership with an ECR or
 PGR), and usually dedicated to a particular theme (in Michaelmas 2019, the LL seminar dealt
 with ‘Phantasia before phantasia’, the AH series ‘the media turn’). These attract an average
 audience of thirty postholders, ECRs and PGR students, plus visitors and emeriti; they are also
 a central element to the PGT programmes. With a roughly equal balance between locals and
 visitors (4-4 for LL in Michaelmas 2019, 5-3 for AH), these seminars represent an important
 node of interaction with ongoing research in other UK universities (the external LL speakers
 came from Warwick, Edinburgh and Manchester Universities) and beyond (the annual AH
 Oxford-Princeton series involves a regular graduate exchange programme).
 The Late Antique and Byzantine Studies seminar belongs in this category: it is organized by the
 inter-faculty committee for Late Antique and Byzantine Studies (with representatives from
 Classics, Oriental Studies, Medieval and Modern Languages, History, and Archaeology), is
 housed in the Ioannou Centre, and attracts the same level of attendance. EANES has its
 equivalent weekly seminar.

 --A second tier of seminars (Late Roman, Late Antique Art, Jewish History in the Greco-Roman
 Period, Philology) is devoted to specialist areas within the field: each maintains a weekly
 programme throughout each year, has a consistent attendance, and is particularly important in
 maintaining the vitality of the specialism across the UK, as one of very few venues where visiting
 speakers can test their ideas before an expert audience.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 --Two important further series, both running regularly each year—the termly CSAD epigraphy
 workshops and the annual APGRD reception seminar series—are directly related to the Faculty
 Research Centres and contribute significantly to their vitality, attracting and developing interest
 among graduates. Both were founded during the penultimate REF cycle, highlighted in our 2014
 submission, and are now well-established features of the local and national landscape: the
 lunchtime epigraphy workshops attract regular audiences of over thirty, and APGRD events
 (over 30 are held per year, including public lectures, workshops, seminar series, exhibitions,
 study afternoons, international conferences, artists in residence) of over fifty.

 --Finally, there are occasional series prompted by individual enterprise, often by ECRs, and
 funded ad hoc by the Faculty Board: Michaelmas 2019 saw two such series, ‘Greek
 Fragmentary Texts’ and ‘Abelard and Héloïse—the Letters’.

 An important recurrent feature within each category is interdisciplinarity: the Abelard and
 Héloïse series included speakers from the History, Theology and Religion, and Medieval and
 Modern Languages faculties. Sub-faculty seminars likewise regularly integrate the interests of
 literary scholars, historians and archaeologists (thus, a Polybius series co-convened by
 Hutchinson and Luraghi in spring 2020 combined historical and literary perspectives); further
 boundaries are explored in such initiatives as Metcalf’s interdisciplinary research cluster, Centre
 for Manuscript and Text Cultures, and an annual series (since 2014) co-convened by McLynn
 and philosopher Anna Marmodoro to examine late antique thinkers, which yielded (2018) a
 volume on Rethinking Gregory of Nyssa.

 A further significant tier of seminars relates to the PGT programme, with parallel series in AH
 and LL led by the statutory professors as a compulsory element of the first-year Masters
 programme: these attract postholders, but crucially provide induction for students into
 participation in seminar discussion, into chairing and into presenting papers.

 There is also scope for initiative to come from the grassroots. In 2019 a newly-formed
 undergraduate society, the Christian Cole Society for Classicists of Colour, organized a series of
 sessions, a three-part lecture series on ‘Decolonising Classics’ and a series of themed
 discussions. The Faculty provided facilities for these meetings.

 March 2020 presented the challenge of the sudden cancellation of all physical gatherings. But
 seminar activity continued: the epigraphy workshop in particular, was able to reconfigure its
 programme and invite to its virtual meetings speakers from overseas who would not ordinarily
 have been able to participate: for example, a session by Eric Driscoll from the American School
 of Athens involved 36 participants from the US, Italy and Spain, alongside Oxford attendance.

 (iii) Implementation (b): Collaborations and Digital Humanities

 Our pioneering role in Digital Humanities (on the University Digital Humanities database,
 entries for Classics and Classical Archaeology outnumber those for either the much larger
 History or English faculties) has led to many extensive partnerships both nationally and
 internationally. Examples include:

 --The Ancient Greek Coinage as Related Cultural Heritage (ARCH) project (AHRC), a
 collaboration to create an online portal for Greek coinage between CSAD, the Bibliothèque
 nationale de France and Valencia University, uses the ‘nomisma.org.’ network, a Linked Open
 Data (LOD) framework co-founded by Meadows, to connect 30 disparate research projects and
 collections across North America, Europe and Africa: a CSAD workshop in 2018 explored the
 application of LOD to epigraphic data, with contributions from epigraphists and Digital
 Humanities scholars from Britain, Europe, and North America.
 --The Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative (CDLI), the main international digital project in
 Assyriology, is a partnership with UCLA, the Berlin Max Planck Institute, and CNRS Paris, co-
 directed by Dahl, and employs Reflectance Transformation Imaging (RTI), a technology
 developed collaboratively by CSAD and Southampton University (AHRC: GBP328,274). The

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project has currently put text and images online of 320,000 of the c. 500,000 recovered
 cuneiform tablets. Digitizing the proto-Elamite tablets held by the Louvre and the National
 Museum of Iran has made these resources freely and universally available.
 --The Proteus project (2014-2015) created an ‘innovative digital editing and research tool for
 scholars working on unpublished papyri and a larger web portal devoted to literary and
 subliterary fragments’; the ongoing AHRC project led by Reinhardt, Living Virtually: Creating and
 Interfacing Digital Surrogates of Textual Data Embedded (Hidden) in Cultural Heritage Artefacts
 (2019-2022: GBP845,579) uses imaging techniques both for technical purposes and for more
 effective public presentation of the materials.
 --Seals and their impressions in the ancient Near East (SIANE/SESPOA), co-led by Dahl, is a
 collaboration between Oxford, Southampton, and Paris to analyse seal impressions, using
 enhanced digital imaging techniques to render impressions as a flat surface, funded by LabEx
 (France), AHRC and the John Fell Fund (2017).

 Collaboration within the university has also been key to our continued high profile in Digital
 Humanities. Our members sit on the University IT Committee, the Research Computing Board,
 the Research IT Board, the Education IT Board, and the Research Data Working Group.
 Particularly prominent is Prag, who has acted as a Divisional representative in securing a lead
 role for Humanities in University IT, and since 2019 has led the Divisional ‘Digital Humanities
 Sustainability Project’, which is developing a cloud-based software as a service solution with
 Figshare for the long-term sustainability and accessibility of ‘live’, continuously curated digital
 humanities data; Dahl, who initiated the project as chair of Humanities IT, also sits on the
 steering committee.

 Similarly, the APGRD database is recognized as a world-leading resource: it has been adopted
 as a model for similar projects in the USA (Macintosh was on the International Advisory Board of
 a Mellon-funded pilot project for a digital library of classical performance at NYU); Grenoble
 University consulted the APGRD about developing a French performance database (2019-20);
 three Italian universities are consulting APGRD about a similar database (this has involved
 mutual exchange opportunities for graduate students); Northwestern University (USA) is
 exploring the incorporation of their Classicising Chicago database, following a previous joint
 venture with APGRD, the jointly edited Oxford Handbook of Greek Drama in the Americas
 (2015); a further collaboration has been established with the Centre for Classical Studies at the
 Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. APGRD additionally works closely with other
 theatre database projects internationally (through the European Network of Performances of
 Greek and Roman Drama) and in the UK.

 Research continues to be underpinned by the Bodleian and Sackler libraries (discussed in detail
 in Part 3b below) and the Ashmolean Museum. There has been a significant increase in active
 collaboration between the Faculty and Museum staff. Four of our impact case studies have
 involved Ashmolean-based activities: in 2017, Elsner’s Empires of Faith culminated in a Museum
 exhibition, and the Museum also hosted a concert by D’Angour’s Ancient Music project; 2018
 saw Melfi and Smith’s Antinous and Parkinson’s No Offence exhibitions; in 2020 Howgego’s
 Coin Hoards project led to a special display on ‘Lasers, Hoarding and Roman Gold Coinage’.
 Individual researchers have also benefited from new Museum-based opportunities: Thonemann
 used an Ashmolean faculty fellowship to explore the rich Achaemenid holdings; Kuhn held a
 similar fellowship in 2019.

 (iv) Research targets from 2014

 Eight specific areas were identified in the 2014 statement as research goals. D’Angour on music
 is submitted as an Impact Case Study; the others have yielded results as follows:

 --Prag’s I.Sicily won prizes in Italy and the UK, and generated (2020) his major ERC-funded
 CROSSREADS project.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 --Stewart’s Gandhara Connections project produced three volumes of papers, a series of
 workshops and (since 2016) a high-profile annual lecture: Morgan’s 2019 contribution (‘Ancients
 and Moderns in the Swat Valley’) highlights the project’s interdisciplinary scope.
 --Budelmann’s Cognitive Science collaboration delivered an online bibliography and has
 informed a number of publications, submitted as research outputs.
 --Quinn and Prag’s work on Hellenistic history led to a further volume (edited by Quinn and N.
 Vella), The Punic Mediterranean (Cambridge, 2014), and to the subsequent foundation of the
 Oxford Centre for Punic Studies, with an annual lecture.
 -- the AHRC Bowman/Hornblower/Crowther project on Ptolemaic inscriptions resulted in a freely
 accessible online database, forthcoming in 2021.
 --The Roman Economy Project remained, as advertised, ‘a major focus’: five book-length studies
 have been published, and the Cities and CHRE databases added to the project’s online
 searchable resources.
 --Whitmarsh’s Imperial Greek Epic project migrated with him to Cambridge (2014); our continued
 commitment to this area is reflected in the appointment (2019) of Greensmith.

 (v) Open Access

 The faculty website was relaunched in 2018 (for impact implications see section 1c(iii)); most
 research centres and projects have followed suit, and have become increasingly important as
 digital hubs for online text corpora and object databases, facilitating international collaboration
 and research. Notable developments 2014-2020 include:
 --APGRD: two AHRC-funded, open access interactive eBooks;
 --CSAD: RIB (Roman Inscriptions of Britain) Online and Online Greek Coinage;
 --Heberden Coin Room: see ICS for CHRE; RPCO VII.2 (2020) is freely available online ahead
 of print publication;
 --CARC: Beazley’s notebooks (2014) and the Fürtwangler/Reichhold drawings (2017) added to
 the Archive database; the Ghandara Connections page offers publications and podcasts;
 --LGPN: vol. Vb on Coastal Asia Minor (2014), with particular focus on indigenous names.
 The Anachronism and Antiquity project site makes freely available the introduction to a Classical
 Receptions Journal special edition; the Khirbet et-Tannur Nabataean Temple project makes its
 published work available in both English and Arabic.

 The appeal of these resources extends far beyond the professional scholarly community: RIB
 Online recorded 85,000 hits on its re-launch day in 2019. We aim to build upon the profile
 achieved by such initiatives, and to ensure that the Classics website becomes a resource of first
 resort, internationally, for scholars, schoolteachers, specialists, and all those seeking to explore
 the ancient world and its reception.

 Doctoral theses deposited at the Bodleian Library are now accessible electronically (subject to
 embargo options); journal articles and conference papers have been Open Access since 2016,
 with 198 articles uploaded on Symplectic Elements. 117 classical theses are available on the
 Oxford Research Archive (ORA). Oxford Scholarship Online meanwhile makes 713 Classical
 items available to the scholarly community.

 (vi) Strategic Objectives

 Our fourfold mission of contribution, expansion, custodianship and communication (1a above)
 will remain central during the next REF cycle. The second element is particularly relevant
 strategically: in continuing to support individual research projects, Faculty Board and Research
 Committee will give priority to those endeavours which promote interdisciplinary exploration of
 the ancient Mediterranean and its surrounding world, and also of the responses to antiquity
 through subsequent eras.

 At the same time, we shall continue to build upon the pioneering work done by different research
 projects in applying technology to the study of the ancient world. During the next REF cycle, the
 establishment of Linked Open Data standards across the domains of classical antiquity will be a
                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 particular priority, and we are actively exploring how data can be accessed, searched, and re-
 used across our multiple projects—to achieve the future invoked by Meadows at the 2018 LOD
 workshop, where ‘inscriptions can talk freely to coins and papyri and join a conversation with
 encoded pots and places and people.’

 We will seek to maintain our position both within the University and beyond, nationally and
 internationally, as a pioneer in the development and use of digital methods for classics research,
 building on the two major ERC grants awarded in 2020 (Prag’s CROSSREADS and Meadows’
 CHANGE), which involve extensive use of digital tools and methods. We plan to maintain and
 enhance our leading position in the two relevant disciplines of numismatics and epigraphy by
 continuing to support CSAD, and by leading international collaborative projects in these and
 related fields. In the long term, through continued engagement with the University, we aim to
 extend the range of the world-standard digital resources that we host and maintain. We shall
 thereby create a digital environment for Classics which matches the breadth, the ambition and
 the curiosity of those researching into the ancient world.

 c. Impact Strategy

 (i) Formulation and Implementation

 The key development since 2014 has been a greater emphasis upon the importance of effective
 communication, with the improvement of existing tools and experimentation with new ones.
 Research Committee (presented in 2014 as one of three committees sharing a supportive role)
 is now central, evaluating the potential impact of projects submitted to it with the help of the
 Research Facilitator, who also helps grant applicants to identify impact pathways in their
 research.

 (ii) Delivery (a): Registering Impact and Communicating Results

 The first two general objectives identified in 2014, the ‘promotion of a more analytical approach
 to proving impact’ and the development of ‘the potential of the faculty website for improving
 access to research,’ are closely interrelated.

 The faculty website, relaunched in 2018 with a greatly enhanced capacity for interactivity,
 provides projects with a shared platform on which to record and develop their impact, through
 curated links to their own, divisional and central university websites. The I.Sicily project blog, for
 example, introduces the involvement of local schoolchildren in recording material and developing
 an exhibition (October 2016); the Empires of Faith blog extends the reach of the gallery talks
 conducted by the project team; the APGRD ‘Performing Epic’ page on their website includes
 material that itself embodies the impact, such as the video of choreographer Marie-Louise
 Crawley’s 2017 Ashmolean performance, as APGRD Artist in Residence, of her solo, masked,
 ancient pantomime-inspired, site-specific dance piece, Likely Terpsichore? (Fragments), and the
 recording of Graeme Bird’s Homeric jazz improvisations on piano.

 We continue to develop capacity to quantify impact: for example, the blog established for Rood’s
 Anachronism project by researcher Carol Atack, which ranged far beyond the ancient world to
 embrace, among other themes, art history from Rubens to Cy Twombly, attracted a broad global
 audience (searches came from 120 countries, including a significant take-up in Africa, Latin
 America and South East Asia).

 The amount of material freely available online through the website has increased dramatically
 since 2014, and is now listed on school and university reading lists internationally. In the 12
 months between November 2019 and November 2020, the CARC website alone received
 300,613 visits (‘sessions’) and 5,914,038 pageviews by 161,961 users from 191 countries. All
 digital resources saw increased traffic during the 2020 pandemic. Roman Provincial Coinage



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Online, for example, recorded 1,137,012 pageviews (20,470 users) in 2019, and 2,171,582
 pageviews (28,724 users) in 2020.

 (iii) Delivery (b): Educational Impact

 The third general objective identified in 2014 was ‘Further development … of ways to use our
 research to encourage Classics in schools.’ This has been a core concern, addressed above all
 through the Classics in Communities project, funded by the Faculty in 2014 in response to the
 inclusion of Latin and Greek within the new primary curriculum language requirement for Key
 Stage 2 pupils. Researchers involved in this project (particularly Holmes-Henderson) have
 contributed to national curriculum boards and discussions around pedagogy and Classics (see
 ICS and section 4a); the project earned a Vice-Chancellor’s Education Award (29.7.2020). Our
 involvement in the Iris Project (highlighted in our 2014 submission) has led to the Literacy
 Through Latin project, which supports Latin learning in schools in socio-economically deprived
 areas, and has contributed to Oxford-based projects including the Rumble Museum, based at
 Cheney School, which in 2020 was awarded full Museum Accreditation by the Arts Council
 Museum Accreditation Scheme. The Classics Faculty also regularly offers talks for a sustained
 outreach project for year 8-10 pupils at state schools in the Bradford area, with the focus again
 on using research in Classics and its pedagogy to enrich the primary and early secondary
 curriculum.
 Also relevant to research impact has been work at Key Stage 5 level, a sustained outreach
 project established by the then Outreach Officer over a two-year cycle for 60 year-12s at state
 schools in Greater Manchester and Yorkshire/Humberside. Based on research by ECR Ward
 and expertise from the University’s ‘Home for Big Questions’ project (Oxplore), the project
 introduces Classics to young people under-represented in higher education as a tool to think
 critically around narratives of power and supremacy. Greatly over-subscribed, the project
 reached schools across two large regions, and one of its two host schools has now (2020)
 begun offering A-level Classical Civilisation.

 (iv) Looking Ahead: Impact 2021-2028

 The strategic objectives outlined at 1b(vi) have their own impact implications, particularly as
 regards digitization and the CHANGE and CROSSREADS ERC projects, which will feature
 prominently in our 2028 submission.

 A powerful thematic element in our projects during the current cycle (building on initiatives noted
 in 2014) is that of heritage protection. The Manar-al-Athar project, the Cuneiform Digital Library
 Initiative, and the Roman Imperial Coin Hoards project are submitted as impact case studies;
 also significant in this respect have been EANES’ el-Kab and Hierakonpolis projects, Karnak
 Graffiti Project and Nahrein Network. Closely related is Wilson’s Endangered Archaeology in the
 Middle East and North Africa (EAMENA) project, a collaboration with Leicester and Durham. We
 shall continue to engage closely with this urgently important field, and Research Committee will
 assess heritage protection potential when evaluating projects.

 A key operational goal, meanwhile, will be to exploit the increased availability of impact data,
 and ensure that it is collected in a sophisticated and granular way. Research Impact will become
 a standing item on the research committee agenda, enabling a sustained and consistent
 overview and evaluation. We shall also develop our means of communicating these results more
 effectively, with a twofold purpose:
 -- (a) to communicate to each member of the UoA a better sense of being part of a sustainable
 and vital research community;
 -- (b) to provide more up-to-date and useful data for those seeking to form partnerships,
 networks or grant-proposals within the UoA.
 Such connections (or such awareness of collateral efforts distinct from direct collaboration) will
 help form themes for seminars or workshops, but will also sit alongside and inform: (i) annual



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research strategy meetings; (ii) individual meetings with a statutory professor and the Research
 Facilitator, now available to all faculty members annually.

 These new channels will ensure that the impact potential of individual projects is identified and
 realized.

 2. People

 a. Academic Staff

 (i) Permanent post-holders

 Our staffing strategy is to recruit and retain a diverse body of scholars of the highest quality.
 Provision of posts is subject to a successful business case: since 2014 we have replaced all
 posts made vacant through retirement or resignation. In advertising posts we aim to consolidate
 our strengths, to ensure continued coverage across the field, and to foster interdisciplinarity.
 Appointments since 2014 have thus strengthened interdisciplinary connections with the
 Ancient Near East (Metcalf and Stevens), classical philosophy (Taylor) and classical reception
 (Güthenke); and also established foci of disciplinary expertise such as epigraphy
 (Papazarkadas), numismatics (Meadows), papyrology (Schentuleit) and Roman archaeology
 (Maschek); Greensmith meanwhile reinforces strength in imperial Greek literature. Jacobs’
 appointment to a newly created post in Byzantine archaeology (2015: fully endowed by the
 Stavros Niarchos Foundation, 2019) meanwhile consolidates commitment to the inter-faculty
 coalition for Late Antique and Byzantine Studies (LABS). Two senior research fellows have also
 been appointed: Catherine Morgan (archaeology, Greek religion) and Prauscello
 (palaeography/papyrology). Both the Regius Chair of Greek and the Wykeham Chair (Greek
 History) were successfully filled (Hutchinson, Luraghi).

 Classics is committed to a policy of promoting Equality and Diversity. Central here is the
 ongoing application for Athena Swan Bronze Award accreditation; debates associated with this
 process have themselves raised awareness of inclusiveness issues. One aspect has been the
 revised timing of faculty seminars, now scheduled whenever possible during core hours; faculty
 committee meetings have also been rescheduled, with most now held during lunch hours, and
 none after 5.00pm. In considering applications for seminar funding, Faculty Board requires an
 appropriate balance of invited speakers.
 Seven of the new appointments discussed above are women and six men; twelve of the thirteen
 who left were male. Gender imbalance is thereby somewhat redressed, giving Classics currently
 23 female permanent postholders to 37 male (38%). Selection committees for all posts must
 contain at least one woman and at least one man, and chairs must take the University’s
 recruitment and selection training. Unconscious bias training is now standard in appointment
 processes.
 The University has a comprehensive Code of Practice for the Employment and Career
 Development of Research Staff; the Faculty Board Chair, Research Director, and Head of
 Administration and Finance have oversight of its implementation and apply all other University
 staff HR policies as needed.
 Frood has been especially prominent in raising awareness and improving disability support
 across the University and building networks among disabled staff and students. She has spoken
 at numerous events, on student radio and in the British and international media, encouraging
 students with disabilities to consider academic careers.
 All academic staff, including temporary staff, are on national pay scales. Postholders are
 appointed for a 5-year probationary period, during which they receive additional support (see
 below). They are entitled to sabbatical provision of one term’s paid leave for every six terms of
 teaching; entitlement is cumulative, to a maximum of one year’s leave. University statutes
 require this time to be used for research. Faculty Board received 45 applications for sabbatical
 leave during the census period, six for the minimum one-term period and 39 for the one-year
 maximum; all applications were approved.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Black Lives Matter movement in 2020 raised urgent questions of diversity in the research
 environment. An immediate consequence has been the creation of new channels of
 communication with the student body (undergraduate and postgraduate) across the double
 distance imposed by COVID and the vacation diaspora; following an extraordinary meeting of
 the joint sub-faculties (52 attendees) to agree a plan of implementing teaching and curriculum
 reform, an online town hall meeting was held in July 2020 (51 students and all twelve members
 of Faculty Board), for students to discuss diversity issues and the Faculty’s proposals to help
 address these. Conversations continue, and will be facilitated by the newly appointed (2021)
 faculty EDI officer.

 Induction for new postholders includes an introduction to research resources. A mentor is
 allocated for their 5-year probationary period, usually an experienced faculty member with
 cognate research interests. Mentors support new postholders’ research activity with advice on
 how to overcome challenges in teaching and administration and by encouraging them to explore
 the range of external funding opportunities available. New postholders also have meetings with
 the Research Facilitator to discuss possible applications. Colleges and Faculty protect new
 appointees from substantial college office and from major examining in the first five years of
 appointment (three years for those who have held a permanent post elsewhere). The Faculty
 Board Chair has overall responsibility for the induction process, and a faculty assessor reports to
 the Board on the appointee’s research and lecturing towards the end of the probationary period.

 Career development for postholders was mentioned as an area for concern in the 2014 REF
 feedback return. The most telling measure of our effectiveness in delivering career satisfaction is
 our continued ability to retain academic staff. Only 3 postholders left for posts elsewhere:
 Whitmarsh, Ma and Papazarkadas.

 Initial appointments are either to Statutory Professorships (8 in this UoA) or Associate
 Professorships, which are governed by national pay scales. The university runs an annual
 recognition of distinction exercise, where titular professorships (with additional salary) are
 awarded to successful applicants. Six members of the UoA (Güthenke, Quinn, Thonemann,
 Allan, Stewart and D’Angour) won such awards in 2019-2020, making a total of 14 since 2014.
 Research projects and grants have provided an important avenue for those wishing to focus on
 specific projects: 21 postholders have received at least one such grant since 2014. The Faculty
 has also supported those agreeing to hold administrative office for their colleges or the
 university: since 2014, 3 postholders (McLynn, Kerkhecker, and Scullion) have served as college
 senior tutors, 3 (Bispham, Pitcher, and Allan) as university proctors and assessors, and Quinn
 as Associate Head of the Humanities Division. All have returned to the research community,
 equipped not only with various insights into the workings of politics, high and low, but also with a
 heightened sensitivity to questions of governance.

 (ii) Fixed-term researchers

 Success in securing research project funding has led to the appointment of 37 fixed-term project
 researchers since 2014; in addition, we have secured 12 Leverhulme/BA PDFs and six Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie fellows. There have also been 24 college Junior Research Fellows in
 Classics. A further by-product of research funding success have been 21 fixed-term lecturers
 employed to cover the teaching of those on funded buy-outs. These numbers mark a significant
 increase from the previous REF cycle. An important initiative was the change of contract
 arrangements for one-year Departmental Lecturers in 2017, with contracts now covering a full
 calendar year rather than merely the university teaching year, as previously, creating provision
 for dedicated research time.

 The particular difficulties of those on short-term contracts are recognized, and considerable
 efforts are made to integrate them into the Faculty’s research environment. Following the
 enhancement of Macintosh’s role from research staff liaison officer to ‘postdoc czar’ with a more
 activist brief, networks have been established for disseminating practical advice and information;
 a representative of the postdoctoral community now sits on Faculty Board.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Direct collaboration between postholders and ECRs remains crucial. Two case studies in the
 2014 submission, involving such partnerships, have led to publication: Budelmann and Phillips,
 Textual Events (Oxford, 2018) and Rood and Huitink, Xenophon: Anabasis III (Cambridge,
 2019). Both Phillips and Huitink have secured posts (Manchester, Amsterdam).

 The seminar culture which initially generated these two projects continues to deliver: Gartland, a
 Departmental Lecturer, co-convened an interdisciplinary series on Aristophanes with Güthenke
 (2018); another DL, Ellis-Evans, co-led an AH Hellenistic series with Meadows (2019): three of
 seven speakers were ECRs. DL Zachhuber now co-convenes the epigraphy workshop with
 Meadows, Kuhn and Crowther.

 Harrison has conducted a number of similar collaborations, several leading to publication: with
 Thorsen (Dynamics of Latin Prose, 2018), Matzner (Complex Inferiorities, 2018) and Eastman
 (Seamus Heaney and the Classics; with Macintosh, 2019). Macintosh co-produced three
 volumes with McConnell: Oxford Handbook of Greek Drama in the Americas, (2015); Epic
 Performances from the Middle Ages into the Twentieth Century (2018); Performing Epic or
 Telling Tales (2019).

 The contribution to the research environment of ECRs is indicated by their share of our REF
 output submission: 42 items (18.5% of the total).

 The most important measure of our success in developing the careers of ECRs is their
 subsequent fortune: of the 65 who left the Faculty 2014-2019, 18 are employed in Oxford, 17 at
 universities elsewhere in Britain and 17 abroad; other destinations include specialized
 consultancy (e.g. marine archaeology) and teaching. Notable here has been the success of
 research projects in equipping their staff for further academic employment: of McKenzie’s 8-
 strong Monumental Art team, for example, 2 now hold posts elsewhere (East Anglia University
 and UCL), 3 hold university research fellowships (Amsterdam, Dublin, Edinburgh) and 2 remain
 in the faculty; 1 works for the Greek archaeological service.

 An important resource for ECRs in particular has been TORCH, The Oxford Research Centre
 in Humanities, which offers a broad range of funding schemes: after holding an APGRD
 Leverhulme Research Associate post, McConnell became the first joint Classics/TORCH
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellow (2014-2016); she now holds a post at KCL.
 TORCH was particularly helpful to ECRs in the Empires of Faith project:
 --TORCH events helped promote two 2017 project publications: Images of Mithra (the five co-
 authors included two Classics PGRs and one ECR), and the catalogue for the Ashmolean
 exhibition, Imagining the Divine;
 --TORCH seed funding supplemented the Those Who Follow exhibition with a series of religious
 community workshops;
 --TORCH also funded Talking Religion, where nine PGRs and a museum employee met to
 discuss the project, their own work and that of their peers, and then to deliver a series of public
 museum talks. The programme, now in its third year, continues to receive TORCH funding.
 TORCH funding supports ECRs in extending the impact of research projects. In 2019 Lynch
 (previously a college JRF) became PI of the TORCH ancient music and theology network:
 TORCH supported her 2020 workshop on Ancient Greek Music. TORCH funding enabled
 Slaney (BAPDF) and Bocksberger (College Lecturer) to establish the ‘Ancient Dance In Modern
 Dancers’ Network, in conjunction with the APGRD Performing Epic Project and the Institute of
 Social Cultural Anthropology. It also supported Whiting (RA) in surveying the Khirbet et-Tannur
 temple, and Gnisci (RF) in digitizing Ethiopic manuscripts.

 b. Research Students

 Oxford remains a magnet for Classics research students. 51 PGR students were registered in LL
 in 2019, 28 in AH and 27 in CA (a separate DPhil programme since 2013); a total of 147 doctoral
 degrees were awarded across the UoA during the census period. The size and diversity of the

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research community remains a major attraction. We offer supervision across the whole of
 classical antiquity and much of the ancient Near East, including joint supervision across the SFs
 (e.g. Reinhardt/McLynn), between the UoA faculties (Dahl/Metcalf), with other faculties
 (Macintosh/Trimble/Tunbridge – Music; Macintosh/Evangelista, Harrison/Burrows – English),
 and by Ashmolean staff (Kuhn/Howgego).
 Graduate feedback highlights as attractions the range of seminars available, the expert guidance
 received, the library and museum facilities, and above all students’ freedom to develop their own
 projects, and the support they receive as their priorities evolve and shift. Opportunities to
 participate in Digital Humanities projects are also much valued. Peer support and stimulation is
 an important element, facilitated by the environment of the Ioannou Centre and the size and
 diversity of the graduate community. The two weekly Work in Progress seminars, in LL and AH,
 are now entrenched in graduate culture. The AHRC-TORCH graduate fund, launched in 2014,
 provides PGRs with support to convene conferences, stage events, mount exhibitions and
 enhance public engagement. Ten of our students have benefited, notably Dimitrios Kamnellakis
 (conference on Greek Comedy, 2017).

 Graduate scholarships are a further attraction, especially in the current funding climate. In
 2018, 5 AHRC scholarships were allocated to PGRs, together with 4 University-funded
 Clarendon scholarships; these are supplemented by other Oxford-based graduate
 scholarships—particularly the Ertegun Humanities Scholarships, and college-based awards.
 Between 2014-2018 a total of 64 graduate scholarships from the AHRC (35), Clarendon Fund
 (21), and Ertegun House (8) were awarded. The Craven Committee funds research (travel,
 conferences, fieldwork) in Classical Archaeology and beyond.

 Faculty-appointed supervisors (new supervisors receive guidance from their mentors and a
 university-led training course) meet their students regularly, the frequency of meetings varying
 according to course type and the stage of research: they often occur fortnightly at the start of a
 doctorate, with regular written work produced, and generally at least twice a term in later stages.
 Each SF has also a Director of Graduate Studies (DGS), consulted by graduates on a wide
 range of issues. In 2019, the supervisor reporting system was overhauled; reporting now include
 the summer vacation, and college advisors are involved more directly in supervision
 arrangements.

 The one-year (MSt) and two-year (MPhil) PGT degrees both involve compulsory seminars on
 research techniques; they also offer the opportunity to improve presentation skills (with formal
 feedback) and to learn ancient and modern languages. The dissertation (10,000-25,000 words)
 is a key element for those heading towards doctoral research.

 Seminar culture is again central. In the first year of doctoral research, LL students must attend
 two series which investigate specific texts (these generally include sessions with the Professors
 of Latin or Greek); they must offer a presentation at one of them. Particularly prominent remains
 the Oxford-Princeton partnership, which in AH has now outgrown its specifically religious remit,
 and provides students with opportunities for interactions with Princeton counterparts on both
 sides of the Atlantic. Other special conferences, seminars, and lectures enable graduates to
 meet scholars from elsewhere. An annual joint meeting with graduates from Cambridge and
 London has expanded to become a larger and more itinerant graduate forum. The APGRD also
 hosts well-established meetings for graduates working in reception (with London, since 2000;
 and Paris-Nanterre, since 2010), and supports the Lyric Translation Workshop, co-organized by
 graduate students and the Oxford Professor of Poetry. There have been several annual
 meetings (funded from Oxford’s Europaeum) with graduates from other European countries,
 including one in memory of J.-P. Vernant. Another regular mode of interaction is the annual
 graduate conference (with faculty involvement) with OIKOS, the Dutch classical consortium, now
 expanded to include Munich.

 Research Projects, as well as enriching the graduate environment, have been an important
 source of graduate funding. Empires of Faith provided funding for three doctoral projects;
 Roman Coin Hoards Online has meanwhile brought at least seven students to graduate studies,

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and has also secured funded AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (CDP) Studentships at
 Warwick and Leicester: not the least important of the UoA’s functions in the current environment
 is to train people who will then pursue their research elsewhere.

 The Division’s full-time Training Officer coordinates a range of events to enhance academic and
 transferable skills, including training in teaching methods. Training schemes include a tutorial-
 teaching day offered through the Centre for Teaching and Learning (CTL), after which PGRs (if
 their supervisors agree) become eligible for the Tutorial Teaching Register, through which
 tutorials are organized. The SFs jointly support mentored tutorial and class teaching and
 lecturing opportunities, in which PGRs present one tutorial or sometimes two, followed by
 feedback from students and the mentor. In the lecturing scheme advanced PGRs are invited by
 lecturers to contribute up to two instalments of a series. Suitability, content, and course context
 are discussed with the lecturer, who attends and monitors the sessions and offers feedback and
 assessment. A popular innovation (since 2016) is the "Fresh Voices in the Classics" series, eight
 advanced LL PGRs (selected competitively) each giving one lecture in a series for
 undergraduates, with a senior faculty member in attendance and giving feedback; an equivalent
 series (“New Ideas”) was introduced for AH PGRs in 2018. With History, Classics participates in
 a Divisional pilot scheme to integrate mentoring procedures into a Divisional ‘Teaching
 Internship’ scheme. A further week-long programme trains about 20 graduates annually to teach
 undergraduate classical language classes. Graduates accepted for this teaching typically teach
 a weekly first-year class for two terms, with feedback from a faculty member.

 DPhil completion rates have continued to improve: 72 DPhils were awarded in LL during the
 census period, against 10 withdrawals; 44 were completed in AH (4 withdrawals); 19 in CA (4
 withdrawals). More support is now available, at university, faculty and college level, to help
 research students deal with the pressures and mental health issues which accompany many
 postgraduate experiences. Response to the challenges of COVID (2020/21) has been indicative:
 supervisors, examiners, faculty officers and administrators devoted much time to ameliorative
 measures, and support was made available in the form of book grants and funding support, and
 the scanning (within copyright limits) of materials in libraries and academics’ personal
 collections. The processes of thesis submission and PGR transfer/confirmation of status
 continued, remotely, at normal levels. Seven of eight students undergoing the Confirmation
 process, and all five undergoing Transfer, passed; there were eight DPhil examinations, with
 seven candidates granted leave to supplicate and one given Major Corrections. The elaborate
 PGT examination system was maintained; exams took place electronically, highly technical
 papers included.

 A recent initiative to improve career prospects of research students beyond completion has been
 the restructuring of the placement officer scheme, with specific advice now offered to PGRs
 attending the US Society for Classical Studies recruitment conference, including mock
 interviews. The placement officers now accompany the students to the SCS.

 Support is also given to students in publishing their theses, and advice is offered by supervisors,
 the examiners and faculty reviewers whether the material is more suitable for publication as
 articles or as a monograph. One avenue available for the latter is recommendation through a
 faculty committee for consideration by either OUP’s Oxford Classical Monographs (OCM) or
 Classical Presences series. Successful candidates receive detailed guidance from an external
 reviewer and an allocated faculty adviser. 27 OCM volumes have appeared 2014-2020,
 compared to 20 in 2008-2014. Authors include two recently appointed postholders, Metcalf and
 Taylor, and two current DLs, Ellis-Evans and Westwood, who achieved prompt publication of
 their revised theses despite significant teaching responsibilities.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a. Income

 (i) Financial Strategy and Research Income Strategy

 In the period 2013/2014- 2019/2020, Classics made 162 submissions to traditional funding
 bodies such as the Leverhulme Trust, the ERC, BA, AHRC and the John Templeton Foundation,
 securing 43 grants worth a total of GBP12,721,277 awarded to 34 award holders; this has
 helped yield an average research income of GBP1,817.325.20 per annum for the UoA.

 Between August 2019 and August 2020 alone, Classics secured grants with a total value of
 GBP3,018,483 from these bodies.

 Core funding from the British Academy, AHRC and the Leverhulme Trust has sustained the
 Faculty’s long-term flagship projects: since 2014, the Lexicon of Greek Personal Names has
 secured GBP1,713,176; the Oxyrhynchus Papyri GBP1,700,350; and the Beazley Archive
 Database GBP150,000 from these sources.

 Our strategy for securing research income matches our overall research strategy: to maintain an
 environment that sustains not only these large-scale international collaborative projects, but also
 the pursuit of individual research interests. Individual scholarship, funded by the BA, Leverhulme
 Trust and AHRC (with GBP2,883,444 awarded to 19 postholders 2014-2020), plays a vital role
 in sustaining a dynamic research environment and furthermore serves to attract a substantial
 cohort of PGT and PGR students each year.

 In supporting bids for research funding the unit:
 --Draws on the specialist expertise of the research centres and long-running research projects;
 --Exploits the Ashmolean and the Bodleian collections, looking to develop impact relevant to
 contemporary needs;
 --Invests significantly to maintain its leading position in digital humanities; and
 --Continues to develop an open access environment for our archival resources, both physical
 and digital.

 As we move into a new funding environment post-Brexit, we look to adapt the strengths that
 earned these successes to meet the changed conditions that await.

 (ii) Developing substantial bids and amplifying impact

 Large bids are becoming more complex. The international scope of collaborative research on
 digital platforms is growing, and projects need to meet increasingly ambitious benchmarks for
 public engagement, knowledge exchange and impact.

 To facilitate large-scale applications, seed-funding is needed to define research areas and
 methods, and establish the networks on which sustained collaboration depends. UoA29 has
 benefited from the John Fell Fund (see section 1b(b)), which provides seed-corn and start-up
 grants, particularly for interdisciplinary projects, both to prepare for further applications and to
 amplify impact. 32 successful bids to the Fell Fund, included seven for pump priming (Dahl;
 Prag; Meadows x2, Obbink; Jacobs; Probert) and six for research impact amplification (McLynn
 x2; Lynch; McKenzie; Macintosh; Elsner; Wilson)—these covered projects as diverse as late
 antique iconoclasm (Jacobs); ice core analysis to document lead pollution (Wilson); Latin
 Grammar (Probert); and Near Eastern Cylinder seals (Dahl). A Fell pump-priming grant provided
 the basis for Meadows’ ERC CHANGE project. Two small Fell Fund grants (GBP7.5k), to
 McKenzie and McLynn respectively, meanwhile supported the development of the open-access
 photo-archive Manar-al-Athar, an element of McKenzie’s 2016 ERC project Monumental Art of
 the Christian and Early Islamic Middle East. Fell funding (GBP38k) also supported McKenzie’s
 Garima Gospels project; in 2017 a second Fell grant was awarded to capitalize on the

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exceptional strength of the Bodleian’s collection of Ethiopian manuscripts. The launch of the
 associated exhibition ‘Languages of God: Sacred Scripts,’ co-curated by members of Oxford’s
 Ethiopian and Eritrean communities, involved some 200 members of these communities from
 across Britain.

 Also important have been the Divisional-level resources available through TORCH: a TORCH
 Knowledge Exchange Fellowship (2016-2017) supported Prag’s I.Sicily pilot project, which
 provided the basis for his 2020 ERC award (his collaboration with a Catanian high school also
 earned him the Vice-Chancellor’s Capacity Building Award (2020) and a prize from the Italian
 Education Ministry); TORCH funding enabled D’Angour to stage the first ever research-based
 performance of a reconstructed Euripides chorus score at the Ashmolean, and Oxford Digital
 Media to film rehearsals and the performance. The video Rediscovering Ancient Greek Music
 attracted 70,000 Facebook shares in a fortnight, and has received almost 700,000 YouTube
 views. Additional seed-funding (2018) allowed the scores and MP3 recordings to be shared on
 open-file formats on Figshare. Five other impact case studies received support from TORCH.

 (iii) Diversifying the funding base

 Ambitious collaborative projects which need to secure long-term funding in order to achieve
 sustained impact must look beyond those providers logged in HESA returns. UoA 29 has been
 supported by eleven Foundations, including:
 --Augustus Foundation (Oxford Roman Economy Project, Wilson, 2010~; and Coin Hoards of
 the Roman Empire, Howgego: GBP500,000, 2013-2023);
 --Wiener-Ansbach Foundation (Collective Rituals and the Construction of Identity in Iron Age
 Greece, Lemos: 2012-2015);
 --Andrew Mellon Foundation (Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative: Dahl);
 --Bagri Foundation (Gandhara Connections: Stewart, 2016-2021)
 --Ertegun Foundation (Aphrodisias Project, GBP350,000 p.a., 2013~).
 Others include the Earhart, Leon Levy, Neil Kreitman, Hewlett Packard, and Polonsky
 Foundations; the Monument Trust; the Royal Society and the Bavarian Academy.

 b. Organisational Infrastructure and Facilities

 Triangularities and Beyond

 Oxford Classics is founded upon three adjacent and interlinked institutions, the Ioannou Centre,
 the Ashmolean Museum and the Sackler Library (an equivalent EANES triangle points from
 Museum and Library to the Oriental Institute). In 2013 TORCH, the Oxford Centre for the
 Humanities, provided a welcome link to the Humanities Division; the newly-endowed
 Schwarzman Centre will reinforce this, and increase our strength in performance and music by
 providing a stage, a concert hall and a large lecture theatre and venue for screenings.

 i) The Ioannou Centre for Classical and Byzantine Studies

 The Ioannou Centre with its built-in ‘agora’, linking the common room to the auditorium, provides
 a much-loved focal point for a wide range of activities, including most faculty seminars and an
 increasing range of publicly accessible events. A 2018 refurbishment created five new shared
 offices (three for ECRs) and an additional teaching/seminar room, as well as a dedicated Latin
 and Greek language-teaching hub. Two IT officers provide full-time support to the Faculty;
 grants are available from the Faculty, the Haverfield Trust, and colleges for purchasing IT
 equipment and maintaining digital archives.

 Under the Head of Administration and Finance, a finance officer and assistant oversee the
 accounting of externally-funded research projects, grants and endowments, and processing of
 expense claims; there is also an academic support officer and an academic administrative officer
 focusing on graduate studies. Research centres and major projects are supported by part-time

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research support staff (below). University Research Services facilitates research and supports
 knowledge exchange, complementing the Humanities Division research facilitation team. The
 Faculty shares a research facilitator with Oriental Studies and Theology.

 ii) The Ashmolean

 The Ashmolean Museum’s collections in the department of antiquities and Heberden Coin Room
 collections are major research resources in themselves (fundamental to Dahl’s work on
 cuneiform tablets and seals, and Howgego’s on provincial coinage) and offer the capacity to
 extend the reach of the subject and engage new audiences through exhibitions. Two impact
 case studies offer examples: Elsner’s Empires of Faith; and Smith/Melfi/Parkinson’s
 Antinous/LGBTQ+.

 iii) The Sackler and Bodleian

 The Sackler Library, among the world’s greatest ancient history/archaeology library collections,
 is administered by the Bodleian Libraries, Britain’s largest university library system; two reading
 rooms in the Old Bodleian Library are devoted to Classics, with an extensive open-shelf
 collection. By virtue of legal deposit, the Bodleian acquires free copies of all books and journals
 published in the UK; for purchased items (books, journals and e-resources) the total Classics
 budget in 2018-2019 was GBP326,700 (2012-2013: GBP107,762). Holdings include 10,8838 e-
 journals and 1,611 databases; the combined physical collections now number more than 11
 million items, and include the most important collection of classical manuscripts in Britain. A new
 open-shelf section for Late Antiquity was opened in the Bodleian in 2014. The Sackler provides
 three specialist Assistant Librarians: in Classics and Classical Archaeology; EANES; and
 European/World Archaeology.

 Classics acquisitions in 2018-19 included:
 --14 individual e-journal subscriptions (GBP2,089)
 --19 databases (GBP14,488)
 --6 E-book collections/encyclopedias, etc. (GBP9,016). The OUP subscription of GBP6,307
 provides access to over 800 Classical Studies e-books on Oxford Scholarship, plus many more
 on Oxford Scholarly Editions.

 c. Research Centres and Projects

 The research centres and their associated projects have been a constant point of reference in
 this document, and in the Impact case studies submitted. These centres and projects are
 physically distributed across the three buildings, the Ioannou Centre, the Sackler Library and the
 Ashmolean Museum; the following survey focuses on their infrastructural composition.

 (i) Archive of Performances of Greek and Roman Drama (Ioannou Centre)
 Established in 1996, APGRD holds a unique range of archival, digital and bibliographic
 resources about the reception of ancient texts, and has become a leading centre for the study of
 reception and performance. It has mounted over 50 public lectures, as well as performances and
 events, since 2014. Macintosh has been director since 2010. Staff consists of a job-share
 archivist researcher/archivist administrator. Sixteen ECRs, mostly now based in other
 institutions, are Research Associates; five PGRs are currently directly affiliated with APGRD.

 (ii) Centre for the Study of Ancient Documents (Ioannou Centre)
 CSAD is one of the world’s foremost centres for the study of the documentary evidence for the
 ancient world. It houses a collection of over 25,000 squeezes, alongside the archives of such
 pioneers as Cox, Ramsay, Fraser, Jeffery and Lewis. Fraser’s archive underpins the Corpus of
 Ptolemaic Inscriptions, forthcoming online in 2021. A BA research programme based at CSAD
 for more than 20 years focuses on the analysis of written documents from Roman Britain.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CSAD has consistently supported interdisciplinary research with papyrology, archaeology,
 onomastics and numismatics. As Director since 2018, Meadows, formerly of the British Museum
 and American Numismatic Society, joins Crowther (Greek epigraphy). They are supported by a
 part-time research support officer.
 CSAD is supported by an endowment from the Greek Ministry of Culture, the David Lewis
 Memorial Trust, private donations and research income. Currently hosted projects include:
 ARCH (AHRC); CHANGE (ERC); and CROSSREADS (ERC).

 (iii) Lexicon of Greek Personal Names
 LGPN (PI Parker), established in 1972, is housed in CSAD, and has three Oxford-based editors.
 Initiatives are underway to develop accessibility: Prag secured a small Fell Fund grant (2017:
 GBP7.5k) to help make it more widely accessible in the linked open data environment.

 (iv) Classical Art Research Centre (Ioannou Centre)
 CARC conducts and supports research on all aspects of ancient Greek and Roman art, through
 its research projects (notably on ancient gem engraving and classical connections with Central
 Asian art), and by organizing lectures, seminars, workshops and (since 2014) nine international
 conferences, bringing speakers from 13 countries (including Pakistan, India China and Japan).
 Particular emphasis is placed on supporting graduate students and fostering specialist research
 skills in classical art history.
 Stewart has been director since 2011; there are two senior researchers, an administrative
 assistant, a research assistant and an IT director.
 The Centre derives from the Beazley Archive, which remains central to its activities. The
 computerization of the Pottery Database (1979) was a pioneering enterprise in digital classics,
 and The Beazley Archive reached a milestone of 120,000 entries to mark the 50th anniversary of
 Beazley’s death (2020); it is used by over 150,000 researchers and students internationally. The
 Archive also hosts the electronic Corpus Vasorum Antiquorum and databases of archaeological
 photographs and classical and neoclassical gems, vital resources for classical reception and
 collection history.
 Mannack’s Beazley Database work is supported by a British Academy grant, current research
 into gems is funded by a private bequest, and the BAGRI Foundation support the Centre and the
 Gandhara Connections project.

 (v) Griffith Institute (Sackler Library)
 The Griffith Institute, the heart of British Egyptology since 1939, provides vital resources for the
 study of the history and culture of ancient Egypt, accessible directly, or online. The Institute’s
 archives complement the Ashmolean collection, derived from British excavations in Egypt
 conducted from the 1880s until the late 1930s. The Institute houses the Topographical
 Bibliography of Ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphic Texts, Statues, Reliefs, and Paintings,
 dating from the 1890s, and the Online Egyptological Bibliography, employing five researchers
 and a librarian.
 Frood, director since 2011, directs the Karnak graffiti project (partnered with institutions in
 Egypt and France) to record and study graffiti in the Karnak temple complex, with PGRs and
 ECRs also involved. A new project, involving spatial visualization and analysis based on 3D-GIS
 will begin in 2021.
 The Griffith Institute is supported in part by Griffith’s original endowment, by philanthropy and by
 research funding from A.W. Mellon Foundation, LabEx and the Fell Fund.

 (vi) Oxyrhynchus Project (Sackler Library)
 The Oxyrhynchus Papyri Collection, consisting of hundreds of thousands of papyrus texts, is
 housed in the Sackler Library at Oxford. Benaissa, project director, edited Oxyrhynchus
 Papyri Vol. LXXXV (2020). There is also a project researcher.

 (vii) Heberden Coin Room (Ashmolean Museum)
 The Greek collection consists of c. 25,000 coins, the Roman c. 50,000; these include over 700
 gold coins. A cluster of digital projects (notably Coin Hoards of the Roman Empire, and Roman
 Provincial Coinage Online) have set new international standards for digital resources of the

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monetary heritage of the ancient world. Howgego, Keeper since 2006, created the standard
 digital typology of Roman provincial coinage, by crowdsourcing information from scholars,
 curators and collectors; following the 2016 appointment of Mairat as e-curator this has been
 substantially updated using Linked Open Data. 989,542 searches were logged between January
 2019 and January 2020.
 The Coin Room hosts the Portable Antiquities Scheme, and its displays highlight the historical
 value of preserving hoards and studying history from the ground. Funded through the
 Ashmolean, private bequests and the Augustus Foundation, it has an academic staff of six
 researchers.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a. Contributions to the Research Base and Research Policy Development

 Fundamental to the British Classical research is the health of the subject at secondary level;
 Oxford has been directly engaged in promoting its sustainability. Pelling was appointed in 2014
 by then education minister Michael Gove to lead a new collaborative initiative, ‘to develop top-
 quality professional development for non-specialist teachers of Classics’ in the state sector: the
 scheme ran for two years, involving over 1000 teachers at a series of residential and non-
 residential courses. Oxford has been actively involved at grassroots level, especially through the
 Classics in the Community project, where our research has contributed to teacher training,
 curriculum enrichment, teaching resources and, crucially, material to help promote the case for
 Classics to school administrators (see ICS). Engagement has been a two-way process, and a
 steadily growing number of PGTs, PGRs and ECRs have had their horizons broadened by
 participation, particularly through volunteer work with the associated Iris Project in East Oxford.

 Project co-leader Holmes-Henderson was a founding member of Speak for Change, the all-
 party parliamentary group seeking to develop ‘oracy’, fluency in spoken language and
 communication skills, which launched an Inquiry in 2019 (to report by Easter 2021) aimed at
 improving oracy education. Holmes-Henderson has provided academic input, oversight and
 advice to the Inquiry as well as engaging members of the academic community in support of the
 APPG’s aims.

 Holmes-Henderson also leads an Africa-Oxford Classics education project to improve literacy
 and social cohesion in South Africa, and has contributed to curriculum development in Australia.
 Prag’s I.Sicily project had a galvanizing effect on Italian classrooms: 138 students enrolled on
 the Latin course established in Catania in response to the project’s work.

 As Vice-President (Humanities) of the British Academy (2014-2018), Bowman argued the case
 for sustaining investment in humanities research on the executive committees, helping to
 formulate research and communication policy, facilitate research initiatives and promoting the
 value of humanities research in the wider world. Baines was concurrently BA Vice-President for
 the British International Research Institutes.

 Oxford Classicists have also assisted research assessment both nationally and abroad.
 Stewart served as a panellist on REF 2014; Purcell does so for REF 2021.Stewart (2012~),
 Macintosh and Rood (2016~) have served on the AHRC Peer Review College; Stewart also on
 the DTP2 Moderation Panel (2018). Benaissa and Bispham (2016) have both participated in the
 Italian Evaluation of Research Quality exercise (VQR).

 Those guiding policy through involvement in professional subject associations and learned
 societies have included:
 --Elsner: Scientific Advisory Board, Max Planck Institute for the History of Art, Florence, 2012-
 2019; British Academy: Standing Committee for History of Art and Music, 2018~);
 --Benaissa: Comité International de Papyrologie (2016), re-elected 2019;


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 --Teresa Morgan: History and Archaeology Panel, Academy of Finland Research Council for
 Culture and Society (2017-2020: Chair: 2018, 2020);
 --Macintosh: Executive Committee of the British Comparative Literature (BCLA, 2019-); co-chair,
 Classical Reception Studies Network (2020-)
 --Smith: British School at Athens Governance Committee.

 Our members provide editorial leadership for a large number of academic journals and series.
 Elsner, with ten journals (from eight in 2014), remains the most prolific; Thonemann has the
 most increased editorial portfolio since 2014 (from two to eight positions).
 Two faculty members (Harrison and Probert) currently serve as delegates overseeing Oxford
 University Press, the world’s largest publisher of classical scholarship. Faculty committees
 oversee the OCM (see above, part 2b(iii)) and above all the Oxford Classical Texts series—ten
 volumes were produced 2014-2020, providing authoritative new editions ranging from Herodotus
 to Aulus Gellius. Other OUP series with faculty input are Classical Presences (an increasingly
 powerful voice in the field, with 33 volumes published 2014-2019); Studies on the Roman
 Economy (11 volumes); Classics in Theory (eight volumes); Oxford Studies in Ancient
 Documents (eight volumes); Oxford Studies in Ancient Culture and Representation (five
 volumes); Oxford Monographs on Classical Archaeology (four volumes).

 We continue to contribute to pedagogical and cultural impact through translations and the
 provision of related editorial material for Oxford World’s Classics (Thonemann on Artemidorus,
 Allan on Homer) and Norton Critical Edition (Taplin’s Oresteia). This work feeds from, and into,
 our research on the history and theory of translation as an aspect of reception; contemporary
 poets regularly present their translations/versions (Alice Oswald, Kae Tempest, Inua Ellams,
 Josephine Balmer, A.E. Stallings, Clare Pollard, James Methven). Macintosh has co-organized
 three conferences (2018, 2019, 2020) on early modern European translations of Greek drama.

 We also contribute to the field as External Examiners of doctorates and higher qualifications.
 Since 2014, Macintosh has top-scored with 10 UK doctorates, 6 European and 1 South African,
 and has sat on 4 French HDR juries; Harrison has examined 7 doctorates in the UK and Ireland,
 5 Italian and 5 elsewhere in Europe; Elsner and Smith also achieved double figures, while in his
 first year of appointment Maschek examined 3 external UK theses.

 Our contributions are reflected through personal honours. Catherine Morgan (2016), Elsner
 (2017), Lightfoot (2018), Thomas and Willi (2020) were elected to the British Academy; Elsner
 was also elected (2019) to the Max Planck Society, and Catherine Morgan (2014) as a
 Corresponding Member of the German Archaeological Institute. Thonemann and Probert were
 elected Members of the Academia Europaea (2016). Benaissa won the Philip Leverhulme Prize
 (2018).

 b. Digital Technology and Heritage Protection

 Our leading role in digital technology has led to a wide range of national and international
 partnerships, and is helping to widen the scope of collaboration and broaden the research base
 beyond academia and the traditional European/US core. Our contributions have been especially
 prominent in the field of Heritage Protection (cf. 1c(iv)). Andrew Wilson (UoA15) is PI of
 the Endangered Archaeology of Middle East and North Africa project (Arcadia Fund/Cultural
 Protection Fund: 2015~), with partners at UCL (Bewley), Leicester (Mattingly) and Durham
 (Philip). The project’s database has become a vital means of identifying and reporting threats to
 cultural heritage, most dramatically through military conflict but also from looting (Roman forts in
 Egypt: 2015) and development (Madaba Ring Road, Jordan: 2016).
 Dahl’s ICS emerged from his work as co-PI of the Los Angeles-Berlin-Paris Cuneiform Digital
 Library Initiative, inspired largely by mounting concern for the preservation of ancient cuneiform
 tablets following conflict in Iraq and their vulnerability to illicit trade. Since 2016 the digitization of
 all the surviving texts of proto-Elamite has led to innovative collaborations both in Paris and
 Tehran, making the material accessible to a much broader public.


                                                                                                    Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Howgego’s Coin Hoards project involves 45 institutional partners in 22 different countries. The
 project led to the recovery of looted Romanian coins (see ICS); the scale of the project
 represents a major advance in the preservation of a fragile transnational heritage, but it has
 trained heritage professionals around the world in documentation.

 Further collaborative contributions to heritage protection include Frood’s Karnak Graffiti project
 (3c(v) above) and the Manar al-Athar photo-archive, which government departments, media
 companies and museums have used to document endangered heritage, most dramatically in
 relation to Palmyra (see McKenzie ICS).

 These projects, moreover, involve close engagement with relevant communities: Manar al-
 Athar’s Arabic website and Dahl’s collaboration with Iranian colleagues to co-write articles on
 new finds in English and Farsi represent pioneering engagements with new constituencies.

 c. Public Engagement

 Our work with schools (4a) is part of a broader engagement with society, represented not only
 by our Impact Case Studies but also by individual initiatives. Wisnom brought her work on Syrian
 and Iraqi storytelling into local theatres, as part of the AHRC ‘Connecting Oxfordshire Theatres
 with Research’ Cultural Engagement Project. Ash is involved in Vergil Wars, a media
 collaboration with US documentary maker Linda Robertson to produce a film about the reception
 of Virgil; Smith’s Getty-sponsored traveling seminar in Turkey, ‘the Long Lives of Ancient
 Monuments’ (2018-2022), involves archaeologists and historians of different periods and
 traditions from Bulgaria, Greece, and Turkey.

 We have regularly addressed issues of current public concern. Parkinson’s Exploring LGBTQ+
 Histories across world cultures, a collaboration with the British Museum, showed how urgent
 contemporary questions about gender and identity can be explored through the museum
 collections, and so helped change perceptions of the museum itself (see ICS); the conversations
 prompted by the Ashmolean exhibition (2018) were enriched by the simultaneous staging of
 Smith and Melfi’s Antinous: Boy Made God.

 Another Oxford-BM collaboration and ICS, Elsner’s Empires of Faith, similarly challenged
 conventional understandings of the major Eurasian religions, with the Imagining the Divine
 exhibition bringing out how, during the late antique period, each tradition evolved in dialogue
 with a variety of coexisting visualizations of the divine.

 Small-scale collaborations have also shown the capacity to achieve significant impact:
 D’Angour’s work on Greek music with ECR Lynch led to an Ashmolean concert, involvement in a
 2017 international touring production of Aeschylus’ Suppliant Women, and appearances on the
 Today programme and elsewhere.

 d. Research Collaboration

 Our most characteristic mode of collaboration is the sharing of research findings through
 conferences, which are often organised in conjunction with research projects or as by-products
 of seminar series (the 2019 Phantasia series culminated with a one-day workshop). An average
 of five such conferences and nine workshops have been organised annually since 2014. These
 are often interdisciplinary, as Metcalf and Kelly’s Divine Narratives in Early Greece and the
 Ancient Near East (2017); they are also regularly opportunities for experienced postholders to
 share responsibility with ECRs, as Jacobs and Panayides, Cyprus in the Long Late Antiquity
 (rescheduled from March 2020; joint publication also planned).

 As well as attracting colleagues to our own events, we have organized conferences and panels
 elsewhere, including: Jacobs, Church and Economy in Late Antiquity (Ghent, 2014); Rood,
 Anabases in Antiquity and Beyond (Heraklion, 2018), and his ‘Anachronism and Antiquity’
 roadshows (Florida, 2018; also Harvard, 2015: USD18,000 Radcliffe Institute grant). Quinn and

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prag co-organized a London ICS seminar series (‘Neighbours: the ancient world beyond Greece
 and Rome’: 2015), a tentacle of their ‘Octopus’ Centre for Punic Studies.

 The range of individual collaborations can be illustrated by reference to our Morgans:
 --Llewelyn Morgan has collaborated with Luca Olivieri, Director of the Italian Archaeological
 Mission in Swat, to recover the archaeological activities of British administrators;
 --Teresa Morgan co-manages her 3-year, USD1m Templeton Foundation project, ‘Christian
 Trust in God’ with two American analytical philosophers; four experimental psychologists from
 U.S. universities also participate;
 --Catherine Morgan’s current investigation of the archaeological activities of the WW1
 ‘Gardeners of Salonica’ involves collaboration with the British Museum, the Archaeological
 Museum of Thessaloniki, and the Louvre.

 Faculty members also contribute to a number of more formally established research networks;
 examples include:
 --Greensmith: ‘Dynamics of Religious Interaction’ (Classics/Religious Studies: Tel Aviv-
 Frankfurt-Cambridge);
 --Teresa Morgan: Pistis Network (Groningen-Nijmegen-Paris)
 --Güthenke and Reinhardt: ‘Oxford-Yale Exemplarity Partnership’ (Classics/Theology/History/Art
 History; 2019~);
 --Güthenke: Postclassicisms Network (Princeton, Cambridge, Pisa, Berkeley, UCL, Sydney).
 --Macintosh: APGRD/HAR (Paris-Nanterre) Joint Annual Colloquium (2010-present),
 APGRD/London Annual Postgraduate Symposium on the Performance and Reception of
 Ancient Drama (2000-present; c.50 postgraduates, UK/Europe/beyond).

 The partnership with Princeton (an important part of our graduate training programme) has been
 strengthened by two appointments from Princeton since 2014 (Luraghi and Güthenke);
 recent initiatives to extend our European reach include a research partnership with the Humboldt
 University, Berlin, exploring religion and identity: two initial workshops in 2019 involved 3
 postholders (Dignas, Purcell, McLynn) with 4 ECRs and 2 PGRs. Macintosh’s collaborative
 conferences with Giovanna Di Martino on early modern Greek drama translations were
 mentioned above (4.1).

 Visiting Professorships have included: Probert (Leiden: Spinoza Visiting Scholar); Quinn (New
 York: Cullman Center Fellow, 2019); Ash (Brisbane: Milns Lectureship, 2017); Rood (Los
 Angeles: Joan Palevsky Visiting Professorship, 2015).

 Of 31 invited lectures delivered by Purcell since 2014, the most high-profile were at Sydney
 (Augustus bimillennium keynote, 2014), Wellington (Syme Lecture, 2016), and Rome (BSR
 Rickman Lecture, 2017; Tenuta Presidenziale di Castelporziano, 2018). Also prominent on podia
 were Elsner (2015: North Lecture, Swarthmore College; and Ludden Lecture, Ohio State
 University; 2016: Buchanan Lecture, Cleveland); Stewart (2018: Graham Lecture, Toronto);
 Macintosh (2019: Danziger Lecture, Chicago); Thonemann (2018: Buchan Lecture, Leicester;
 2019: National Hellenic Research Foundation Lecture, Athens); Teresa Morgan (2019: Bainton
 Lecture, Yale; AAH keynote, Atlanta; Ecclesiastical History Society keynote, Durham; 2020:
 Prideaux Lectures, Exeter). Holmes-Henderson has delivered 14 keynotes across three
 continents. The most strenuous single act of international didactic service since 2014 is probably
 Benaissa’s nine-hour papyrology seminar at the Hakubi Centre, Kyoto (2015).

 e. Local Collaboration, Interdisciplinary Exploration and Vitality

 Central to the interdisciplinary initiatives highlighted throughout this report are the thirty-five
 colleges across which our faculty members are distributed, which provide ready-made centres of
 collaborative activity, especially for ECRs who are often college-based. ECR Franklinos, for
 example, launched a 'Teaching the Codex' project following a college-based 2016 conference, of
 palaeographers and codicologists, on approaches to teaching manuscript studies; the project
 involved the creation of an online blog—still active—and two further conferences (2017, 2018),

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 extending the scope to include art historians, musicologists and experts in Hebrew, Arabic,
 Chinese and Armenian manuscripts. Budelmann meanwhile built two successful project
 applications from exchanges with college colleagues: Adults at Play(s) (2014-18: Calleva Trust:
 co-PIs from Psychology and English), and I & We: Literary Texts and the Constitution of Shared
 Identities (Fell Fund: co-PIs from Modern Languages and Philosophy). Kantor’s conversations
 with medievalists and anthropologists at his college yielded a collective volume, Legalism:
 Property and Ownership, bringing Roman provincial law into dialogue with Somali piracy, Aral
 fisheries, and medieval Adriatic slavery. Macintosh has worked regularly with the St Hilda’s
 College’s research centre, Dance Scholarship Oxford (DANSOX).

 A final, and greatly enriching, ingredient of the environment is our supply of academic visitors: in
 2014-2018 the Faculty welcomed 367 visitors (140 PGR students and 176 academics), from 32
 different countries, mostly European and North American, but including Turkey, Egypt, China,
 Canada, Brazil, Japan, Israel and S. Africa; access to faculty resources is provided. Visiting
 Fellowships are available at colleges (e.g. Feeney, Christ Church; Peter Wilson, Corpus Christi;
 Conybeare, All Souls), or the Maison Française (Bastin-Hammou); a college-supported
 operation, the Corpus Christi Centre for the Study of Greek and Roman Antiquity, hosts many
 visitors and also research-active Classicists who have retired to Oxford (e.g. Collard). Other
 visits are connected with our research projects: APGRD and CSAD have thus attracted a steady
 procession of international researchers to Oxford (e.g. Nancy Rabinowitz, Mark Franko,
 Elizabeth Vandiver, Helene Foley, Erika Fischer-Lichte). The range and number of our academic
 visitors is further testimony to the vitality of our research environment for Classical and EANE
 scholarship: to cite just one testimonial, Hans Bernsdorff (Visiting Fellow, All Souls College
 2014) pays tribute in his 2020 Anacreon commentary to ‘the inspiring ambience of the Oxford
 Classics Faculty’.




                                                                                             Page 23
