Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Since REF2014 we have conducted a strategic review of psychology that provides a vision for the
next ten years, underpinned by clear business objectives linking growth in teaching with planned
research growth. Collaborative working within our newly constituted Psychology Planning Group of
senior staff allowed us to design newly refurbished and dedicated space in line with our vision for
research. Capitalising on this success, we developed a Centre for Psychological Research (CPR)
to cohere the strategic direction and focus of research and impact. The centre is led by two co-
directors, Burgess, Research Lead (RL) for the team and Wilmut, Reader in Psychology. The CPR
encapsulates the shared vision of the 22 academic staff in psychology and provides a dynamic and
sustainable unit with clear strategic aims for further growth and increase in research capacity. Of
the 22 staff, 17 (77%; 15.9 FTE) have significant responsibility for research (SRR) within UoA4.

1.1. Structure of the unit. The CPR is located in the Department of Psychology, Health & Professional
Development in the Faculty of Health & Life Sciences (HLS). The two co-directors oversee four
research groups: Developmental Psychology; Cognition & Cognitive Neuroscience; Applied
Social Psychology, and Prevention Science. Four assistant directors (Davies, Gonzalez-
Gomez, Kumar, Pilling) lead specific initiatives. Academic staff work together with Postgraduate
and Postdoctoral research assistants and 11 current PhD students across the four research groups
(see 1.3). A post-graduate tutor (PGT) (de Abreu, returned to UoA23) runs the doctoral training
programme (DTP) for psychology.

1.2. Strategic Aims and Research Objectives
We have continued to develop and build on our strengths since REF2014, in line with five key
objectives.

1: To continue to support areas of research that are, or have demonstrable potential to be,
recognised as internationally excellent or world leading.

We have made four new strategic appointments, funded by the university Central Research Fund
(CRF), to consolidate each research group. Early Career Research (ECR) research fellows (RF)
joined the Applied Social Psychology group (Baimel) and the Cognition & Cognitive Neuroscience
group (Afonso). We have invested in a new Prevention Science area by employing a permanent
lecturer (Davies) and half-time Professor of Community Psychology and Public Health (Foxcroft,
returned to UoA3). Our strategy has been to focus mainly on appointing ECR fellows who have a
small teaching load, enabling them to consolidate their research. The success of these appointments
is reflected in high levels of productivity (3-5 outputs being returned by each of these staff) and in
the promotion of two RFs to permanent lectureships (Afonso, Gonzalez-Gomez). Examples of the
progress and achievements of these new staff are provided in 1.3 and other sections.

We plan to further strengthen our research groups and links between them with future appointments
of at least two ECR RFs, funded partly by the CRF and from growth in BSc and MSc provision in
psychology. In making new appointments there will be continued focus on the potential for research
excellence.

2: To plan for, design and move into purpose-built new space for psychology, with modernised
labs and new equipment to facilitate expansion of our research.

Previously our premises were fragmented across the campus. Substantial work to renovate the
Sinclair Faculty Life Sciences building was funded by the university, supported through a £4,100,000
HEFCE grant. c.£2,700,000 was spent to create over 1000m 2 of unified office, teaching and research

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
facilities for Psychology. This opened in December 2018, providing over 150m2 of new Psychology
research space plus a 10m 2 library of psychological tests. Over £60,000 has been spent to upgrade
equipment, including a new EEG system and infant eye-tracking cameras. The new space has
transformed opportunities for staff collaboration and research and for engaging research
participants, as detailed in 3.2. For example, the new 45m 2 BabyLab includes specialised rooms for
eye-tracking and head-turn preference studies. A welcoming lobby and play area is inviting for
parents and their infants and has been instrumental in participant recruitment and retention in a
longitudinal study on language development that included prematurely born infants and those from
lower socioeconomic backgrounds. The new facilities enabled Gonzalez-Gomez to successfully
study 76 infants, with four visits each before the age of one year.

Further support and development of our research space and facilities over the next 5 years will be
achieved through continued staff training, technical support and application for departmental funds
and central university capital bids on an annual basis. This will help to refresh our library of
psychological tests with latest test editions and keep equipment and software updated. In our
specialist Writing Lab, for example, updates for graphics tablet and key-stroke logging software
enable state-of-the-art data capture and analyses, supporting Afonso to share data with her
international writing research collaborators.

3: To engage in and develop academic and industrial collaborative partnerships, locally,
nationally and globally that support research, innovation and knowledge exchange.

Psychology staff have developed and capitalised on opportunities both within Brookes and externally
to develop a range of productive collaborations. See section 4 for examples of the nature of these
and their outcomes. Our new space and co-location of staff have fostered new internal partnerships
both within the CPR and with other staff within the renovated Life Sciences building. These links
have been facilitated by the University Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange (RIKE)
networks. For example through the ‘Children & Young People’ network Barnett has a new
collaboration with colleagues in the Department of Biological and Medical Sciences’ new Centre for
Functional Genomics; this involves the preparation of funding applications to examine the genetic
contribution to motor coordination difficulties in young people.

Our new research space has also been utilised to host regular and special events. In particular our
research seminar series and monthly ‘Meet the researcher’ workshops (attended by an average of
35 local visitors) have fostered collaborations with local charities, nurseries and parent groups.
These have been valuable for raising our research profile locally and increasing recruitment to
studies in our BabyLab. Psychology staff also capitalise on Oxford Brookes membership of the
Oxford Academic Health Partners. Gonzalez-Gomez collaborates with colleagues from the John
Radcliffe Hospital, part of Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, in her work on
prematurely born infants. This partnership is critical for ongoing recruitment to studies in the BabyLab
and is reflected in co-authorship on two journal publications.

Our new facilities include expanded office space, increasing our capacity to accommodate contract
and visiting researchers. Since 2014 over £15,000 in university and departmental funding has
supported staff to host visiting researchers from Brazil, Israel and Portugal. For example, Connelly
hosted two visits from a Portuguese post-doctoral researcher; this resulted in the production of a co-
authored paper at the Society for the Scientific Study of Reading conference and a paper published
in ‘Learning and Individual Differences’. At least £5,000 each year has supported staff travel to
meetings and conferences to develop and consolidate partnerships in the UK and overseas. For
example, Davies was funded to attend the European Society of Prevention Research, enabling her
to consolidate partnerships in Spain and Brazil, leading to the preparation of a paper on alcohol
consumption patterns and collaboration on a new project about youth drinking (see section 4.1 for
further examples).

Support to maintain existing and establish new partnerships over the next 5 years will be achieved
through: continued involvement with the university RIKE networks, engagement with departmental
and university funding opportunities, our programme of seminars and workshops, and hosting of

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences. For example Connelly is the invited chair of the committee of the British Dyslexia
Association International Conference 2021, to be hosted at Brookes (now online).

4: To support activities that maximise the impact and dissemination of our research for the benefit
of the students and staff of the University and our communities, whether local, regional or global.

A new REF Impact Case Study (ICS) by Connelly and a continuing ICS by Barnett have been
submitted. Examples of how activities have been supported are provided in 3.3. Psychology staff
have successfully bid for over £40,000 through the CRF ‘Research Excellence Awards’ to maximise
research impact. For example, Connelly used funds to assist with a research visit to the US and
Canada and time for writing reports and to bid for future grants. Barnett used funds to conduct
development and pilot work for a new assessment tool, with a larger project then funded by Pearson
Ltd. Presentations of these ICSs to all psychology staff provided examples of ways to develop
impact. Drawing on her experience of evidencing impact, Barnett, together with a Professor of
Health Sociology, ran a series of Faculty workshops to raise awareness of different types of impact
by reviewing previous REF ICSs. Time was given for colleagues to work together and plan how to
achieve impact with their own research.

Our strategic plan for 2020-2025 includes the identification of areas in which to build dissemination
and impact (see 4.3). Whilst our current REF ICSs are based on the work of individual members of
staff collaborating with external partners, our future strategy is to build a team approach, supporting
colleagues to work together and integrate their research to realise stronger impact. This strategy is
supported by involvement of the RL and co-director of the CPR (Burgess) in discussing aspects of
impact in the early development of staff research plans. In addition, in her role as assistant director
Gonzalez-Gomez will lead a specific initiative on developing research impact in the team.

5: To provide opportunities for the development of researchers at all career stages and to enable
students and staff to participate in and benefit from the research of the Faculty.

Our position in the Faculty of HLS provides opportunities to participate in and benefit from research
in other disciplines (see 4.1). In particular, we are growing our interdisciplinary Prevention Science
group, through close collaboration with the Oxford Institute of Nursing, Midwifery & Allied Health
Research (OxINMAHR; UoA3). There has also been a focus on development opportunities at all
levels, from PhD students to senior professors (see 2.1). For example, we have seen the promotion
of two of our ECRs to lectureship positions (Gonzalez-Gomez, Afonso). Strategic decisions to
appoint and support ECRs has been particularly successful. For example Afonso was supported
through mentoring to progress from an ECR RF and to design and develop a new Writing Lab. This
support, together with our investment in research facilities and a CRF International Collaborative
Research and Travel Award (£1,464) enabled her to substantially strengthen her experimental work,
international collaborations, grant applications and publications. Afonso’s substantial progress is
evidenced by selection by the university to put forward a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. Although
unsuccessful, she has continued to produce strong publications (with 5 papers in the REF), largely
through her strong international collaboration with colleagues in Spain.

Over the next five years further development opportunities will be available to staff as the
management and leadership structure of the CPR is reviewed annually, with staff encouraged to
consider new roles to develop research, innovation, knowledge exchange and impact.

These five main objectives have guided our Department 5-year rolling Research & Knowledge
Exchange strategy. Staff also produce individual five-year research plans, detailing planned
publications, dissemination, impact and proposed funding bids. The RL ensures that research-active
staff are supported and mentored appropriately to develop a plan aligning with the research
objectives of the team. All staff are included in discussions of our mission and objectives and have
contributed to developing our research strategy for 2020 to 2025 through a number of all staff
meetings and Away Days.

1.3. Research groups

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The composition and work of our research groups is described below, with examples of
developments and achievements taken mainly from our ECRs.

The Developmental Psychology group includes 6 researchers (5.1 FTE) (Barnett, Gonzalez-
Gomez, Harris, MacLean, Stuart, Wiggs), 2 post-docs (Cook, Vanzan) and 4 PhD students. The
three main strands of research are in: Cognitive & Social Development, Language & Literacy, and
Developmental Disorders. There is particular expertise in the area of infant experimental work,
psychometric approaches applied to test standardisation, assessment of sleep behaviour and
literacy. Since the last REF, two new permanent lecturers have been appointed to this group
(Gonzalez-Gomez, Stuart).

Gonzalez-Gomez, originally appointed as an ECR RF, has been supported to progress to a
lectureship. Together with our investment in facilities, this has enabled her to substantially grow her
work in the BabyLab and build capacity for future research. She made a successful bid to an
ESRC/UKRI rapid response initiative to the Covid-19 pandemic (£209,257) to determine the effects
of social distancing policies on children’s language development, sleep and executive functions.
Findings from an extensive questionnaire study have been shared with charities and local
government, discussed with policy officials in the Department for Education and widely reported in
the media.

The Cognition & Cognitive Neuroscience group has 5.0 FTE researchers (Afonso, Kumar,
Pilling, Rathbone, Wilmut), 1 post-doc (Wang) and 2 PhD students. The four main strands of
research are: Visual Cognition, Perception & Action, Writing, and Autobiographical Memory. Some
work involves older adults and clinical groups such as Developmental Coordination Disorder (DCD),
Dyslexia, Alzheimer’s Disease and Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME). There is specific expertise in
experimental design, data capture and analysis techniques.

Kumar, a senior lecturer and practising clinical psychologist, designed our new neuroscience labs
for EEG/ERP and TMS. These facilities enabled him to obtain funding to investigate sensory
processing and cognitive function in people with ME (£31,000, ME Research UK). A CRF Global
Challenge Collaborative Research Award (£12,000) to study ‘The effects of air pollution on children’s
development and mental health in India’ enabled him to strengthen collaborations with health
researchers from India and the UK. The work addresses a Global Challenge Research Fund priority
area on air pollution.

The Applied Social Psychology group includes 5 researchers (4.8 FTE) (Baimel, Burgess,
Connolly, Kenward, Lonsdale) plus de Abreu, 1 post-doc (Hennelly) and 3 PhD students. Staff
investigate the way that individuals’ beliefs, dispositions, actions and aspirations are intertwined with
immediate social groups and the wider culture in which they are embedded. Topics range from
Burgess’s work on phenomenological investigations of pre-reflective experience and Lonsdale’s
examination of the social functions of music to Connelly’s investigations of military Reservists and
Kenward’s surveys of public consciousness of environmental issues. There is considerable
expertise in questionnaire design and the use of qualitative analyses of interview data.

Baimel’s appointment as an ECR RF strengthens research in this group. Baimel has well-
established international collaborations, including publications with colleagues at the University of
British Colombia and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig. With this strong
network, Baimel achieved rapid research funding success with two grants from the John Templeton
Foundation for his work on ‘The greening of religions: A cross-cultural test of when, how, and with
what consequences religious meaning systems are adapting to the social pressures of the climate
crisis’ (US$91,000) and ‘Causal inference and the role of formal education on religiosity’
(US$200,000).

We have invested in a new Prevention Science area by employing a permanent lecturer (Davies)
and half-time Professor of Community Psychology and Public Health (Foxcroft). This is a new
interdisciplinary research team with 2 PhD students and includes academic staff, postdocs and PGR
students in other departments. Research focuses on the causes, consequences, and prevention of

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
poor physical and mental health. The team has particular expertise in designing and evaluating
health behaviour interventions.

Davies, previously a PhD student at Brookes, then a Psychology Demonstrator for our team, took
up a secondment as a lecturer to cover a period of maternity leave. This allowed her to consolidate
her research and successfully apply for a permanent lectureship. Davies is rapidly building a strong
research profile and extensive network of collaborators. She won funding for a project on ‘Community
and Hospital Pharmacists and E-cigarettes’ (£49,733, Cancer Research UK). A CRF Research
Excellence Award (£12,000) funded a pilot study to investigate whether drinker identities can be
used to induce behaviour change, including an international interdisciplinary event for researchers
to forge collaborative projects. This put her in a strong position to respond to the Covid-19 pandemic,
contributing to the design of 'a pandemic special' version of the Global Drug Survey examining
alcohol and other drug use across different countries during lockdown. The findings from this work
have been extensively reported in the media (see 4.1). £11,750 in departmental pump-priming funds
have also given Davies time to prepare publications, including most recently in the prestigious
International Journal of Drug Policy.



 2. People

We are committed to supporting psychology researchers at all levels.

Of the 22 staff in psychology, 17 (77%) have SRR through work-load hours for research with 15.9FTE
entered in UoA4 (two researchers are also returned to UoA3 and UoA23). UoA4 comprises one ECR
RF, one Lecturer, nine Senior Lecturers (SL; 5 women), three Readers (2 women) and three
Professors (2 women). Overall, the team (by headcount) is 59% women, 59% under 50 years of age,
12% BAME and 88% are on permanent contracts. One female professor and one male SL have
fractional posts (0.8FTE). The ECR RF is on a full-time two-year contract and one female professor
is on a temporary 0.3FTE contract as part of a phased retirement.

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
We aim to recruit and retain researchers with the highest potential to achieve excellence in research,
who can contribute to building and sustaining critical mass in our research groups and join
supervisory teams for our PGR students. Our strategy has been to focus mainly on the appointment
of early career staff and to support their development. During the assessment period two ECR RFs
have been appointed to permanent lectureships. There have been four promotions from Lecturer to
SL and one from Level 2 to Level 3 Professor. Overall, four women and one man have been
promoted during the assessment period.

The University embraces the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers at all
levels. Training and mentoring are embedded for all staff and reviewed with the line manager through
the Personal Development Review process.

Two Psychology demonstrators, including Davies (see 1.3) have had secondments into
lectureship positions, providing them with the opportunity to work at a more senior level and develop
their research.

Graduate research assistants (RAs) have been employed on various projects. Many have gone
on to secure higher degrees and/or PhD posts or secured places on highly competitive clinical and
educational psychology training courses. For example, Barnett had over 70 RAs from across the
UK employed on a large test standardisation project. At least 10 of these have subsequently taken
up such positions, supported by references from their work on this project.

Postdoctoral researchers are well integrated into the team and have many development
opportunities. One of our postdocs (Vanzan) was on the supervisory team for a PGR student and
was actively involved with the organising committee for the Annual Faculty Postgraduate Student

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Symposium. On completion of her project at Brookes she obtained a position with the London
Advanced Therapies network at Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health. Most of our postdocs
have gone on to academic posts, including at Oxford and Birmingham Universities. Bridging funds
have been available to support staff between contracts and this has been particularly important to
maintain research during the Covid-19 pandemic. For example, the contract for a postdoc was
extended and funded by Brookes for two months to ensure completion of a project when no additional
external funding was forthcoming.

ECR research fellows – New appointments (Afonso, Baimel) have benefitted from the Brookes
‘Your First Three Years’ training and development programme. As mentioned above, Afonso has
been supported through mentoring to progress to a lectureship and various schemes have supported
her personal development and research activity. Afonso also designed the new space for our Writing
Lab that has enabled her to substantially strengthen her experimental work (see 1.2 (5)). Positions
on committees also provide experience of the wider research community; Baimel represents ECRs
on the Faculty Research & Knowledge Exchange committee.

Lecturers are supported by senior staff through mentoring to develop research plans and apply for
internal funding where appropriate. For example, Stuart’s successful bid for a CRF Research
Excellence Award (£19,500) enabled her to work with colleagues in the Writing Lab to develop a
new assessment tool for education practitioners. As RL, Burgess supported Kenward’s
consideration of theoretical frameworks and pathways to impact in his new strand of research on
public consciousness of environmental issues.

Senior team roles – mid-career staff have had opportunities to take up new research leadership
and management positions, with mentorship from the Associate Dean for Research & Knowledge
Exchange (ADRKE). Burgess took on the role of RL in 2018 after promotion to Reader, and in this
role is co-director of the CPR. Wilmut also stepped up as co-director of the CPR. The
interdisciplinary cross-faculty RIKE networks have offered further development opportunities.
Barnett, previously RL, was encouraged to take on the role of co-lead of the ‘Children & Young
People’ RIKE network; Foxcroft joined the steering group.

A variety of competitive university schemes have been available during the assessment period to
support travel, collaborations, research activity and achievement of impact. Overall £95,000 has
been awarded to psychology staff through the CRF ‘Research Excellence’ scheme (Barnett,
Connelly, Davies, Harris, Stuart, Wilmut) and £24,000 through ‘Collaborative travel Awards’
(Barnett, Kumar). QR funding for Psychology is held by the RL, and bids can be made for pump-
priming projects and other research activity; £12,000 was distributed in 2019-2020.

The RL compiles a summary of research activity within the unit every month, which is circulated to
the Psychology team, Head of Department, Faculty Executive Team and Vice Chancellor. Together
with the CRF Research Excellence Awards, this provides a way of recognising and celebrating the
achievements of our colleagues.

2.2 Post Graduate Research students
We consider PGR students to be core to the future of our discipline. Since 2014 there has been
£686,000 internal funding for studentships in our UoA DTP, including 10 through the University 150
Scholarship Scheme. We currently have 11 full-time PGR students in Psychology, 7 (64%) women
and 4 (36%) BAME. Eight are from the UK, two from India and one from Saudi Arabia. Nine have
studentships funded by the Faculty, one is funded from industry and one by the Saudi Arabian
Cultural Bureau. One is interdisciplinary, with joint supervision with staff in Public Health. During the
assessment period there have been 15 awards (13 female). 12 of these were studentships funded
by Faculty QR/Intellectual Property income, two by the ESRC, and one by Health Education Thames
Valley. Six were interdisciplinary, jointly supervised with staff in Education, Allied Health and Public
Health. The number of awards has more than doubled since REF2014.

The PGT (de Abreu) has responsibility for admissions, fostering the training and professional
development of students, and monitoring progress. Every student attends an annual review meeting

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with the PGT and another member of psychology staff. This involves a review of work and discussion
of plans for the following year. Students are encouraged to reflect on their progress and any issues
arising. All psychology staff have undergone training for PhD supervision. Supervisory teams consist
of two or three members of staff. Those less experienced are paired with more experienced as an
apprenticeship model. For example, Afonso joined Professors Connelly and Barnett to supervise
a PGR student (O’Rourke), as her research on writing was directly relevant to the project.

Our new Research Students’ office is housed in the heart of the new facilities. Students meet
regularly with their Director of Studies and/or others on the supervisory team. The PGT has a monthly
‘Psychology Research Students Forum’ to share and clarify procedural issues and to provide a space
for students to present and discuss their research progress and future plans. One student explains
"I’ve presented a few times at the research forums and it is always a helpful way to practice breaking
down complex topics to be able to communicate in a clear way. Practising this skill has helped with
other internal and external presentations, as well as in writing about my research."

PGR students participate in psychology seminars and research group meetings, as well as the
Annual Faculty Postgraduate Student Symposium. They are encouraged and funded to attend
conferences of relevant academic associations and to present papers when they are sufficiently
advanced. Our students have presented papers at national conferences in the UK (e.g. BPS Annual
Conference, BPS Developmental Section Conference, BPS Cognitive Section Conference, BPS
Psychology of Education Conference, British Educational Research Association Conference; DCD-
UK), at European conferences (e.g. European Conference on Developmental Psychology, European
Early Childhood Education Research Association Annual Conference) and at international
conferences (e.g. International Journal of Art & Design Education Conference, World Association of
Sleep Medicine Congress, International DCD Conference). Our students have also been successful
in gaining awards. For example, O’Rourke was awarded a Santander Research Scholarship (£500)
to attend a conference on writing in Guadeloupe in 2019.

During the assessment period our PGR students have been successful in publishing first-authored
work in peer reviewed journals: Armed Forces & Society, Journal of Beliefs & Values, Journal of
Research in Childhood Education, Journal of Early Childhood Literacy, Journal of Art & Design
Education, Journal of Political & Military Sociology, Human Movement Science, British Journal of
Occupational Therapy, Cognitive Neuropsychology, Journal of Learning Disabilities, Child: Care,
Health and Development.

On completion of their PhDs, three students continue to work at Brookes, O’Rourke as a Psychology
Demonstrator, Veldhuis as a lecturer and Cook as a postdoc RA with Wiggs. Other students have
gone on to lectureships at University of Surrey, Brunel University, University of Northampton, and
Middlesex University London. Two are postdocs at Oxford University and one is a Trainee
Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner at Nottingham Healthcare NHS Trust. Some staff continue to
work with their ex-PhD students, Barnett works with an ex-student at Brunel University on several
projects; they were awarded £79,999 from the Royal College of Occupational Therapists with
Barnett as CI.

2.3 Promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
The CPR supports the Oxford Brookes initiatives in equality, diversity and inclusion to attract and
support staff and students from different groups. The psychology team has had similar numbers of
men and women at each career level (overall 59% women). Women have also been as likely as men
to apply for and to achieve promotion, assisted by specific promotion mentoring. We celebrate the
diversity of staff, who originate from different countries (England, Scotland, Italy, Spain, Portugal,
India, Mexico and Canada) and have different ethnic backgrounds (12% BAME). We have supported
staff and students in their choice of gender identity and our staff and students have included
individuals with disabilities and those from the LGBTQ+ community.

With over a third of our staff (6/17) in senior positions (Reader/Professor) and 41% over the age of
50, we aim to recruit more early career staff to allow for appropriate succession planning. Eight staff
(4 women) have a child/children of school age; three have taken paternity leave and three maternity

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
leave during the assessment period. A range of measures have been taken to support research on
return from leave. For example, the Faculty funded a part-time RA for 6 months (£5,897) to continue
work on a longitudinal study during maternity leave. Post-maternity leave, staff have been given
additional research hours to maintain their research profile and capability. Psychology has also
supported temporary part-time working for three members of staff to work around family and caring
commitments. Flexible working arrangements are supported, with home working common practice
(even before the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions). There is consultation in the team regarding the
scheduling of meetings and research seminars, considering family and other commitments of staff.
For example, our research seminars take place during the day rather than early evening after normal
work hours.

The management and leadership team of the CPR has equal representation in terms of gender (3
men, 3 women), includes staff from BAME groups, and are mostly younger in age (below 50). The
RL is male and the PGT female. Of our six specialist research laboratories, three are led by women
and three by men. 60% of the outputs submitted to REF2021 are from women researchers; 68% are
from younger staff (under 50 years) and 40% are from staff with school-aged children. These
proportions are all in line with the ratios of staff in each category. University monitoring also shows
no systematic bias in our return of outputs by protected characteristics. All staff are encouraged to
apply for internal research funding; during the assessment period all staff have received
Departmental funds supporting attendance at conferences/training events. Larger University Awards
have been equally received by men and women, and by BAME colleagues.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income
Income spent over the assessment period totalled £1,513,986, an increase of over £300,000 from
REF2014. Our research has been supported by a wide range of funding bodies including research
Councils (ESRC), Charities (Leverhulme), government and local authorities (MoD) and industry
partners (Hogrefe Ltd.). Of particular note is the ability of the team to respond quickly to capitalise
on funding opportunities. Recent funds awarded (not yet all spent) are listed below for each research
group, indicating the success of our research strategy.

Developmental Psychology: Total awarded £1,042,139
2020 ESRC (£209,257) The effects of social distancing policies on children’s language
      development, sleep and executive functions (PI: Gonzalez-Gomez).
2019 Royal College of Occupational Therapists (£10,000 to Brookes from £79,999) Writing in the
      digital age (CI: Barnett).
2018 Leverhulme Trust (£15,017) Supporting early literacy development in deaf children (PI:
      Harris).
2018 Pearson Ltd (£21,000) Development of Movement ABC-3 (PI: Barnett).
2017 Hogrefe Ltd. (£548,000) UK standardisation of the Intelligence & Development Scales (PI:
      Barnett).
2017 NIHR (£160,865 to Brookes from £2,326,741) Changing Agendas on Sleep, Treatment and
      Learning in Childhood Epilepsy (CASTLE) (CI: Wiggs).
2015 Leverhulme (£78,000) Early language development under difficult circumstances (PI:
      Gonzalez-Gomez).

Cognition & Cognitive Neuroscience: Total awarded £88,582
2020 MoD (£5,000 to Brookes from £96,240) SENTIENT, Symbiotic Cognitive System for
      Intelligent Decision Support (CI: Kumar)
2020 ME Research Ltd (£31,000) Investigating sensory processing and cognitive function in
      people with ME (PI: Kumar).
2016 Leverhulme Trust (£52,582) Movement planning during reach-to-grasp tasks across the
      lifespan (PI: Wilmut).

Applied Social Psychology: Total awarded £792,604


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2020 EU Horizon 2020 (£300,000 to Brookes from c.€3,000,000) Networking the educational world
      – Across boundaries for community-building (CI: de Abreu).
2020 ESRC (£308,000) Team cohesion in task-organised Covid-19 NHS response teams (PI:
      Connelly).
2020 John Templeton Foundation (£73,720/$91,000) The greening of religions (PI: Baimel).
2020 John Templeton Foundation (£7,000 to Brookes from $200,000) Causal inference and the
      role of formal education on religiosity (CI: Baimel).
2017 DHCSTC UK MOD (£103,884) Support to the Families of Reservists (PI: Connelly).

Prevention Science:
Recent funding awards for this interdisciplinary group are included in UoA3. They include the
following with Davies as CI, totalling £94,315.
2019 Cancer Research UK (£49,733) Community and Hospital Pharmacists and E-cigarettes
        2017 Cancer Research UK (£44,582) Knowledge, attitudes and current practice of health
        professionals regarding the use of e-cigarettes in cancer survivors.

Various initiatives since REF2014 have been instrumental in achieving this increase in income within
an increasingly competitive climate. New partnerships have developed within the team to produce
strong grant submissions drawing on complimentary skills. For example, Barnett and Stuart have
worked together on a project funded by Hogrefe Ltd. Connelly is partnering with Faculty colleagues
in OxINMAHR for work investigating Covid-19 NHS response teams. Several staff are part of large
research networks. Wiggs is part of the NIHR funded CASTLE Project working with partners in
Australia, London, Liverpool, Exeter and Bangor, North Wales. Gonzalez-Gomez’s partnership with
four other UK institutions enabled her to submit a strong application to the ESRC/UKRI to investigate
the impact of the restrictions relating to the Covid-19 pandemic on aspects of child development.
Baimel’s international collaborations resulted in successful awards from the Templeton Foundation.
Most recently, de Abreu’s collaborations helped form an international team, comprising 14
institutions from nine different countries awarded c.€3,000,000 in EU Horizon 2020 funding to work
on a project to enhance the lives of migrant children and young people.

3.2 Research facilities and equipment
The substantial investment in new facilities and equipment for psychology has been outlined above
(sections 1.2/1.3), with examples of achievements arising from their use. Most of the lab work in the
Developmental Psychology research group takes place in the suite of specially designed rooms in
our new BabyLab. This is run by Gonzalez-Gomez with a major focus on language development.

Increased research space accommodates labs for the Cognition and Cognitive Neuroscience
research group. Kumar took the lead to design and run the neuroscience labs, The EEG/ERP Lab
houses a state-of-the-art EEG recording facility to study aspects of cognition in healthy adults and
clinical populations. The TMS (Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) Lab is being used to
investigate the role of different parts of the brain in attention, memory and motor planning. The Visual
Cognition Lab, designed and run by Pilling, is darkened and sound attenuated and has specialist
equipment for accurate stimulus calibration on computer monitors. This has enabled Pilling to
conduct work published in the journals Memory & Cognition, Perception, and Visual Cognition. The
Writing Lab, designed and run by Afonso, houses a range of equipment and specialist software to
record and measure handwriting and keyboarding behaviour. The PuMA (Perception & Motion
Analysis) Lab, designed and run by Wilmut, houses state of the art 3D motion analysis equipment.
Previously, Wilmut’s work required hiring a movement lab in a local hospital, which was expensive,
restrictive and less convenient for staff and research participants. The PuMA Lab has enabled her
to undertake significant projects on site including completion of a Leverhulme Trust funded project
on the development of motor skills through the lifespan resulting in two publications in Psychology &
Ageing. It has also provided space for graduate student projects, including a visiting PhD student
from Germany, which have resulted in journal publications in Experimental Brain Research and
Frontiers in Psychology.

New interconnected Social Psychology Labs are specifically designed for enabling sensitive
interviews, running focus groups and observational studies. Recent capital investment is being used

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to install high quality video conferencing equipment to allow focus groups to be run in the lab and
viewed concurrently from other rooms, opening up new research opportunities.

The new facilities include an open-plan office for 14 PGR students and a dedicated room for contract
and visiting researchers. These allow for further growth and flexibility to accommodate staff on new
research projects. For example, 6 part-time RAs were accommodated for the large Hogrefe Ltd.
funded project. The new premises also include five new staff offices, and a room for the Psychology
Demonstrator team (who support staff and student research, as well as teaching). There is also a
new digitally enabled and flexible teaching lab providing spaces for collaborative work underpinned
by a suite of high performance laptops for 50 people. We use this to host our regular seminar series
as well as talks for the public. For example, in our ‘Meet the Researcher’ events the space is used
to accommodate a play area so that parents/carers can attend with babies and young children.

Previously the team was fragmented across the campus. In our new premises, the co-location of all
staff, researchers and PGR students and the close proximity of offices, labs, meetings rooms and
communal social space brings huge benefits in terms of team cohesion and opportunities for
collaboration and support. Co-location and the elements of flexible design have also brought
immense gains in terms of optimum use, time saving and efficiency, particularly for fitting in research
alongside other commitments.

3.3 Infrastructure to support impact
University level funding schemes have specifically focused on supporting the development of
research impact, as mentioned above. For example, a CRF Research Excellence Award supported
Connelly to work with colleagues from other UK universities and abroad. As shown in his ICS, this
enabled a quick response at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, when he was asked to draft
guidance for Army Reservists and their families. A similar award for Barnett included funding for RA
support to develop data on impact and funding to travel to Shanghai for development work in China
to extend the reach of her work, as reported in her ICS. The appointment of a senior professor as a
University Impact Champion and investment in Impact Officers have provided support through the
University RIKE networks, with interdisciplinary impact study days arranged for staff at all levels
(including PGR students).

Faculty level training, supported by University Impact Officers, has been run by an author of one of
our REF2021 ICSs (Barnett) together with a Professor of Health Sociology. This series of workshops
has helped to raise awareness in the team of different types of impact and provided time for
colleagues to work together and plan how to achieve impact in their own research (see 4.3). There
has also been staff training on using a ‘Tracker’ system to record the impact of staff research.

An Associate Director of the CPR, Gonzalez-Gomez has responsibility for overseeing and
supporting the development of impact and considering how staff can best work together to realize
impact. For example, a successful bid led by Stuart for a CRF Research Excellence Award (£19,500)
draws on expertise from our Developmental Psychology and Cognition & Cognitive Neuroscience
research groups to develop assessment tools for individuals with writing difficulties. The RIKE
networks are supporting this work through the development of new partnerships with teachers as
beneficiaries, literacy charities, All Party Parliamentary Groups and other policy-makers to enhance
future impact.

Central to our approach to supporting staff to realise the impact of their research is the involvement
of the RL (Burgess) working in partnership with the appropriate Principal Investigator, Faculty
ADRKE and the University’s Research & Business Development Office. Together they ensure that
the impact of research is at the core of all project planning, realisation and dissemination.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations
We view collaboration as critical to our work to develop productive partnerships locally, nationally
and globally and key to building our research capability. Examples have been shown in 1.2(3) and

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
throughout this document. Most staff collaborate with colleagues in other UK universities, evidenced
by joint publications and funding awards. Further key examples of collaborations are provided here
from across our research groups.

Several staff within the CPR work together on projects and 10% of our submitted outputs are the
result of internal collaboration. Barnett and Wilmut have over 10 co-authored publications on motor
development and DCD in the last 5 years. Some collaborations emanate from co-supervision of and
joint publication with a PGR student. For example Burgess and Connelly supervised the PhD of
Phillips on beliefs about military veterans and published three papers from this work in ‘Armed Forces
and Society’, the ‘Journal of Beliefs and Values’ and the ‘Journal of Political and Military Sociology’.

Our position in the Faculty of Health & Life Sciences, location in the Life Sciences building and
involvement in University RIKE network events have all supported interdisciplinary work across
Oxford Brookes. For example, Wiggs worked with a Faculty member and Professor of Primary and
Community Care to jointly supervise the PhD of Cook on parental help-seeking behaviour relating to
child sleep. This work was published in the journal ‘Child: Care, Health & Development’. Connelly
is working with the Director of OxINMAHR on an ESRC funded project (£385,000) to investigate
team cohesion in task-organised Covid-19 NHS response teams.

Well-developed government, industry and charity partnerships have resulted in substantial and
impactful research, particularly as reflected in our two ICSs. Connelly has strong links with the
Armed Forces in the UK MOD at senior levels as well as with UK Armed Forces charities and the
UK Armed Forces Families Federations. He also has links with senior personnel and researchers in
the Canadian, US, Australian and Israeli Departments of Defence. Barnett has a long-standing
partnership with the international test publisher, Pearson with whom she has published movement
and handwriting assessments. More recently, Barnett has worked with the test publisher Hogrefe
Ltd., based in Oxford. They have funded a 3-year project (£548,000) to undertake the UK
standardisation of a developmental assessment tool.

International partnerships are promoted and supported by the University through the RIKE
networks and funding for travel and collaboration. The majority of staff have international
collaborations, evidenced by published papers and grant applications. In our submitted outputs, 60%
are the result of international collaborations. The extensive international collaborations of our ECR
RFs have been mentioned earlier. Many senior staff also work with colleagues overseas. For
example Rathbone has a number of international collaborators in France, Sweden and Denmark in
her work on autobiographical memory. Wilmut has fruitful collaborations with colleagues in Australia;
this has helped expand and develop new work in the field of DCD.

Many staff are involved in inter- or multi-disciplinary research, recognising the value this brings
to addressing complex research questions. Over 30% of our submitted outputs involved
interdisciplinary collaboration. For example, Harris collaborates with colleagues in education on deaf
children’s literacy. Wiggs has collaborations with colleagues in medicine (paediatrics, neurology),
allied professionals (occupational therapists) and clinical psychology services on a number of
projects concerned with sleep problems.

Staff enthusiastically and regularly take part in a range of events to engage with our local
communities and the public. Often working together with undergraduate and PGR students, some
activities take place through formal outreach and public engagement events organised through the
Brookes Public Engagement (PE) Network. For example, the BabyLab regularly runs a stall at the
Oxford Brookes Annual Science Bazaar (2014-2020). The team have also been involved in PE
activities with Oxford University, for example running activities at the Curiosity Carnival (part of the
European Researchers’ Night event) in Oxford in September 2017. At this event Gonzalez-Gomez
was part of the Living Library at the Weston Library (part of the Bodleian Library) and ‘taken on loan’
by people interested in hearing about her research on language acquisition in babies. Davies’ work
on alcohol consumption has received considerable media attention, resulting in an interview with
Jack FM. She has also given public talks at the ‘Psychology in the pub’ (Dec 2019) Cafe Scientific
series (Birmingham, Feb 2020). Lonsdale’s work on the possible psychological benefits of singing

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in a choir, published in the journal ‘Psychology of Music’ gained substantial worldwide newspaper
and online media coverage in 2016.


4.2 Research contribution
We are proud of the quality of our research and the team’s contributions to the research base,
economy and society. We view the value of our research in terms of what it adds to knowledge and
the impact it has locally, nationally and globally.

In 2018 the psychology team undertook an initiative to audit and focus on our Open Science
practices, under the leadership of Foxcroft, whose leading work in this area in psychology helped
him secure the University senior role on Research Improvement and Integrity. All of the journal
articles in our REF submission have gone beyond the REF2021 Open Access (OA) requirements
and been made OA on Oxford Brookes’ institutional repository RADAR through either the Green or
Gold routes to OA. In addition, the audit confirmed strong staff engagement in pre-registration of
study analysis plans, and the sharing of data and analysis code.

Staff across all research groups have regularly presented their work at national and international
conferences. These include the following: British Sleep Society Scientific Meeting; National and
International Developmental Coordination Disorder Conference, Indian Psychiatric Society Annual
Meeting, British Association of Cognitive Neuroscience, European Society of Cognitive Psychology,
BPS Cognitive Psychology Section Conference, International Association for the Psychology of
Religion, Division of Health Psychology, Army Reserve Conference, European Research Group on
Military and Society, European Group for Organisational Studies, Inter–University Seminar on Armed
Forces and Society, European Society for Prevention Research Conference. All professors in
psychology have given invited keynote presentations (e.g. Connelly: International Reserve
Forces Interoperability Forum, Foxcroft: European Society for Prevention Research Conference). At
Reader level staff have also given invited keynotes at international meetings (e.g. Wilmut:
International Developmental Coordination Disorder Conference; Burgess: Institute of Environmental
Sciences Routes to Clean Air Conference; Wiggs: Society for the Study of Behavioural Phenotypes
Scientific Meeting).

Staff across all research groups regularly publish in international peer-reviewed journals
including: Advances in Methods and Practices in Psychological Science; Behavioural and Brain
Sciences; Developmental Science; Disability and Society; Journal of Learning Disabilities; Learning
and Instruction; Perception; Psychology & Aging; PLoS One; Psychology, Health & Medicine;
Psychology & Health; Psychology of Music; Reading and Writing; The Journal of Nervous and Mental
Disease; Transportation Research Part F: Psychology and Behaviour. Several staff have also
worked on editorial boards of journals including: Frontiers in Psychology, Frontiers in Human
Neuroscience, Frontiers in Psychiatry, Journal of Deaf Studies and Deaf Education; Journal of Sleep
Research; Journal of Learning Disabilities; Mind & Language; Research in Developmental
Disabilities.

Further indicators of the contribution to our discipline is through positions of responsibility on
learned societies. Examples include staff as chair/ committee member for the following: British
Psychological Society Cognitive Section; Developmental Coordination Disorder – UK; International
Society for Research on Developmental Coordination Disorder; Economic & Social Research
Council (ESRC) peer review panel; ESRC Future Leaders Commissioning Panel. Staff are also
active members of several Advisory boards/expert panels including: European Academy of
Childhood Disability (EACD), Future Army Reserve Working Group, Alcohol Change UK.

4.3 Research impact
The main areas of impact of our research are illustrated by the two submitted ICSs: (1) Connelly’s
work on Armed Forces Reservists had a major impact on the policy makers leading recent
Government Reforms on reservists and on those tasked with implementing the policies; (2)
Barnett’s research has improved support for individuals with movement and handwriting difficulties


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through the development of new assessment tools. These have provided health and education
practitioners with new means to improve diagnosis and support.

A range of other work from across the four research groups also has growing impact, which will be
built upon. Some examples are outlined below:

Wiggs’ work investigates the effectiveness of management options for sleep problems in children
with neurodevelopmental disorders. This has helped guide clinicians (and parents) about what
approaches might be acceptable. Charities for children with particular conditions (e.g. Autism) have
referred to this work in their online materials to guide patients and professionals looking for
information and advice.

Harris’s work on children born with hearing loss has shown they experience considerable difficulty
in learning to read. In spite of early diagnosis and technological innovation in hearing aids, there
has been little improvement in literacy levels for this group. Her research has indicated what
factors are important for literacy. This has informed the development of a US curriculum for
teaching young deaf children to read.

Kumar’s research on different clinical groups has potential clinical implications. For example,
improved knowledge of emotional blunting in individuals with depression has been applied in an
outreach psychiatric clinic in India to support appropriate interventions to increase the range of
emotions experienced.

Kenward’s new strand of research aims to understand attitudes towards climate change. He has
surveyed public attitudes to the environmental movement, Extinction Rebellion and has been
involved in setting up a Citizens Assembly on climate. Preliminary research reports have been
noted by Members of Parliament and findings may impact future Government policy.

Davies’ work has improved understanding of factors associated with various healthy and risky
behaviours (including drinking alcohol) and is beginning to inform intervention approaches. Her
involvement with the Global Drug Survey has provided information on the perception of alcohol and
cannabis health information labelling, likely to inform future policy and practice.

Future work will develop these areas, capturing evidence of impact on the ‘Impact Tracker’ tool.




                                                                                             Page 13
