Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: C18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introduction

 Celebrating its 50th Anniversary in 2017, Warwick Law School (WLS) continues to have an
 internationally acknowledged influence on interdisciplinary, global, and law-in-context research,
 having pioneered such scholarship since its inception. Our dynamic and inclusive research culture
 fosters excellence and diversity through scholarship that engages with a variety of approaches,
 disciplines and methodologies. Our innovative and critical research has made significant
 academic, policy and social impact internationally, nationally and within our local communities.

 WLS core research strengths are in International Law and Human Rights, Criminal Justice and
 Policing, International Economic Law and Regulation, Critical Theory and Legal Philosophy, and
 Gender and the Law. Six Research Centres are hosted or co-hosted by the School, alongside
 several less formal research clusters, all of which help shape weekly research seminars and
 reading groups, public lectures and an annual Law School Conference, bringing the whole
 research community – including our doctoral and post-doctoral scholars - together. The School’s
 international approach brings a particular focus on research and partnerships engaging with the
 global south. WLS benefits from a successful visiting scholars’ programme, which since 2014 has
 welcomed 55 academics and PGRs.

 In the current period, WLS has built on its improved research environment, which was recognised
 in REF 2014 as having facilitated a strong performance on outputs, to create an even more
 ambitious, supportive, vibrant and connected culture in which the law in context tradition can be
 renewed and revitalised for the present. It is a deeply collaborative research environment between
 colleagues and research students. It is also a challenging one, where we encourage colleagues
 to expose their work to, and embrace the constructive benefits of, critical peer interrogation.

 To support this, we have focussed on improving infrastructure, resource and mentoring. We have
 strengthened relationships with the national and international research community across
 disciplines so that our work is better informed by, and reaches, the widest academic audience and
 increased public and practitioner engagement with our work. We have contributed more
 substantially to the University’s wider research environment and collaborated more significantly
 with scholars in other Warwick departments. In line with the University’s strategy (see REF5a
 2.9.4), our Research Centres - which have representation across the University – have further
 cemented their international reputations as leading hubs of critical and contextual legal
 scholarship.

 Strategic Goals for the 2014-21 REF Period

 In 2014 we said we would:

 Enhance our capacity for contextual, international and globally focused research by developing
 stronger relationships with external academic partners.
 Increase support to our existing Centres and develop at least one further Centre.



                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Build on our tradition of law-in-context research through increased infrastructure and expertise on
 empirical methods, and improved mentoring of grant applications.
 Integrate, support and mentor PGRs and ECRs more effectively, maximising our ability to develop
 and retain ‘home grown’ talent.
 Develop stronger relationships with external non-academic partners to foster and develop
 channels for impact and knowledge exchange.

 Achievement Against 2014-21 Strategic Goals

 Developing external research relationships

 WLS has engaged the wider academic community more effectively, both nationally and
 internationally. We funded and hosted more than 50 international workshops and conferences and
 hosted the Socio-Legal Studies Association Annual Conference (2015), the Critical Legal
 Conference (2017), and the Socio-Legal Studies Association PGR Conference (2019). In the
 period, more than £100,000 was awarded from the School’s internal Legal Research Institute
 (‘LRI’) budget to support workshops. In 2015, WLS hosted the 7th conference in the series on the
 Future of Adversarial and Inquisitorial Systems involving scholars from North America, China and
 Europe. In 2017, a workshop explored the new contours of policing under conditions of mass
 mobility and globalisation. In 2019, a capacity building and training workshop on human rights was
 held for officials and case-workers for the National Commission for Human Rights; WLS hosted
 the National Custody Forum, attended by police officers and researchers from across the UK; and
 the inaugural International Economic Law Collective Conference was held.

 WLS colleagues have contributed significantly to activities to develop and nurture emerging
 scholars from the global south and building and consolidating relationships between global north
 and global south scholars. Colleagues have organised and facilitated workshops aimed at building
 research and writing capacities of global south scholars, both in the UK and abroad, in conjunction
 with external partners. Such initiatives have been driven by the aim to diversify and pluralise legal
 scholarship through providing capacity building and networking opportunities for global south
 scholars, building on WLS’ ethos and strength in this area. Carvalho, Munro and Norrie were
 involved in the British Academy-funded Socio-Legal Journals Global South Initiative, a
 collaborative project involving several academic journals including Social and Legal Studies,
 Journal of Law and Society, Feminist Legal Studies, International Journal of Law in Context and
 Modern Law Review. The project held seven writing workshops in Nairobi, Accra, Bangalore,
 Recife and Delhi, designed to directly support early career academics and to open up these
 journals to global south scholarship. Gayoye and Sekalala were involved in the African Feminist
 Judgement Project writing workshops with Cardiff Law School. The project, involving academics,
 activists and members of the judiciary from seven African countries, was designed to rethink how
 judgments are written from the African continent resulting in a virtual legal clinic, funded by the
 Association for Women's Rights in Development (AWID). WLS has also initiated, through Gayoye,
 Saeed and Tan, an annual PhD Law, Development and Global Justice workshop series, with
 Cardiff and Kent Law Schools, aimed at developing research dissemination and networking
 opportunities among postgraduate researchers at the three law schools. Tan has convened a
 workshop on From Researcher to Author with Faculty of Law, University of Antwerp, as part of the
 Law and Development Research Network (LDRN), aimed at supporting publishing by early career
 researchers.

 Stewart’s series of linked projects a combination of external; Warwick (GCRF; ESRC IAA; LRI
 funding) Transforming Gender Relations in an Ageing World has involved sustained

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration since 2017 with partners from the Faculties of Law at the University of Nairobi and
 Mount Kenya University and leading international NGO, ‘HelpAge International’, to develop socio-
 legal research capacity in Africa in relation to ageing and age discrimination from a gender
 perspective as well as influencing African regional and international policy making on ageing.
 Stewart’s A Fair Chance for Education: Gendered Pathways to Educational Success in
 Haryana (Co Investigator Dr Emily Henderson, Warwick Education Studies) externally funded
 research (2017-2022) on access to HE for disadvantaged groups in Haryana, India, is built around
 participatory and collaborative approaches to global south research. The project’s research
 collaborative group supports and builds capacity with early career researchers and key scholars
 in local universities in Haryana. These are supported by the project’s academic partners in leading
 research institutions in India (National Institute for Educational Planning and Administration, New
 Delhi; Tata Institute for Social Sciences, Mumbai; and Ambedkar University New Delhi) and a
 project research advisory group consisting of leading academics and national education policy
 makers.

 Stevens & Hodgson have partnered in research conferences and publications with Monash
 colleagues, and Hodgson is part of a long-standing collaboration between UNC, Bologna, Duke
 University, Basel and Warwick, generating joint conferences most years including several
 dedicated ECR sessions, and funded participation for WLS PGRs.

 LRI funds have supported colleagues to present their work to a wide range of communities, and
 for visits to institutions at home and abroad. WLS colleagues have delivered high-profile lectures
 across the globe. These include Ali’s public lectures at the Annual Conference on European
 Family Law at Hamburg and British Association of Islamic Studies; Aliverti’s keynote at ‘La
 Criminalización de la Inmigración en América Latina’ Universidad Arturo Pratt, Chile; Munro’s
 Inaugural Criminal Justice Public Lecture at the University of Edinburgh and the Annual Shirley
 Smith Address in Wellington, New Zealand; Wall’s Keynote at the Critical Legal Conference in
 Warsaw; Norrie’s public lecture to the India Law Institute and at the National Law University Delhi;
 Schwobel Patel’s keynote at the ‘Gendercide, Genocide, and Resistance’ conference at
 Gothenburg and public lecture at University of Würzburg; Tadros’ inaugural lecture in Moral
 Philosophy and Practical Ethics at Oxford, Norton Lecture at University of Delaware, and Knowles
 Memorial Lecture at the University of Glasgow.

 International visits have been supported, sometimes resulting in sustained research relationships.
 McMahon visited the Centre for Antitrust and Regulatory Studies, University of Warsaw in 2017;
 Adelman was Visiting Professor in Environmental Law, University of Pretoria, 2017, held a
 fellowship at the University of Rosario in Colombia in 2020 and was Research Associate at Nelson
 Mandela University South Africa from 2017; Tadros was Carter Visiting Professor of General
 Jurisprudence at Harvard Law School from July-December 2015; McEldowney was Visiting
 Professor at University of Paris v Renee Descartes from 2016-19; Rogowski was Visiting
 Professor in the Department of Economics, University of Modena in 2016 and Visiting Professor
 at the University of Florence in 2017; Singh was Fernand Braudel Senior Fellow at EUI Florence
 from May-August 2016 and Adjunct Professor at the University of Bologna (School of
 Management), 2019-2020.

 Colleagues are encouraged to take on leadership roles to support legal scholarship. Beale, Norrie
 and Tadros are Fellows of the British Academy. Hodgson and Munro are Fellows of the Academy
 of Social Sciences. Ali is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and an Associate Member of the
 International Academy of Comparative Law. Hodgson is an elected Council member of Justice.
 Garton, Harding and Munro served on the Executive Committee of the Socio-Legal Studies

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association. Singh is an advisory panel member of the Research and Guidance Committee of
 International Association of Deposit Insurers. Harding was council member of the Irish Legal
 History Society. Norrie is President of the International Association for Critical Realism.
 McEldowney is a Fellow of the Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences. Stevens founded the
 Migration Section, SLS, and the Refugee/Migration Theme/ Stream, SLSA. Sekalala is a member
 of the Royal African Society. Twigg-Flesner is Fellow of the European Law Institute and Associate
 Academic Fellow of the Honourable Society of the Inner Temple. Wall is Secretary of the Critical
 Legal Studies Association.

 Many colleagues hold major editorial roles, through which they ensure the vibrancy of their sub-
 disciplines and support the scholarship development of colleagues. For example, General Editor,
 Law and Humanities (Watt); General Editor, Journal of Banking Regulation and Financial
 Regulation International (Singh); Associate Editor, Journal of Applied Philosophy (Slavny);
 Associate Editor, Ethics (Tadros); Managing Director, Counterpress (Wall); co-editor, Elgar
 Series on Law, Development and Global Justice (Tan); Coordinating Editor, Social and Legal
 Studies (Munro); Associate Editor, Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Law Journal and Book
 Review Editor, International Journal of Refugee Law (Stevens); Editor, London Review of
 International Law (Krever). Even more colleagues are on editorial boards of significant journals
 and book series. Munro, in her role on the editorial board of the Modern Law Review, hosted a
 zoom event on getting published which was attended / watched by hundreds of female scholars,
 as well as helping to set up a Covid Response Postdoc scheme in 2020.

 Further supporting and developing our Research Centres

 Our research centres are intense cites of research collaboration within WLS and across the
 University (see REF 5a 2.9.4), fostering national and international networks. Law School hosted
 centres receive protected funding from the LRI (£2000 pa pre-pandemic), and enjoy both
 increasing autonomy in their research activities, and greater support from Research Committee.
 Pre-existing Centres have flourished, facilitating pioneering, prominent and sustainable research
 activity. The creation and growth of new Centres reflects our research dynamism and
 responsiveness to emerging synergies and opportunities.

 Existing Research Centres at 2014

 Four WLS Research Centres existed in 2014. Three - Centre for Human Rights in Practice
 (CHRiP) (Directors: Harrison & Williams); Criminal Justice Centre (CJC) (Directors: Hodgson,
 Aliverti & Carvalho); and Centre for Ethics, Law and Public Affairs (CELPA) (Director: Slavny
 until 2019, now Parr from Politics and International Studies) – were well established and have
 flourished. The fourth - the Centre for Law, Regulation and Governance of the Global Economy
 (GLOBE) (Directors: Tan & Connelly) - was in its infancy in 2014. It has been a standout success,
 grown hugely and is now recognised as an international centre of excellence, with 45 members
 across a range of disciplines, hosting more than 50 workshops, doctoral training sessions and
 public events, and welcoming 8 international visitors. It produced a series of influential Policy Briefs
 (edited by Kokkinis) and hosts the University’s Research in Global Governance Network (RiGG-
 Net). It also spearheaded the ‘IEL Collective’, building research relationships across 12 UK and
 international law schools to provide the leading space for critically engaged thinking about
 international economic law and institutions.

 CHRiP, which has 16 members (8 from WLS), is organised into seven thematic clusters. It brings
 scholars together to develop new research methods, undertaking applied human rights projects

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with real world impact and promoting academic work to broader public audiences. The human
 rights education cluster has produced new methods of human rights teaching [Harrison,
 Struthers & Williams] that have influenced the national curriculum on social justice. It pioneered
 a national school engagement project, the ‘Writing Wrongs Initiative’, funded by the Sigrid Rausing
 Trust. Its model of engagement with disadvantaged school students was adopted by
 several other UK universities and partnered with the national Orwell Youth Prize. Collective work
 by the international economic governance cluster has developed new empirical research
 methodologies to assess the effectiveness of business and human rights initiatives which have
 been applied to human rights due diligence of corporations globally [Harrison and Sekalala]. The
 human rights performance of tea producers in Tanzania [Pillon] and the human rights
 performance of sustainable palm oil in Asia and Africa [Harrison]. The human rights and public
 spending cluster created and applied new methods for assessing the human rights impacts of
 public spending decisions [Byrom and Eades] (see section 4 for impact). CHRiP’s
 flagship Lacuna magazine, with a readership of 155,000, provides a forum for law school
 academics to publish work engaging broader public audiences on current issues in law, policy and
 rights, publishing work from more than 50 colleagues and students in the school. From 2019, as
 an expansion of its previous research-led engagement with the city of Coventry, CHRiP has
 worked with a new ‘Warwick Law in the Community’ initiative directed by Mulqueen (see section
 4 below for further details).

 The CJC has 36 members (25 from WLS), and is one of the strongest and most dynamic
 communities of criminal justice scholars in the world. It boasts expertise in a range of
 methodologies on criminal justice, including philosophical, critical, and empirical approaches, and
 engages with a wide range of disciplines, including philosophy, sociology and psychology.
 Criminal justice research links with members of other departments have strengthened
 considerably. It also explores all aspects of the criminal justice system, from policing, to the
 criminal justice process, to substantive criminal law to punishment. The CJC convenes events
 involving external and WLS speakers who present in small groups and public lectures (eg. Dame
 Anne Owers; film screening on Miscarriages of Justice with contributions by Paddy Hill & Robert
 Brown) and has hosted 24 visiting scholars since 2014. Its many collaborations with third sector
 and criminal justice organisations include Hodgson’s work with JUSTICE on its Council and as a
 Working Party member of “Understanding Courts”; evaluating the work of Prisoners’ Penfriends,
 resulting in a significant expansion of their work across the prison estate; as an expert for EU
 impact assessments on legal aid directives (2016), pre-trial detention (2015-16) and the impact of
 Brexit (2018). Munro’s collaboration with Rape Crisis Scotland and REFUGE; and recently the
 expert group on femicide convened by the Centre for Women’s Justice. Three CJC members -
 Aliverti, Hodgson & Munro - are members of the West Midlands Police and Crime Commissioner
 Academic Advisory Board. The CJC fosters public engagement with CJ matters, including
 Carvalho and Chamberlen’s collaboration with RideOut and FaceUp Theatre in the theatrical
 workshop The Chamber (2018) and Chamberlen’s ‘Beyond Bars: Stories from Former Prisoners’,
 an arts festival involving artistic performances from former prisoners in London (2017). In 2019
 the CJC initiated an annual PGR conference - a 2-day workshop, with feedback provided by WLS
 colleagues, including the wider PGR community. Expertise and collaboration in criminology has
 been strengthened through meetings involving leading criminologists in sociology, such as
 Chamberlen and Wahidi, resulting in research events and co-authored publications. Aliverti’s
 article (Benevolent Policing? Vulnerability and the Moral Pains of Border Controls) received
 the prestigious 2020 Radzinowics Prize, awarded by the British Journal of Criminology for the
 article that has made the greatest contribution to the development of criminology.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CELPA has become one of the most prominent, active and integrated centres in legal, political
 and moral philosophy globally. It has 33 members including 4 WLS staff, and several doctoral
 students who are supervised or co-supervised from WLS. CELPA holds weekly seminars,
 attended by around 30 people. WLS colleagues have frequently presented at these events.
 Around 30 scholars visit CELPA annually, including, for example, Tom Hurka (Toronto), Sophia
 Moreau (Toronto), Tommie Shelby (Harvard), Japa Pallikkathayil (Pittsburgh). Several daylong
 book manuscript workshops involve authors and internal and external speakers (e.g. Clare
 Chambers (Cambridge), David Estlund (Brown), Rainer Forst (Frankfurt), Alon Harel (Hebrew)
 John Oberdiek (Rutgers), Jonathan Quong (USC), Anna Stilz (Princeton), and Tadros (Warwick)).
 CELPA hosts a prominent annual graduate conference, with around 50 PGR attendees, including
 30 presenters and two plenary speakers (e.g. Clare Chambers, Elizabeth Cripps, David Estlund,
 Jonathan Quong, Annie Stilz and Laura Valentini). Its informal academic community is extremely
 active, with annual dinners, lunches, informal reading groups and discussion groups. Members of
 CELPA regularly read the work of colleagues, and support funding applications. PGRs especially
 benefit from engaging with a wide range of members of the group.

 Two New Research Centres

 Having committed in REF2014 to creating one new Research Centre, we have developed two.

 The Centre for Operational Police Research (COPR) was established in 2014 (Directors:
 Hodgson and Wade from Psychology) to stimulate more targeted interdisciplinary research,
 partnerships and impact around policing. Members (including PGRs) span all faculties,
 researching topics including domestic abuse, stop and search, anti-radicalisation, cybersecurity
 and the detection of manipulated digital images, using behavioural science, legal, ethnographic
 and digital forensic methodologies. They work across a wide range of networks and organisations
 including the Turing Institute, Ministry of Defence, forensic services, Crown Prosecution Service
 and Interpol. Working with police forces, the College of Policing and Police & Crime
 Commissioners, COPR has hosted seminars and project launches (e.g. Forensic Property
 Marking and Public Confidence in Policing) as well as national and regional policing events (e.g.
 National Police Custody Forum; Society for Evidence Based Policing).

 In 2019, the Centre for Critical Legal Studies (CCLS) was established (Directors: Schwobel-Patel
 & Wall). Re-imagining WLS’s commitment to critical and contextual scholarship, with a
 membership committed to research on race, class, gender and their intersectionality, CCLS hosts
 weekly reading groups and regular seminars; it is launching CritTV, its own YouTube channel,
 which will livestream and curate programming nationally and internationally. It has a wide
 membership, drawn from colleagues across the University and beyond, working closely with a
 dynamic group of students, Critical Lawyers at Warwick (CLAW). Together they edit the Critical
 Legal Pocketbook (forthcoming, 2021). The ‘radical mooting’ project seeks to critique the
 reproduction of hierarchies in classical law school mooting competitions. The series of workshops,
 reading groups, and film screenings run jointly with CCLS and CLAW will culminate in a common
 mooting project with student groups from SOAS, the University of Kent, Vrije Universiteit
 Amsterdam, and Lund University. A collaborative multi-media project of documenting this project
 is underway. We envisage that the CCLS will grow and become a prominent part of WLS.

 Our research centres do not operate in silos. Colleagues are typically active members of more
 than one Centre, and we have encouraged cross-collaboration - for example, the international
 conference on ‘Security, Borders and International Development’ co-hosted by GLOBE and CJC
 in 2019; events across both GLOBE and CHRiP organised by the IEL Collective; public lectures

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the Death Penalty organised jointly by CHRiP and CJC; shared seminar events – between
 CELPA, CCLS and CJC, which have included international participants such as Kim Ferzan
 (Virginia), Doug Husak (Rutgers) and George Pavlich (Ontario). CCLS and GLOBE had a common
 reading group theme in 2020, namely 'Empire', involving different disciplinary and critical
 traditions.

 Greater infrastructure and expertise on empirical methods, and improved mentoring for
 grant applications

 WLS has strengthened its expertise on empirical methods, by developing internal talent and
 through strategic appointments. Munro was appointed to contribute her own empirical research
 and lead in the development of new empirical work. Our Head of School, Sanders, is also an
 experienced empirical researcher. Some of our most talented empirical researchers made
 significant strides in their work, securing promotions in the process (for example, Aliverti,
 Sekalala and Tan) with support from the School. We have also made more junior appointments,
 such as Struthers, and encouraged post-doctoral scholars, such as Vabriescu, to develop
 capacity.

 Our processes to secure external funding have become more supportive and streamlined. We
 have strengthened infrastructure and mentoring in order to encourage and support high quality
 funding applications. We have also improved our performance in securing funded PGR
 scholarships via the ESRC DTP, and also in training the next generation of empirical socio-legal
 researchers.

 Our main aim has not been financial, but to help colleagues advance their most significant
 research goals with resources and time. Since 2014, WLS has created a dedicated role – Director
 of Funding (held by Aliverti and Munro). Regular WLS workshops have been organised, themed
 around schemes/funders/career stages as well as drop-in sessions. A generous buy-out formula
 recognises the contribution of grant income, which adds funded buy-out to a 40% research
 allocation baseline; and a network of peer review circles comments on draft applications. WLS
 works closely with the University’s R&IS Team who facilitate discussions around funding calls,
 offer additional feedback and mentoring, and assist with pre-award costing and post-award
 management. Since 2014, WLS has focussed particularly on fellowship applications at all levels.
 Highly competitive and prestigious fellowships – from Leverhulme, British Academy and ISRF -
 have been awarded to 14 colleagues (see below). We have submitted 31 RCUK applications
 totalling £3.2 million, and 36 successful applications to the ESRC IAA totalling £242,506. WLS
 colleagues have worked closely with governments and NGOs to access funding for research
 targeted at policy or practice impact – for example, Munro secured (with colleagues from IPSOS
 Mori and University of Glasgow) a £500,000 grant from the Scottish Government; Stewart has
 secured £24,000 from Help Age and £242,000 from the Fair Chance Foundation; Hodgson was
 UK partner on a 375,000 Euro grant from the EU Commission; Harrison secured funding from
 Sigrid Rausing to extend outreach work on human rights; and Sekalala secured funding from the
 World Health Organisation and the Wellcome Trust.

 Support and mentoring provided to PGRs and ECRs

 Support for the PGR community
 WLS is committed to developing the next generation of scholars, fostering capacity to advance its
 law in context and internationalist agenda. A stronger PGR community was developed and
 sustained during this REF period, drawing scholars from across the world to work with WLS staff.

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have supported a diverse and active PGR community on a scale capable of meaningful
 integration into the School, with effective and robust feedback provided at all stages of
 development.

 WLS currently hosts 66 PGRs, providing scholarships for up to 2 PhD students per annum.
 Automatic funding available to PGR students has increased from £500 to £750, with the LRI
 providing additional resource. We have introduced – alongside pre-existing end of 1st year
 upgrades - interim year reviews to provide constructive feedback beyond formal supervision. WLS
 organises workshops across all years on writing, careers, fellowships, vivas, upgrades, research
 techniques, publishing, and teaching. A ‘buddy system’ has been set up to integrate the PGR
 community across year groups. Finalists also have mock vivas. In addition to a first and second
 supervisor, two dedicated PGR mentors work alongside the Director of PGRs [Ali, Garton and
 Schwobel-Patel in this period] to offer additional support, which has been recognised as ‘best
 practise’ by the University.

 Completion rates are amongst the highest in the University, and student satisfaction is strong. In
 2016 WLS formed West Midlands Doctoral Network which enhances PGRs’ professional
 development through networking events, conferences, workshops and career events. A new
 system to enhance skills of PGRs – SkillsForge – was introduced, supported by the Doctoral
 College. PGRs regularly attend research seminars, act as discussants, and have priority in
 question and answer sessions. CELPA, CJC and GLOBE offer annual PGR conferences and
 workshops with participants benefitting from feedback by WLS staff. Furthermore, our annual WLS
 conference showcases work by colleagues and PGRs on shared panels. In January 2019, WLS
 hosted the SLSA PGR conference. In February 2021, a PGR conference will take place, which
 has been organised by a PGR organising committee where PGR students will have the opportunity
 to present their work. WLS runs an annual PGR supervisors’ workshop where colleagues
 exchange good practice. It has a hardship fund that is available to provide assistance with,
 amongst other things, unexpected childcare costs for PGRs with caring responsibilities. We have
 secured several Institute of Advanced Study fellowships (see REF5a 2.9.2) for excellent PhD
 candidates, several of whom have since secured academic careers.

 Support for Early Career Researchers

 Mechanisms for mentoring and offering feedback to ECRs have improved. WLS hosts periodic
 work-in-progress workshops for all colleagues, but especially ECRs. The vast majority of
 colleagues request and benefit from peer review. Colleagues on probation are automatically
 provided with a mentor, and a reduced teaching and administrative load to facilitate research
 development.

 We prioritise ECRs for LRI support, who received £133k during this period. This priority was written
 into our research strategy as part of our pandemic response, to reflect the disproportionate impact
 on ECRs. We have increased transparency around promotions and ECRs regularly exceed
 probation goals and secure promotion. Colleagues on teaching-focused contracts are eligible to
 transition to teaching and research contracts, and we support them in achieving this.

 Wider Research Support.

 We have formalised additional structures for support to all colleagues. Alongside existing
 mentoring and probation structures, the Research Progression Group (whose members are also
 responsible for internal REF policy and preparation) contacts colleagues on a termly basis to offer

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to discuss plans and publication strategy, and /or read work in progress. Many colleagues have
 taken up this opportunity. This support has been enhanced during the pandemic recognising the
 risk of isolation, and the deterioration of research networks. Such support is constructive and
 engaging rather than disciplinary, and colleagues appreciate that the aim is to assist them to
 develop their most ambitious, creative and important work.

 Support for engagement beyond the academy

 Our commitment to engage with non-academic stakeholders is evidenced by the support
 structures and resources we devote to this. The Director of Impact, a newly created role within
 WLS (Harrison 2014-Sept 2020; now Sharpe), has worked with colleagues to support knowledge
 exchange, public engagement and impact. Regular seminars enhance skills in e.g. writing for non-
 academic audiences and building networks beyond the academy. Colleagues can obtain up to
 200 hours of credit for impact activity, and a dedicated WLS ‘impact fund’ (up to £1,000 per person)
 is available to support impact. Since 2014, 23 WLS colleagues have been supported to make
 successful applications for Faculty impact funding via both ESRC IAA and internal university
 schemes (totalling £274,506). Support and mentoring for impact is provided through WLS’s
 Research Centres - for example, CHRiP’s Lacuna Magazine encourages WLS colleagues and
 students to produce articles published alongside those written by journalists, legal professionals
 and activists; and GLOBE initiated a highly successful policy brief series using external networks
 cultivated by senior colleagues to showcase work of ECRs (see section 4).

 Research Governance

 Research structures support staff more effectively, identify research opportunities and
 collaborative partnerships, and ensure that research is properly resourced. Research Committee
 (RC), Director of Research (DoR), Director of Impact (DoI), Director of Funding (DoF), and Director
 of PGR (DPGR) oversee these activities. Those responsible for research seminars, public
 lectures, and visiting scholars are also members of research committee, as well as the research
 administrator and a PGR representative. The Head of School (HoS), who is also a member,
 actively fosters an inclusive research environment. RC is chaired by the DoR, who is also Deputy
 Head of School. RC meets termly to oversee research strategy, the activities of Centres and
 Clusters, and the allocation of resources.

 WLS’s Research Executive (Directors of Research, Funding & Impact) meet on a regular basis to
 review strategy and implementation, and to raise proposals for consideration by RC. RC reports
 on a termly basis to the School Staff Meeting. RC is supported by two permanent members of the
 WLS Professional Services Team, organising events, administering finances, assisting with grant
 applications, publicising research outputs, and facilitating impact activities. The University’s
 Research and Impact Services (R&IS) team has dedicated points of contact for WLS colleagues,
 assisting us in the development and administration of grant applications; as well as a dedicated
 Impact Manager and Impact Co-ordinator for the Faculty of Social Sciences.

 Moving Forward: Strategic Priorities for REF Period 2021-2026

 WLS reviews its research strategy periodically. Our key priorities remain around collegial support
 and utilising our Centres to promote a strong, diverse, connected and ambitious research culture.
 We have identified 3 additional targets for the next REF period:




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strengthening research in commercial and company law. We have recently appointed
 Johnston with interests in law-in-context company law to develop our ambitious and active Cluster
 on commercial law.
 Increasing our reputation as a hub for work on law, gender and sexuality. We will bolster our
 increased capacity in this area, enhancing the external presence and profile of our existing Gender
 & Law Cluster. Recent appointments including Sharpe and Natile support that.
 Embedding engagement between Centres and non-academic audiences. Amongst other
 things, we will establish affiliate member status for third sector and other stakeholders, to
 develop more sustainable and longer-term relationships to secure impact.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy: Appointments and Promotions

 WLS attracts scholars doing world class research or with clear potential to do so, and who nourish
 our vibrant and collegiate community engaged in contextual, methodologically diverse and socially
 significant legal research. During appointments, we adopt an intense reading process involving
 colleagues at all career stages to assess candidates’ research.
 WLS has expanded by over 50% of research active staff in this period. We have cemented pre-
 existing research strengths, whilst fostering a diversity of approaches to global, law-in-context
 scholarship. We have maintained a balanced profile across career stages, promoting from within,
 making strategic external appointments at senior level and attracting the best ECR talent from the
 sector.

 Since 2014, five Chairs have joined WLS as external appointments: Munro, Twigg-Flesner,
 Sanders, Johnston and Sharpe (who joined after the census date). All have excellent research
 records and leadership experience. Munro’s appointment flows from a strategic commitment in
 REF 2014 to strengthen leadership in empirical methods and grant capture. Twigg-Flesner’s
 appointment supports growing research ambitions in commercial law, further enhanced by
 Johnston. Sanders joined as an experienced Head of School, who – as a WLS alumnus – fully
 appreciates our law-in-context ethos. Sharpe strengthens our reputation in critical legal theory,
 gender, and criminal justice.

 17 research-active colleagues currently with us joined WLS since the last REF at non-professorial
 levels, 8 Assistant Professor; 9 Associate Professor/Reader. We have appointed and retained
 ambitious and promising early and mid-career scholars to enhance our contextualist, theoretical
 and internationalist ethos (Carvalho, Connelly, Harding, Kokkinis, Krever, Lammasniemi,
 Mills, Mulqueen, Saeed, Schwobel-Patel, Sekalala, Slavny, Struthers, Vitale, Walker,
 Zivkovic and Wall). Four of these had also been WLS postdocs or PGRs, reflecting our
 commitment to a strong career trajectory for WLS talent.

 In tandem with revised processes at University level, WLS made probation and promotion
 processes more transparent (see REF5a 3.3) and encouraged applications more proactively.
 WLS’s Senior Management Exec (SME) annually review all colleagues potentially eligible for
 promotion, and support (including feedback on applications) is offered. The Chair of WLS’s EDI
 committee sits on SME, as does the DoR, and both are involved in appointments and promotions.
 As noted above, our processes are deeply informed by our commitment to ED&I.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Positive results have followed. In the staff survey prior to WLS’s successful Athena Swan
 submission in 2018, more than ¾ of colleagues (on an equal basis with respect to gender)
 indicated there were ‘some or many things to celebrate’ about our promotion processes. One
 respondent noted: “The process seems to be working well. Promotions have been quite successful
 in recent years and women are being encouraged to apply earlier for promotion. Colleagues are
 generous with their time and advice in assisting with the promotion process.” Many colleagues
 have secured promotion. Almost everyone appointed at Assistant Professor since 2014 has been
 promoted to Associate Professor by the end of their normal probation period (Aliverti, Castellano,
 Carvalho, Connelly, Mills, Slavny, Kokkinis, Kuo, Harding, Farrand, and Sekalala). 7
 colleagues have been promoted to Reader (Aliverti, Harrison, Stevens, Wakefield, Adelman,
 Tan and Wall) 4 to Professor (Stewart, Garton, Harrison and Stevens) and 3 colleagues secured
 2 promotions (Aliverti, Harrison and Stevens) in this period.

 Supporting Colleagues’ Research Growth

 New members of staff receive an induction, including a discussion with the DoR and research
 professional services team. WLS promotes a wide range of research networks to assist colleagues
 in their scholarship, including substantial mentoring and feedback opportunities. As noted above,
 the Research Progression Group (RPG) (comprised of 9 colleagues across a range of subject
 specialisms – 5 men and 4 women) prepares the REF submission and meets with colleagues on
 a regular basis to discuss research plans and career progression, and to read and comment on
 work in progress. The DoR runs regular events including workshops on writing and publishing,
 managing a research team and mid-career research progression. Research strategy is discussed
 at the Law School Conference to ensure that everyone is involved.

 These initiatives have been well-received. In respect of more formal mechanisms, such as PDRs,
 the staff survey conducted prior to our Athena Swan submission indicated that 74% of WLS
 colleagues felt we had some or many things to celebrate about support received. And in respect
 of more tailored, responsive interventions, this unsolicited feedback from a colleague following a
 2018 event for ECRs on ‘Sustaining a Research Career’ is a useful illustration – “I just wanted to
 thank you once again for the session yesterday and most importantly for sharing your experiences.
 It can seem from my perspective that establishing an academic career is an uphill struggle… [but
 it helps to learn from] the career path of other academics such as yourself who manage to establish
 excellent careers.”

 Strong connections between WLS and the Institute of Advance Studies (see REF5a, 2.9.2) benefit
 many colleagues. The IAS hosts scholars for extended stays at the University of Warwick. Since
 2014, WLS has secured 2 WIRL-COFUND postdoctoral fellows who are fully integrated into WLS
 Research Centres (Wilson and Vrabiescu). Five international visiting fellows have participated in
 WLS workshops and Centre / Cluster events (Kim Ferzan (Virginia), Moses Mulumba (NGO
 Activist), Mark Drumbl (Washington and Lee University), George Pavlich (Alberta) and Kirsty
 Duncanson (La Trobe)). WLS staff develop and implement the University’s research strategy (see
 REF5a 2). Hodgson, is Deputy Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and University lead on Coventry
 City of Culture, GRPs and interdisciplinarity, research communications and co-lead on GCRF;
 since 2014, Harrison and Stewart have been Academic Leads of the University’s Global
 Governance and International Development ‘Global Research Priorities’ (GRPs) (Warwick’s
 flagship interdisciplinary research networks (see REF5a 2.9.1)). Stewart is currently a member of
 the University’s International Strategy Advisory Group and plays a key role in a new University
 GRP on Productivity and the Futures of Work; Tan is a Fellow of the University’s Institute for
 Global Sustainable Development and co-leads the Interdisciplinary Research in Global

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Governance Network; Munro served on the University’s Humanities & Social Science Ethics
 Committee.

 Training and Supervision of PGR Students

 A carefully crafted programme aimed at supporting research and career development supports
 our PGR students. All first year doctoral candidates attend a year-long Theory and Methods
 Course. Warwick's ESRC Doctoral Training Centre support qualitative and quantitative methods,
 as well as social theory. WLS funds all PGRs in undertaking these DTC modules (for University
 support of PGR students, see REF5a 3.8).

 WLS holds several workshops for PGRs on, for example, effective writing, careers and
 fellowships, vivas, upgrades, research techniques, publishing, and teaching methods. PGRs
 regularly present their research at staff seminars and to other members of the PGR community,
 especially prior to their upgrade and viva. PGRs routinely present at the WLS annual conference.
 Some also organise conferences independently or as a group, while others assist in the running
 of WLS Research Centres and Clusters. The 2019 SLSA PGR conference was held at Warwick,
 with strong attendance from WLS PGRs; the CJC and CELPA run annual PGR conferences and
 several PGRs take part every year in the ECR section of the Warwick/UNC/Bologna/Basel
 collaboration led by Hodgson; and as part of the Law & Development Network, Warwick-Cardiff
 Law Schools collaborated to host a PGR conference in June 2017. WLS has also joined a newly
 formed West Midlands Legal Doctoral Network, which provides informal networking opportunities
 and workshops for PGRs in law across 6 regional universities. In addition to all of this, WLS has
 a dedicated fund available to doctoral candidates, designed to support them in activities such as
 transcription, conference registrations, and proofreading theses before submission.

 Two WLS academics are dedicated PGR Mentors, working alongside the Director of PGR and
 supervisors, to provide guidance on curricular and extra-curricular matters. Several WLS
 academic members (Bisping, McMahon) served as Academic and Professional Pathway (APP)
 mentors for PGR students and have been appointed Associate Fellows of the Higher Education
 Academy. PGRs develop skills through providing research assistance to faculty and often work
 with mentors and supervisors on interview skills and improving their CVs. We hold mock vivas and
 mock interviews for PGRs, and support applications for research awards, post-doctoral
 placements, and jobs. PGRs regularly contribute to an interdisciplinary journal on Law, Social
 Justice and Global Development, and write for or edit Lacuna, the CHRiP magazine. Many PGRs
 provide part-time teaching in WLS, with regular training and feedback. Hours are carefully
 controlled to protect research time. They are also trained on pedagogy and student engagement,
 and supported by a dedicated GTA liaison amongst WLS staff (Slavny).

 We offer permanently assigned workspaces and computing facilities to final year candidates, and
 bookable open spaces, computers and free printing for all PGRs. Workspaces of PGRs have been
 more effectively integrated in the Law School, for example, by sharing kitchen space and research
 rooms. The PGR community has monthly social gatherings, and regular meetings with the DPGR
 and two PGR mentors. PGRs are encouraged to attend all faculty research events. Since 2018,
 WLS’s DPGR has held an annual supervisors’ away day to enable colleagues to learn about new
 procedures and share best practice. Colleagues are encouraged to engage constructively with
 PhD proposals at an early stage and support students to obtain scholarships through the Warwick
 Chancellor's Scholarship (4) as well as ESRC DTP (7) and AHRC Midlands 4 Cities schemes,
 resulting in a number of successes. Interdisciplinary supervision is very common.


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our track record of securing PGRs employment is excellent. Five members of staff appointed to
 T&R contracts in this REF period were previously WLS doctoral students (Saeed, Sekalala,
 Slavny, Struthers, Zbyszewska). Many other PGRs secured appointments in research intensive
 law schools, e.g. Cornford (Edinburgh), Harwood (Essex), Pimm-Smith (Exeter), Dodsworth
 (Exeter), Azinge (Lincoln), Adebola (Aberdeen), Cortes Neito (Del Rosario, Columbia), Arias-
 Barrera (Externado, Columbia), Soubise (Liverpool), Chintapanti (JGLS, Delhi), Mäihäniemi
 (Helsinki), Motsi (Birmingham), Ombija (Cambridge), Lander & Enonchong (de Montfort),
 Omoijigade (Birmingham), Malala (Birmingham City), and Mou (SOAS). Mou won the Peter Birks
 prize for the monograph based on her Warwick thesis.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 A commitment to ED&I is integral to the WLS ethos and we are now one of the most diverse
 Russell Group Law Schools in the country, in terms of staff and students. We have worked hard
 to mainstream ED&I considerations into the organisational culture of WLS, and create a space in
 which members of traditionally under-represented groups flourish. Though the COVID pandemic
 has hampered implementation of some of our recent plans. Equality and diversity is a standing
 item in all committee meetings, including staff meeting, and relevant committees are asked to
 consider ED&I data and agree actions where needed, reporting progress and concerns to our
 dedicated ED&I Committee, the chair of which sits on the School’s Strategy Committee.

 We were successfully awarded a Bronze Athena Swan during this REF cycle and we have made
 diversity and unconscious bias training mandatory for all colleagues. All staff involved in
 recruitment or sitting on appointments committee are also asked to take a course in ‘Recruitment
 & Selection’ and asked to review the recruitment information on the HR webpages. We ensure a
 good gender and ethnicity balance for interview panels. During the promotions round, staff are
 invited to Academic Promotion sessions, hosted by the Provost, and the HoS is proactive in
 holding 1:1 meetings with staff who may be ready for promotion. Records of promotions according
 to gender and grade are kept, and the HoS shares this information with the Executive Committee
 after each promotion round.

 Staff are able to make requests in respect of teaching timetable and meeting schedules based on
 caring responsibilities, and as the demands of those responsibilities have increased during the
 pandemic, the HoS - in collaboration with the Chair of ED&I Committee - has worked closely with
 colleagues to provide additional support. WLS developed a ‘Research Under Covid’ strategy which
 responded to the additional needs of colleagues with caring responsibilities, as well as others
 disproportionately impacted by the pandemic. We bolstered mentoring and networking to address
 isolation, and prioritized funding for RA and marking support for such colleagues. We have also
 ensured appropriate recognition of the impact of Covid in respect of promotion and probation
 profiles, and will take it into account in assessing Study Leave applications (see REF5a 3.2).

 WLS staff who have taken parental/adoption leave have dedicated return to work meetings with
 the HoS to discuss their support needs, including in relation to research. They also benefit from
 the University’s Academic Returner Fellowship Scheme, which provides funding to cover teaching
 and administrative duties for a period matching the duration of their leave. This has given returning
 colleagues valuable time to reinvigorate their research, and mitigated the risk of disruption to their
 career trajectory. 6 colleagues have made use of this scheme in this period. Feedback indicates
 that these arrangements are highly valued. As one colleague remarked in the staff survey
 prepared ahead of our Athena Swan submission, the scheme “provides an excellent opportunity
 to re-engage with research after a period of absence.”

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All communications and events from the University’s ED&I Team are circulated to WLS
 colleagues, and there are 5 noticeboards across WLS dedicated to EDI issues and events. WLS
 currently has 4 accredited LGBTQI+ supporters, and in 2019 a Women Academics in Law network
 was established to support female colleagues and provide an informal space for raising EDI issues
 or concerns.

 We have made significant (and deliberate) improvements over the current cycle to ensure
 equality, diversity and inclusion in REF preparation and processes. In REF 2014, all submissions
 were reviewed by an internal panel comprised of 4 men and 1 woman, and an external panel
 comprised of 16 men and 11 women. 12 women (80%) and 19 men (76%) were entered for REF
 2014. For REF 2021, we have ensured greater balance in both panels from the outset - the WLS
 internal panel, the RPG, comprises 4 women and 5 men, and the external panel had 16 men
 and 14 women. In final stages of our preparation, we also worked with an additional two
 externals, both women, to assess our overall submission. We had significant BAME
 representation in the RPG (including the Chair and two further members) and one of our two
 final externals was BAME. We conducted ED&I data analysis of the proposed REF submission
 at key stages, involving regular meetings with the Chair of the EDI committee (Sekalala). Within
 the current submission, our 20 female colleagues put forward less outputs per head for
 consideration than their 30 male counterparts, which has resulted in a greater representation of
 men’s work overall, but women’s rate for inclusion of the pieces submitted was higher – 53%
 versus 43%. Key members of the Research Executive attended EDI training focused specifically
 on REF, provided by the University. Colleagues with potential mitigating circumstances during
 the REF period were afforded a variety of ways to disclose this, on a confidential and supportive
 basis, to the Research Executive.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income & Infrastructure
 As noted above, a dedicated DoF role has been created to support external funding applications
 (Munro and Aliverti). Together with the School’s Research Administrator (Paterson), the DoF
 organises regular workshops for PGRS and colleagues, themed to schemes/funders/career
 stages, alongside flexible drop-in sessions to discuss early ideas. A fortnightly WLS research
 newsletter is circulated with funding information, news and upcoming events. WLS has developed
 an online funding calendar which allows colleagues to search by their research needs/career
 stage. WLS has a generous buy-out formula that recognises the contribution of grant income and
 a network of internal peer reviewers has been established in this REF period to comment on draft
 applications. These WLS peer review mechanisms sit alongside the cross-disciplinary Faculty
 network of peer reviewers. WLS are supported in these activities by the University’s R&IS Team,
 who review funding bids, coordinate faculty peer review and organise workshops on specific
 funding schemes.

 Key priorities in this period have been to support success in prestigious research fellowships,
 enabling colleagues to undertake innovative and ambitious projects, and to build funding
 relationships with governmental and third sector sources, that will facilitate impact. Despite a
 challenging external funding environment, WLS’s research income has grown steadily over the
 REF period, as has the diversity and volume of applications from colleagues across a wide range
 of career stages. We have performed well in respect of prestigious fellowships in particular –
 securing 10 Research Fellowships from the Leverhulme Trust [Adelman, Lammasniemi, Norrie,
 Stevens, Stewart, Tadros, Watt, Wilson] while Aliverti and Munro held Philip Leverhulme Prizes.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wall and Carvalho have secured ISRF fellowships, and Aliverti and Hoxhaj have secured British
 Academy Rising Star Engagement Awards. In total we have applied for £17.5 million, and received
 around £2.2 million in funding since 2014, with £1.4 million generated by external grants from a
 wide range of funders including ESRC, AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, Law Commission, SLSA, SLS,
 Help Age International, European Commission, World Health Organisation, Chiang Ching-kuo
 Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Sigrid Rausing Trust, Wellcome Trust, Scottish
 Government and the Research Council of Norway.

 WLS staff are able to apply for, and have very often successfully secured, University funding (e.g.
 through IAS, HEIF, IGSD, GCRF, ESRC IAA, Warwick-Monash Alliance and GRP funding
 schemes) or Faculty of Social Sciences funding (for pump-priming Research Development and
 impact). We have successfully submitted over 60 applications, and secured over £470k in
 university funding. This has supported some of our most important research networks and capacity
 building projects, such as those outlined in Section 1.

 Support for Research: Beyond Centres

 Though Centres are core to the success of our research environment, as outlined above, we are
 committed to supporting research that does not fit within those Centres. In some cases, where
 there is sufficient research strength across the school, this has sparked the development of new
 Centres, such as CCLS. In others, Clusters have developed and expanded to provide support.
 WLS currently has 9 clusters. These are more flexible than Centres, with a primarily internal focus,
 designed to provide informal support for research exchange and mentoring. Each has a
 designated lead, and is supported by a ring-fenced WLS budget to facilitate activities (£500 pa
 with additional LRI funds available). Weekly research seminars are School-wide events that
 showcase research from Warwick and beyond. During the pandemic, lunchtime seminars are
 online. More recently, the focus has moved to showcasing books published, mostly by WLS
 colleagues, with PGRs acting as discussants. The lunchtime seminars are well-attended by staff
 and research students.

 WLS is committed to the provision of generous research support at the individual level. For most
 of the REF period, each colleague received £1,200 annual research allowance, to be used
 flexibly to attend conferences or purchase materials. A further £1,500 pa per person was
 available by application to the School’s LRI (administered by the Research Committee), to fund
 conference attendance where a member of staff is organiser or presenter. Staff are able to
 employ students for up to 100 hours of research assistance pa, and can be awarded up to
 £5,000 for hosting conferences or £1,000 for workshops. LRI schemes also award up to £1,500
 to develop research networks and up to £1,000 for colleagues’ impact activities. As an overall
 package, this provides extremely generous support that balances universal availability with
 oversight and advice. In 2018/19, for example, the LRI awarded £69k, spread across research
 support, student assistance, impact activities, developing research networks and support for
 organising conferences.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  WLS has supported its staff to create collaborations, networks and partnerships that have had
 significant impact both internationally and within the UK.

 Internationally, WLS has a particular focus on research which engages with the Global South.
 Tan, Natile and Harrison are founding members (and Warwick Law School is a founding

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institutional partner) of The IEL Collective, a community of international economic law scholars,
 activists and practitioners aimed at diversifying and pluralising the scholarship and practice of
 international economic law. It was supported by £8500 of LRI funds as well as ESRC IAA funding.
 The Collective has been involved in a number of research and policy impact collaborations since
 their inception. Other WLS colleagues have been involved in this network, including Bejarano,
 Connelly, Sekalala and Tassis, putting Warwick scholars at the centre of a scholarly network
 including academics from Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, India, Kenya,
 Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland and the USA. A database of experts (supported by £2,700
 from the Warwick Impact Fund), showcases the work of these scholars to governmental, trade
 union and civil society actors working on international economic law issues all over the world.
 Building on these networks, Connelly and Tan (supported by a Warwick Institute for Global
 Sustainable Development (IGSD) fellowship grant) have worked with the Jubilee Debt Campaign
 UK and Oxfam GB to propose legislation in the UK that will have the effect of suspending debt
 owed to private creditors of low-income countries. Castellano’s research (supported by £46,640
 of LRI and ESRC IAA funding) has been central to the development of international legal
 instruments of both the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) and
 the World Bank for reforming secured transactions law to promote inclusive access to credit. This
 is of critical importance in developing markets and for micro, small and medium sized enterprises
 (MSMEs). Supported by £3,800 of LRI and ESRC funding, Singh has created networks and
 provided guidance to various ‘small host states’ within the European and Central Asia (ECA)
 region about current banking reforms and the extent to which they actually resolve some of the
 challenges experienced during the global financial crisis.

 We have been particularly involved in a number of projects around the impact of COVID-19,
 including Informality in Times of COVID-19 (part of Ruptures 21), a collaboration between
 Warwick Law School, Kent Law School, Essex Centre for Human Rights and University of Rosario
 in Colombia and a project on COVID-19 and Sovereign Debt, a collaboration between WLS and
 Durham Law School.

 Tan is also principal investigator of the New Frontiers in International Development Finance (NeF
 DeF), bringing together and policy thinking on how the shifting landscape of international
 development finance impacts on law, regulation and governance.WLS is also a founding member
 of the Law and Development Research Network.

 Work by Harrison resulted in reform of Trade and Sustainable Development Chapters of EU trade
 agreements which are the central policy instrument for the protection of workers and the
 environment through EU trade policy. Supported by £7,156.00 from the Warwick Impact Fund, he
 has set up a Brussels-based group (‘DAGs for change’) to foster long-term ngo-academic
 collaboration over trade and sustainable development issues and worked with Client Earth to
 propose radical alternatives to addressing environmental issues in the EU’s trade agreement with
 Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. McMahon is a member of the Comparative Competition
 Law project, which produces comparative work on competition law across the globe, drawing on
 the work of international experts.

 Sekalala is one of the 15 members of the Global Health Law Consortium, which produces publicly
 and scientifically engaged research to alleviate health inequities globally. Work has included
 articles in the Lancet, American Journal of Public Health and the British Medical Journal. Sekalala
 is also part of two international working groups: one advises the British Medical Association on
 health and human rights ‘in the new world (dis)order’ whose work will be discussed at the British


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medical Assembly in 2021. The other - the Maastricht Working Group – considers human rights
 issues for future generations including the right to health and digital rights.

 In 2020, Sekalala worked with an international interdisciplinary team of researchers, supported by
 £7,700 of funding from the LRI and ESRC IAA. She undertook a comparative analysis of lockdown
 laws, clarified states’ human rights obligations when using new digital tools for public health
 surveillance; and created innovative methods of modelling to illustrate how states could achieve
 more equitable outcomes based on intersectional characteristics instead of existing models that
 rely primarily on age.

 Stevens’ research has played a major role in amplifying migratory voices and highlighting the
 overlooked claims of migrants. In partnership with scholars across disciplines and countries, the
 project Crossing the Mediterranean Sea by Boat, and subsequent 100+ page report together with
 several journal articles (funded by ESRC Urgent Call Grant, 2015-2019) forefronted the
 testimonies of refugees and migrants themselves. Stevens’ work on refugees in the Middle East
 (Refugee Protection in the Middle East- funded by Leverhulme Trust 2017-2019) has been
 ground-breaking in exploring the under-analysed issue of non-Palestinian refugees in the region,
 leading to further collaborative and multi-disciplinary projects (Refugees and the Arab Middle East
 – funded by Norwegian Research Council 2019-2023). Stevens’ research has held policy-makers
 to account for the human costs of policies and informed the advocacy work of a wide variety of
 international organisations and NGOs including the UN Refugee Agency; European Commission
 Directorate-General for European Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations, Directorate-
 General for International Cooperation and Development and Directorate-General for Migration and
 Home Affairs; UK Department for International Development and All Party Parliamentary Group
 on Social Science and Policy; and the International Organisation for Migration.

 In the area of education, Ali has produced a rich and varied body of research which fundamentally
 reconceptualises traditional approaches to teaching Islamic Law. Drawing on this work and
 supported by £6,255 from the ESRC IAA, she has worked with the Higher Education Commission
 in Pakistan to develop a new policy framework and curriculum which has transformed Pakistan’s
 undergraduate law programmes in all of the country’s public and private sector universities. Ali’s
 work has also been instrumental in reforming the teaching of Islamic Law in Nigeria, Germany,
 Austria and the UK. Funded by the Fair Chance Foundation and the ESRC IAA, Stewart is
 undertaking a five-year study (2017-22) of gendered access to higher education in Haryana India,
 in collaboration with the Centre for Education Studies at Warwick and various partners in India
 including the National Institute for Educational Planning and Administration. The project identifies
 various ways in which Higher Education (HE) institutions and local and national government can
 improve access to higher education from a gender perspective. Its empirical findings are being
 used to develop an outreach toolkit for HE institutions, and briefing papers to assist national HE
 policymakers to implement the findings within the 2020 Indian education policy framework

 In the field of human rights, Saeed created a partnership between the School and the National
 Commission for Human Rights Pakistan (NCHR- P) to build capacity in human rights investigation
 and reporting. As NCHR-P is the country’s national human rights monitoring organisation, this
 partnership has significant impact on identification and action in relation to human rights issues in
 Pakistan. Stewart has worked to improve the rights of older people in the plural legal systems of
 Eastern and Southern Africa. In partnership with HelpAge International, she has developed
 proposals for appropriate and effective legal and rights frameworks to protect older peoples’ rights
 in African contexts. Williams is one of the principal members and sole legal scholar in the Critical
 Military Studies group. This is a transdisciplinary community of scholars and activists exploring,
 and seeking to challenge, military power and its deployment in contexts such as Iraq and


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Afghanistan. It has held various events where his research on war crimes, and how to respond to
 them, has been showcased to NGOs and legal practitioners. Schwobel Patel is on the
 Management Committee of the British stream of the ‘Global Atrocity Justice Constellations’.

 Within the UK, WLS’ most important contribution has been in relation to building research
 collaborations, networks and partnerships which address the problems faced by the most
 vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. Munro, for example, has worked closely with REFUGE,
 supported by £7,250 funding fro ESRC IAA, to complete pioneering work on the scale of suicidality
 amongst victims of domestic abuse. As a result of this work, she has been made a member of the
 Centre for Women’s Justice Femicide Working Group. Munro has also worked with Rape Crisis
 Scotland to produce research on complainers’ experiences of a not proven verdict in Scottish
 criminal cases. Munro has: given oral evidence to the Scottish Justice Committee which was
 described as ‘persuasive’ in respect of supporting new legislation that compels judges to give
 guidance to jurors in rape cases; advised the Scottish Government – again prior to legislative
 reform supported by her evidence - on the impact of the use of video-recorded testimony on juror
 attitudes; and was co-investigator on a landmark study on jury decision-making which was
 conducted for the Scottish Government, who are currently conducting a series of stakeholder
 consultations based on its findings to consider potential legal reforms.

 WLS has also supported significant work to research issues faced by the most vulnerable and
 disadvantaged in its own locality. Collaborative research between CHRiP (Harrison, Stewart,
 Stephenson) and Coventry Women’s Voices in Coventry identified various problems created by
 welfare benefit reform and public spending cuts, and the importance of effective legal
 representation for addressing those issues. Two CHRiP ERSC funded collaborative PhD
 studentships (Byrom 2012-17, and Eades 2014-2018) with Central England Law Centre (CELC)
 and Coventry City Council produced research which identified new approaches to supporting
 inidividuals in the city who had been most severely affected by austerity. Building on this, WLS is
 funding a five year strategic LinC partnership (2019-24 £546,000) with CELC (directed by
 Mulqueen) and has also been awarded £6,000 by the Warwick Innovation Fund Award to fund
 student internships in the summer of 2021. one of their full-time solicitors, working
 alongside Mulqueen (70% buyout) to co-produce knowledge and intervene on social justice
 issues within the local community, with substantial participation from students and colleagues,
 legal practitioners and a wide range of community/civic partners. These include Grapevine, British
 Red Cross, Coventry Independent Advice Service and Gatwick Detainees Welfare Group. This
 collaborative research between academics, students, practitioners and community/civic partners
 is aimed at protecting and promoting the rights of the most vulnerable people in the city and
 beyond. As a result it is producing interventions to directly affect outcomes for the local community
 including welfare benefit recipients, asylum seekers and disabled people. In relation to City of
 Culture, Warwick LinC is also convening one of the streams under the Sanctuary theme organised
 by Warwick Institute of Engagement.

 Supported by LRI, Warwick Impact Fund and ESRC IAA funding (£44,000), Aliverti has
 undertaken research into arrangements at police stations in the West Midlands and Greater
 Manchester to deal with foreign national arrestees. Her investigations into growing cooperation
 between immigration enforcement and the police have led to the development of a general
 strategy at force level to establish clear guidelines and principles on interagency cooperation.
 Meanwhile, Hodgson has conducted research in tandem with West Mercia and Warwickshire
 police into the impact of forensic property marking on public confidence in and victim satisfaction
 with policing, with the aim of establishing best practice and effective targeting of police resource.
 The Prisoner Penfriends research, with a launch event at the House of Lords, attended by the


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Home office was conducted by Hodgson and Horne to support welfare of prisoners. Probert’s
 research on the law of marriage and subsequent collaboration with the Law Commission has led
 to proposals for change to the law of marriage and a government commitment to simplifying
 current laws and improving protections for vulnerable women when marriages break down.

 WLS has established strong connections between our research and the student experience,
 engaging students in legal research and encouraging student social activism. As mentioned
 above, Mulqueen leads Warwick LinC and the strategic partnership with CELC which has
 students at its heart. Ali is deeply involved in curriculum reform for students on Islamic law
 across jurisdictions. Harrison, Mulqueen and Wall established Critical Lawyers at Warwick to
 build connections between academics and students on critical legal scholarship, including the
 development of a Critical Lawyers Handbook, featuring short pieces from world leading critical
 scholars, focusing on critical pedagogy. Munro – as part of the Scottish Feminist Judgments
 Project – and supported by £10,500 of ESRC IAA funding, toured Scottish Law Schools to run 6
 half-day workshops on feminist judging with undergraduate students, and hosted similar events
 for students at Leeds, Birmingham and Warwick (the latter workshop and art exhibition as part of
 the ESRC Festival of Social Science 2020). A ‘teaching feminist judgments’ online resource has
 been produced as a result, supporting academics to run equivalent workshops at their own
 institutions.




                                                                                          Page 19
