Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of Assessment: B10 Mathematical Sciences

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit context and structure
The Unit of Assessment (UoA) comprises ten staff from the Mathematical Sciences Research
Group (MSRG) (https://maths.research.southwales.ac.uk/), which sits within the University of
South Wales (USW) Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Sciences (FCES). The MSRG is
divided into three key themes of roughly equal size – (i) Algebra and Combinatorics, (ii) Data
Science and Industrial Mathematics, and (iii) Computational Modelling – and the ten UoA
researchers work within one or more of these themes. This structure, including the above
sustainable and cohesive themes, naturally evolved from the one outlined in the REF 2014. This
evolution was in response to a small number of staff changes and a strategic decision to develop
our existing staff skills in Data Science. The MSRG also includes research students and a small
number of other staff (2.8 FTE) who are not returned in this UoA submission – because they are
not independent researchers, for example – but do contribute to the UoA’s research culture.

Research and Impact Strategy

During the assessment period, the UoA had a Research Strategy and an Impact Strategy, which
complemented and reinforced one another. The Research Aims of the UoA, as laid out in the
REF 2014, were to:

    R1. Increase the number of active researchers.
    R2. Continue to expand the research culture, focussing on the three keys themes (listed
        above).
    R3. Improve research quality and income generation within the Mathematical Sciences
        Research Group, including through collaboration with industrial partners.

These Research Aims have been achieved, as evidenced below:

    R1. While 9.2 FTE researchers were returned in REF 2014, 10.3 FTE researchers have been
        active during most of the current REF period, including six early- to mid-career
        researchers. However, due to the departure of one staff member (Kent) in July 2020, only
        9.3 FTE researchers are included in this submission.

    R2. The UoA’s research culture has been enhanced during the current REF period. In 2014,
        mathematical research was divided between two separate research units. During the
        current assessment period, however, these were merged into the single MSRG
        described above and an overarching website developed
        (https://maths.research.southwales.ac.uk/). This amalgamation has facilitated the
        establishment of a regular, fortnightly seminar series at which invited external speakers
        share work that mirrors or relates to the UoA’s key research themes (a list of past
        speakers is available on the MRSG’s website). Another example of the expanded
        research culture was a London Mathematical Society (LMS) supported event in 2015 that
        introduced newly appointed staff to the UoA through talks given by the appointees and
        other invited researchers.

    R3. Research income has increased to approximately £4K per FTE per annum – more than
        doubling the equivalent figure from REF2014. This has come from a variety of funding
        sources, uniformly spread across the submission period and across the three research
        themes. Examples of funding diversification through new partnerships include projects
        with Cardiff and Vale University Health Board Mental Health team (funded via the Health
        Foundation), the NHS Wales Informatics Service, and Talent Intuition, a strategy
        consultancy firm.

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Contribution to research strategies

The UoA has helped to shape USW’s overall Research Strategy, particularly the formation of the
University’s Accelerated Development Areas (ADAs) – see REF5a. The University’s ‘Sustainable
Environment’ ADA, for example, was established partly as a response to work by Roach and
Holborn. Their work strengthened the UoA’s existing industrial links through collaborations with
Tata Steel. This involved a series of projects investigating efficiency in blast furnaces and
predictive maintenance using data analytics techniques. These projects included several PhD
studentships. Roach also worked during the current assessment period with industrial partners
VDEh-Betriebsforschungsinstitut (BFI), Swerea MEFOS AB (MEFOS) and AMM Steel in
collaboration with Faculty colleagues in Mechanical Engineering. Previous intra-Faculty
collaboration between the UoA and Mechanical Engineering also led to the REF 2021 impact
case study – ‘Developing statistical tools for energy management services – RUMM Ltd’
presented in REF 3. Furthermore, work by Holborn with NHS organisations (e.g. NHS Wales
Informatics Services, Cwm Taff Morgannwg University Health Board and Aneurin Bevan
University Health Board) and others (e.g. Central South Consortium Joint Education Service)
helped inform the University’s ‘Health & Wellbeing’ ADA. The UoA has also helped to develop
University-wide procedures and opportunities for all of USW’s research students feeding into the
establishment of the University’s Graduate School, which is led by Roach.

 As well as contributing to the University’s overall Research Strategy, the UoA is actively
 responding to it. For example, in early 2020, Pachon received FCES seed funding to work with
 Visa UK to develop improved data analytical techniques to detect cyber-crime. This work aligns
 with the University’s ‘Crime, Security & Justice’ ADA.

 The UoA’s research is not confined to the University’s ADAs, as evidenced by the unit’s many
 collaborations with a variety of industrial partners. During the assessment period, for example,
 Roach and Wyburn continued collaborations with HPC Wales (a Welsh research facility, now
 Supercomputing Wales), OSTC Ltd (an investment company) and Fujitsu, to better predict
 financial market behaviours and improve the training of traders. In particular, collaborations with
 HPC Wales and Fujitsu built on partnerships established prior to the REF 2014. Indeed, the UoA
 was involved with the setting up and testing of HPC Wales (which formed a case study in the
 REF 2014 from this UoA). Further international collaborations between the UoA and numerous
 partners, including the Deutscher Wetterdienst (the German Meteorological Service) and NASA,
 developed and implemented accurate and efficient numerical schemes applied to solve
 equations related to weather and climate forecasting. More locally, Wyburn has engaged with
 social scientists through the Wales Institute of Social & Economic Research, Data & Methods to
 model the maintenance and spread of the Welsh language.

 In addition to the Research Strategy detailed above, the UoA also had an Impact Strategy.
 Developed prior to the REF 2014, and implemented since, this Impact Strategy had the following
 Impact Aims:

    I1. Identify and respond to new opportunities, utilising agile working approaches.
    I2. Develop and expand existing successful research teams to widen impact.
    I3. Engage in collaborative projects, working especially with end-users.

 This strategy has yielded considerable success. Examples of Impact Aims I1 and I3 being
 realised include the naturally collaborative nature of Holborn’s work with NHS Wales Informatics
 Service and the UoA’s REF 2021 impact case study – ‘Enhancing computational models for
 weather and climate forecasting’ – presented in REF3. To illustrate the success of Impact Aim
 I2, at the start of the current assessment period only Roach had a project with Tata Steel; this
 has now expanded through two further research studentships (supported via the European
 Social Fund) under the direction of Holborn.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The UoA’s strategy over the next ten years is to merge the successful, but previously
independent, Research and Impact Strategies detailed above so that future research is, where
appropriate, conducted to generate the maximum impact. This revamped and naturally evolved
UoA strategy has three objectives. These are consistent with the career stages and trajectories
of current staff and the University’s Research Strategy, as detailed in the institution-level
statement (REF5a) and ‘USW 2030 vision’:

    (A) Focus on staff development – especially early-career researchers – to support them to
        become internationally-recognised.

    (B) Align more closely the UoA’s academic research with the goals and timescales of its
        industrial and Third Sector partners. This will deliver greater and more immediate impact
        and build more sustainable partnerships.

    (C) Engage in collaborative projects, working (where possible) alongside end-users, and
        making use (where appropriate) of University-wide expertise in the identified ADAs to
        deepen the knowledge base of the wider scientific communities.

These objectives will be achieved as follows:

    (A) All recent and newly-appointed academic staff are assigned by the Academic Subject
        Manager (Perkins) an experienced, research-active mentor from within the Mathematical
        Sciences Research Group (MSRG). This bolsters the strategy to integrate newly-
        appointed staff with established researchers and further enhance the research culture
        within the MSRG. The UoA also plans to increase the number of collaborations between
        active researchers within and outwith the MSRG through suitable projects (e.g. those
        requiring statistical input) and the continued joint supervision of research students. Staff
        will continue to be supported to join appropriate early career networks, such as Welsh
        Crucible (see Section 2 for further details).

    (B) Existing partnerships will be developed, and new ones sought by better understanding
        the needs of different industries and third parties. For example, the traditional academic-
        industrial partnership typically revolves around a three-year PhD project. Industrial
        partners, however, may need solutions over significantly shorter timescales, perhaps
        weeks or months. The UoA will use its expertise in mathematical and statistical modelling
        to address this by utilising more flexible approaches to staffing projects. An example of
        this approach is the aforementioned project between Pachon and Visa UK where
        Pachon will be embedded within the company to best apply her theoretical expertise in
        random graph theory to analyse the behaviour of financial networks with a view to identify
        the systemic risk associated with the structure of control chains in financial systems.
        Much of the UoA’s recent growth in partnerships builds on the development of the taught
        programmes, particularly its Masters programmes in Data Science. Industrial partner
        involvement in student projects initiates knowledge transfer and an understanding of the
        businesses’ needs. This frequently then leads to a succession of collaborations between
        the UoA and partners, while simultaneously ensuring a pipeline of research talent for
        these projects. The approach has led to a flexible mix of personnel involvement, from
        student internships to PhD studentships funded through Knowledge Economy Skills
        Scholarships (KESS), a major pan-Wales operation supported by the European Social
        Fund through the Welsh Government – for example, with Tata Steel.

    (C) The UoA will continue to establish joint projects with other research groups from the
        University and other Higher Education Institutions (HEIs). This builds on many existing
        and successful activities, such as the internationally-focussed Dynamical Core Modeling
        Intercomparison Project workshops (see REF3 Impact case study: “Enhancing
        computational models for weather and climate forecasting”), and more locally via the
        dedicated Mathematical Biology Day in 2019 which brought together members of the
        UoA and the University’s Biological Sciences Group to showcase each other’s skills. The

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       recently created Data Science and Artificial Intelligence pan-University Network is
       another example of this kind of collaboration. The recently formed, LMS funded South
       Wales Applied Mathematics for Biomedical Advances (SWAMBA) network also links
       mathematical biology researchers from across the region.


2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
The UoA has maintained the growth in active research staff numbers reported in the REF 2014.
Recent appointees – including Pachon, Brown, Gill, Holborn and Choudhury – have
strengthened the UoA’s interest in applied mathematics, data science and mathematical biology,
and extended its research base in pure mathematics, especially group theory and the
probabilistic analysis of networks. High-calibre research students from the Mathematical
Sciences Research Group (MSRG) have also been appointed to part-time lecturing positions in
algebra, mathematical biology and data science. These strategic appointments have increased
the number and proportion of research-active staff in the UoA who complement and expand on
its established research themes. This builds on the staffing strategy outlined in the UoA’s REF
2014 submission and aligns with the University’s priority to support applied research. The UoA
will continue with its policy of recruiting established or high-potential research-active staff who
complement and strengthen existing research themes within the MSRG. This will ensure the
continuity of its successful research agenda over the medium and long terms.

The USW Academic Workload Model makes a time allocation of 20% for staff
with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR), with professors allocated 30% from 2018-
19. Within the context of USW as a post-92 institution, the team in MSRG have varying levels
of teaching and other duties. The UoA leaders (Boswell and Roach) are allocated additional
time within the Workload Model for research leadership. Research is a key element of USW’s
Development and Performance Review Scheme which includes a 12-month review in June-
September and a mid-point review in January-February. In addition, the UoA leaders meet
regularly with Unit members and offer individual mentoring as and where appropriate. Newly
appointed researchers initially work alongside an experienced mentor and the Academic Subject
Manager (Perkins) to better integrate into the MSRG. Staff career development is fully
supported by the UoA and the University, as set out in the key principles of the Concordat and
outlined in the institution-level statement (REF5a). Courses on funding and grant writing have
been attended by over half of UoA members within the last three years, while impact training
courses have been attended by around a third of UoA members within the last 12 months alone.
Staff involved in research student supervision undergo continuous training on good practice via a
combination of multi-day workshops and drop-in sessions. As well as the internal development
courses detailed above, the University works closely with a network of other HEIs to provide
researchers with access to further opportunities to develop their skills. The Effective Researcher,
Welsh Crucible and Leadership In Action are examples of such collaborative provision utilised by
researchers.

Within the MSRG, all research students are supervised by a team comprising a minimum of two
staff members, who collectively have successfully overseen at least two completions.
Approximately half of the UoA’s ten current research students have supervisory teams that
include recently appointed researchers, and it is anticipated that the majority of its early- to mid-
career researchers will have supervised a successful PhD completion within the next five years.
This builds the UoA’s supervision capacity and demonstrates its commitment to the ongoing
career development of its researchers.

Promotions to Professor and Associate Professor are made by the University’s Higher Academic
Awards Committee in response to research excellence and the University’s strategic direction,
which is driven by local and national initiatives. Gill was promoted to Associate Professor in
2019. Both Gill and Roach are members of USW’s HR Excellence in Research committee;
Roach and Boswell sit on the Faculty Research Committee, and Brown is a member of the

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Faculty Research Degrees Committee. These appointments ensure that the UoA’s researchers
are represented across the University and shape its research agenda.

Early- to mid-career researchers across USW are encouraged to apply for membership of the
pan-Wales Welsh Crucible program (http://www.welshcrucible.org.uk/), which is designed to
develop future research leaders and encourage cross-disciplinary research. Kent (2015), Brown
(2018) and Holborn (2020) were among the 30 successful candidates selected from across
Wales. They attended numerous residential workshops where training was provided to help
establish collaborations and grow the skills needed to forge international research profiles.

Research Students
Ten research students, at various stages of their studies, are currently supervised by members
of the UoA, and approximately 20 (including a small number based outside of the UoA) have
been supervised by UoA members during the current assessment period. These students were
recruited from both the UK and overseas. Funding for these students has been obtained from an
extensive range of sources, including EPSRC Case awards, Knowledge Economy Skills
Scholarships (KESS) (with funding from the European Social Fund and an industrial partner,
such as NHS Wales and Tata Steel), and other industrial collaborations, such as with Fujitsu. All
research students are provided with high-quality office space, comprising individual desks
equipped with a computer running standard mathematical software (e.g. Matlab, SAS) and any
project-specific specialist software (e.g. Comsol, Stella). Remote log-in facilities enable agile
working approaches – an advantage during the current COVID-19 pandemic, for example.
Students typically meet with their supervisory team on at least a weekly basis.

 A number of forums enable the postgraduate research community to share its views, and there
 are student representatives on Faculty and University research committees. In the 2018
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), 93% of the University’s research students
 said their research skills had developed during their studies – 4% above the national average
 and a 3% improvement on the comparable 2013 statistic. Since 2011, the University’s
 Postgraduate Research Centre has provided a multi-disciplinary learning space for University
 research students who use it for collaborative discussions across subject disciplines. The
 University-wide Graduate School was launched in 2018, administering the postgraduate journey
 from admission to award, supporting students and their supervisors, and providing pathways for
 growing experience in external engagement. Research student progress is formally monitored by
 the University’s Research Degrees Committee / Graduate School board, chaired by Roach,
 which supports the research team, appoints examiners, and disseminates good practice in the
 delivery of research degrees to current and future supervisors. Within the MSRG, postgraduate
 research students have attended many of the research workshops provided to newly appointed
 staff, such as workshops on grant writing and developing successful Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (KTPs).

 Students in the MSRG typically take on a low level of undergraduate teaching to develop further
 essential professional skills. They are also encouraged to attend and present at suitable
 conferences, such as annual Faculty and University research workshops, regional events (e.g.
 Wales Mathematics Colloquia), major national and international conferences aligned to the
 student’s area of expertise (e.g. British Applied Mathematics Colloquia, British Combinatorial
 Conferences, SGAI International Conferences on Artificial Intelligence) and specialist
 postgraduate conferences (e.g. Postgraduate Combinatorial Conferences). Research students
 also attend internal and external training sessions relevant to their individual needs.

 Equality and diversity
 The University and UoA are fully committed to supporting Equality and Diversity (E&D), as
 demonstrated by the implementation of the Athena SWAN charter and the in-house Women’s
 Development Programme. More detail on the University’s E&D policy is included in the
 institution-level statement (REF5a).



                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The University won the 2019 Guardian Advancing Equality award and was shortlisted for the
2019 Womenspire Diversity Employer of the Year award, with significant contributions from
members of the UoA. The MSRG comprises 13 academic staff (12.1 FTE) of whom five are
women. This is consistent with the sector average for mathematical sciences. Of the ten
members of staff returned in the UoA’s submission, four are women – a considerably more
balanced ratio than the sector norm. This is also a significant increase compared with the REF
2014, when the UoA returned one woman staff member. Consistent with the sector average,
approximately 15% of staff within the MSRG are BAME. Half of the staff in this category are
included in the UoA’s submission, while the other half are currently not classed as independent
researchers for REF purposes as they are completing their PhDs (and are in receipt of
equivalent workload allowances to do so).

The UoA is actively involved in promoting and ensuring equality across the University and the
wider subject discipline. Holborn chaired and Brown was a member of the School of Computing
& Mathematics Athena SWAN self-assessment team at USW. Holborn and Brown were
members of USW’s Women in Academia Network and are now part of the Wales Women in
STEM Network; the former programme facilitates supportive relationships between women
academics, and the latter, founded at USW, addresses barriers to women’s progression in
STEM. Holborn was a member of USW’s gender equality sub-group, and in 2019 was an invited
speaker at the annual ITWales International Women’s Day Celebration.

The University and the UoA celebrate diversity. In 2020, the University was rated 24th in the
Stonewall Top 100 Employer index (compiled from the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index), up
from 43rd in 2019 and 104th in 2018. The UoA plays an active role in promoting diversity: Gill is
a Fairplay30 (the University's E&D network) champion and Brown is currently a USW Trans Ally.
In addition to the individual contributions of staff within the UoA, the MSRG hosts an annual
seminar as part of the International Day for LGBT+ People in STEM – with recent talks from
Princep (2018) and, in association with Spectrum and Fairplay30, Davies (2019).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
During the assessment period, nearly £300,000 of funding has been secured, a significant
increase on the previous REF period. This income has been generated from a wide variety of
sources and across the three research themes within the Mathematical Sciences Research
Group (MSRG). Just over half of this income has come from Research Councils while the
remainder has been obtained from other sources, principally industrial partners and UK-based
charities. The increase in total income aligns with the diversification of income sources, further
enhancing the MSRG’s research sustainability.

Gill has received two EPSRC grants, covering 2016-2018 and 2019-2021, and contributing to
the development of the product decomposition conjecture and a complete proof of Cherlin’s
conjecture respectively. The London Mathematical Society (LMS) awarded funds to support the
Wales Mathematics Colloquia, which was organised by group members; a conference
celebrating new USW mathematics appointments (Holborn, & Gill); and for mentoring African
Research Mathematicians (Gill). The LMS also awarded funds, along with the European
Mathematics Society, for hosting a Kenyan PhD visitor (Gill). The Welsh Crucible awarded funds
in kind for the training and research skills development of Kent. Holborn received KESS awards
(see above) to support research students, has buyout funding from Smart Cymru and Smart
Partnerships awards, and funding from local NHS Health Boards (see above). Contributions from
a €1.4M grant from the European Commission Research Fund for Coal and Steel were used to
buy out 12.5% of Roach’s time during 2015. To continue the upward income trajectory,
members of the group are collaborating with a range of industrial and Third Sector partners –
many of which are involved in our taught degree programmes (e.g. MSc in Data Science) – to
expand these partnerships (into formal KTPs, for example).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infrastructure and facilities
The MSRG is based in a single building on the University’s largest campus, Treforest. All staff
and research students have high-quality workspace with their own networked desktop PCs
installed with standard and specialist mathematical and statistical software (e.g. Matlab, Maple,
Comsol, SAS) where appropriate. They receive full professional IT support. All desktop
computers are configured for remote access, ensuring that agile working approaches can be
adopted by all staff. Various mobile devices and tablets are also provided to staff to further
enable remote working. Physical copies of books and journals are held in the University’s
libraries while subscriptions to electronic research journals are available online. Consequently,
members of the UoA – and its postgraduate research students – were well-placed to cope with
the transition to home-based working during the COVID-19 pandemic. Research supervision and
liaison with external partners continued during the lockdown restrictions with only minimal
interruption.

 Access to high-performance computing facilities were made available through HPC Wales, a £44
 million pan-Wales project providing world-class supercomputing performance to researchers and
 businesses. It was established in 2010 in partnership with Glamorgan (which became part of
 USW in 2013), Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff and Swansea Universities, the University of Wales,
 the Welsh Government and Fujitsu. UoA researchers have been involved with HPC Wales from
 the outset (this was an impact case study in the REF 2014) and have continued to use its
 facilities during the assessment period (e.g. Roach & Wyburn).

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

USW is a member of the University Alliance, ensuring it is well-placed to make national and
international contributions to society. The UoA also has close collaborative links with other HEIs
across Wales – via the Wales Mathematics Colloquia, for example – while individual researchers
utilise wider national and international networks related to their areas of expertise. The networks
used by the UoA include the Wales Institute for Mathematical and Computational Sciences
(WIMCS), which supported and promoted events, seminars, conferences and workshops that
enabled researchers to create and maintain a thriving research culture, and the newly formed
SWAMBA. The UoA’s contributions to specific research areas are described below in line with
the unit’s three key research themes:

Research theme: Computational Modelling
Building on the REF 2014, the UoA has maintained a wide-ranging interest in applied and
computational mathematics with research in fluids (Trevelyan), mathematical biology (Boswell,
Brown, Trevelyan, Choudhury), the industrial applications of mathematics (Boswell, Roach),
and the applications of system dynamics (Roach, Wyburn, Boswell).

 Research in fluids has focussed on both analytical results and the construction of numerical
 routines. Trevelyan has focused primarily on reactions in immiscible systems of the form
 nA+mB→C, where n and m are integers, and has obtained small- and large-time asymptotic
 solutions in collaboration with Professor Anne De Wit (University Libre de Brussels, Belgium)
 and co-workers. A key achievement has been the complete classification of the 62 types of
 density profiles that occur in buoyancy-driven instabilities around miscible A+B→C reaction
 fronts. This work has been significantly expanded through investigations of more physically
 realistic geometries with Dr Alan Walker (University of the West of Scotland).

In mathematical biology, the focus has been on mycological applications and infectious disease
modelling. Boswell, Trevelyan & Choudhury have published several papers on fungal
interactions. In particular, the rates of displacement between two rival fungi have been quantified
as a function of resource, and the first mathematical model of iron uptake by fungi has been
formulated and algebraic solutions obtained. Boswell is continuing with his expertise in
mycology through planned collaboration with mycologist Dr Kathryn Morris and physicist Dr
Jonathan Morris (Xavier University, USA) on the redistribution of allelochemicals in mycorrhizae.
Brown, with collaborators including Dr Melody Walker and Dr Lauren Childs (Virginia Tech,

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
USA), Dr Julie Blackwood (Williams College, USA), Dr John Drake, Dr Heather Barton, Dr David
Stallknecht, Dr Pejman Rohani and Dr Justin Brown (University of Georgia, USA), has
developed new insights into Allee effects in mosquitoes with implications for disease control, and
modelled disease dynamics in avian influenza viruses.

Research in industrial mathematics has been continued by Roach and Boswell. Through
collaboration with Dr A Walker, the first mathematical model detailing the structure of smectic-A
liquid crystals in non-uniform domains has been derived and solved numerically and has so far
resulted in one PhD completion and one publication. Work on the effectiveness of fractal
structures for theoretical piezo-electric transducer designs (also with Walker) has also yielded a
PhD completion and several publications. Roach has continued activities described in the REF
2014, namely efficiency and design of blast furnaces through industry-funded collaborative
projects via the EC Research Fund for Coal and Steel with mechanical engineers (Dr CK Tan,
USW and Dr Yukun Hu, UCL) and VDEh-Betriebsforschungsinstitut (BFI), Swerea MEFOS AB,
AMM Steel and TATA Steel UK.

Boswell has performed new work in system dynamics (with Dr John Hayward; retired USW),
constructing new techniques to quantify feedback loops. Ongoing work with Roach is further
expanding the loop quantification method. In a series of papers, this novel approach applies the
method to concepts of mechanics adding rigour to the analysis of system dynamics models to
broader ordinary differential equation models. Wyburn’s research has also utilised a system
dynamics methodology but focused on social issues. Two publications relate to bilingual
population models and assess strategies for expanding bilingualism, building on work returned in
the REF 2014. An additional publication, with co-authors including Roach, has used system
dynamics methods to investigate changes in party political activism.

 Research theme: Data Science and Industrial Mathematics
 Much of the work in data science, particularly by Holborn, has been in collaboration with
 industrial partners, generating a significant number of research studentships. Additionally,
 Pachon who joined the group in 2018, has broadened this work by developing theoretical
 techniques that utilise a graph theoretical approach.

 Holborn has used her expertise in applied statistics and operational research to investigate a
 myriad of problems. One publication with Dr Rhyd Lewis (University of Cardiff) focused on
 developing and implementing an algorithm for a packing problem. A number of other
 publications, with practitioners from the Aneurin Bevan University Health Board, focused on
 caseload management and improvements in mental health care through the construction of
 scoring-based systems. Holborn is currently supervising five research students on joint projects
 with NHS Wales Informatics Service and Tata Steel UK.

 Pachon has continued to investigate random graphs and scenery reconstruction. This has
 resulted in six publications during the assessment period with collaborators including Dr Elena
 Agliara (Sapienza Universita di Roma, Italy), Prof Mihyun Kang (Graz University of Technology,
 Austria), Prof Heinrich Matzinger (Georgia Institute of Technology, USA), Prof Federico Polito
 and Prof Laura Sacerdote (University of Torino, Italy), Prof Serguei Popov (University of
 Campinas, Brazil) and Dr Pablo Rodrigues (Universidade Federal de Penambuco, Brazil). New
 results have been obtained on phase transitions and connectivity in random graphs, establishing
 connections between the Barabási-Albert, the Simon and the Yule models.

 Existing collaborations will continue with Cardiff & Vale University Health Board, and new
 projects on assessing mental health patient pathways are underway (Holborn & Roach).
 Pachon has recently started working alongside Visa UK to develop and implement models of
 risk within financial sectors. The MSRG will also look to capitalize on the newly formed
 (December 2020) Wales Institute of Digital Information, which will use methods of Data Science
 to advance research in health and care, and is a joint initiative between USW, the University of
 Wales Trinity Saint David and the NHS Wales Informatics Service.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research theme: Algebra and Combinatorics
Building on the REF 2014, research in combinatorics, coding theory and its applications has
continued with Gill, Perkins and Roach. Research in group theory has been significantly
strengthened – for example, through the formation of reading groups of active researchers,
research students and undergraduate students, which resulted in a publication on Cherlin’s
conjecture.

Gill’s work on group theory has resulted in 16 publications through collaborations with national
and international co-authors, including Prof Harald Helfgott (University of Gottingen, Germany),
Dr John Britnell and Prof Martin Liebeck (Imperial College London), Prof Pablo Spiga and Dr
Francesca Dalla Volta (University of Milano-Bicocca, Italy), Dr Jeremias Ramirez (Universidad
de Costa Rica), Dr Neil Gillespie (University of Bristol), Dr Jason Semararo (University of
Leicester), Mr Sam Hughes (University of Southampton), Prof Laszlo Pyber and Dr Endre Szabo
(Rényi Institute, Hungary) and Dr Kimeu Arphaxad Ngwava (Moi University, Kenya). Funding for
this work was obtained through various sources, including EPSRC and LMS. Gill is currently
supervising several research students, including two at USW, one through the Open University
and two overseas students in Kenya as part of the LMS’s Mentoring African Mathematicians
programme (one more has just completed). Gill’s main interest is proving Cherlin’s conjecture
for binary primitive permutation groups. When work started in this area, the conjecture was open
for almost simple groups. But due to the work of Gill and his collaborators, this is now proved for
groups with alternating socle, sporadic socle, and socle a group of Lie type of rank 1. This has
resulted in three papers. The remaining case, for finite almost simple groups of Lie type of rank
at least 2, is the subject of Gill’s recent EPSRC grant and will result in a final monograph (with
Liebeck and Spiga) that will complete the proof. Perkins has continued to research the
application of coding theory to DNA storage, which has resulted in the publication of two papers
with Prof Derek Smith (Professor Emeritus, USW). In addition to this work, Perkins has
published papers (with Roach) on combinatorics and popular mathematical puzzles, an area of
work that has resulted in two PhD studentships. Current research is continuing into mathematical
puzzles focusing on special forms of magic squares.

 Exemplars on leadership and involvement in the academic community:

Conference / workshop organisation: Boswell: Scientific Committee Member, British Applied
Mathematics Colloquium (BMAC) & minisymposia organiser (2014). Gill: Organiser, Wales
Mathematics Colloquium (WMC) (2018). Holborn: UK OR Society Annual Conference (2018).
Brown: Organiser of SWAMBA meeting (2020).

Advisory board membership: Holborn, Roach: NHS Wales Modelling Collaborative Health
Foundation Programme Board (2019-present).

Leadership roles in industry, commerce, Research Councils, learned societies: Boswell:
Research Committee Member, Wales Institute of Mathematics and Computational Sciences
(2011-2015). Gill: European Maths Society Committee for Developing Countries. Holborn:
General Council of the UK OR Society (2016-2019), Treasurer of South Wales Operational
Research Discussion Society (2018-present), UK OR Events Committee (2016-2019).

Conference program chairs: Boswell: BAMC (2014), WMC (2018). Gill: WMC (2018, 2019).
Trevelyan: WMC (2018).

Invited keynote lectures, lecture series and seminars: Gill: two-week course on Galois Theory at
Tribhuvan University, Nepal as part of a seven-year ‘Nepal Algebra Project’ through funding by
the LMS (2017); one-week course on ‘Growth in Groups’ at the University of Costa Rica (2017);
one-week course on ‘Crecimiento en Estructruras Algebraicas’ as part of the 4th summer school
of mathematics at the University of Leon, Nicaragua (2017); Banff International Research
Station, Canada (2015 & 2019); seminars at University of Western Australia (2017), University of
Southampton (2016 & 2019), Université catholique de Louvain, Belgium (2017), Swansea
University (2017), University of Lincoln (2018), University of London (2019), University of

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cambridge (2015), University of Bristol (2015 & 2018, as part of London Maths Society
Triangle), University of Costa Rica (2014). Pachon: seminars at National University Columbia
(2017), Tomsk State University, Russia (2014), Saarland University, Germany (2014), Technical
University of München, Germany (2014); workshops at TU Berlin, Germany (2017), Utrecht
University, Netherlands (2017), Radboud University, Netherlands (2015). Brown: Cardiff
University (2018). Holborn: Cardiff University (2019).

Conference presentations: Trevelyan: BAMC (2014), WMC (2014). Choudhury: BAMC (2016).
Wyburn: Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research, Data & Methods (2015). Boswell:
BAMC (2014), WMC (2018). Holborn: SAS Global Forum, USA (2017), UK OR Society Annual
Conference (2018), Data Confex – AI & Big Data (2019). Pachon: International Symposium of
Statistics, Columbia (2016). Gill: International Conference on Algebraic Combinatorics and
Group Actions (2016), Open University Winter Combinatorics Meeting (2016), WMC (2016 &
2017), Dame Kathleen Ollerenshaw Combinatorics Day in Manchester (2017).

Journal Editorships: Holborn: Journal of Child Health Care (Associate Editor, Statistics 2017-
2018). Boswell: Network Biology (2009-present).

Grant and journal reviews: Boswell: UKRI Future Research Leaders, Journal of Theoretical
Biology, Fungal Ecology, Journal of Sports Science, Journal of the Royal Society Interface,
Journal of Physics A; Mathematical and Theoretical. Wyburn: Journal of Mathematical
Sociology. Gill: American Journal of Mathematics, Journal of Group Theory, Journal of the
London Mathematical Society, Bulletin of the London Mathematical Society, Archiv der
Mathematik, Journal of Algebra, Mathematische Annalen as well as the EPSRC. Trevelyan:
Fluids, Physical Review Fluids. Holborn: Journal of the Operational Research Society, Health
Systems. Roach: Journal of the Operational Research Society, Computers and Operations
Research, Journal of Cultural Economics. Pachon: Random Structures and Algorithms, Discrete
Mathematics, Revista Colombiana de Estadistica. Wyburn: Journal of the Operational Research
Society, European Journal of Operational Research, Journal of Mathematical Sociology. Brown:
Bulletin of Mathematical Biology.




                                                                                          Page 10
