Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA05 - Biological Sciences
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 Research in UoA5 at Sheffield Hallam University (SHU) has addressed the University’s
 Transforming Lives strategy by confronting major medical and societal challenges in partnership
 with business, the healthcare sector and academia. The 36 research-active academic staff (33.5
 FTE) within the Biomolecular Sciences Research Centre (BMRC) focus on challenge-led applied
 and interdisciplinary research. During the REF period, we have realised plans to increase our
 academic staff base, grow research income and develop new areas in collaboration with external
 partners. Since 2019, Clench has been Head of Research in the BMRC; before 2019, the Head
 was Woodroofe.

 Our research portfolio and network of regional, national and international interdisciplinary
 collaborations has been developed over more than 20 years. Our unique portfolio of expertise in
 mass spectrometry imaging, analytical microbiology and laboratory models to reduce and replace
 animals in research has enabled collaborations with partners including industry (Croda,
 AstraZeneca, Bayer, Labskin [UK]), defence (DSTL), law enforcement agencies (West Yorkshire
 Police) and healthcare providers (Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust).

 The BMRC, which is the research arm of the Department of Biosciences and Chemistry, is
 positioned within the Industry and Innovation Research Institute, alongside our major
 interdisciplinary collaborators the Materials and Engineering Research Institute (UoA12).

 In 2019, SHU and its partners established two strategic research centres in Sheffield to which the
 BMRC is the major contributor of biomolecular expertise: the Advanced Wellbeing Research
 Centre (AWRC; partnered with Canon Medical Systems, Westfield Health and parkrun) and the
 National Centre for Excellence in Food Engineering (NCEFE; with >50 food-industry partners
 including major national and international brands). The missions of AWRC and NCEFE are
 closely aligned with our aim to perform impactful research to promote health and benefit
 industry. The theme lead for Living with Chronic Diseases in AWRC is Dalton (Reader in UoA5),
 who has facilitated our communication and collaboration with AWRC.


 Research Themes and Pathways to Impact
 The BMRC conducts its research through three themes, centrally coordinated and closely aligned
 to our expertise.

     Theme 1: Development and application of tissue models to alleviate disease and
     infection (18 academic staff).

     Theme 2: Application of advanced physical analytical methodology (11 academic
     staff).

     Theme 3: Antimicrobial resistance and biofilms (7 academic staff).

 Each theme is supported by senior staff (reader and above) who head specialist research groups
 that provide a focus for staff to maintain and develop key expertise, as well as providing suitable
 fora for support of PhD students and postdoctoral research associates (PDRAs). Our Knowledge
 Transfer and Consultancy team operate across all themes. Each theme has impact in its mission
 and is associated with a current driving societal challenge. All have led to substantial impact; one
 Impact Case Study (ICS) has arisen from each.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theme 1: Development and application of tissue models to alleviate disease and
 infection.

 Driving Challenge: Reduction in development time for pharmaceuticals and medical devices

 This theme has brought together our expertise in mass spectrometry imaging and three-
 dimensional cell culture to develop in vitro and ex vivo systems modelling diverse human tissues.
 This has addressed a major societal need to accelerate development of pharmaceuticals and
 medical devices and to improve the success rate of Phase 1 trials. Work led by Clench in
 partnership with Labskin Ltd. (with funding from Innovate UK; KTP010322) has led to the Living
 Skin Equivalent product, a full-thickness 3D-cell cultured skin model for preclinical testing of
 pharmaceuticals and other products. A suite of three-dimensional cancer model systems based
 on alginate beads devised by Cross N has been developed with funding from NC3Rs
 (NC/L001896/1) in partnership with BioIVT, to produce the PhaseZero® 3D Oncology OrganDotTM.
 These two tissue model systems – representing healthy skin and solid tumours – became
 commercially available to the wider academic and commercial communities, as detailed in
 our ICS2 Improved methods for replacing animals in pre-clinical studies.

 In collaboration with AstraZeneca, Clench, Cross N, Smith D and Cole demonstrated multimodal
 MS mapping of tumour models (Analytical Chemistry 10.1021/acs.analchem.0c02389). Cancer
 immunologist Leyland (previously anticancer immunotherapy developer at Medimmune; Clin
 Cancer Res 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-2000), with Cross N and Bricklebank, is expanding our
 portfolio of 3D cancer models with an internally funded studentship to study of the role of the PD-
 1/PD-L1 axis in solid tumour development, toward improvement of anticancer immunotherapy.

 Le Maitre has pioneered development of 3D culture systems that include physiologically relevant
 physical load and hypoxia, that are omitted from other models. They include ex vivo and in vitro
 models of the intervertebral disk and disk degeneration and the intestine during inflammatory
 bowel disease (with Jordan-Mahy; Acta Biomaterialia 10.1016/j.actbio.2017.08.035). University
 investment (£150,000) in equipment to monitor tissues (models and ex vivo samples) under
 diverse forms of physical loading aims to develop an international centre of excellence in this area.
 Le Maitre and Aberdein collaborate on loading and physiology of the spine toward improved
 tissue models and impact through new therapies for spinal disorders. Le Maitre and Cross A
 have shown the roles of cytokines and chemokines during intervertebral disk degeneration and
 associated changes in blood vessels and nerves (e.g. Osteoarthritis and Cartilage
 10.1016/j.joca.2015.02.017).




          SEM and fluorescence microscopy of regenerative cells cultured within a
          novel biomaterial framework (iPSPINE project)

 A biocompatible and physically robust hydrogel system, where gelation is thermally
 triggered, has been developed by Le Maitre in collaboration with Sammon (polymer scientist,
 UoA12). This is ideal for regeneration of degenerated intervertebral disks and other load-
 bearing tissues (Acta Biomaterialia 10.1016/j.actbio.2017.03.010). It has been validated in vivo
 (Oncotarget 10.18632/oncotarget.24813) and in post-mortem human spinal tissue under load, with
 funding from the MRC Biomedical Catalyst (MR/P026796/1). Research funded through Horizon

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020 (825925; iPSpine) and Innovative Training Network (Disc4All; 955735) is further developing
 it for regenerative therapies for disk degeneration.

 Campbell and Allen have shown the role of eIF2B mutations in perturbing the integrated stress
 response in the fatal childhood neurodegenerative disease Leukoencephalopathy with Vanishing
 White Matter (VWM) (J Biol Chem 10.1074/jbc.RA120.014956). With funding from Great Ormond
 Street Hospital Children's Charity, they are characterising the precise molecular role of eIF2B
 mutations in VWM disease and screening potential therapeutics in vitro.

 Cell biologist Haywood-Small, with analytical scientists Cole and Clench, is funded by the June
 Hancock Mesothelioma Trust (PhD studentship) to apply mass spectrometry, breathomics, flow
 cytometry and histopathology to investigate mineral fibres and biomarkers for improved early
 diagnosis of mesothelioma.

 Dalton, working with Reynolds (honorary Professor, formerly at Queen’s University Belfast), has
 studied the genetic causes of predisposition to obesity in patients receiving antipsychotic
 medication (Int J Neuropsychopharmacol 10.1017/S1461145713001375), toward development of
 personalised medicine to tailor antipsychotic prescribing to polygenetic risks of obesity.
 Bioinformatician Crooks uses computational methods to identify rare mutations associated with
 human diseases (including schizophrenia; Nature Neuroscience 10.1038/nn.4267). Several staff
 use molecular, cell biology and immunohistochemical methods to study human diseases: Kelly
 (pathologies associated with abnormal testosterone levels; Endocrine 10.1007/s12020-016-1019-
 1), Klymenko (role of nuclear lamina in neurodegeneration and cancer; Leukaemia
 10.1038/leu.2017.255), Laird (recurrent miscarriage), Princivalle (temporal lobe epilepsy; Eur J
 Neurosci 10.1111/ejn.13652), Woodroofe (multiple sclerosis, with funding from the UK MS
 Society; Multiple Sclerosis J 10.1177/1352458513519354).

 Smith D has applied ion mobility mass spectrometry and biophysical techniques to decipher
 protein aggregation in neurodegenerative diseases (Biochem J 10.1042/BJ20150159). Peake
 investigates the mechanism of inflammatory bowel disease and bowel cancer, and explores the
 role of extracellular vesicles in health and disease. Work funded by Bowel Research UK
 determined the role of transglutaminase-2 in determining the solidity and prognosis of bowel
 cancers (Cancers 10.3390/cancers11050701).

 Within Theme 1, leadership is provided by specialist group heads Le Maitre (Professor; Tissue
 Regeneration and Biomechanics), Cross N (Reader; Cancer) and Dalton (Reader, Health and
 Disease, also theme lead at AWRC).

 Theme 2: Application of advanced physical analytical methodology.

 Driving challenge: The crisis in Forensic Science: harnessing the emerging capabilities in
 technology

 Clench pioneered use of MALDI mass spectrometry imaging for spatially and temporally resolved
 analysis of drug metabolism (e.g.                    in brain tissue; Analytical Chemistry
 10.1021/acs.analchem.5b02998). Francese, in collaboration with Bradshaw and Cole, has
 pioneered application of mass spectrometry imaging and other analytical techniques to gain
 information on activities and lifestyle from the minute traces of metabolites, macromolecules and
 contaminants present in fingermarks (Scientific Reports 10.1038/srep11716). Through work
 with law enforcers, this has brought a paradigm shift to forensic fingerprint analysis and
 has addressed the crisis of available technology for forensic science, a significant part of which
 was that no major advance in fingerprint analysis had occurred for a century. See: ICS1 Criminal
 Profiling through molecular fingerprinting.

 Bricklebank and Gardiner use sensitive inorganic analysis to address commercial and
 environmental problems. Bradshaw is developing high-sensitivity analytical techniques for
 monitoring contaminants in food, through a PhD project in collaboration with NCEFE. Schwartz-

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Narbonne uses mass spectrometry to profile organic material from environmental and
 biotechnologically relevant organisms in the present (Global Biogeochemical Cycles
 10.1029/2019gb006282) and the remote past (Scientific Reports 10.1038/srep09791).

 Herigstad researches the physiological effects of low-level environmental carbon monoxide
 exposure (J Cerebral Blood Flow Metab 10.1177/0271678X19887358). She presented to the
 Medical Working Group of the All-Parliamentary Carbon Monoxide Group in 2019; her research
 was instrumental to the resulting recommendations to NICE for the reduction of guideline indoor
 safe levels of CO. Hamilton (computational chemist) collaborates with Whiteoak on development
 of catalysts for C-H bond functionalisation and CO2 capture using first-row transition metal
 catalysts to avoid reliance on palladium and other precious metals (Chem Eur J
 10.1002/chem.201705785). Turega researches molecular recognition at the interface of biology
 and chemistry (J Am Chem Soc 10.1021/ja504269m). His work with Princivalle and Dalton
 yielded a novel strategy to select monoamine oxidase inhibitors based on complementary
 substrate and enzyme engineering (Org Biomol Chem 10.1039/c9ob01558b). Allwood
 researches novel reactions for C-C bond formation (e.g. Organic Letters 10.1021/ol5011714) and
 is developing photocatalytic routes to antimicrobials aimed at new bacterial targets, through an
 internal studentship with Miller and Hamilton.




          Mass spectrometry imaging of a 3D tumour model


 The Centre for Mass Spectrometry Imaging (led by Clench), a centre of excellence for
 applications of mass spectrometry to biological problems established in 2018, resides within this
 theme, and also contributes to Theme 1. Within Theme 2, leadership is provided by specialist
 group heads Francese (Professor; Analytical Sciences) and Bricklebank (Professor; Chemistry).

 Theme 3: Antimicrobial resistance and biofilms.

 Driving challenge: Microbiological solutions to clinical and environmental emergencies

 Our research to combat antimicrobial resistance spans optimised use of existing antibiotics (Smith
 T, Nichol), developing new antimicrobials from natural and chemical sources (Allwood, Miller,
 Forbes, Smith T), better understanding of the interrelationship of biocide and antibiotic resistance
 (Forbes, Lacey, Smith T; Antimicrob Ag Chemother 10.1128/AAC.01892-18) and gene control
 networks in microorganisms (Omara; PLOS Genetics 10.1371/journal.pgen.1007253). Stafford
 investigates the role of anaerobic oral pathogens in activation of platelets causing cardiovascular
 disease, and (with Campbell) their role in inducing intracellular stress.

 Our work on physical strength and antibiotic elution characteristics of cement materials
 has informed surgical practice on use of antibiotics, in the context of increasing antibiotic
 resistance, by enabling scientifically informed use of antibiotics in orthopaedic materials.
 This work forms the basis of our ICS3 Antimicrobial materials: better outcomes for orthopaedic
 surgery. Work that commenced in the last REF period to develop tuneable hybrid sol-gel systems
 for release of antibiotics has continued with MRC-CiC funding toward a wider range of
 applications.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our work on environmental microbiology, aimed at bioremediation and controlling harmful trace
 gases, centres on the expertise of Smith T and Nichol in the molecular microbiology of
 methylotrophic bacteria, combined with Gardiner’s analytical skills (Appl Environ Microbiol
 10.1128/AEM.01379-19). Smith T and Nichol collaborate with materials scientists at Manchester
 University (R. Akid [emeritus since 2019] and B. Connolly) on technology, including immobilised
 environmental microorganisms, to deter biocorrosion and biofouling (Bioelectrochemistry
 10.1016/j.bioelechem.2019.04.005).




         TEM and EDX showing accumulation of Cr within methanotrophic
         bacteria during bioremediation of Cr(VI)

 Within Theme 3, leadership is provided by specialist group head Smith T (Professor;
 Microbiology).


 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our strategy aims to increase understanding of biological processes and systems in an
 interdisciplinary context, to transform lives through better healthcare, smarter applications of
 analytical methods and better care of the environment.

 Review of progress since 2014
 Our REF2014 strategy sought to build on our previous successes with interdisciplinary research,
 through four main research aims and our impact strategy. This includes development of our
 support for Early Career Researcher (ECRs), gender equality and support for impact generation
 that received positive Subpanel feedback from our REF2014 submission.

 1. Capacity building: Two staff will be recruited p.a. targeting researchers with a track record
 which complements and builds upon current strengths.

 We have exceeded this, with 17 new research-active staff (nine female; eight male; all ECRs on
 appointment) and have focused research work into the three research Themes (above), aligned
 with our expertise.

 2. Income generation: We aimed to: increase our research income to £1.2M p.a. by targeting
 research councils and medical charities; foster existing collaborations and nurture new, strategic
 partners; consolidate internal peer review of external bids and seek input from our departmental
 Pharmaceutical Industry Advisory Group.

 We have increased income in a challenging funding environment (total income, including grants,
 studentships, commercial and QR income, increased from £603,000 in 2015-16 to £936,000 in
 2019-20). We have had major bid successes with funders, including MRC Biomedical Catalyst,
 NC3Rs, European Commission and Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity, totalling £2.1M.

 We have established new collaborative networks, including the MULTIFORESEE forensic imaging
 COST action (CA16101) led by Francese. Other major funding successes have been
 accompanied by new partnerships, for example two EU funding networks in tissue regeneration
 (Le Maitre). We have built industrial partnerships to commercialise 3D living tissue models and

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 obtain joint PhD funding (e.g. BBSRC-CASE with CRODA obtained by Clench). Senior staff now
 provide feedback on all grant applications. We have strengthened links with our Pharmaceutical
 Industry Advisory Group, e.g. industrial representation on internal studentship panels. Members
 of the Group advised on return to laboratory work during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since 2013-
 14, commercial income has increased from £28,000 to £150,000 p.a.

 3. PhD student recruitment: We planned to: support two internally funded PhD studentships p.a.,
 with priority to new staff; target CASE and charity-funded studentships, and cofounding from
 industrial partners; maintain recruitment of overseas government funded students (2-3 p.a.).

 Internally funded PhD studentships have exceeded the target every year since 2013-14. PhD
 student enrolment has increased from 35 FT and 6 PT students on 1/10/2013 to 42 FT and 1 PT
 on 1/10/2019. There have been 66 doctoral completions, compared with 32 in REF2014. We have
 obtained excellent results for research student satisfaction in PRES, being ranked 1st in the UK in
 biological sciences in the 2019/20 survey.

 4. Multidisciplinary research engagement: We aimed to promote multidisciplinary research
 through internal and external collaborations, specifically around our strength in biomaterials.

 Multidisciplinary collaborations remain central to our research. All our ICSs are multidisciplinary.
 EU and MRC funding for development of spinal regenerative medicine (totalling £1.7M) is in
 collaboration between Le Maitre and Sammon (UoA12). Nine other staff have active
 collaborations with UoA12. Interdisciplinary working between UoA5 and UoA24 (sport) includes
 work by Dalton on physical activity and antipsychotic-related obesity and by Woodroofe on
 exercise and recovery after cancer surgery (Breast Cancer Res 10.1186/bcr3643).

 Impact strategy: We planned to capitalise on staff expertise, seek funding from TSB (now
 Innovate UK) and to work toward impact with a renewed portfolio of stakeholder partnerships.

 We have focused our activities under three key themes that fit with our expertise, obtained funding
 to promote impact from public and private sectors (including Innovate UK) to yield impact in 3D
 tissue models, fingermark analysis and antimicrobial materials, through three case studies in
 collaboration with commercial, law enforcement and healthcare stakeholders. We have brought
 impact planning to the fore in strategic planning of all our work, most notably biomaterials and
 analytical science. Francese, who was successful in generating impact for fingermark analysis in
 the law enforcement and wider public arena, was appointed as departmental impact lead, keeping
 impact high on our agenda.

 Research and impact strategy until 2027

 1. Capitalise on University investment and infrastructure to increase the BMRC’s external
    standing and research income.
 We will further the University’s Transforming Lives strategy via applied impact-driven and
 challenge-led research, toward securing the BMRC as a leading centre of applied interdisciplinary
 biomolecular research.

 The University and partners have invested substantially in development of the strategic centres
 AWRC (£14M) and NCEFE (£10.3M). We will work with AWRC and NCEFE, their external
 networks of industry and research partners, and the University’s Research Institutes, to develop
 new partnerships to access research funding. The BMRC will contribute to shaping these
 opportunities (Clench and Smith T serve on the leadership groups of the Industry & Innovation
 and Health Research Institutes, respectively; Dalton is a theme lead at AWRC). For example, we
 will use networks and connections at AWRC to expand on a project already funded by Yorkshire
 Cancer Research to investigate the underlying mechanisms of the success of physical activity
 prehabilitation before cancer surgery, toward more nuanced implementation of prehabilitation,
 balancing the benefits with the disadvantages of delaying surgery.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will further collaborations with the regional NHS, particularly where Sheffield has national
 expertise, such as genetic medicine and orthopaedic microbiology. We will expand our work with
 local businesses via consultancy through the Sheffield Innovation Programme and via facilities
 recently secured through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (detailed below).
 We will develop overseas partnerships toward international strategic development goals.

 We will exploit investment from the UK Government and ERDF, plus matched University funding,
 in establishing a new Testing, Imaging and Characterisation Centre (TICC) at SHU (total
 equipment investment £2.73M) to support regional businesses in biomaterials. We plan to double
 our annual research income by 2027.

 2. Maintaining our research staff base
 UoA5 has 64.8% staff with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRfR), which exceeds the
 University’s target of 50% for 2027. We aim to maintain this level of research engagement and
 use future appointments to strengthen and diversify the research themes. We will support ECRs
 to develop their research portfolio through successful grant applications. We aim to increase the
 number of PDRAs (to eight by 2027) to further increase research outputs and impact.

 3. Consolidate PhD student recruitment and engagement
 We aim to recruit at least five internal and ten externally funded students per year. In the wake of
 the COVID-19 pandemic, we will strive to maintain student wellbeing and further improve KPIs
 (e.g. completions, publications and high satisfaction in PRES). We will support supervisors to gain
 national recognition with the UK Council of Graduate Education.

 4. Expedite impact from our research
 Senior research staff will foster a culture of impactful research through proactive engagement
 across the academic faculty and our external networks. Priority areas for future impact are:
 (Theme 1) More sophisticated and diverse three-dimensional tissue models; tissue engineering
 for disk degeneration and other diseases; (Theme 2) Increasing the resolution and throughput of
 mass spectrometry imaging; new applications for analytical techniques; (Theme 3) Coatings
 containing novel antimicrobial agents to combat antimicrobial resistance. We aim to realise
 clinical/commercial impact in these areas during the coming REF period.


 Open Research
 University provisions for open access (OA) for outputs and research data, detailed in the
 Institutional Environment Statement, have led to high awareness of the importance and
 advantages of OA publication and staff engagement with OA. Staff deposit accepted manuscripts
 in the University’s research archive (SHURA). The University supports gold OA when required by
 funders. It also funds gold OA of other papers, assessed on the basis of research excellence,
 with priority also given to researchers returning from parental leave and ECRs, as a “career kick-
 start”. Fourteen papers were supported for gold OA between 1/10/2016 and 31/7/2020.

 Library research support staff work with academics to make research data available via the
 University’s research data archive (SHURDA). Where IP considerations permit, we make the
 results of our work available via conference presentations at academic, clinical and trade
 conferences, ahead of journal publication. Our public engagement activities also bring our work
 to the attention of a wider audience.


 Research Integrity
 All research in UoA5 undergoes ethical scrutiny in accordance with the University’s ethics policy
 (described in the Institutional Environment Statement). Nineteen academics with SRfR served as
 ethics reviewers during the REF period; training is provided at University level. Clench and
 Jordan-Mahy serve on the University Ethics Committee. Clench is joint University human tissue
 lead.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We foster a culture of research integrity and respect for data. All researchers show and discuss
 their data in research group meetings. Research students receive training in research ethics,
 record keeping, storage and presentation of data, as well as the use of statistics to promote
 reproducibility of data. Laboratory notebooks (paper or electronic) are inspected regularly.
 Electronic data are stored on a secure central drive backed up regularly.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The BMRC has a critical mass of 36 academic staff (33.5 FTE); through a strategy of recruitment
 and development, it has more than doubled in size since the submission of 17 staff to REF2014.

 Staffing strategy
 Recruitment through increasing student numbers has enabled us to build our research staff base.
 We have a joined-up recruitment policy where senior staff responsible for research (led by Clench)
 and teaching (Head of Department Laird and deputy Bricklebank, both research professors) work
 together to appoint staff who will advance teaching, research and research impact. We have
 recruited seventeen new staff (nine female; eight male) with strong research backgrounds across
 our research Themes.

 New staff:
 Theme 1 – Aberdein, Allen, Crooks, Kelly, Klymenko, Leyland, Peake
 Theme 2 – Allwood, Bradshaw, Hamilton, Herigstad, Schwartz-Narbonne, Turega
 Theme 3 – Forbes, Nichol, Omara, Stafford

 Our research community includes a substantial cohort of PhD students (increasing slightly from
 41 to 43 during the period), five PDRAs, two graduate research assistants and 1-3 commercial
 research staff, plus DProf and MRes students.

 Career development
 We support career-long researcher development, in line with the Academic Careers Framework
 detailed in the Institutional Environment Statement. Our recruitment of early-career academic
 staff, together with a strong tradition of retaining and developing staff, ensures a balanced
 community. This facilitates succession of roles of responsibility when staff are promoted or retire,
 since our staff is uniform across the various career stages. Three staff have left to relocate to
 other academic posts (UK, Australia and Spain). Five staff (14%; four female, one male) are
 currently ECRs. All other appointees (four female, six male) were ECRs on appointment.

 Early-career researchers
 The research group leads within each theme mentor new staff, advising on impact, collaborations,
 funding applications and publication. New staff with research potential and aspirations are
 allocated research time, to assist in establishing their independent research careers. This
 allocation is made with individually agreed forward-looking objectives, aligned with the BMRC’s
 research themes and University priorities, taking advantage of the skills and experience of the
 new staff. Research time allocation is reviewed annually as part of the appraisal process,
 according to the University REF Code of Practice. Opportunities for internal PhD studentships
 prioritise ECR staff.

 The Departmental ECR champion links local ECRs to the wider University ECR Network,
 supported by University Research and Innovation Services (RIS) with a dedicated experienced
 lead. In 2018-19, ECR staff Aberdein and Forbes benefited from internal competitively awarded
 Chancellor’s Fellowships (each providing research funding around £30,000). By 2019-20, these
 enabled Aberdein to obtain an internal PhD studentship and Forbes a research grant (£9,990)
 from the Healthcare Infection Society. ECR staff are supported to apply for start-up grants from
 diverse funding bodies and to participate in ECR networking events organised by the professional
 societies.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career-long researcher development
 Annual Research and Scholarly Activity review meetings with research leads are a forum for
 discussion of research and impact plans, target setting and progress review. Established staff can
 bid for additional research time against individually agreed objectives aligned with the wider
 research strategy. Mid-career staff are encouraged to apply for promotion to reader. Candidates
 for promotion to chair are mentored by experienced professors. University workshops on “How to
 become a professor” are open to all staff. The Aspire (internal) and Aurora (AdvanceHE)
 mentoring schemes provide career development support and mentoring for female staff; six
 female staff in UoA5 have benefited. Female and male staff have contributed as mentors in other
 UoAs. University funds have been available for fellowships to develop research impact, from
 which Francese benefited after promotion to chair.

 All academic staff can request internal staff development funds, typically used for attendance at
 an international research conference. At least one such activity has been supported annually for
 all staff who made requests. Internal review (with feedback) from research group leads is
 mandatory for grant applications and available for research manuscripts.

 Postdoctoral researcher development
 PDRAs attend research staff meetings, which include career development aspects such as
 funding opportunities. They are able to access all the same central university activities as
 permanent staff. PDRAs can gain teaching experience and are encouraged to apply for associate
 membership of the Higher Education Academy to improve their employability within the HE sector.
 Three PDRAs have obtained permanent academic posts here and elsewhere during the REF
 period.

 Recognition and reward
 Eight staff have been promoted to senior (reader and professor) research positions. Impact is
 embedded in the academic and promotion criteria through the Academic Careers Framework and
 has contributed to these promotions. Three staff were promoted from Senior Lecturer (NFA grade
 8) to Reader (NFA grade 9; Cross N, Smith D and Dalton), one from Senior Lecturer to Principal
 Lecturer (NFA grade 9; Jordan-Mahy) and two from Senior Lecturer to Reader and subsequently
 Professor (Le Maitre and Francese). Bricklebank and Laird, who were already senior staff with
 departmental leadership roles, were awarded personal research chairs. A further 15 members of
 staff progressed from Lecturer (NFA grade 7) to Senior Lecturer.


 Research Students

 Overview
 Research Postgraduate students are an integral and valued part of our research community. PGR
 provisions and training are overseen in the Research Institute by the Head of Research Degrees,
 Le Maitre, who is a Recognised Research Supervisor by the UK Council for Graduate Education.
 The departmental Postgraduate Research Tutor (PgRT; Duckett) provides pastoral support
 (including focus groups and bimonthly “matters arising” sessions) to complement the support given
 by academic supervisors and research groups.

 Our Department has obtained excellent results from successive national Postgraduate Research
 Experience Surveys (PRES). In 2019, we obtained the highest overall satisfaction rating
 (97%) in the UK in Biological Sciences. Nominations from our students have led to three
 University Inspirational Research Supervisor awards (Le Maitre 2016 and 2020, Forbes 2019).
 In 2019 the University award for Outstanding Student Support (Research) was won by our student
 support officer (Rea Smith). In 2020 the same award was won by our PgRT (Duckett).

 Our research community includes students undertaking extended projects (6 months) on M-level
 programmes: MSci (accredited by the Royal Society of Biology to produce “research-ready
 graduates”), MChem (accredited by the Royal Society of Chemistry) and MRes.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment, induction, training and supervision
 All PGR applicants are interviewed (in person or via telephone/video call) before an offer is made.
 Admissions criteria align with the QAA UK Quality Code for HE. Each student is supervised by a
 team of at least two staff with subject expertise and supervisory experience. New PGRs attend a
 full-day Research Institute induction event. Locally, they meet with supervisory teams and give
 short introductory talks to the Department. Electronic resources are available on Blackboard
 (VLE), which complement the cooperative and student-centred support provided by academic
 supervisors, the research groups and PgRT. Student- and project-specific training needs are
 assessed at the start of the programme when students complete the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework Planner.

 Training operates at three levels:

    1. Research good practice, including record keeping, data management, analysis and
       statistics, literature retrieval, research integrity, ethics, and health and safety. This is
       provided through sessions delivered at University, Research Institute and Department
       level, including input from staff in UoA5 (e.g. scientific writing sessions by Smith T), e-
       literature experts from the Library and online training (including mandatory ethics training)
       using Epigeum;
    2. Specific research methods and instrumentation required by individual programmes, which
       is provided by academic or researchers, on an individual or small-group basis;
    3. Transferable skills, personal development planning, career choices, employability, time
       management, teamwork and leadership. These are delivered at University and Research
       Institute level.

 We consider training of others an essential part of researcher development; hence, experienced
 PhD students are encouraged and expected to participate in techniques training for new students
 and, occasionally, PDRAs or academic staff. Our skilled Departmental technical team (three with
 PhDs) have experience across all our instrumentation.

 As an example of where we embed the interdisciplinarity of our research practice into the training
 and development of future researchers, we hold an annual winter poster session jointly with UoA12
 at which all PhD students present. A team of three to four academic staff judges, spanning both
 research areas, individually speak to every student presenter. Hence every student has
 meaningful scientific conversations with specialists and non-specialists. Prizes for the three best
 posters are awarded. PhD students can also present at the Research Institute Doctoral Showcase
 and the University Creating Knowledge research conference. All PGRs present their work at one
 or more international conference(s). Students are encouraged to take part in local and national
 rounds of the Vitae “Three Minute Thesis”.

 The University Research Degrees Committee (RDC) monitors PGR student progress. The
 Research Programme Approval form is assessed (at 3 months for full-time students; 6 months for
 part-time) by an independent rapporteur. A full supportive progress review is undertaken at 10-12
 months, encompassing an oral presentation and viva, a written report in the style of a journal paper
 and literature review. A review and thesis plan early in the final year ensure monitoring and
 support throughout the study cycle.

 Support for supervisors
 New PhD supervisors undertake the University Doctoral School’s Research Supervisor
 Development Programme. Supervisor development sessions (at which at least annual attendance
 is mandatory) provide continuing support for supervisors and are a forum for new staff to benefit
 from the enthusiasm of established members, and for established staff to learn from the
 experience of newer ones.

 Research student funding
 Internally funded PhD studentships are allocated competitively to staff based upon review by a
 panel that includes senior staff from UoA5, the Research Institute, RIS and an external member

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the Department’s Pharmaceutical Industry Advisory Group. Criteria include alignment with
 University and UoA priorities. Prioritisation is given to teams led by ECR staff. Students from SHU
 and beyond can also apply for annual Vice Chancellor’s scholarships, where student and
 supervisor work together on the application, which is assessed at University level.

 Our student body is 25% overseas and 75% home/EU. Home students have been funded
 through: internal studentships, BBSRC CASE studentships with GSK, and Croda, DSTL, H2020
 and the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action COFUND as part of the Bioscience for Health Doctoral
 Training Alliance of modern universities. Staff have also obtained joint funding from outside
 agencies to complement internal funding: e.g. DTSL (Francese), Croda (Clench), Health and
 Safety Executive, Pioneer Healthcare (Le Maitre), Bowel Cancer UK (Peake), June Hancock
 Mesothelioma Trust (Haywood-Small) and Sheffield Children’s Hospital (Allen). We have
 recruited overseas government-funded students from Egypt, Thailand, Libya, Philippines, Iraq and
 Saudi Arabia, and part-time students from industry (AstraZeneca).

 Outcomes and outputs from PhD study
 High standards of research degrees are maintained by appointment of appropriate expert external
 examiners from research-intensive departments throughout the UK University sector and Europe.
 All students are actively encouraged to prepare their work for publication. 36 of the 84 outputs
 submitted herewith have PhD student co-authors.

 In 2014, 2016, and 2018 we organised one-day careers conferences, which included PhD student
 alumni and external keynote speakers talking about their careers, within and beyond academia. It
 is our mission to nurture new generations of researchers, as well as graduates who will use
 doctoral study as a gateway to different paths of high-level employment and endeavour.

 Among the 66 doctoral students completing during the period, a substantial number obtained
 academic posts (five in the UK and at least eight overseas), others entered industry (four, including
 Novartis, AstraZeneca), the civil service (including the Health and Safety Executive), and the
 National Health Service (four, including a consultant clinical scientist and two into the Scientist
 Training Programme). Eight PhD graduates continued in research as postdocs (including SHU,
 University of Sheffield, Leeds, Surrey and Harvard). Patrick Harrison, who obtained his PhD with
 Miller and Strong (2014), was appointed to a permanent lectureship at the University of Hull in
 2018. Cole, who studied for her PhD and worked as a PDRA with Clench was appointed to the
 academic staff in 2018. Similarly, Nichol was a PhD student and PDRA with Smith T, becoming
 academic staff in 2016. Bradshaw was appointed to a permanent academic post in 2018 after
 PhD and PDRA with Francese. Other PhD graduates obtained academic positions in Leicester
 De Montfort and Middlesex Universities.


 Equality and Diversity
 The recruitment, training, retention and career development of our staff are a priority, within an
 environment that respects the diversity of all. The Department of Biosciences and Chemistry holds
 SHU’s only silver Athena SWAN award, which was renewed in 2019. There are currently only 18
 UK departments in the biology area with silver or gold Athena SWAN awards. Our submission was
 commended for the high percentage of women in senior roles (four out of seven professors; two
 out of four readers/principal lecturers) and the high percentage of part-time staff (20% across
 academic staff as a whole; 17% [six out of 36, five female, one male] of staff with Significant
 Responsibility for Research [SRfR]), the high proportion (100%) of staff returning from maternity
 leave and the high uptake of paternal leave. The proportion of staff with SRfR who are female
 (58%) is comparable to the proportion of women on the full departmental academic staff (62%).
 We are implementing a three-year action plan for further improvement towards increased “beacon
 activities” (such as the University’s implementing the mixed-gender appointment panel policy that
 was instigated in our Department) with the ambition of obtaining a gold award during the next REF
 period.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for staff with protected characteristics
 Three out of 36 academic staff (one female; two male) have a BAME background. This (8.3%) is
 less than the proportion of Sheffield residents (16% BAME) and UK HE academic staff as a whole
 (17% BAME). Working toward increased BAME representation among our staff is part of our
 Athena SWAN action plan. This includes measures, now enacted, to explicitly state in job adverts
 that applicants from BAME backgrounds and other underrepresented groups are encouraged to
 apply, HR screening of adverts to ensure inclusive language, and encouraging staff to use social
 media to increase the diversity of applicants. Increasing equality for BAME people at all levels in
 the Department is coordinated by the departmental BAME lead, appointed in 2020 to focus on
 these issues.

 We strive to be inclusive of all staff and students, across all protected characteristics. As described
 in the Institutional Environment Statement, SHU has thriving disability, LGBT+ and gender support
 networks for staff and students. Students with disabilities can seek a learning contract, built on a
 research-specific template, to obtain the most appropriate support and environment for work and
 study. A diverse range of social events are organised to celebrate festivals from different cultures
 and to accommodate differing attitudes to alcohol in different religions and cultures among staff
 and students.

 Part-time/fixed term staff
 We are committed to flexible working patterns to fit around the lives of our staff. We have six part-
 time research active staff; two were promoted to senior posts during the current period (Dalton
 [0.5FTE] from Senior Lecturer to Reader and Francese [0.8FTE] from Reader to Professor).
 Woodroofe worked for 18 months at 0.2FTE in transition from full-time to retirement. Three of
 the new academic staff appointments were initially fixed-term; all were made permanent before
 the end of the period. We strive to support the career development of fixed-term research staff as
 part of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. By
 supporting PDRAs with transferrable and teaching skills as well as research, we hope to ease
 their transition into permanent posts and note success in this with our former PDRAs detailed
 above.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding
 Annual research income has increased from £603,000 in 2015-16 to £936,000 in 2019-20. We
 have a mixed income economy including RCUK, other governmental sources, medical charities
 and industry. Except for smaller contract research projects, all our research aims toward academic
 outputs and impact beyond academia.

 Collaborative networks including academics, clinicians, law enforcement agencies and industry
 have been central to our research an impact strategy. These have been built through local
 networking, conference attendance and meetings organised by the BBSRC NIBBs and University
 seed-corn funding such the Creating Knowledge Implementation Plan (CKIP; detailed in the
 Institutional Environment Statement). They have improved funding successes and given our work
 relevance to stakeholders, as detailed by the examples below. Most of our projects are multi-
 centre collaborative ventures.

 Major notable projects are (funding amounts are income to SHU):

 Theme 1 – Development and application of tissue models to alleviate disease and
 infection

 Le Maitre - H2020 £1.2M (825925) with 20 academic and commercial partners in Europe, to
 develop advanced therapeutic biomaterials for lower back pain.
 Le Maitre - Disc4All Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network £265,000 (955735)
 integrated computational simulations in translational medicine, applied to intervertebral disc
 degeneration.

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Le Maitre MRC Biomedical Catalyst: Regenerative Medicine £202,000 (MR/P026796/1) – with
 Sammon (UoA12), to validate novel hydrogel systems for spinal tissue regeneration.
 Campbell Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity £189,000 – molecular pathology of and
 developing treatments for VWM disease.
 Clench - NC3Rs £242,000 (NC/L001896/1) – development of human tissue models for cancer
 and skin disease.

 Theme 2 – Application of advanced physical analytical methodology

 Francese - Joint PhD studentship funding from DSTL (together with internal Vice Chancellor’s
 scholarship fund) to develop MS fingermark analysis – income to SHU £84,652.
 Bricklebank - BBSRC CASE studentship (£99,034) with Croda Europe Ltd. (BB/S507179/1) -
 Development of LA-ICPMS and associated techniques for analysis of crop enhancement products.
 Herigstad - Gas Safety Trust (£51,540) - Impact of low-level CO on the human brain.
 Clench has worked as academic lead for the research commercialisation, most recently via the
 Centre for Mass Spectrometry Imaging. This has provided contract research income, increasing
 from £28,000 p.a. in 2014 to £150,000 p.a. in 2020.

 Theme 3 - Antimicrobial resistance and biofilms

 Nichol - MRC (CiC, funding held with University of Sheffield and Sheffield Teaching Hospitals
 NHS Foundation Trust), £60,964, development of antibiotic-free sol-gel antimicrobial coatings for
 urinary catheters.
 Forbes - Healthcare Infection Society, £9,990, transcriptomic analysis of biocide adaptation in
 uropathogenic Escherichia coli CFT073.
 Smith T - BBSRC, £15,000 (BIV-13-smith-C1net) - Characterisation of methanotrophic bacteria
 to reduce ground water risks of recycling alkaline solid waste – NIBB business interaction voucher
 with Ballast Phoenix Ltd. and Freeland Scientific Ltd.


 Infrastructure

 Organisational infrastructure
 Since the mid-2000s the University has strongly supported interdisciplinarity. Co-location of the
 UoA5 laboratories and the Materials and Engineering Research Institute (MERI; UoA12) facilitated
 collaborative work, which greatly expanded thanks to pump-priming funding initiatives, including
 a Bridging the Gap EPSRC grant (2009-12), which initiated much of the materials-focussed
 antimicrobials work that underpins the ICS in Theme 3. This and later institutional cross-
 disciplinary funds enabled collaborations between Le Maitre and colleagues in UoA12 that are
 the foundation of the productive biomaterials work and funding income of Theme 1. University
 interdisciplinary initiatives have also enabled the work of Dalton and Woodroofe with UoA24.
 CKIP funding, which targeted interdisciplinary work, has further benefited our research to take our
 work into new contexts and geographies. The new University research structure (summarised in
 the Institutional Environment Statement) has positioned UoA5 alongside UoA12 in the Industry
 and Innovation Research Institute. Our connection with the Health Research Institute, NCEFE
 and AWRC offer further opportunities for collaboration (Dalton is lead for the “Living with Chronic
 Disease” theme at AWRC).

 The SHU Library provides high quality academic resources in primarily electronic format, enabling
 all researchers to access a wide range of journals and other materials. Staff and students can
 obtain articles in journals to which the University does not subscribe through the centrally funded
 Document Supply Service.

 A laboratory manager is responsible, together with the head of research, for health and safety in
 the laboratories.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scholarly infrastructure
 We have a weekly seminar programme and monthly research meetings where all staff (academics
 and PDRAs), as well as students, can meet to exchange news and ideas. These were particularly
 valuable in connecting our community when they continued on-line during the COVID-19
 lockdown. They are also a forum for discussing up-coming funding calls, facilitated by “horizon
 scanning” from one of the grants officers from RIS. Staff are involved in the wider academic
 community of Sheffield, including departmental seminars and conferences at the University of
 Sheffield.

 Supporting funding applications
 Staff are encouraged and guided in funding applications via a triage and feedback process. This
 is essential for researcher development, and for the University’s and UoA’s aim to grow research
 funding. Staff are supported by research group leads early in the conceptualisation and writing
 processes. RIS support the submission and approvals process, costings and compliance with
 funder rules.


 Research Facilities
 Substantial research facilities and equipment support each of the research themes. The
 interdisciplinary nature of our work means that projects often use equipment from more than one
 theme.

 Theme 1: We have laboratories for cell culture work: tissue preparation, primary and secondary
 culture including facilities for 2D and 3D cell culture and analysis, microscopy, plus analysis of
 cells at the nucleic acid and protein levels.

 Equipment includes:
    • Sysmex XP-300 Automated Haematology Analyser (for analysis of cellular composition of
       blood samples)
    • Coy Hypoxic Glove Box (for hypoxic cell culture mimicking the microenvironment of many
       tissues in vivo)
    • Invitrogen Countess Automated Cell Counter
    • BD FACSCALIBUR and Gallios 10 Channel flow cytometers (for enumeration, typing and
       sorting of eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells)
    • Olympus IX81 Motorized Inverted System Microscope
    • Olympus BX60 Microscope (fluorescence, bright field and phase contrast microscopy)
    • Zeiss Laser Scanning Confocal Microscope (LSM800)
    • Biorad D-Code Universal Mutation Detection System
    • Qiagen Pyrosequencer
    • ÄKTA protein purification systems
    • Nanion Port-a-Patch patch clamp system

 Funding of £150,000 in 2019 from the University’s CKIP “Capacity Building Fund” provided a
 world-class biomechanical tissue loading suite enabling testing of varied loading regimes in
 controlled environments:
    • Electroforce 5210 (×4 BioDynamic Chambers)
    • Electroforce 3D Culture Pro
    • MICROTEST Microtensile loading system

 Bioinformatics for genomic analysis is performed using two multi-core Linux servers, one with 256
 GB RAM and the other with 512 GB RAM.

 Theme 2: The Centre for Mass Spectrometry Imaging (CMSI) is a world-class facility, with high-
 definition imaging capabilities.

 The instrumentation comprises:

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Waters Synapt G2 HDMS (with matrix-assisted laser desorption ionisation [MALDI] and
        liquid extraction surface analysis [LESA] sources)
    •   Waters Xevo G2-XS (with desorption electrospray ionisation [DESI] source)
    •   Bruker Autoflex MALDI/MS/MS ×2
    •   Applied Biosystems MALDI QStar instruments ×2
    •   Perkin Elmer Nexion ICP-MS with UP-213 laser ablation [LA] system (New Wave
        Research).
    •   Sample preparation using Labcyte Portrait acoustic spotter, SunCollect spotter/sprayers
        and Bruker “ImagePrep” matrix deposition devices.

 Other analytical and MS equipment includes:
    • Agilent 6420 TSQ LC/MS/MS ×2
    • Agilent Ultivo TSQ LC/MS/MS
    • Agilent 5800 ICP-OES
    • Agilent 5977 GC-MS ×2
    • Bruker 400 MHz NMR

 The dedicated synthetic chemistry laboratory includes Isolera One Flash and CombiFlash rapid
 purification systems. Computational chemistry is performed using Linux servers including a 32-
 core 192 GB RAM, with computational chemistry software (ORCA, Multiwfn, Avogadro, Gabedit)
 and the University main High Performance Computing system with molecular dynamics simulation
 packages.

 Theme 3: The containment level 2 microbiology laboratory has facilities for growing diverse
 prokaryotes and fungi. There is a gas-controlled incubator (Don Whitley MACS VA-500) cabinet
 for handling oxygen-sensitive organisms. Two five-litre bioreactors (Eppendorf Bioflo) are used
 for a range of microorganisms and, thanks to gas lines and associated safety equipment,
 constitute a world-class facility for large scale growth of bacteria on methane and propene. A
 Thermo French Cell press, together with the protein separation systems detailed above, allow
 large-scale purification of bacterial proteins.

 Staff also have access to equipment for analysis of materials through collaborations with UoA12,
 to a range of equipment from other external collaborators, and national facilities such as the
 Diamond Light Source Synchrotron and (during the coming REF period) the TICC imaging
 instrumentation detailed above.

 Technical infrastructure
 A team of technical staff with expertise spanning the range of chemical and biological techniques
 manage and maintain the research and teaching laboratories and equipment base, ensuring their
 smooth operation. 0.5 FTE staff provide dedicated administrative support to research staff and
 students.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Since the 1990s, we have developed extensive collaborative networks within the Sheffield region,
 nationally and internationally. Productive and friendly collaborative working, at institutional and
 personal levels, among Sheffield Hallam University, the University of Sheffield and Sheffield
 Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust is a major regional strength that benefits all partners
 and creates a critical research mass in the applied biological sciences. Senior NHS consultants
 with current and previous honorary chairs at SHU have been key enablers of our research,
 including: Ian Stockley, Andrew Hamer, Robert Kerry and Mark Wilkinson (Orthopaedic
 Surgeons), Robert Townsend (Clinical Microbiologist), Lee Breakwell, Neil Chiverton and Andrew
 Cole (Spinal Surgeons), Prasad Godbole (Urological Surgeon), T.C. Li (Reproductive Medicine &
 Surgery) and Keith Chapple (Colorectal Surgeon).



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The following are a selection of our most important collaborations:

 Theme 1 (Development and application of tissue models to alleviate disease and
 infection)

 Since 2013 our collaborations in cell biology have entered, literally, a new dimension by
 moving from conventional 2D cultures to bespoke 3D culture models to mimic human tissues and
 organs, and progressively replace animals in research. Clench and Cross N devised laboratory
 models of human tissues, under NC3Rs and Innovate UK funding, enabling two companies
 (Labskin [UK] Ltd and BioVT) to develop commercial products and services in nonanimal
 technologies (see ICS2 Improved methods for replacing animals in pre-clinical studies). Clench,
 Bricklebank and Duckett, with the HealthCare Division of CRODA Ltd., used MS imaging to
 monitor drug delivery into a 3D skin model (Analytical Chemistry 10.1021/acs.analchem.8b02648),
 supported by University-CRODA funded and BBSRC-CASE studentships.

 Work in Biomechanics and Tissue Engineering (championed by Le Maitre) is highly collaborative
 as it encompasses in vivo and clinical trials of reconstructive therapies. Collaborators include Mak
 Risbud (Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia) on cellular pathogenesis of disk
 degeneration (J Biol Chem 10.1074/jbc.M117.790378), Lisbet Haugland (McGill University,
 Montreal) and Theo Smit (Amsterdam Medical Centre) on loaded disc culture systems and
 injection of hydrogels into human IVDs, the iPSPINE consortium of 20 European partners, the
 DISC4All EU ITN consortium investigating computer modelling to identify pathogenesis of disc
 degeneration resulted, and Keith Meek and James Bell (Cardiff University) for hierarchical
 analysis imaging of IVD using synchrotron radiation at Diamond Light Source. Cross N
 collaborates with Jon Golding (Open University) developing nanoparticle-mediated sensitisation
 of radiotherapy (funded via a Doctoral Training Alliance PhD studentship).

 Dalton and honorary professor Reynolds are leading members of the Genetics of Antipsychotic-
 Induced Weight Gain Consortium, which includes Rotherham, Doncaster and South Humber
 NHS Foundation Trust and national academic partners (including University of Manchester and
 Queen’s University Belfast).

 Collaborations with John Livingston (University of Leeds) and Truus Abbink (VU University,
 Netherlands) are central to Campbell and Allen’s work funded by Great Ormond Street Children’s
 Hospital Charity on VWM disease. Allen and Campbell collaborate with Santosh Mordekar
 (Consultant Paediatric Neurologist, Sheffield Children’s Hospital) on a SHU-funded PhD project
 investigating ISR in childhood neurological disorders. Klymenko collaborates with Andrejs Braun
 (CRUK Bart’s Centre, London) on roles of nuclear lamina in cancer.

 Theme 2 (Application of advanced physical analytical methodology)

 Francese’s mass spectrometric forensic fingermark analysis has been realised via a world-wide
 network of collaborators in law enforcement agencies. These include Neil Denison (Director of
 Yorkshire and Humber Regional Scientific Support; supported by a home-office funded PDRA;
 output in Analyst 10.1039/c7an00218a), Steve Bleay (ex Home Office, CAST now London South
 Bank University) and Vaughn Sears (retired Home Office, CAST). Other collaborators in the
 UK, Netherlands and USA are detailed in the ICS1 Criminal profiling through molecular
 fingerprinting. Francese coordinates EU COST Action CA16101 “MULTIFORESEE” in Forensic
 Science.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Overlapping fingermarks (A) distinguished via mass spectrometry imaging
       (B), allowing the ridge patterns to be visualised separately (C).

 Clench coordinates the academic and industrial collaborative network of the Centre for Mass
 Spectrometry Imaging. Collaborative work with David Skiblinski and William Griffiths (Swansea
 University), Advion Ltd. (Harlow), Irina Pikuleva (Case Western Reserve University,
 Cleveland, Ohio) achieved spatial resolution of brain cholesterol metabolism (PNAS
 10.1073/pnas.1917421117).

 Hamilton collaborates with synthetic chemist Whiteoak (now in Alcalá, Spain; outputs include
 Chem Sci 10.1039/c9sc05076k). Hamilton also collaborates with Cleaver and Spencer (UoA12)
 to model liquid crystal behaviour in materials (via a University VC PhD scholarship). Turega
 collaborates with Peter Andrews and Steve Brown (Centre for Stem Cell Biology, University of
 Sheffield) to develop LSD1 probe molecules and peptide-LSD1 inhibitor conjugates (supported
 by a SHU-funded PhD studentship), and with Clegg (UoA12) and Sky Chemicals Ltd. on a co-
 funded PhD project to optimise peracid disinfectants.

 Theme 3 (Antimicrobial resistance and biofilms)

 Our network to tackle antibiotic resistance includes surgeons, clinicians and academics with
 specialisms that enable us to focus on precise challenges in this broad global problem (and highly
 competitive research area). Smith T and Nichol, supported with funds from by MRC and the
 Cavendish Hip Foundation, have focused on the key problems of local delivery of antibiotics (to
 avoid resistance problems due to prolonged systemic use). Work with NHS collaborators has
 enabled this research to inform clinical decisions (see ICS3 Antimicrobial materials: better
 outcomes for orthopaedic surgery).

 We enjoy close collaborations with the University of Sheffield (e.g. Nichol’s MRC Confidence in
 Concept (CiC) project with Paul Hatton, University of Sheffield, to develop antimicrobial-releasing
 urinary catheter coatings). Smith T is an external member of the University of Sheffield’s Florey
 Institute of Host-Pathogen Interactions; Smith T and Forbes have spoken at Florey networking
 meetings. In future, we will use this network, and collaborations with Ruxandra Gref (CNRS, Paris;
 funded by Royal Society) on nanoparticles and Ehiasarian (UoA12) on ultrathin plasma deposited
 coatings (supported via CKIP funds), toward new therapeutic materials for antimicrobial protection
 using knowledge-based strategies to minimise resistance.

 Collaboration with Mohammed Abdel Rahman (Suez Canal University, Egypt) provided access
 to North African scorpion biodiversity, from which Miller and Strong identified novel antimicrobial
 peptides. They performed fast atomic force microscopy mechanism of action characterisation with
 Steve Evans (Physics, University of Leeds) (Soft Matter 10.1039/c8sm00707a) and successful
 in vivo animal testing with collaborators in China (Front Microbiol 10.3389/fmicb.2018.01159).

 In work on environmental microorganisms Smith T and Gardiner collaborated with Andreas
 Scheinhost (ESRF, Grenoble, France and Helmholtz Zentrum Dresden Rossendorf, Dresden)
 and Nicole Hondow (Chemical and Process Engineering, University of Leeds) to map inorganic
 species during bioremediation by methane-oxidising bacteria (Appl Environ Microbiol
 10.1128/AEM.01379-19).

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Knowledge transfer and consultancy
 Knowledge transfer is embedded across our research themes and impact. The BMRC Knowledge
 Transfer and Consultancy team (one to three FT commercial research staff) is led by Clench.
 These staff deliver contract research projects and work with the central Research and Innovation
 team to foster commercial relationships and accelerate impact. For example, a commercial
 contract (£35,000) for Cancer Research (UK) used our expertise in Mass Spectrometry Imaging
 and Confocal Microscopy to evaluate a novel therapeutic interbladder tissue drug delivery system.

 Sustainability of our networks
 We continually develop our research and impact networks to have foresight of the future
 challenges that will drive our research in the coming years. New staff benefit from the existing
 networks and also bring opportunities for new connections. For example, ECR Aberdein’s work
 on leptin in obesity-related disorders has been enabled by the collaborative network and tissue
 loading expertise of Theme 1 and her Chancellor’s Fellowship Role of leptin and load on trabecular
 and cortical bone remodelling. At the same time, Aberdein has extended the network by
 collaboration on animal models of leptin-related pathologies with J.E. Hall (University of
 Mississippi; Hypertension 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.116.08560). Similarly, Forbes has
 taken her work on evolution of pathogens in response to antimicrobials (Nat Commun
 10.1038/ncomms4742) forward through an internal Chancellor’s Fellowship and two studentships,
 to develop a collaboration with Manikandan Kadirvel (Research Fellow; Manchester Pharmacy
 School) in microbial responses to antimicrobial stresses, to inform new smart coatings to prevent
 urinary tract infections being developed along with Nichol, Smith T and Sammon (UoA12).


 Engaging Research Users
 Campbell, Allwood and Nichol, with colleagues in NCEFE, provide 'Science of Brewing' KT
 workshops within the Sheffield Innovation Programme (SIP), which benefits local industry. Le
 Maitre runs a low back pain patient user group to bring end-user input to her work developing
 novel therapies for spinal disk degeneration. Haywood-Small and Cole act as experts in annual
 Action Mesothelioma Days (Leeds; the June Hancock Mesothelioma Trust) to facilitate
 understanding among patients and families. Woodroofe was an expert at “Meet the scientist”
 sessions organised by the MS Society and hosted research users’ visits to our facilities. Peake
 contributed to the "Big Bowel Event" patient/researcher meeting (Bowel & Cancer Research,
 London, 2019). These events bring SHU research to the attention of important stakeholders:
 people with the diseases we are researching, their families and the wider public.


 Contributions to the Economy and Society
 Herigstad contributed to the All-Party Parliamentary Carbon Monoxide Group. Smith D
 (National Teaching Fellow and 2019 national HE Bioscience Teacher of the Year) and Lacey
 coordinate public engagement activities through our Education and Outreach Group. Most staff
 have contributed talks to the public or schoolchildren in the annual Sheffield Science Week. Kelly
 contributed three articles on androgens to The Conversation, with tens of thousands of views.
 For example, Caster Semenya: how much testosterone is too much for a female athlete? (2019),
 which had >83,500 reads. A Wellcome Trust-funded project (109815/Z/15/Z) Virtual Reality
 Prosthetics (co-investigators Le Maitre and Duckett) presented research results related to
 biomechanics nationally in 2016-17. The group’s work also promotes research-led teaching,
 practised by all our staff using examples of their applied research in teaching to further the
 Transforming Lives mission of the University.


 Contributions to the Discipline
 Professional society committee membership: Clench (Leader MALDI and Imaging Special
 Interest Group of the British Mass Spectrometry Society [BMSS]; Board Member [International
 Relations], Mass Spectrometry Imaging Society); Francese (Committee Member, Fingerprint
 Society); Gardiner (Admissions Committee, Royal Society of Chemistry); Le Maitre (Chairperson

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DISCs Foundation, Executive Officer Society of Back Pain Research, Executive Secretary Society
 for Biohydrogels [Nantes, France], Section Officer, Spine Section, Orthopaedic Research Society
 [USA]); Miller (Council Member, British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy [BSAC]); Smith
 D (Education Committee, Biochemical Society); Stafford (Secretary, HUBS Early Career
 Lecturers’ Group); Woodroofe (International Advisory Board, International Society for
 Neuroimmunology); Omara (Chair, Interdisciplinary Committee of Egyptian Academics in the UK).

 Service on national funding panels: Bricklebank (EPSRC Funding Prioritisation Panel, 2017);
 Clench (Grant Review Panel, CRUK); Miller (Grants Committee, BSAC); Woodroofe (Award
 Strategy Committee and Awards Assessment Panel, Daphne Jackson Trust).

 Organising conferences and workshops: Clench organised six one-day BMSS meetings at
 SHU on Mass Spectrometry Imaging (each attracting >100 delegates). Francese, scientific
 committee at the OurCon conference of the Mass Spectrometry Imaging Society (Saint Malo,
 France, 2019). Cross N, co-organiser, British Association for Cancer Research 3D cell culture
 workshop (Nottingham, 2017). Le Maitre, co-organiser, Spine Research Interest group,
 Orthopaedic Research Society Conference, San Diego; Lead organiser, Society of Back Pain
 Research, Sheffield (2019). Schwartz-Narbonne organised international workshop on Anammox
 Bacteria during Environmental Change (Newcastle, 2019). Stafford and Kelly hosted Northern
 Vascular Biology Forum at SHU in 2019.

 Selected conference oral presentations: Bradshaw, BMSS Environmental & Food Analysis
 Special Interest Group (Manchester, 2019). Bricklebank, BBSRC Metals in Biology NIBB
 (Durham, 2016). Campbell, Translation UK (2015, 2018 and 2019); Clench, Invited Talks at
 meetings in the UK, Europe, China and Panama, including NC3Rs workshop on human tissue
 models for cancer research (London, 2017). Francese, prominent presentations, UK, Europe and
 Australia, including Biological Mass Spectrometry Discussion Group (London, 2014, awarded
 "Most valued talk"), Invited Opening Lecture, Royal Society of Chemistry Analytical Forum
 ("Cracking crime with Lasers" London, 2016), Plenary, Australia and New Zealand Forensic
 Society (2018). Hamilton, Invited Oral Presentation, Midlands Computational Chemistry Meeting
 (2017). Le Maitre, Invited presentations UK, Europe and USA, Keynote, SILBERSALZ Industry
 Conference, Germany (2018); Philadelphia Spine Research Society (USA, 2019); Keynote,
 Society of Back Pain Research (Netherlands, 2019). Leyland, Invited Speaker, Transregional B
 Cell Winter Immunology School, Germany (2019). Nichol, British Council UK-Russia Workshop
 on biomaterials, Lancaster (2019). Peake, Session Chair, UK Extracellular Vesicle Society
 (UKEV) Forum (2018); Princivalle Invited Speaker, "GABAB conference 2018", Italy. Smith T,
 C1-EU annual meetings; GCRF-funded collaborative meeting on environmental technology
 (Coimbatore, India, 2019). Woodroofe, MS Frontiers, Bath (2019).

 Invited departmental and other seminars: Aberdein: Mississippi. Campbell: Trinity College
 Dublin, Manchester, Babraham Institute. Clench: Hull, CRUK Barts. Smith D: “The Dual Role of
 the Academic” Advance HE on-line, >400 attendees. Smith T: East Anglia, Queen’s Belfast,
 Oxford Brookes. Stafford: Buffalo (USA).

 Journal editor and editorial board positions: Androgens (Kelly); Biomaterials Science (Le
 Maitre); Chemosensors (Gardiner); FEMS Microbiology Letters (Nichol); Human Reproduction
 (Laird); Neuroscience Letters (Dalton); JOR Spine (Le Maitre, advisory panel); Journal of Medical
 Microbiology (Miller); Proteomics (Clench); Science and Justice (Francese); Scientific Reports
 (Clench, Le Maitre, Smith T).

 Reviewing: Staff review for funders, including: BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, Innovate UK, Wellbeing
 for Women, Bowel Research UK, MS Society, AISM (Italian MS Society), Mitacs (Canada),
 Ministry of Science & Technology (Israel), and journals including PNAS, Nature Communications,
 PLOS One, Amer J Resp Crit Care Med, Seizures, Human Brain Mapping, ISME Journal, Appl
 Environ Microbiol.



                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prizes: Whilst working at MedImmune, Leyland received the Global Scientific Breakthrough of
 the Year award (2016). Aberdein won the APSselect award (2018) of the American Physiological
 Society for distinction in scholarship for an original article (Amer J Physiol
 10.1152/ajpregu.00287.2017).




                                                                                      Page 20
