Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 15 (Archaeology)

 2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Established in 2007, Archaeology at the University of Aberdeen (UoA) has grown rapidly and
 achieved many notable grant, publication and impact successes (see below). This success has
 come about despite the small size of the unit – averaging six FTE in the early part of the census
 period and increasing to ten (8 permanent, two fixed term, plus six postdoctoral researchers) at
 the census date. Our research vision centres on strengthening our distinctive research profile
 which focuses on the global Archaeology of the North and Bioarchaeological Science, leading to
 a wide global reach and research relevance (Figure 1). Our main research themes focus on:

 The North: Aberdeen and Scotland are gateways to a vast region that extends across the
 northernmost third of the globe, generally marginal and cold-climate settings, and our research
 encompasses specialisms in Scotland and the North Atlantic, Scandinavia, North America and
 Northern Eurasia. Research areas include indigenous and community archaeology (Hillerdal,
 Oliver); early medieval kingship (Noble); Arctic archaeology (Hillerdal, Britton, Knecht);
 kinship and mortuary practices amongst the early farming communities in the north (Crozier,
 Flink, Oxenham); the earliest settlement of the North (principally Northern Europe and Russia
 (Britton and Dinnis); landscapes and mobility in Mongolia and northern China (Wright); ancient
 health, diet, disease, demography and mobility (Oxenham, Britton); and cultural heritage and
 politics of the north, particularly that of far right groups (Niklasson). Research in these areas
 has been funded by the AHRC, NERC, The Leverhulme Trust, international funding bodies and
 by philanthropic donations.




 Figure 1: Research areas, field and lab sample sites and institutional collaborations of the Aberdeen group
 (Aberdeen=red dot)

 Bioarchaeological Science: Bioarchaeological Science at Aberdeen seeks a better
 understanding past human and animal populations, human-animal-environmental relationships,
 change in past health, economies and socio-cultural behaviours. We have expertise in a range
 of specialist methods, including stable isotopes (Britton), ancient DNA (Flink) and
 osteoarchaeology (Oxenham, Flink, Crozier), making us a centre for multi-proxy
 bioarchaeological research. Specific research areas include herbivore palaeoecology in Late
 Pleistocene Europe (Britton); the bioarchaeology of early to high medieval northern Europe
 (Britton); precontact Arctic diet, subsistence and animal-human relationships (Britton);

                                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reconstruction of health from human skeletal and dental remains and forensic anthropology
 (Oxenham); the bioarchaeology of care (Oxenham, Crozier); palaeodemography and human
 mobility (Oxenham) and (palaeo)genetics (Flink). The application of palynology, non-pollen
 microfossils and geochemistry is also facilitated through collaboration with colleagues in
 geography and postdoctoral positions within archaeology (Mighall, Schofield; postdoctoral
 students on Comparative Kingship; Alaska). Research in these areas has been funded by the
 AHRC, Leverhulme Trust and the British Academy.

 The Unit focuses on addressing major international issues in interdisciplinary ways within the
 context of the overall institutional strategy Aberdeen 2040 (see REF5a). Topics of research
 include palaeo-migration and identity; colonialism; indigenous issues and identities; climate
 change and human-environment interactions; the rise of hierarchical social relations and human
 health and care through time. Since REF2014, our research income has substantially increased
 (with over GBP3.4 million research spend in the current cycle) and our awards have included the
 first ever Leverhulme Leadership Award at the University of Aberdeen (Noble, 2017-22); the
 largest ever AHRC grant to the university awarded to Knecht, Hillerdal and Britton (2013-18)
 (delivered largely in the current assessment period); the first ever British Academy Global
 Professorship awarded to archaeology (Oxenham, 2020-24), a Leverhulme Major Fellowship
 (Knecht), and recently, a Philip Leverhulme Prize in Archaeology (Britton), along with a series
 of other grants and philanthropic donations. Our success has grown from a strong culture of
 research mentorship within the department and a concerted team effort to grow income and
 research specialisms through collaboration. The projects highlighted demonstrate the integration
 of the department's foci in the global north and bioarchaeology. They also demonstrate
 adherence to the university’s interdisciplinary and international ethos, involving colleagues from
 a range of disciplines internally (Biological Sciences, Zoology, History, Education, Anthropology)
 and externally (see partnerships below, and Figure 1). Archaeology at Aberdeen has been
 included in the top 100 in the QS World rankings, the highest ranked department of our size
 (nearly all are at least twice the size of Aberdeen) and we also consistently outperform larger
 departments in national UK rankings (e.g. ranking 12th out of 32 departments in the latest
 Complete University Guide, with 96% for research intensity). At the last REF we were ranked the
 top research department within Scotland and 13th in the UK despite the department only being
 established in 2007.

 Over the next five years two current Leverhulme grants will be brought to fruition (PleistoHERD;
 Britton and Comparative Kingship; Noble); the AHRC follow-on funding (Hillerdal, “Living
 Heritage Workshops”; GBP27K) has enabled new phases of the prestigious AHRC Alaska
 project, an initiative bolstered by the recent award of a Leverhulme Major Fellowship to Knecht
 (“Yup’ik culture before contact”; GBP57K 2020-23) and a grant to provide a digital museum for
 the Nunalleq collection (Hillerdal, “Nunalleq Culture and Archaeology Center Digital Museum”;
 GBP100K 2021-22). Oxenham’s British Academy Global Professorship (“Human Stress,
 Resilience and Adaptation in Ancient Northern Ireland and Scotland”; GBP750K) enables a
 study of human health in Scotland’s past by working with the university’s unique collections. The
 Global Professorship scheme is specifically geared towards upskilling UK academia in new
 approaches, and the position will also substantially grow the Unit’s new research focus in
 Osteoarchaeology. New grants will be delivered in the next REF period – a GBP251K grant has
 been recently awarded to Noble for a project on coastal erosion at Burghead fort, the largest
 Pictish fort of its kind (“The Citadel Project: Rescue- and Research-led Investigations at a Pictish
 Elite Centre”; Historic Environment Scotland 2021-24). With two new members of staff
 (Niklasson, Flink) and new research specialisms (cultural heritage and aDNA), we will target
 European funding for projects that look at the impact of EU funding and the far right on
 archaeology, as well as scientific and public understanding of ancient genetic data. With
 continuing access to European funding confirmed for the next five years these sources in
 particular will be targeted alongside maintaining our excellent record of UK grant capture.

 The Unit has a strong ethos of public engagement and supporting community-embedded
 research, working with schools and communities from Scotland to Alaska. Initiatives have
 included the AHRC-funded Alaska project which, in 2018, led to the opening of the Nunalleq

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Culture and Archaeology Center (NCAC) in Quinhagak Alaska – a museum and heritage centre
 established in partnership with the University and the village corporation Qanirtuuq Inc. In 2019,
 the centre was nominated by Senator Lisa Murkowski for the 2019 National Medal for Museum
 Service by the Institute of Museum and Library Services, USA. Other initiatives in Alaska have
 included cultural events and an award-winning digital education pack. The project has provided
 inspiration to award-winning film makers, authors and the community itself with the first
 traditional dances held in the village for almost 100 years and Yup’ik artists working with motifs
 and ideas inspired by finds from the dig. Hillerdal and colleagues won the Archaeological
 Institute of America Award for Outstanding Work in Digital Archaeology for the educational
 package delivered as part of the Nunalleq project.

 In the UK, the Northern Picts and Comparative Kingship projects have succeeded in showcasing
 Pictish culture with broadcast media engaging millions (e.g., BBC In Our Time over 2 million
 listeners; BBC Digging for Britain, 2 million viewers) and museum exhibitions viewed by tens of
 thousands. The Kingship project helped deliver national strategic aims, with Historic
 Environment Scotland describing the project as having “a transformative effect” on the study
 area. It provided key contributions to the “Encouraging Greater Engagement” aim of Scotland’s
 Archaeology Strategy and the HES corporate plan. The Northern Picts/Comparative Kingship
 project is nominated for research project of the year in the Current Archaeology Awards.

 The Unit has worked on publicly-facing projects funded by the Heritage Lottery fund (e.g., The
 King’s Dig; Hungry Histories and co-created research initiatives within the Aberdeenshire area
 (e.g., the Bennachie Landscape project)). The high level of public engagement is reflected by
 the fact that the University Principal’s Prize for Public Engagement has been won by three
 members of the Unit in the last seven years – Knecht (2014), Oliver (2015) and Noble (2016)
 and one of our PhD students won the early career prize in 2020 (Czére). All projects involved
 working closely with the university Public Engagement for Research Unit (see REF5a). The
 department is committed to wide dissemination of our research and profile. Britton and Wright
 run the Unit’s Twitter feed and forward stories to the school social media team. Noble runs the
 highly successful Northern Picts Facebook and Twitter accounts (over 12,000 followers) and
 recent social media accounts have been set up for the Osteoarchaeologys and aDNA labs.

 We aim to make all our research openly accessible, with project data archived with relevant
 national research repositories on completion of the work (e.g., ADS, National Record for the
 Historic Environment). A dedicated scholarly communications team in the library helps
 researchers facilitate open access publication and data dissemination (see REF5a). Popular
 versions of our research have been published online as articles (e.g., The Conversation
 podcasts; BBC History magazine podcast on the Picts; online recording of the Picts BBC Radio
 4 In Our Time) and popular books and booklets (e.g., King In the North Noble, Birlinn press –
 over 3000 copies have been sold and it reached #1 in the History of Scotland chart on Amazon).
 A blog and learning resources for schools have also been produced by the Alaska project and
 an app was produced as part of the Bennachie Landscapes project.

 We have a strong ethos of research ethics with our research involving human remains and
 collaborations with indigenous and community-based researchers. Crozier plays a leading role
 in our school ethics committee and the ethical review process for staff and students (2018- ).
 The school team is supported by the Dean of Research Governance and Cultural Strategy at the
 central University level (see REF5a). Oxenham has been involved in assessing curated human
 indigenous material in Scotland for imminent repatriation to Australia. Moreover, both Oxenham
 and Crozier have been very active in volunteering their expertise in the location, identification
 and repatriation of WWI and WWII casualties in the European and Asia-Pacific theatres of
 conflict. Oxenham received a Silver Commendation from the Deputy Chief of Army (Australia)
 for his volunteer work in this area. In our work we follow all professional standards on ethics,
 safety and conduct, and at the University all members of staff are trained in research ethics,
 equality and diversity and unconscious bias at a University and School level.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our focus on the Archaeology of the North has led to a range of major research collaborations
 with institutions of the global north, including past collaborations with the University of Hokkaido,
 Japan (Noble, Oliver, Knecht) and current collaboration with, for example, the National
 University and Academy of Sciences of Mongolia (Ulaanbaatar) and Yale University (USA)
 (Wright); collaborations with Simon Fraser University, Memorial University and Laval University,
 Canada (Britton and Oliver); the University of Uppsala, Sweden (Hillerdal, Price) and research
 institutions such as CNRS Nanterre and MPI-EVA, Leipzig (Britton). We also maintain strong
 links with numerous institutions and research organisations within Scotland and the UK (e.g., the
 Scottish Universities Environment Research Centre - SUERC). In recent years, we also
 established ongoing collaborations with the Universities of Cantabria (Britton) in Spain and now
 a growing research base in southeast Asia including Sun Yat-sen University (PRC) (Wright),
 The Institute of Archaeology, Vietnam and the Sapporo Medical University, Japan (Oxenham).
 We also collaborate with the University of Otago, New Zealand; the Australian National
 University (Oxenham); and the University of Philippines (Diliman) (Crozier, Oxenham). In
 addition, Oxenham is an Honorary Research Fellow with the International Research Center for
 Bioarchaeoloy, Jilin University, China.

 The Unit is strongly committed to supporting interdisciplinary research and leads two major
 Leverhulme funded projects involving diverse researchers including postdoctoral students in
 History and Palaeoecology (Comparative Kingship, Noble) and spatial ecologists in the case of
 PleistoHERD (Britton). Our two most recent appointments in the Unit reflect an inter- and cross-
 disciplinary ethos with new research areas in Cultural Heritage (linking with Education,
 Anthropology and History) and Biomolecular Archaeology (Biological Science, the Medical
 School and Zoology).

 3B   2. People

 Strategic investments in people have focused on both the retention and growth of talent. There
 were 6 FTE in the Unit for the majority of the assessment period, which grew to 10 FTE at the
 census date. Noble was promoted to Reader (2015) and Professor (2019) and was Head of
 Department (2016-20); Britton was promoted to Senior Lecturer (2016) and became Head of
 Department in 2020. Wright, initially hired as part of an endowment for Chinese Civilisation
 through philanthropic donations, was promoted to a permanent lectureship as part of the
 internationalisation strategy of the Department. Three new permanent appointments have been
 made since 2019 along with two major fellowships. Crozier was appointed in 2018 to provide
 expertise in osteoarchaeology and to maximise the research use of the vast osteoarchaeology
 collections held at the University’s Marischal Museum. Flink, was appointed to further promote
 research on the University collections and forge links with Biological Sciences and the Medical
 School where expertise in DNA (human and animal), anatomy and medical humanities provides
 strong synergies. Niklasson, appointed in 2020 to take up a new Lectureship in Cultural
 Heritage, enhances research links with Anthropology, Education, History and the University
 Museums Service.

 These appointments have been further strengthened by the award of the British Academy Global
 Professorship to Oxenham, one of only nine awards in 2019. Oxenham will add to the
 bioarchaeological expertise and provide new pioneering techniques utilising cutting-edge
 developments in ancient skeletal analysis to assess health and stress over the last 6,000 years.
 Oxenham along with Britton, Crozier and Flink bring together an international competitive pool
 of expertise and consolidate Aberdeen’s position as leaders in bioarchaeological research in
 Scotland. Knecht took up a three-year Major Research Fellowship (2020-23) funded by the
 Leverhulme Trust. This award brought in a three-year lectureship to the department in
 September 2020 (Dinnis). The Comparative Kingship, PleistoHERD and the Oxenham’s Global
 Professorship projects have brought eight postdoctoral positions to the department since 2017.
 These major research grants, in addition to the new lectureships, have more than doubled the
 research capacity of the department.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2013 the staffing changes have also included some departures. The founder of the
 department, Price, was awarded Distinguished Professorship (rådsprofessor) at the University
 of Uppsala, supported by the Swedish Research Council. Dobney, Head of Department until
 2016 is now Head of School at the University of Sydney, Australia. Milek moved to Durham,
 taking charge of the Geoarchaeology laboratories at the University in 2017. Our honorary staff
 members include former members of staff and postdoctoral researchers and professional
 practitioners, all of whom are providing important professional and research connections for our
 staff and students. This is testament to the collegiality and research bonds created at Aberdeen
 and provides opportunities for collaborative research and training.

 The Unit has a strong, proactive system of research development and mentorship. Research
 time is prioritised wherever possible by grouping teaching into blocks and helping colleagues
 during times when major grant and publication deadlines are due. This has included school
 funded research sabbaticals (Milek), along with externally funded research leave: Noble: AHRC
 (Forteviot monograph); Knecht: Leverhulme (Nunalleq monograph 2023); Price: Leverhulme
 (New edition of The Viking Way); Britton: Leverhulme (PleistoHERD project). Biannual research
 meetings are held with all staff members (including postdoctoral students) and the head of the
 Unit and Research Theme Leaders (currently Noble – Archaeology of the North; Britton –
 Bioarchaeological Science).

 Early career researchers have reduced teaching loads and a mentoring system with a senior
 researcher during a three-year probation period. Wherever possible, Unit funds, allocated by the
 Research Lead and Head of Department are used to support departmental research with
 consumables and lab supplies, conference attendance, image fees for publication etc. There is a
 rigorous peer review system in place with at least two staff members reviewing applications in
 addition to the Grants Academy (see REF5a), which has proved very successful in honing
 applications, leading to a high success rate for submitted applications. Annual research away
 days help promote a supportive research culture and help identify research synergies between
 staff members. Postdoctoral researchers are included in these meetings, helping to create an
 inclusive and supportive environment. Our annual reviews discuss career development, training
 and future plans.

 Annual appraisals of staff progress underpin staff development in the Unit and staff are
 encouraged to apply for promotion through the annual University application process. This has
 facilitated strong academic positions for members of staff departing the Unit and provided a
 crucial springboard for internal promotion of junior staff (i.e., promotions for Noble and Britton)
 and the completion of probation (e.g. Wright and Crozier).

 The Unit has made explicit efforts to work across disciplinary boundaries and to build
 collaborative partnerships. To that end, every member of staff has project partners within
 Aberdeen (e.g., researchers from History, Education, Anthropology, Medical School, Biological
 Sciences, Geology and Geography), and as highlighted earlier, universities and institutions
 across the world including the UK, Europe, North America and Asia.

 The Department has a 50:50 gender split amongst permanent staff (4:4), as a result of recent
 recruitment. Hillerdal is a member of the school Equality and Diversity Committee and has
 contributed to the successful Athena SWAN Bronze Award application for the School, awarded
 in 2018. In 2020, Britton became the first female Head of Department in over 100 years of
 Geoscience at Aberdeen. Teaching cover has been fully funded by the university during three
 periods of family leave within the department and teaching loads have been reduced where
 possible for returning members of staff. These measures are in line with broader university
 policy on the impacts of caring and enabling flexible work implemented through the Academic
 Line Management System (see REF5a).

 In preparing this submission, the Unit complied fully with the institutional Code of Practice and
 with the commitments we have made as a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA). Outputs were reviewed by at least two internal and/or external

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewers and selected strictly on the basis of quality. Choices between papers of equal grade
 were informed by detailed comments from the reviewers. The overall attribution profile is broadly
 balanced between male/female researchers and takes account of a number of periods of family-
 related leave.

 Research students

 The Unit has increased its number of PhD students, with 15 current students and 40 completed
 during the REF census period (Co-supervisor shares: 22.82). The Unit has an excellent track
 record of obtaining PhD funding. In the past two years alone we have had three Scottish
 Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) AHRC studentships, a Leverhulme funded
 PhD studentship, three NERC funded QUADRAT DTP studentships and a highly prestigious
 Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland studentships. All research students have a
 supervision team comprising of at least two members of academic staff who provide both
 academic and pastoral support. Students often have a second or third supervisor from a
 university or a museum-based partner (e.g., the partnership with Queen’s University Belfast
 involved in every QUADRAT studentship; supervision from National Museum Scotland, Historic
 Environment Scotland and SUERC for Leverhulme and AHRC studentships).

 Research student recruitment has focused on SGSAH opportunities; the prestigious Carnegie
 Trust for the Universities of Scotland studentships; our involvement in QUADRAT DTP (a
 partnership between the University of Aberdeen and Queen’s University Belfast) and part-funded
 studentships from Historic Environment Scotland (HES) and other industry partners. Nine of our
 current PGR students are fully funded externally by AHRC, Carnegie Trust and NERC.

 The University’s Postgraduate Research School provides a structured training framework that
 provides basic compulsory supervisor training along with masterclasses, and regular refresher
 training. The School oversees six monthly progress reviews, with each PhD student assigned a
 progress review panel when they commence their studies. Staff and students also have access
 to funding, training and support through the University Postgraduate Research School (see
 REF5a) and students (all funded and unfunded) are able access the training opportunities
 through the SGSAH and the NERC funded QUADRAT scheme. Our students have helped
 organize training events through SGSAH and QUADRAT. PhD students are strongly
 encouraged to undertake work placements, including placements at SUERC and Historic
 Environment Scotland. Historic Environment Scotland are regular contributors to PhD student
 lab costs and Dr Lisa Brown, Head of Archaeological Science at HES, acts as supervisor on two
 of our PhDs. Progression at PhD level is contingent upon achieving certain milestones such as a
 formal research presentation to the School and successful performance at progress review
 meetings. Our students comprise a good gender balance (with more female than male students
 currently) and represent a range of career stages from recent graduates to retirees.

 Through a series of agreements and other formal collaborations, the Unit has encouraged and
 implemented joint research and exchange programmes that have significantly benefited
 postgraduate students (e.g., Britton’s students and MPI-EVA, Leipzig; Noble, Britton and
 Wright joint studentships with Queen’s University Belfast). In addition, staff regularly serve as
 external supervisors on PhDs elsewhere in the UK and internationally: Wright co-supervises
 students at Birmingham, Pittsburgh (USA), McGill (Canada), Jilin University (China) and CAU
 (Kiel). Noble is external supervisor for students at Durham, Chicago (USA) and McMaster
 (Canada). Britton is currently supervising external students in Liverpool and Paris (Sorbonne);
 Crozier supervises two students and Oxenham is the primary supervisor of six PhD students at
 The ANU (Australia). Flink serves as main supervisor for a student at Liverpool John Moores
 University. Our interdisciplinary agenda is also articulated in the studentships that have been co-
 supervised (and in some case jointly funded) across the disciplines within the School and other
 disciplines in Aberdeen (e.g., Anthropology, Biology and Education).

 Research students are regularly embedded within wider research projects, for example,
 Comparative Kingship, Northern Picts and PleistoHERD. They also have equal access to Unit

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research resources such as the Osteoarchaeology lab at Marischal Museum and aDNA, isotope
 and faunal labs within St Mary’s Building. Being associated with these projects has brought
 opportunities for placements abroad, including research visits to Memorial University
 Newfoundland and MPI-EVA, Leipzig.

 Almost all our students incorporate lab or field-based work that has marked Aberdeen graduates
 out in a competitive job market with many of the recent graduates walking straight into
 postdoctoral studentships or commercial archaeology positions. Many of our PhD students have
 gone on to successful academic and professional careers, for example, lectureships in
 Stavanger (Mooney), postdoctoral positions in Aarhus (Wouters), SUERC University of Glasgow
 (Stratigos); commercial archaeology senior positions (Christie, Hatherley, Mitchell); and the third
 sector, for example, CEO at YWCA Scotland – The Young Women’s Movement (Kupiec). Two of
 our graduates have been appointed to tenure-track posts at Memorial University (Forbes, Ledger
 (Palaeoecology) and two others have gone onto public archaeology roles in Scotland (Linsday,
 Perth & Kinross Heritage Trust; Carlisle, Aberdeen Museums Service).

 Almost every week during term time talks are organised through the Department of Archaeology
 Northern Archaeology Seminar Series (NARSS), featuring national and international invited
 speakers. Final year undergraduate students also present at NARSS. Through our hosting of the
 Society of Antiquaries Northeast branch, we also facilitate networking for our staff and students
 with archaeology professionals and enthusiasts across Scotland and beyond. Our students are
 also encouraged to develop new research trajectories and applications, including developing
 successful small grant applications (e.g., Postdoc Masson-MacLean, AEA small grant holder)
 and outreach activities, including programmes of Heritage Lottery-funded events (e.g., PhD
 Czere, Hungry Histories). Our students are supported by the university’s Public Engagement
 with Research Unit (see REF5a) in developing outreach activities, including participating in the
 British Science Festival, May Festival, European Researchers Night and “Cell Block Science” –
 an initiative educating prison inmates in the region.

 4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  i.    Income
 The unit has seen significant growth in research spend during the census period and since the
 last REF (again factoring in that we were 6 FTE until recently). Over the last seven years the
 Unit’s research spend was over GBP3.4 million). Research income is vital to the sustainability of
 the Unit, and grant acquisition and funding strategy is supported by R&I’s Grants Academy (see
 REF5a), and dedicated support by a Business Development Officer. The Grants Academy
 makes available pump priming for interdisciplinary and knowledge exchange activities; for
 example, Hillerdal was recipient of a pump priming award in 2016; and in 2015 Dobney
 received funds to explore research synergies with medical mycologists.

 Successful major awards include: the first ever Leadership Award for the university, awarded to
 Noble from the Leverhulme Trust for an interdisciplinary project examining early medieval
 polities in Scotland and Ireland (‘Comparative Kingship: the early medieval kingdoms of northern
 Britain and Ireland’, 2017–22; GBP970K). For an archaeological and palaeoecological study of
 the Picts Noble has received income (‘Northern Picts’, 2012– ; GBP500K+) from private
 donations and from Historic Environment Scotland. In 2020 Noble was awarded GBP251,149
 from Historic Environment Scotland to tackle climate change-induced erosion at the iconic
 Pictish fort of Burghead with an important programme of excavation and public engagement
 (“The Citadel Project: Rescue- and Research-led Investigations at a Pictish Elite Centre”, 2021–
 24). Knecht, Britton and Hillerdal were awarded GBP1.1.m from the AHRC to enable research
 on a settlement in Alaska during the Little Ice Age. The Alaska project has led to follow-on
 funding for Britton and Hillerdal (GBP140K), and most recently, GBP100K has been awarded
 to Hillerdal (“Nunalleq Culture and Archaeology Center Digital Museum”, 2021–22). GBP287K
 was awarded to Britton and Wright for herbivore ecologies in the Late Pleistocene
 (PleistoHERD, 2018–22), an inter-disciplinary project that involves international collaborations.
 Knecht began a three-year Leverhulme Major Fellowship (“Yup’ik culture before contact”,2020–

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 23; GBP57K) in July 2020 to bring the internationally important excavations and finds
 assemblage from Nunalleq, Alaska to publication. The prestigious British Academy Global
 Professorship (Oxenham, “Human Stress, Resilience and Adaptation in Ancient
 NorthernGBPIreland and Scotland”, 2019–23; GBP750K), will involve the first ever multi-period
 study of human health in Scotland’s past. Oxenham’s British Academy Project utilises the rich
 collections of human remains at the University of Aberdeen along with collections from regional
 and national museums in Ireland and Scotland.

 Aberdeen researchers also play major roles in projects with PIs in international institutions.
 Wright, for example, is funded as part of the AHRC Understanding Cities in Premodern
 Northeast Asia Project based at the University of Birmingham (GBP243K, GBP130K to
 Aberdeen); was a co-director of the SSHRC (Canadian) funded Kitan-Liao Archaeology and
 History Project based at McGill University; and director of the Dornod Mongol Survey, conducted
 in collaboration with the Archaeology Department of the Mongolian Academy of Sciences
 Institute of History and Yale University. Funding for this collaboration is provided primarily by the
 National Endowment for the Humanities (USA: $221K). Oxenham has been appointed to the
 External Advisory Board of The Baikal Archaeology Project (Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council of Canada, C$2.5m, 2018-2025). The research talent and innovation amongst
 the Unit’s researchers was further confirmed by the award of a prestigious Philip Leverhulme
 Prize in Archaeology to Britton (GBP100K).

  ii. Infrastructure and facilities

 The Unit has seen significant institutional investment in new labs on campus and at a new
 development at Marischal College in the city centre. Support from the AHRC Alaska grant
 enabled a brand-new lab to be equipped with significant cold storage and conservation
 equipment and consumables. The estimated 100,000 piece assemblage from the Nunalleq site
 that has unprecedented preservation of artefacts and ecofacts including world class examples of
 masks, dolls, grass basketry and hunting equipment from pre-contact Alaska, was conserved in
 Aberdeen before being returned to the Nunalleq community at the purpose-built Nunalleq
 Culture and Archaeology Center (NCAC) in Quinhagak Alaska.

 Crozier’s appointment represents significant investment in establishing the Marischal College
 Museum Resource Centre for the study of the university’s extensive human remains collections
 with the Marischal Osteoarchaeology Research and Teaching Lab (MORTL). Within MORTL the
 University’s collections of over 1,000 human skeletons, one of the largest collections in Scotland,
 forms a unique focus for research initiatives. The lab includes a dedicated osteology processing
 room (specialist wash, dry and curation facilities) as well as benching, microscopes and skeletal
 recording setups. Additional repurposed facilities include a series of research spaces (for PGR,
 Post-doctoral students and visiting scholars) that are shared between archaeology and other
 departments (e.g., Anthropology and Education). Crozier has doubled the teaching and research
 collections with two nationally significant medieval assemblages from Aberdeen and Perth
 added to the collections since 2018 (MNI=1100).

 On the Old Aberdeen campus researchers have access to several dedicated labs and
 workspaces. These include an isotope preparation facility, zooarchaeology lab, pollen
 preparation lab, soil processing lab and two dedicated artefact processing rooms. The
 zooarchaeology lab has extensive reference collections from both University museum collections
 and donated collections (e.g., Professor Keith Dobney’s personal collection built up over 40
 years). This is one of the most comprehensive zoological comparative reference collections for
 the analysis of archaeological bone assemblages in the UK and includes wild and domesticate
 mammals and birds, fish and amphibians as well as teaching and research faunal material.

 Flink’s appointment resulted in the setting up of an Ancient DNA laboratory, the only example in
 Scotland. The dedicated ancient DNA (and low copy DNA) facility is accessible for staff and
 students across the University via links to the Centre for Genome-Enabled Biology and
 Medicine. The aDNA lab has two dedicated UV-enabled ISO Class-4 cabinets, one UV-enabled

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 still air PCR cabinet and the capabilities to extract DNA directly from bone, soil, sediments or
 other similarly sensitive materials. The laboratory is Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS)-
 enabled, meaning that researchers can go through the process from sample to DNA extraction
 to sequencing-ready NGS libraries in-house. Some of the projects using this facility to date
 include Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) of single cell archaea, WGS of herbarium samples,
 rRNA gene amplicon sequencing of non-modern stool samples, fish vertebrae, organic temper
 and reindeer DNA and WGS of ancient DNA from pigs.

 The Archaeological Chemistry (Isotope) Laboratories were established in Aberdeen by Britton
 in 2010 and consist of three connected dry and wet laboratories for the preparation of
 archaeological skeletal materials and soft tissues ahead of multi-isotope analysis. This includes
 facilities for micro-drilling, sample cleaning, demineralisation, filtration, freeze drying and
 weighing out samples ahead of analysis. The Isotope Group also makes use of a shared HF-
 approved facility in the same building (the pollen lab) to undertake phosphate precipitations
 ahead of oxygen isotope analysis, and the trace element facilities in the Department of
 Chemistry. Mass spectrometry is carried out in-house in the School of Biological Sciences
 (carbon, nitrogen), as well as at Britton’s secondary affiliation in Leipzig, Germany (strontium,
 oxygen), at SUERC (carbon, nitrogen, sulphur) or with key collaborating institutes (e.g.,
 Memorial University, Newfoundland; laser ablation strontium). Use of these facilities often
 includes training, and PGRs from the isotope group undertake secondments for mass
 spectrometry or are trained in-house.

 Archaeology staff and postdoctoral students also make use of the School pollen prep lab that
 houses a series of Nikon E600, E400 and E200 high-magnification binocular microscopes and
 Nikon SMZs for microfossils, macrofossils and insect identification. The Unit also has access to
 a new range of digital microscopes, a portable Xrf and a SEM shared with the School of
 Biological Sciences.

 The Unit includes very active fieldworkers and has access to a dedicated field equipment room
 that includes full digging and post-excavation kits. The Unit has also invested in a broad
 spectrum of geophysical equipment including a resistivity meter (Geoscan), magnetomery array
 (Bartington), and recently acquired a Sensys MAGNETO® MXPDA cart-based magnetometer
 system equipped with a RTK DGPS. This is the most advanced magnetometer system on the
 market, the only one in Scotland and the only university-based setup in the UK. We also have
 access to a laser scanner and Ground Penetrating radar setup through our geology colleagues.
 Within the department there is a high-quality geomatics setup with a Phantom 4 and Mavic
 drones with full licences for photogrammetry, GIS and image processing.

 5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 6B   i     Collaboration

 Northern Archaeology: Knecht, Hillerdal and Knecht have a series of community and
 7B




 academic collaborations as part of the Nunalleq project. This includes academic institutions who
 provided in-kind funding and analyses as part of the initial large AHRC project (e.g. UBC and
 Memorial University, Canada); formal partnerships with CNRS-Nanterre, France and the
 University of Copenhagen, Demark as part of the AHRC-LabEX follow-on project (Britton),
 which brought together techno-culture and bioarchaeological specialists; and an ongoing
 partnership with the University of Dundee, UK, on the AHRC-funded Digital Museum (Hillerdal).




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Noble’s Comparative Kingship project collaborates with SUERC on radiocarbon dating, and
 8B




 with Queen’s University Belfast and University College Dublin on internationally significant early
 royal sites in Ireland and Scotland. The Royal Residences Network (AHRC funded; Noble Co-I
 with Thomas, University of Reading) involved scholars across the UK, Western Europe and
 Scandinavia. Looking east, Wright is Co-PI of several collaborations in Asia including the
 medieval focused Understanding Cities in Premodern Northeast Asia Project with Prof. Naomi
 Standen (Birmingham) this collaboration has included colleagues from McGill University
 (Canada), Jilin University (PRC), the Inner Mongolian Provincial Archaeological Institute (PRC)
 and the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Wright is also one of three directors of the
 Bronze and Iron Age centred Dornod Mongol Survey, working with the Archaeology Department
 of the Mongolian Academy of Sciences, the National University of Mongolia, Yale University,
 University of Texas (both USA), Trent University (Canada) and Christian Albrechts Universität
 Kiel (Germany). Wright and the DMS also contribute to the ERC funded ASIAPAST project
 based at Kiel and is a principal member of the Chengdu Plain Archaeological Project in in PR
 China, working with Flad, Harvard University (USA) and Academica Sinica (ROC), examining
 the emergence of complex society in China’s most fertile region. He is Assistant Director of the
 Keros-Naxos Seaways project led by Renfrew (University of Cambridge) examining landscapes
 and seascapes in the Aegean. Wright also collaborates with Jackson (University of Cincinnati,
 USA) on spatial archaeology of small-scale settlements in Maya Mesomarica. In Scandinavia,
 Niklasson facilitated exchanges with the Norwegian Institute of Cultural Heritage Research
 (Hølleland) and the Centre for Critical Heritage Studies at Stockholm University, Sweden
 (Källén). Her long-time collaboration with Hølleland focuses on method development in heritage
 studies and heritage policies of Scandinavian far-right political parties. Work with Källén looks at
 the development a new international research centre for critical heritage studies. In North
 America, Flink is working with Forbes and Ledger (Memorial University, Canada) on
 excavations at the World Heritage site of L’Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland, Canada.
 Knecht, Hillerdal and Britton have a wide collaborative network for Nunalleq, both for the initial
 AHRC-funded project (e.g. UBC; Memorial University) and for AHRC-LabEX/AHRC-funded
 follow-on projects (e.g. CNRS-Nanterre, France; the University of Copenhagen, Demark;
 University of Dundee UK).

 Within our Bioarchaeology theme our collaborations include, through Britton, a long-term
 9B




 collaboration with the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology (MPI-EVA) in Leipzig,
 Germany, where she works on a range of projects around French and German Palaeolithic sites
 and the co-establishment of an oxygen isotope research group. Flink is working on ancient DNA
 of wolves and dogs and Pictish genomes as part of a collaborative network that includes the
 Centre for Paleogenetics (Sweden), and the Crick Institute (UK). He is also collaborating with
 Larson (University of Oxford) and Frantz (Queen Mary University) on pig domestication and wild
 boar genomics on a Leverhulme/British Academy grant. Leverhulme funded PleistoHERD
 project (Britton PI, Wright Co-I) involves partnerships with the University of Leiden
 (Netherlands), the Natural History Museum, Paris and the University of Bordeaux (both France).
 The project links to Palaeolithic field projects led by the MPI-EVA. Further links with Grimes
 (Memorial University, Canada) have led to exchanges of PhD students. PleistoHERD has
 brought together community and spatial ecologists who work with modern animals (University of
 Quebec, Canada) and archaeologists. Britton’s ALLY project (funded by AHRC and LABEX) is
 also uniquely collaborative involving Co-PIs in France and the UK and the mutual access to
 bioarchaeological collections from Nunalleq. In East Asia, Oxenham has extensive collaborative
 networks in East Asia (China and Japan), Southeast Asia (Philippines and Vietnam primarily)
 and Australasia. He also has collaborative links with the Department of Scottish History and
 Archaeology, National Museums Scotland and the University of the Highlands and Islands. His
 establishment of research hubs, such as the Centre for Palaeodemography and
 Palaeoeipdemiolgy, are attracting students to the UK for Scottish focussed research projects. He
 has recently co-established a Centre for Osteoarchaeology in the North Atlantic (CONA), run by
 the University of Aberdeen, Queens University Belfast, and the Australian National University.

 10B   ii   Contribution to the economy and society


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research involves active engagement with community groups in the UK and indigenous
 11B




 groups in North America. As part of their Alaska project Knecht, Hillerdal and Britton have
 been collaborating since 2009 with Native Corporation Qanirtuuq Inc. and the indigenous Yup’ik
 village of Quinhagak, focusing on recovering archaeological material from an endangered
 archaeological site. The collection is now the largest collection of pre-contact material ever
 recovered from Alaska and contains many spectacular art pieces and internationally important
 artefacts and ecofacts, which prompted the nomination in 2019 for the 2019 National Medal for
 the subsequent housing of the collection in Quinhagak. Knecht also co-directs the newly
 established culture and archaeological centre in Quinhagak which serves as a remote research
 station every summer for students from Aberdeen and beyond.

  In the UK, Oliver has built a sustained relationship with the Bailies of Bennachie, a local
 12B




 community group, leading the Bennachie Landscapes project, now in its ninth year. The project
 focuses on the historical archaeology and archival history of Aberdeenshire’s most iconic
 landform: the hill of Bennachie. As a community heritage project, it serves as a testing ground to
 develop and critically reflect on issues around co-production and interdisciplinarity. Follow on
 funding from the AHRC and Heritage Lottery Fund has enabled engagement with the wider
 community through a series of public events on and off the hill. This has included formal
 relationships with Aberdeenshire School Groups, Artists, the Aberdeenshire Polish Community,
 the Garrioch Heritage Society as well as individual members of the public. The Northern Picts
 project and Comparative Kingship projects run by Noble also have an active community element
 that has led to a growing sense of place, has encouraged creative engagement with the past
 and helped deliver national strategic aims on encouraging greater engagement. The Northern
 Picts project has collaborated with the National Museum Scotland (NMS) on research which
 recovered the northernmost pre-Viking Age hacksilver hoard known in Europe and local and
 national exhibitions (the latter organised by NMS) have been seen by tens of thousands of
 people.

  Our collaborations have entailed working with local and national government. Crozier and
 13B




 Oxenham work with Unrecovered War Casualties-Army (UWC-A), Australia, in Papua New
 Guinea and France, recovering soldiers from WW2 and WWI for reinternment in Commonwealth
 cemeteries. Knecht collaborates with the Palau Bureau of Arts and Culture, working closely in
 developing preservation and research of archaeological sites on the Palau archipelago. This
 has resulted in two major surveys undertaken by Aberdeen, National Parks Authority USA and
 Palauan teams of WWII sites on Peleliu, two survey reports, several publications and numerous
 meeting presentations. Knecht reviews BAC professional reports made annually to their
 funders, the U.S. National Park Service. We also work with city councils and museums; Britton
 and Crozier provide advice on sampling strategies and collections curation and have
 undertaken consultancy work for commercial companies (AOC Archaeology, Headland
 Archaeology). Oxenham has been involved in the process for eventual repatriation of Australian
 indigenous remains from UK host museums back to Australia.


 14B   iii   Contribution to the Research Base

 International standing: Our international standing is reflected in a number of honorary positions
 held by Aberdeen staff. Oxenham is an Honorary Research Fellow at the Jilin University
 International Research Center for Bioarchaeoloy, China. Britton is an Associate Research
 Scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig, Germany (2010-
 present). Crozier is a Research Associate at the National Museum of the Philippines and
 Affiliate scholar at the Archaeological Studies Program – University of the Philippines (UP-ASP).
 Flink is an Honorary Visiting Researcher Liverpool John Moores. Knecht (2016-present) is
 Research Fellow at the Museum of the Aleutians, Unalaska, Alaska. We also maintain
 international connections through our honorary appointments which includes Professor Keith
 Dobney (Sydney), Professor Neil Price (Uppsala), Dr Véronique Forbes (Memorial); Professor T.
 Douglas Price (UW-Madison); Dr Karen Milek (Durham).


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Prizes and Awards:
 15B




 Our researchers have been nominated for, and won, a number of prizes and awards. Britton
 won a ‘Phillip Leverhulme Prize’ in Archaeology in 2019 and Oxenham received a Silver
 Commendation from Deputy Chief of Army (Australia) for his volunteer work in repatriation of
 WWI and WWII casualties. The Nunalleq Cultural Resource Centre was nominated in 2019 by
 the Senator Lisa Murkowski for the 2019 National Medal for Museum Service by the Institute of
 Museum and Library Services and in 2020 Hillerdal and colleagues won the Archaeological
 Institute of America Award for Outstanding Work in Digital Archaeology for the educational
 website delivered as part of the Nunalleq project. The Northern Picts/Comparative Kingship
 project has been nominated for research project of the year in the Current Archaeology Awards
 (results awaited).


  Academic conferences and events: Our Unit has been involved in organizing a number of
 16B




 high impact conferences at Aberdeen and beyond including ‘Society for East Asian Archaeology,
 7th Worldwide Conference’, Cambridge/Boston, USA, 2016 (Wright); ‘XIV Nordic Theoretical
 Archaeology Group’, Stockholm 2014 (Niklasson); and ‘Polarized Pasts: Heritage and political
 polarization in Europe and the United States’, Stanford Archaeology Center 2019 (Niklasson).
 Sessions at major conferences have included at the ‘International Union for Quaternary
 Research’, Dublin 2019 (Britton); ‘European Association for Archaeologists’, Glasgow 2015
 (Noble; Niklasson), Vilnius 2016 (Britton), Maastricht 2017 (Niklasson); Bern 2019
 (Niklasson, Noble); ‘Society of American Archaeology Meetings’, San Francisco 2015
 (Hillerdal), Vancouver 2017 (Wright); ‘XIV Nordic Theoretical Archaeology Group’, Stockholm
 2014 (Niklasson); ‘8th Worldwide Conference’, Nanjing, China 2018 (Wright). Noble organised
 the AHRC funded ‘Late Neolithic Britain and Ireland’ symposium, University of Aberdeen, 2014,
 and an AHRC funded Network Grant ‘Royal Residences’ with three meetings and over 20
 international participants.

  Editorships: Colleagues also serve on a range of editorial boards. These include the Asian
 17B




 Archaeology (Springer) review board (Wright), and editorial board (Oxenham); Archaeology of
 East Asia Series at British Archaeological Reports editorial board (Wright); Mediterranean
 Archaeology and Archaeometry editorial board (Britton); Anthropological Science (Japan)
 associate editor (Oxenham); and Science of Human History in Asia and the Pacific (Springer)
 founding member and editorial board (Oxenham); ‘Open Archaeology’ editorial board (Crozier).
 Our palaeoecology colleagues in geography are also on the editorial boards for Environmental
 Archaeology (Mighall and Schofield).

  Peer review: Researchers within the unit have reviewed for many of the leading journals in the
 18B




 field including: American Anthropologist; American Antiquity; Antiquity, Anthropozoolica;
 Archaeology in Oceania, Archaeometry; Archaeological Research from Cambridge;
 Archaeological Research in Asia; Asian Perspectives; Big Data & Society; Current Anthropology;
 Environmental Archaeology; Frontiers; Germania; International Journal of Heritage Studies;
 International Journal of Osteoarchaeology; Journal of Anthropological Archaeology; Journal of
 Archaeological and Anthropological Sciences; Journal of Archaeological Research; Journal of
 Archaeological Science; Journal of Field Archaeology; Journal of Cultural Policy; Journal of
 Human Evolution; Journal of Social Archaeology; Nature; PLoS ONE; Political and Legal
 Anthropology; Primitive Tider; Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences; Quaternary
 International; Quaternary Research; The Holocene; Vegetation History and Archaeobotany.

  Our researchers review grant applications for: AHRC, NERC, Leverhulme and Wellcome (UK);
 19B




 the NSF (USA); Austrian and Belgium Science Funds; Kazakhstan National Science
 Foundation; ICOMOS World Heritage Panel; Nordic Research Council and Riksbanken Sweden.
 Britton is a member of the AHRC’s Peer Review College (2016-present). Noble is on the review
 panel for the Swedish Riksbankens Jubileumsfon and the Norwegian Research Council and has
 served as reviewer for the Irish and Romanian Research Councils. Oxenham is a reviewer for
 the British Academy’s Knowledge Frontiers 2021 programme.


                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internationalisation: Our researchers have a wide range of international appointments and
 20B




 responsibilities. Oliver is on the standing committee for the Contemporary and Historical
 Archaeology in Theory (CHAT) (2007 – present); and Vice Chair of the Aberdeen and Northeast
 Section of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland (2015-present); Knecht is Vice-chair of the
 Peleliu War Historical Society (2004-present); Technical Advisor and Reviewer, Archaeology
 and Ethnography (2014-present), Palau Bureau of Arts and Culture, U.S. National Park Service;
 Vice-Chair, Qanirtuuq Heritage Inc. (2017-present), Alaska; Board Member, Yupiit Piciryarait
 Museum, Bethel, Alaska (2018-present); and co-director of the Nunalleq Culture and
 Archaeological Center, Quinhagak, Alaska (2017-present). Crozier is a Research Associate at
 the National Museum of the Philippines and Affiliate scholar at the Archaeological Studies
 Program – University of the Philippines (UP-ASP). Oliver, Noble, Britton, Oxenham and
 Crozier are Fellows of the Scottish Society of Antiquaries (Elected). Oxenham is a Fellow of the
 Australian Academy of the Humanities.

  Keynotes and invited lectures: Colleagues are regularly invited to give lectures at
 21B




 international conferences and events. These include: Oxenham: 58 conference presentations
 since 2014, including 14 invited or keynote, at academic institutions/venues in Cambodia,
 Vietnam, the Philippines, Indonesia, Vanuatu, Taiwan, China, the UK, France, Croatia, Australia,
 New Zealand, and the US. Britton: More than 20 podium presentations since 2014, including
 talks at national and international congress, scientific meetings, and talks at diverse universities,
 museums, and societies. This includes 14 invited/keynote presentations, including at
 international archaeological and ecological conferences (e.g. INQUA, Dublin 2019; FAS,
 Vancouver 2018), international funded network meetings (Montreal; Brighton), and invited talks
 at UK and international universities and research institutes (e.g. Exeter, Liverpool, Durham,
 James Hutton Institute, Santander, Toulouse, Mainz, MPI-EVA) and societies (e.g. the Pictish
 Arts Society; Glasgow Archaeological Society). Noble: over 100 public engagement talks during
 the census period to local and national archaeological societies; over a dozen invited talks and
 has organized a AHRC funded symposium on the Late Neolithic of Britain and Ireland (2014).
 Wright: 12 invited or keynote speaking engagements since 2014 including conferences at
 Renmin University (Beijing) and Bonn University (Germany) as well as Oxford, Durham and
 Glasgow. Hebrew University (Israel), Denver Museum of Nature and Science (USA).
  Niklasson: invited contributions: three lectures, five talks, four expert panels, and six invited
 22B




 conference presentations, delivered in Sweden, UK, Italy, Switzerland, Turkey, USA, and China.
 Of specific note is the invited talk at Anamed, Koç University, in Istanbul October 2018, at the
 event ‘Heritage Conversations’, and the invited contribution to the European Journal of
 Archaeology’s special session ‘Populism, Identity Politics and the Archaeology of Europe’ at the
 EAA in Bern, September 2019. Crozier: 10 conference presentations and five invited lectures
 since 2014, organised and ran the international conference “Human Osteoarchaeology in
 Southeast Asia and the Pacific”, in 2016. Knecht: 15 invited and/or keynote lectures and 11
 conference papers since 2014. Highlights are the 3rd Annual Sune Lindqvist Lecture at the
 University of Uppsala, the Burch Memorial Lecture at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington
 D.C. and a seminar at the Scott Polar Institute in Cambridge. Flink: seven conference
 presentations and four invited talks; co-organizing the 7th meeting of the ICAZ Archaeozoology
 and the BABAO Conference, Liverpool (2017). Invited lectures at Liverpool, Edinburgh and
 Stockholm; an invited keynote talk at Aykut Kence Evolution Conference, METU, Ankara,
 Turkey, 2018. Hillerdal: six conference presentations and organised three conference sessions
 (EAA, SAA), eight invited contributions including two invited conference presentations, one
 workshop, and five seminar series presentations, delivered in Sweden, USA, and the UK.
 Oliver: 11 conference papers, of which six invited speaking engagements since 2014, including
 conferences at Vancouver and Quebec City (Canada), Schwerin (Germany), Reykjavik (Iceland)
 as well as Sheffield, Glasgow, Kirkwall and Aberdeen.




                                                                                              Page 13
