Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment: 17 - Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The University of Chichester (UoC) Business School is located in the newly-built Tech Park of
 the Bognor Regis Campus. It was formed in 2002, under the auspices of the University’s
 Department of Childhood, Social Work and Social Care, with three degree routes, and became
 the School for Enterprise Management and Leadership in 2010, following investment from the
 South East Economic Development Agency. In 2015 it became the Business School.

 We are a small Unit, comprising 17 full-time teaching and research staff, alongside associate
 staff members who primarily support teaching. Our focus in research, teaching and in the
 community is on delivering real-world improvements and impact in a sustainable way.

 Research
 Ever since our very first funded research project in 2009, which examined the impact of Post
 Office closures in West Sussex, the Business School has maintained a keen focus on practical,
 impactful and externally funded research. Within this broad strategic approach, and following the
 establishment of the Centre for Research in Sustainable Business in 2015 (outlined below), our
 attention has gravitated ever more towards environmental and social agendas, informed by our
 success with INTERREG EU-funded research, facilitating cooperation between regions.

 Undergraduate provision
 Business School undergraduate provision covers Business Studies, Marketing, HR, Finance,
 Computer Science (IT Management for Business) and International English. There are 320
 Undergraduates. We have a strong entrepreneurial and vocational focus and support Degree
 Apprenticeships in management and digital subjects.

 Postgraduate provision
 Taught masters courses include Leadership and Management (MA) and International Business
 (MSc). Since the last REF Cycle in 2014 this has expanded to include Data Science and
 Analytics (MSc), Digital Marketing (MSc) and an MBA as part of Senior Leaders Degree
 Apprenticeship programme. As of September 2020, there are 120 masters students enrolled in
 the School.

 Our culture
 We make a virtue of our relative youth and small size, developing close, outward facing,
 accessible and nimble relationships that can bring lasting benefits to a variety of communities.
 This culture, informed by these structural characteristics, impacts on our teaching and research
 in the following ways. We:

    •   Work with small groups of students. During their time with us, we get to know them well,
        challenging and supporting them to reach their full potential.
    •   Form long term collaborations in our research, including informal relationships with other
        internal University departments, as well as with other universities in the UK and Europe.
    •   Actively seek out partnerships with public, private and voluntary organisations (especially
        SMEs) locally, regionally, nationally and internationally – in both research and education.

 Like much of the Higher Education sector over the last three years, we have faced the
 twin/related challenges of lower student numbers and a reduction in staff. In spite of this, we
 have continued to pursue ambitious, high quality research with impact of undoubtable reach and


  Version 0.2                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significance. More recently, student numbers have begun to rise across our undergraduate,
 postgraduate and apprenticeship programmes. Our strategy now is to capitalise on this.

 Centre for Research in Sustainable Business (CRSB),
 The Business School’s research is a practical expression of the University’s strategy outlined in
 the Institutional-level environment statement (REF5a). In 2015, we established the CRSB to be a
 focal showcase for our research and to focus efforts towards sustainability and community and
 socio/economic development.

 A major inspiration for the Centre was the 2013 report ‘Encouraging a British Invention
 Revolution’ by Andrew Witty, particularly his observation that:

        ‘University business schools should be incentivised to prioritise working directly with local
        businesses on workable solutions to practical problems.

 Within this context, the Business School focuses on the interaction between applied research,
 and how it comes to develop practice, consultation, knowledge transfer and continuing
 professional development (CPD).

 CRSB’s three core research and impact themes are as follows:
   • Theme 1: Sustainable Communities – encompassing cluster facilitation (e.g., creating a
       ‘critical mass’ of economic development), socio/economic development, coastal and rural
       communities and maritime economies, marine eco-systems, transport, and visitor/tourist
       economy.
   • Theme 2: Sustainable Operations – addressing inter-organisational systems, supply
       chains, organisational behaviour and management practice, with a potential sector focus
       on offshore renewable energy, horticulture, tourism, and events management
   • Theme 3: Sustainable Enterprise – ranging over corporate social responsibility,
       sustainable education, organisational learning, leadership and educating small and
       medium enterprises (SMEs), and third sector issues.

 Scope of research
         Progress and achievements in the current REF cycle 2013-2020
 The following section details the scope of our research projects within this REF cycle, guided by
 our three core themes, which are explored below, with examples.

 Theme 1: Sustainable Communities – examples of projects include:
    • CAMIS – channel maritime strategy covering northern France and the UK south coast.
    • Maintain, Mend and Pass-On – benchmark the current position of the circular economy in
      West Sussex to minimise landfill.
    • Devon Maritime Cluster (Pulling Together) – horizontal and vertical integration of the
      Devon maritime economy.
    • Plymouth Maritime – development of a super cluster from several independent clusters.
    • Chichester Harbour Conservancy – understand the economic contribution of harbour
      conservancy.
    • Chichester District Council – evaluation of the Choose Work scheme on behalf of
      Chichester in Partnership.
    • Women in Sport Leadership – evaluation of sport leadership.

 Theme 2: Sustainable Operations – examples of projects include:
    • Channel Payments for Ecosystem Services (CPES) – ecosystem payment system for
      water.
    • Rampion Wind Farm – windfarm supply chain evaluation.
    • Kent Wind Energy – windfarm supply chain evaluation development.
    • Channel MOR INTERREG Iva EU Project – capitalisation of 7 connected maritime
      INTERREG projects.

  Version 0.2                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Marina 2020 – Cannel marina cluster development
    •   Coast to Capital Economic Strategy – regional economic strategy development.
    •   Lifecycle cost and environmental impact analysis of adopting an electric vehicle fleet for
        WEST Sussex County Council – a 2019 economic and environmental performance of
        introducing electrical vehicles in its fleet.

 Theme 3: Sustainable Enterprise – examples of projects include:
    • The Emergence of Trusting Relationships: Stories and Reflections – research into the
      development of trust in organisations.
    • The impact of action learning on people and organisations – a series of papers with the
      Department of Childhood, Social Work and Social Care at the University and Winchester
      University on the impact of that action learning.
    • Organisation development – artfulness and practice – action research programme to
      explore the nature of artful practice in organisation development.
    • Caribbean tourist development.
    • Shoreham Port (Aldrington Basin) – regeneration of a port to include leisure facilities.
    • Brighton and Hove Albion Football Club – an economic impact evaluation.
    • Sustainable Tourism of the Manhood Peninsula (STOMP) – tourist development of
      Selsey, West Sussex.

 Illustrations of our research, publication, impact and learning cycle
 This section gives detailed examples that illustrate the iterative processes of research,
 engagement, action and impact that have resulted from our work, as well as generating further
 research opportunities. These features are testament to the vitality and sustainability of our
 Business School’s developing research strategy and culture.

    1. Ecosystem payments system development
 Those involved included: Robins, Cooper and Roberts.

 Channel Payments for Ecosystem Services (CPES) is a cooperation project managed within the
 Interreg VA France (Channel) England programme. It has a EUR4 million budget, co-financed by
 the European Regional Development Fund (EUR2.8 million), and runs for a 45-month period
 (2017-2020). 14 partners are working towards a common goal: to improve water quality by
 implementing sustainable payments for ecosystem services (PES) schemes in six pilot
 catchments in Southern England and Northern France. Partners include; University of Rennes 1
 in France, research bodies (such as Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Institute
 National de la Recherche Agronomique), water companies (such as Sothern Water, Portsmouth
 Water, AE Seine Normandie, Eau de Paris), the Environment Agency and a South Downs
 National Park. The UoC is leading on the project and manages the progress and administration.
 The UoC is also involved in developing a toolbox that will give users a selection of tried and
 tested tools to develop a successful PES scheme, and is contributing to the socio-economic
 assessment of the viability and impacts of PES. Developing relationships with Farmers and
 Farmer Groups has led to a greater understanding of the different catchments and related
 needs. Understanding the individual farm requirements and solving both financial and legal
 issues has strengthened the project outputs. Developing and running this project has given the
 UoC the opportunity to work with other HEIs and research centres in both England and France,
 and thereby to develop sustainable collaborative working partnerships. The project has already
 had a direct impact on EU Policy and is seeking to influence UK land management policies
 improve the quality of water in ground water and flowing through our rivers into drinking water
 and into estuarine waters.

    2. Leadership and organisation development
 Those involved included: Warwick and McCray – UoC, Department of Childhood, Social Work
 and Social Care, Dr Adam Palmer – University of Winchester, and Dr James Traeger – Ashridge
 Business School and collaborative partner Mayvin Ltd.



  Version 0.2                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Associated publications:
 Warwick, R., McCray J. and Palmer, A. (2018) Impressions of action and critical action learning:
 Exploring the leadership development of senior doctors in an English healthcare organisation,
 International Journal of Training and Development 22 (1): 69-85.
 Traeger, J. and Warwick, R. (2018) Organisation Development: A Bold Explorer’s Guide. Oxford:
 Libri Publishing.
 Warwick, R., McCray, J. and Palmer, A. (2017) Action learning: ripples within and beyond the
 set, Leadership in Health Services 2 (30): 138-147.
 Warwick, R., McCray, J. and Board, D. (2017) Bourdieu’s habitus and field: implications for the
 practice and theory of critical action learning, Action Learning: Research and Practice 30 (14):
 104-119.

 Underpinned by various long-term organisational relationships, the Business School was
 approached by a local National Health Service (NHS) trust to run a leadership development
 course. A Post Graduate Certificate in Leadership and Management was tailored to their
 pressing needs at the time, which centred on a merger of several hospitals and the organisation
 development required to support leadership and strategy. This project contributed to an
 ‘Outstanding’ rating from the regulator, the CQC. At its heart was the approach of using action
 learning integrated into organisation development and strategy formation. The four peer
 reviewed papers produced as a result of this went on to influence, substantively, three further
 connected strands of research and impact. Firstly, the development and implementation of a
 person-centred and highly reflexive MBA programme at the University of Chichester. Secondly,
 the adoption and adaption of the PG Certificate programme for a collaborative partner Mayvin
 Ltd to build organisation development capability and capacity within the UK Civil Service. Finally,
 the publishing of the Organisation Development – A Bold Explorer’s Guide, which led the
 authors to be nominated in 2019 as being HR ‘most influential thinkers’ by an expert panel under
 the auspices of the international professional publication HR Journal. This vein of activities
 continues with a special edition of the Action Research Journal on ‘Artfulness in the
 Organisational Playground’ (2022), and further action learning and person-centred learning in
 other organisations.

     3. Chichester Festival Theatre
 Those involved included: Robins
 The Chichester Festival Theatre Opening of the Archives Project was designed to give members
 of the public access to some of its richest and most valuable artefacts which had previously
 been held in storage. The UoC became involved in 2016 with the evaluation of the project and
 aimed to see what impacts had been felt by the people who had engaged with the it, including
 volunteers, staff, the public and three local schools. Using a multi-method approach, including
 interviews, questionnaires and focus groups, different sections of the target audience were
 questioned on their involvement and what it had meant to them to be a part of the project. The
 numbers of volunteers had increased by over 200% for the project, with volunteers guiding tours,
 supporting conferences, and sorting, itemising and displaying artefacts. The project helped to
 develop citizen cultural ownership in the theatre, in both a historical and a current sense.

    4. The Cost of Tourism in the Caribbean
 Those involved included: Sealy and Mouatt

 Associated publication:
 Sealy, W. & Mouatt, S. (2019). The Other Side of Paradise: The Cost of Tourism in the
 Caribbean. In Hermann, A. & Mouatt, S., The Heterodox Perspective in Economics: Implications
 for Theory and Policy Action. London: Routledge (IN PRESS).

 This paper was born out of a keynote address at the Sustainable Tourism Conference in
 Kathmandu, Nepal, in 2018, since when it has made a significant contribution to knowledge in
 the field of heterodox economics and tourism development. The keynote address generated
 particular interest from delegations in Malaysia, India and Singapore. The research led to a
 greater understanding of how transnational ownership of large hotels, airlines, cruise ships,

  Version 0.2                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 travel agencies and tour operators in Caribbean tourism inhibits sustainable economic growth
 and development through foreign exchange leakages, social polarization, social exclusion and
 environmental degradation. It also addresses how the legacy of slavery and the plantation
 society underpins much of the regions’ contemporary culture, values and economic
 relationships, despite the attainment of political independence.

 The speech led to a number of knowledge exchange events and invitations to give keynote
 addresses at other conferences. One such invitation came from the Green Economics Institute,
 which invited Sealy to deliver a keynote address at their annual Green Economics Conference
 at Oxford University, in June 2018. This is an international institute for green economics
 professionals whose main concern is the use of heterodox economics as a means to alleviating
 poverty and advocating for equality and social justice. The keynote address at this conference
 also led to an invitation to sit on the education committee of the Green Economics Institute and
 to co-author a chapter in a book on Heterodox Economics (published by Routledge). Other
 invitations were received from the University of Thessaly in Greece to conduct a public lecture
 on the same topic in December 2018. The public lecture was attended by university professors,
 students, industry practitioners and government officials.

    5. Women in Sports Leadership (WSLA)
 Those involved included: Robins

 The WSLA research project was designed to develop an understanding of the impact the UoC’s
 week-long leadership programme has on women in sports careers. Every year over 30 women
 at the top of their game come to Chichester to develop their aspirations of obtaining, or further
 developing, leadership roles in their respective sports. The course offers them the opportunity to
 hone their skills in a variety of leadership situations, and its developers, the Anita White
 Foundation, wanted to know how big an impact the course had on each individual. Given that
 participants lived around the world, and it was not possible to meet and discuss in a face to face
 focus group setting, it was decided to develop a sophisticated online questionnaire (including
 Likert scale and general text formats) that could be answered by as many of the past
 participants as possible. The survey was sent out to 150 WSLA Participants, of whom, after one
 week, 98 had responded. The text was rich and tackled sometimes difficult issues such as
 discrimination, gender and inequality. The project has shown that, under certain circumstances,
 questionnaires can elicit a rich and useful data set.

    6. Vocationalizing Event Degrees
 Those involved included: Sealy

 Associated publication:
 Sealy, W. (2018), ‘Vocationalizing Event Degrees’. Event Management: An International Journal.
 22 (3).

 This work sheds fresh light on the learning and teaching of event management in higher
 education, introducing a new approach to teaching that challenges the EMBOK model of event
 education. It assesses graduating students’ experiences with the BA (Hons) Event Management
 degree at a UK post-1992 university where students stage ‘live events’ as their final year
 dissertation, instead of writing a thesis. The main outcome of the research was the development
 of the ‘EMBOS’ model, which uses student narratives of ‘live event’ assessment. The EMBOS
 model complements the previous EMBOK model to create a more rounded base for the
 development of event degrees. The research also introduces the concept of ‘transformational
 epiphanies’ as an area of best practice aimed at engaging students in learning difficult concepts.
 Invitations to be external examiner at three universities who do ‘live event’ assessments in the
 2nd year was a direct result of this research. Since the publication of this research, one other
 post-1992 university has introduced live events as final year dissertation projects using the
 models. The research also demonstrated how ethnography as a research approach can be used
 in education research.


  Version 0.2                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    7. Sustainable Tourism on the Manhood Peninsula
 Those involved: Gutic

 Dr. Gutic coordinated and delivered the Sustainable Tourism on the Manhood Peninsula
 (STOMP) project, which ran from December 2017 to March 2019 and produced a 5-year
 Destination Management Plan (DMP) for the sustainable governance of key economic activities
 associated with the tourism industry and its environmental resources in the Selsey Peninsula of
 West Sussex. The project was awarded a GBP70,000 grant from DEFRA on behalf of the
 European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD). The experience gained as a result
 of leading the STOMP Project enabled Dr. Gutic to write and present in September 2019 a paper
 titled ‘Missing the line? The need for integrated tourism management planning during coastal
 realignment implementation’ at the SEACHANGE International Conference on Coastal Heritage
 and Climate Change, Blackpool, sponsored by ICOMOS and the World Monuments Fund. The
 paper argued that in order to maximise the economic and social benefits from coastal
 realignment processes, it is necessary to integrate tourism management considerations with the
 engineering and environmental planning stage. This integration must happen from the onset in
 order to avoid either having to retrofit, or completely miss, the potential benefits that tourism can
 create from this process. As climate change will force shore-based communities to implement
 coastal realignment activities more frequently, and as these usually provide limited economic
 benefits, it is imperative that tourism is planned in a concerted way to maximise them.

    8. Stakeholder Perceptions of the Golf World Cup, 2006
 Those involved included: Sealy

 Associated publication:
 Sealy, W. (2015), In Their Own Words: Stakeholder Perceptions of the Golf World Cup, 2006,
 ARA Journal of Tourism Research, Vol 5 (1) pp. 25-36.

 This paper presents a framework for the formulation of a sport tourism event policy for the island
 of Barbados. The main contribution of this study is its demonstration that hosting international
 events with high prestige profiles on small islands are not necessarily a panacea for attracting
 visitors or remedying falling visitor figures. This research contributes significantly to knowledge
 on how non-traditional methodologies can be exploited to generate data through a hybrid
 approach to data collection. Its contribution to the triangulation of overt and covert observation,
 mystery shopping, elite interviews and content analysis has been recognised by the academic
 community globally such as an international conference at the University of Bournemouth and
 influencing other studies

 The agenda going forward
 In terms of our strategy, with a focus on sustainable communities, operations and enterprise, our
 approach will be based on both consultancy and applied research. We will continue to apply for
 small to medium research grants and collaboration within the University, and with other local
 higher education institutions. With respect to consultancy here again the focus will be on our
 community, particularly with small to medium enterprises (SMEs). For us consultancy is a route
 to creating both impact and research insight. Recent changes in the Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership (KTP) funding schemes and the introduction of the Management KTP will bring new
 opportunities that the centre is currently pursuing. There will be an additional push to work on a
 cross-institutional and thematic basis, and there are some early examples of beneficial activity in
 this space.

 We are planning to build on our research output. With 6-7 research active staff we are planning
 for one output per year for each person, accepting the fact that over the five-year timeframe
 there will be fluctuations. On completion of doctorates we are also looking to increase the
 number of research-active staff by two within this timeframe.




  Version 0.2                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Context
 Most academic staff within the Unit have been recruited on combined research and teaching
 contracts. Within our School, however, as within our subject area/s more broadly, it is worth
 acknowledging the multiplicity of activities and approaches invoked by the concept of ‘research’.
 We take a broad approach to research within our community, viewing it is an outlook towards
 scholarly investigation that permeates and informs pedagogy and personal development,
 alongside the kinds of primary research, collaborative engagement, funding seeking, paper
 presenting, and publication with which it is typically associated. Further to this, we also seek to
 acknowledge and foster a further strand ‘research’ that might be termed economic and social
 development and evaluation.

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 This section highlights the strategic progress we have made within the current REF cycle in
 developing our competency and capacity for research. In a study carried out by the University’s
 HR department in January 2021, 87% of respondents (n=8) agreed or strongly agreed with the
 statement that their line manager supported them in undertaking research, which compared with
 67.5% across the University.

 The Business School’s staff development process was originally supported by the UoC’s
 Department of Childhood, Social Work and Social Care. Following an institutional review it was
 deemed that the Department had the ability and critical mass to support itself. The support
 included joint supervision of PhD students and researcher development activities.

 In 2016, the Business School, along with Department of Childhood, Social Work and Social
 Care, was awarded two full-time (paid) PhD bursaries via a University funded initiative. These
 were titled:
     • An Exploration of Policy Options for the Sustainability and Long-Term Prosperity of the
         UK Conference Sector
     • Challenges Associated with Devolving Responsibility for Management Decision Making
         to Service Lines in the NHS
 The latter project was undertaken in conjunction with Western Sussex NHS Trust, with whom we
 have established a strong and long-lasting relationship. One student is currently in the ‘writing
 up’ phase, and one has recently successfully defended their thesis.

 The Business School’s first successful PhD examination was for Dr Marion Bourhis in 2016 for
 the following project: An analysis of the process of stakeholder engagement in a regional
 development project. Example of the ‘turquoise economy’ in the French Department of Côtes-
 d'Armor and University of Southern Brittany (externally supervised). In 2019 Dr Paul Temple was
 awarded his PhD for a body of work titled: Meeting the challenge of delivering adult social care
 in the 21st century: what works in leading and managing adult social care? This was a project
 jointly supervised with the Department of Childhood, Social Work and Social Care. Dr Andre
 Kurowski also completed his PhD in 2019, with a topic titled Educational leadership and policy-
 A grounded theory study into how school leaders adjust to policy change. This was a project
 again jointly supervised with the Department of Childhood, Social Work and Social Care. Our
 most recent success was Dr Emma Nolan early 2021 with a body of work titled An Exploration of
 the Role of Convention Bureaus in Competing for International Association Conference.

 Currently Business School staff support the supervision four PhD students with completions
 expected over the next 12-18 months. We have several who are waiting to begin their doctoral
 supervision with the Business School.

 Research and academic writing initiative to encourage staff to develop their research
 writing skills
 As part of our researcher development programme we hold regular Wednesday writing and
 research sessions for staff and postgraduate students. 2020 also saw the Business School’s first

  Version 0.2                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Fair, where staff and students shared their research interests – the former focusing on
 research methodologies, and the latter on their work. The next section illustrates an initiative we
 undertook to support research and academic writing.

 There was a 12-month project beginning in 2018 that culminated in Summer 2019 with a special
 edition of e-Organisation and People, the journal of the Association for Management Education
 and Development (AMED), entitled ‘Writing from the University of Chichester Business School’.
 Ten articles, including the editorial, were published involving eight members of staff, two of
 whom are included in this submission.

 The project is continuing with an action learning set approach with a Visiting Professor who is
 also an independent external coach, facilitator and critical friend, whose own research and
 writing interests include sustaining healthy communities of academic writing practice and
 fostering connections between academic and other scholarly practitioners in the wider
 community.

 Active researchers
 A brief overview of active researchers in this submission:
    • Professor Dave Cooper: Head of Business School and Professor of Management &
         Economic Development, has represented the UoC on a number of regional economic
         development agencies, currently responsible for the UoC's Enterprise and Innovation
         agenda, has run several Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) as well as CPD,
         consultancy and PhD supervision (three completions), four in supervision. Programme
         Director for CPES project; Project Manager Channel MOR Project, STOMP; Programme
         Director for the Business Hot House project.
    • Dr Mohammad Ali Javaheri Javid: Senior Lecturer researching artificial intelligence (AI),
         is an external examiner (EE) for the University of South Wales. Awarded internal funding
         for enterprise data analytics research. Regular journal reviewer for the Entropy Journal
         and the Journal of Imaging.
    • Dr Wendy Sealy: twice PhD external examiner; Keynote speaker in Nepal, Oxford and
         Greece; editorial board member of Journal of Tourism and Sustainability; has supervised
         three PhDs; scholarly collaborations include working on an edited book; regular reviewer
         for three journals; Visiting Lecturer in Barbados, Greece and Nepal.
    • Dr Dawn Robins: two PhD supervisions; research collaborations with the Universities of
         Rennes, Plymouth, Exeter, Portsmouth, Southampton, Solent, Le Havre, Caen, Kingston.
         Research collaborations include the following employers West Sussex County Council
         (CC), Devon CC, Kent CC, Normandie Authority, Picardie, Nord pas du Calais, Brittany
         Authority, Chichester Festival Theatre, EOn, Shoreham Port, Southern Water,
         Portsmouth Water, West country Rivers Trust and Environment Agency. Currently on
         INTERREG funded project review panel.
    • Dr Jorge Gutic: Anglia Ruskin University EE. Revalidation external advisor for Solent.
         Successful applicant for the STOMP project. PhD supervision 2. On the Advisory Board
         for Visit Chichester, part of Chichester Council, Tourism Expert for the EU COSME
         Programme. Launching the Bognor Regis and Chichester Sustainable Business Network
         this Summer.
    • Dr Rob Warwick: Rated as an ‘HR Most Influential Thinker’ in 2019 by HR Magazine for a
         research collaboration with Dr James Traeger, a collaborative partner of the University;
         winner of the 2015 Roffey Park research funding award; four PhD supervisions (with one
         completion); Associate Editor for the Action Research Journal, former editorial board
         member for Action Research and Perspectives in Public Health; PhD EE 5; former Senior
         Visiting Fellow at Cass Business School, EE at Sussex, Edge Hill University and the
         Open University.

 Research students
 The Department is supervising five PhD students and as well as two members of staff
 undertaking doctorates.


  Version 0.2                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity
 29% of the 17 research and teaching staff are from BAME background. 23% are female. Of
 those being returned in this submission, 50% are female, 50% BAME and 10% have declared a
 disability. The UoC has an Afro-Caribbean Society (ACS) that was founded in 2007. The UoC is
 a Mindful Employer and signatory to the Charter for Employers who are Positive About Mental
 Health. We also have an LGBTQI+ society, and have been praised in the news for tackling
 homophobia. Recently, an active researcher described above was awarded a place on Advance
 HE’s Diversifying Leadership programme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 Our Unit has generated a large amount of research and third-stream income across the
 REF2021 assessment period. Over the course of this cycle we were successful in obtaining
 funding for four INTERREG projects at a value in excess of EUR1,000,000. These were:
 developing cross channel maritime strategies (CAMIS: INTERREG IV – EUR420,000; Channel-
 MOR: INTERREG IV – 135,000euros; and Sustainability of Shoreham Basin: INTERREG IV -
 GBP9,200) and Channel Payments for Ecosystems Services (CPES) INTERREG V –
 GBP218,000). Other funded projects included amounting to in excess of GBP120,000 include:
 the research and strategy of eSports (GBP4,000 from Coastal West Sussex Partnership);
 Football supporter impact study (GBP13,500 from Brighton and Hove Football Club); sustainable
 tourism in the Manhood Peninsula (GBP75,000 from European Agricultural Fund for Rural
 Development); women in sport leadership (GBP8,100 from WSLA); public access to the
 Chichester Theatre archive (GBP5,000 from Chichester Festival Theatre); and the development
 of trusting relationships (GBP10,000 from Roffey Park Management Institute. Other research
 (non-third stream) funding achieved by the Unit includes: GBP12,000 in research income from
 Coast to Capital (2013/14), ‘Developing a Local Strategy: A Top-Down Approach’, and
 GBP16,000 (2018/19) from Scape Group Invest on ‘Helping Young People to Start Businesses’.

 A significant stream of activity has focused on supporting regional enterprise. The foundation for
 this was a wide ranging study commissioned by Coast to Capital in April 2012 (‘Enterprise and
 Entrepreneurship Development’ – understanding areas and groups with low enterprise and
 entrepreneurship), which documented and developed detailed area-based data on different
 enterprise performance in relation to business start-ups within the Coast to Capital region. The
 report identified and evaluated the factors that both support and hinder business start-up, with
 reference to the focus area and group. One critical finding was that traditional support tends to
 be transactional, when there was clear evidence for more sustained support over 12 to 18
 months. The establishment of a Business Incubation Centre at a similar time through funding
 from SEEDA also enabled us to explore and understand how to deliver a range of advice,
 guidance and support to new start-up businesses. These initiatives have provided the foundation
 for the delivery of a number of significant business start-up and growth programmes, in
 collaboration with and funded by local authorities in the region. In six years of monitoring our
 activity we:

 •     Supported the creation of 150 jobs
 •     Assisted 950 businesses to improve their performance
 •     Assisted 465 people to start a business
 •     Assisted 900 individuals to develop their skills (six hours plus)
 •     Supported the launch of 45 new businesses that were demonstrating growth after 12 months
 •     Enabled 116 people to make use of incubation facilities

 In the past four years, we have contracted for three Business Support Programmes, with a total
 value of GBP108,000. These programmes worked with 319 individuals in the pre-start or early
 stages of their business development including 53 social enterprises. In total 3500 hours of
 support were delivered.
 This experience was behind the University’s January 2020 award of GBP5,000,500 from Coast
 to Capital’s allocation of European Regional Development Funds (ERDF) for the delivery of a

     Version 0.2                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regional Business Hot House programme. The total project value is GBP11,000,000, with
 additional funds of GBP800,000 coming from the project’s strategic partners. These activities
 contributed to the University receiving HEIF funding for the first time in many years in 2019.

 The Business School recently relocated to the UoC’s new Tech Park. In the future we are
 hopeful that this will enable a collaborative culture with Creative and Digital Technologies and
 Engineering.

 Researchers have access to a wide variety of library resources (physical and e-books, journals
 films and other digital media) and have the support of a dedicated Business School librarian.
 Researchers also have access to specialist software such as SPSS and NVivo, as well as
 software for data analytics such as TensorFlow, Mathematica and Matlab.

 PhD students have access to dedicated office space.

 Within the Tech Park there is a Café, a shared staff and student kitchen, and communal areas to
 encourage informal conversations, all of which can create the happenstance from which
 collaborations can emerge.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The sections above give an indication of our approach to research collaboration and how this
 has impacted society and the economy. Here, we draw the core themes together.

 Going forward we will further concentrate on knowledge exchange research activities that build
 upon our track record of socio-economic and environmental research. We are already
 developing proposals with a local council and the horticultural sector on sustainable policy and
 impact.

 The following examples illustrate the development of a collaboration we created with multiple
 partners (CPES) and how collaboration was built over time (Leadership and organisation
 development) to create lasting impact. Other examples include local sustainable tourism and
 support for the local community in supporting business start-ups and growth.

 CPES project
 This is the INTERREG V Channel Payment for Ecosystems Project detailed above. The
 Business School set out to find partners both in the UK and France. We have developed
 expertise in building networks beyond academia and into organisations that can quickly translate
 insights into practical impact. In this case and using networks established on the CAMIS and
 Channel MOR projects, in France, we worked with the University of Rennes 1 but also quasi-
 academic commercial organisations (CNRS, INRA and SHC), as well as water companies such
 as Eau de Paris. On this side of the channel we teamed up with the Environment Agency, South
 Downs National Park and West Country Rivers Trust, as well as the water companies Southern
 Water and Portsmouth Water. This project is delivering benefits to create ecosystem payment
 methodologies and has already led to a legislative change in the EU.

 Sustainable Tourism on the Manhood Peninsula (STOMP) project
 The STOMP project came about as a result of identifying a possible source of ERDF funding
 from the Coast to Capital LEP. The University built a local consortium to bid and negotiate for
 the funds. As a result of the Business School increasing involvement in sustainable business
 education, and off the back of the STOMP project, Gutic is currently organising the launch of the
 West Sussex Circular Economy Network (WSCEN), aiming to promote and support the adoption
 of Circular Economy (C.E.) principles by all interested organisations in West Sussex. WSCEN’s
 role is to identify and connect all West Sussex-based businesses and organisations currently
 engaging with sustainable or Circular Economy initiatives, in order to kick-start the systems-
 network required by C.E. principles, and to provide an outlet for Business School students and

  Version 0.2                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professionals to provide consultancy, training and research support to the local communities
 around the University. This enables the UoC to fulfil its role of supporting both the local
 communities and the sustainable development of the West Sussex coastal strip. This innovative
 scheme has been recognised by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation by inviting the UoC to become
 a member of its prestigious Circular Economy University Network.

 Leadership and organisation development
 This collaboration stems back to 2013 when the Business School was approached to run a
 leadership development programme for the local NHS trust. This was delivered by a
 collaboration between the Business School and Department of Childhood, Social Work and
 Social Care. A research project was undertaken to determine the impact of action learning on
 participants and wider organisational effectiveness. This included collaboration with the
 University of Winchester and a Senior Fellow at Cass Business School. The outputs were
 presented to British Academy of Management conferences and the British Sociological
 Association’ conference on Pierre Bourdieu and published in the papers listed above (Warwick,
 McCray and Board, 2017). This led to further collaborations with Mayvin, a collaborative partner
 of the University, role out of organisation development programmes for the Civil Service, writing
 a book and impact that was recognised by leaders in the HR field.

 Impact in the local community
 We are small, agile and have a strong sense of place in the community. We contribute to the
 development of a strong economic ecosystem in West Sussex through imaginative business
 partnerships, enterprise education and support for graduate and business start-ups. Much of the
 regional economy is focused on SMEs and we have a particular focus on providing services and
 support to them. The development of our services is informed from the intelligence gathered by
 our Business Development Managers, attached to the Business School.

 Through the Business School, the University has consistently invested in the provision of
 support to start-up growth for small businesses since receiving funds from SEEDA in 2010 to
 develop a Business incubation Centre to provide office facilities and associated mentoring
 services for start-up businesses in the region. Further funding from local authorities enabled us
 to deliver business start-up and ‘hot house’ programmes in the region. These were informed by
 early research and recognised gaps in the availability of support for businesses in the early
 stages of their development. Traditional support tends to be transactional when there was clear
 evidence for more sustained support over 12 to 18 months.

 This experience was behind the University’s January 2020 award of GBP5,000,500 Coast to
 Capital’s allocation of European Regional Development Funds (ERDF) for the delivery of a
 regional Business Hot House programme. The total project value is GBP11,000,000, with
 additional funds of GBP800K coming from the project’s strategic partners: The Prince’s Trust,
 West Sussex County Council, Brighton and Hove City Council, and the Greater Brighton
 Economic Board. The Business school is leading the project alongside the Sussex Innovation
 Centre, Eastbourne and District Enterprise Agency, Brighton and Hove City Council, WSX
 Enterprise, Princes Trust, and YTKO Ltd. Support consists of grants, training programmes,
 consultancy and facilitated peer-to-peer learning.

 In the past three years, and in addition to the ERDF funded project, we have contracted for three
 other Business support programmes with a total value of GBP108,000. These programmes have
 worked with 319 individuals in the pre-start or early stages of their business development
 including 53 social enterprises. In total, 3,500 hours of support were delivered. The experience
 from these programmes informed the development of the ERDF Hot House programme, which
 has direct support from all Tier 1 and Tier 2 local authorities in the CtoC region. It is delivering
 support over six strands: Start-up; Productivity and Growth; Innovation; Leadership and
 Management; Growth Grants; Access to Finance. Outputs to date include: 137 people having
 interacted with the programme and 860 hours of support. 60 grant fund applications with a value
 of GBP1,400,000, received from 370 businesses and GBP220,000 allocated to date. We


  Version 0.2                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 continue to support a range of businesses in our Business Incubation Centre, with some 12
 businesses being supported at any one time.

 At a South East regional level, the theme of support for business has continued with the
 University’s support for the Innovation South Virtual Campus, led by Sparsholt College and
 funded with GBP430,000 from Enterprise M3 LEP. This initiative came about as a result of the
 work to develop the Science and Innovation Audit that identified the need to develop digital skills
 within regional businesses. The University supported the development of the concept and has
 developed five of the 12 modules launched in January 2021 (https://isl.skillset.co.uk/).
 We also work with a number of small companies and organisations on the delivery of structured
 management development programmes. Examples would: Southern Co-op, CPJ Field Funeral
 Directors and The Pensions Regulator.

 Academic staff provide active support to a range of regional public and not-for-profit
 organisations, frequently involved with influencing local policy. Examples include; Coast to
 Capital, Chichester Chamber of Commerce, Visit Chichester, Gatwick Diamond, Coastal West
 Sussex Partnership, and Bognor Regis Regeneration Board. Through the latter, the Business
 School undertook the recruitment and management of the Bognor Regis Town Centre Manager,
 Chaired the Town Centre Management Committee and led on the Business Improvement
 District Proposal, launched in April 2018.

 This is our first REF submission, which we are approaching as an opportunity both to reflect on
 what we have achieved and to look ahead to our future direction. All staff that have been
 returned in this Unit are from the Business School.




  Version 0.2                                                                                Page 12
