Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: 25 (Area Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 UEA positions itself at the cutting edge of Area Studies (AS). Following strategic investment in a
 multidisciplinary, multiregional vision for the field, researchers in this UoA renegotiate the
 relationship between the local and the global in ways that speak to the ethical challenges of the
 twenty-first century. We understand AS to be a shared intellectual endeavour, crossing
 boundaries both methodological and literal while remaining rooted in communities and their
 contexts. We approach Area Studies from new directions, in which fixed geographical
 specificities give way to broader thinking about social justice and intellectual endeavour in its
 intersectional contexts. Reflecting our ambitious REF2014 strategy “to lead developments in
 Area Studies research”, our unit has grown substantially from 14 to 46 staff in 2021 (42 FTE,
 including 13 early career researchers) (ECR) with colleagues producing 560+ outputs
 comprising editorials, specialist publications, reviews, exhibitions (history of Fiji, Sainsbury
 Centre for Visual Arts [SCVA]/Los Angeles County Museum of Art [LACMA]), two films
 (Amazonian Indians, child marriage in Turkey), reports, and conference proceedings.

            Type of output                                                  REF2021
            Monographs / edited collections / special journal issues           68
            Essays / chapters in refereed books                                76
            Journal articles                                                   243

 Since 2014, staff working on the core elements of American Studies and Language and
 Communication Studies (Faculty of Arts and Humanities) have been joined by researchers from
 History, Politics, Art History and World Art Studies, Literature, the Sainsbury Research Unit for
 the Arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas (SRU), and International Development (Faculty of
 Social Science) with a binding interest in space and place. Our work has been supported by
 UKRI (AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, NERC), National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), the
 European Commission, the Royal Society (RS), the British Academy (BA), and the Leverhulme
 Trust (LT) amongst others. Staff growth has been matched by research income, rising from
 GBP75,860 in REF 2014 to GBP5.7m in 2021. Investment in Area Studies at UEA is evident
 across all markers. Excitement and enthusiasm about our inspiring AS project, good working-
 conditions, and a well-supported research environment provide stability, low staff turnover, and
 growing PGR figures of approximately 10 student enrolments per annum (p.a.) (13 completions
 2014, 69 in 2021).

 Our UoA is characterised by a commitment to multi and interdisciplinary investigation,
 addressing real-world problems in theory and practice. The unit investigates key issues at the
 heart of Area Studies utilising innovative methodologies and approaches:

    •   Exploring and redefining concepts of area, region, nation, and community;
    •   Challenging habituated disciplinary thinking while maintaining a commitment to cross-
        cultural analysis and intercultural communication;
    •   Blurring genres in pursuit of new insights and narratives to better understand the world;
    •   Searching out new interpretations of complex social, political, cultural, and historical
        problems;
    •   Interrogating literal and figurative boundaries and borders over time;
    •   Addressing uncertainties and risks while assisting local people to address vulnerabilities;
    •   Improving methodologies for enriched knowledge of human cultures and communities,
        taking account of linguistic, historic, and literary transformations;


                                                                                             Page 1
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •   Coproduction of knowledge with local communities addressing economic, social, political,
           and historical challenges;
       •   Valuing reflexive practice to better understand how we undertake research;
       •   Looking beyond decolonisation to deeper understandings of histories, cultures,
           connections, institutions, and organisations with regard to exploitation, trade, and
           development.
       •   See https://www.uea.ac.uk/web/about/school-of-art-media-and-american-studies/our-
           research/area-studies

   Established Research Strengths in Area Studies
   As in 2014, colleagues specialising in language and intercultural communication (LCS) delve
   deep into applications of language, linguistics, and translation around the world (Alberto Hijazo
   Gascon, Luna Filipovic, and Gabrina Pounds). They create innovative standards for translators
   and translation (Roger Baines, Joanna Drugan, Pounds) for analysis of foreign film, linguistics,
   pragmatics, and subtitling (Sharon Black, Marie Noelle Guillot, Andreas Musolff, and Alain Wolf).
   Our outstanding Americanists (AMS) reshape understandings of the USA and the Americas.
   Space, place, and people loom large in their explorations, ranging from indigenous nations
   (Jacqueline Fear-Segal) to the Mississippi River (Thomas Ruys Smith), American
   environmentalism (Rebecca Tillett), and origins of empire (Claire Jowitt). Civil Rights are central
   whether urban unrest in the 1960s (Malcolm McLaughlin), transnational protest movements
   (Nick Grant), the history of black female intellectuals (Rebecca Fraser), whistleblowing (Kaeten
   Mistry), or representations of the Holocaust (Rachael McLennan). American aesthetics are a
   vital concern, whether poetics, music, and folk culture (Nick Selby, Ross Hair), or the
   intersections of visual and material cultures (Sarah Garland). Political interests cohere around
   foreign policy and International Relations (IR) (Lee Marsden, David Milne), law, the Supreme
   Court and human rights (Emma Long, Wendy McMahon), and migration (Susan Hodgett).

   New Developments in Area Studies
   Complementing established areas of research, this UoA has gained 32 new staff since 2014
   proffering knowledge from numerous disciplines and regional expertise. From the SRU
   (http://www.sru.uea.ac.uk) at the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts (SCVA) come those with deep
   expertise of place: Fijian culture (Steve Hooper), African culture and archaeology (Anne Haour
   and John Mack), Amazonian/Andean history and anthropology (Aristoteles Barcelos Neto and
   George Lau). The significance of their knowledge is clear in their work on repatriation, with world
   class museums (British Museum), in international publications (World Art), and exceptional
   fieldwork. Knowledge is strengthened by new colleagues from World Art researching Africa,
   collaborating with the Inter-governmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC) (Joanne Clarke),
   decolonising African archives (Ferdinand De Jong), and reinterpreting Egyptian archaeology
   (Will Carruthers). From Politics, Philosophy, Language, and Communication Studies (PPL), Kim
   Ridealgh shapes a new research field in ancient Egyptian languages, while Ra Mason
   investigates Japan’s IR; and Hannah Osborne its literature. Colleagues from International
   Development (DEV) (Roger Few, Teresa Amijos Burneo, Iokine Rodriguez Fernandez, and Neil
   Dawson) work on real-life issues, mitigating disaster-risk across continents (Latin America, Asia
   and Africa) working with schools, communities, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and
   governments. Methodologically innovative, they use humanities-based approaches in drama, art,
   film and music to investigate, highlight and shape resilience in relation to forced resettlement,
   deforestation, natural disasters (Hazel Marsh, Wendy McMahon, Claire Jowitt), social
   inequalities (Sarah Barrow, Eylem Atakav), and climate change.
a.
b. Research and Impact Strategy
   Area Studies at UEA has grown far beyond its 2014 core supported by a twofold, on-going
   strategy in response to our REF2014 feedback:

       a. to develop international collaborations and animate colleagues’ work within global
          contexts;
       b. to encourage colleagues to develop aspects of their research that is impactful.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We address these goals using multiple means: through a staffing and appointments strategy; a
 supportive and empowering research management and impact strategy; a high level of attention
 to equality and diversity in order to support individual colleagues; and by prioritising a collegial
 and collaborative research environment. There are many new mechanisms for supporting and
 involving colleagues in collaborative work. For example, through our multiple research seminar
 series (see research groupings) and those of SRU, mentoring and other means, we offer
 opportunities for students, staff, and external speakers to meet, discuss ideas, offer feedback,
 and make connections. Occasions for collaboration include Faculty Research Away Days,
 Annual Faculty Research Showcases, Book Launches, seminars held at the Sainsbury Institute
 for the Study of Japanese Art and Culture (SISJAC) and Centre for Japanese Studies (CJS), in
 Philosophy, Politics, or American Studies, alongside university-wide initiatives like ClimateUEA
 and creativeUEA.

 We have addressed our goals by establishing a pioneering, open-access online journal (funded
 by Faculty and AMS, edited by Hodgett and Smith) to place the unit at the forefront of global
 conversations. New Area Studies https://newareastudies.com/ is a discipline-bridging forum for
 worldwide exchange of ideas, boasting a stellar international editorial board with members from
 UEA (Barrow, Hodgett, Selby, Smith) and leading Area Studies researchers from across the
 globe including the U.S. (Harvard, Virginia, Rutgers, Southern California), Canada, Australia,
 Nigeria, Germany, Peru, Mexico, and plans for expansion in the global south. The inaugural
 issue addressed the future of the field and forward issues will explore: Storytelling, Blurring
 Genres, African Studies, the Post-Covid World, providing training for our ECRs and PGRs and a
 vehicle for enhanced inclusion and diversity.

 Since 2014 our research groupings have evolved organically; one on borders and boundaries
 merged into a new broader AS grouping on Blurring Genres. Staff are free to take part in any
 grouping according to their research interests. The main achievements, and the synergistic
 vitality, of each are summarised below.

 Group 1: Blurring Genres: Methods, Narratives, Forms, and Borders
 This dynamic group sits at the generative, interdisciplinary intersection of a wide variety of
 methodological approaches and regional specialisms. Incorporating researchers from across the
 university, it provides a lively hub for discussion through its Area Studies Research Group (50+
 members) and its annual New Area Studies Colloquium (hosted at UEA, featuring visiting
 researchers from Bremen, Virginia, UCL, SOAS, Manchester, Oxford, Warwick, Portsmouth, and
 Birmingham). Hodgett articulates common themes and approaches in her What Political Science
 can learn from the Humanities: Blurring Genres (with R.A.W. Rhodes) using photographs,
 comics, architecture, literary criticism, design, and autoethnography to move productively
 between the Humanities and the Social Sciences. Colleagues share interests in interpretation
 and disciplinary boundary-crossing leading to new research fields like Philip Wilson’s Routledge
 Handbook of Translation and Philosophy (2018) or Ridealgh’s research on ancient Egyptian
 politeness. Wilson’s Translation after Wittgenstein (2015) reflects ideas much discussed in New
 Area Studies (NAS) of breaching disciplinary silos to discuss the nature of theory. Køhlert (2019)
 pursues similar translational methodological innovation in his critical examination of power in
 comics in Serial Selves. Common to our work is the desire to interrogate the dynamics of
 crossing boundaries, relocation, or dislocation: of words, meaning, people, methods and
 expertise (coproduction of knowledge) seen in publications like Basketry & Beyond: Constructing
 Cultures (2020) (where Mack, Clarke, Neto, and Hooper contribute chapters on Africa, the Near
 East, Amazonia, and Oceania). Together with our Latin American Network established by
 Barrow (PVC Arts and Humanities) (bringing together 40+ scholars across faculties) we explore
 the linguistic turn examining storytelling with Pontifical Catholic University of Peru (PUCP) or the
 anthropology of art and dance in Neto’s film https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zV_g8dboy7o
 and Lau’s study of Peruvian bodies (BA, GBP9745, 2013-14; AHRC, GBP526,173, 2018-22).

 Interdisciplinary research permeates the broader notions of Area Studies within this group, from
 Fraser’s collaborations on Black Female Intellectuals (AHRC, GBP29,580, 2019) and Tillett’s
 environmentalism and literature to anthropological and museological approaches like Haour’s

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work on early Islamic Trade: Cowrie shells: as early global community, her Defining Global
 Middle Ages (Past & Present, 2018) and her Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) work in
 Benin. Jowitt’s (2020) Routledge Companion to Marine and Maritime Worlds delivers innovation
 in cross-cultural encounter via sea travel, and her Hakluyt Edition Project – with 22 editors from
 7 countries – foregrounds the protean genre of travel writing (AHRC, GBP24,969, 2016; BA,
 GBP7,204, 2018). Mack’s African research on rituals of death and De Jong’s Utopian Archives
 on decolonisation and Postcolonial Futures (AHRC, GBP35,423, 2012-14) reflect our concerns.
 Haour and N’Dah’s Bring the past to print: Archaeology for and by West African scholars (BA,
 GBP18,987.90, 2019) and her European Research Council (ERC) Crossroads of Empire:
 archaeology, material culture and socio-political relationships in West Africa (GBP892,961,
 2011-15) demonstrate commitment to involving local researchers and coproduction of
 knowledge. These, and other successes, present original and substantial AS agendas which
 interrogate the boundaries of genre, discipline, and method.

 Impact
 Central to this group is a concern for the interplay between the local and global evident in
 Haour’s work on trade (BA, GBP100,500, 2020-22) and Rodriguez’s search for justice for
 indigenous communities (ESRC,GBP630,239, 2013-16) and her coproduction of knowledge with
 communities in Bolivia, with Councils of Elders, and the Monkoxi peoples in forest management
 (presented to the UN Forum for Indigenous Affairs, 2016). At core, this group explores liminal
 spaces and people, languages, cultures, and ideas. One Impact Case Study submitted by
 Hooper examines postcolonial trajectories in Fijian culture: generating a major exhibition at
 SCVA https://www.sainsburycentre.co.uk/stories/in-pictures-fiji-exhibition/ (subsequently
 LACMA), his Gatsby Foundation grant, (GBP1,175,000, 2016-21), AHRC Fijian Art: political
 power, sacred value, social transformation and collecting since the 18th century (GBP605,172,
 2011-14), and AHRC/ODA Fiji's Artistic Heritage: impact and engagement (GBP77,176, 2016-
 17), producing a prize-winning book, the rejuvenation of the Fiji Museum, and reappraisal of
 global Fijian culture.

 Postgraduate Researchers
 Doctoral study is central to this group. Outstanding students included Asma’u Ahmed Giade
 (PhD, 2016) lecturer at Ahmadu Bello University, Nigeria and a member of the State Executive
 Council. James Green’s PhD (2017) on the art of the Teke peoples of West Africa, led to an
 internship at the Metropolitan Museum, New York and appointment as Assistant Curator, African
 Art, Yale University. Bolaji Owoseni (2019-23), a lecturer at Kwara State University, is
 researching the history of Ilorin, Nigeria and contributing to U.S. Black History month
 #BlackInArchaeologyWeek and the Society of Black Archaeologist’s YouTube. Environmental
 social movements in Argentina are examined by Diana Jimenez (2018-) co-supervised at the
 University of Copenhagen. While Annalisa Christie, postdoc on Haour’s Leverhulme funded
 Cowries project (2015-18) is Assistant Professor in Cultural Heritage at University College
 Dublin.

 Group 2: Intercultural and Interdisciplinary Studies
 Interdisciplinary approaches engage with intercultural themes in our critical examination of the
 history and literature of the Americas. Supported by American Studies Research Seminars
 (term-time) and the Arthur Miller Institute for American Studies (AMI, Director Emma Long), staff
 and students discuss emerging themes (like Alison Garden, on "Crosscurrents of the
 Postcolonial Atlantic" (UCD) or Kristin Hoganson’s “American isolationism” (Oxford)). The focus
 of this group remains archive-based literary, historical, cultural, and creative praxis at the
 forefront of American culture. Milne’s (2015) sustained analysis of the drivers of U.S. foreign
 policy, Worldmaking: The Art and Science of American Diplomacy 1898 to 2016, applies a fresh
 examination of art versus science informed by primary sources in U.S. archives. Research led
 by Selby and Hair includes ground-breaking work on American ecological poetics. Hair crosses
 boundaries bringing together art, conceptual art, serialism, and nature-writing in his (2019)
 Brilliant Absence on Dutch artist Hans Waanders. Equality and justice inform Long’s work on the
 U.S. Supreme Court, her project on American Evangelicals (AHRC, GBP187,231, 2018-20),
 Fear-Segal’s investigation of ancestry in indigenous communities, her AHRC Beyond the

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Spectacle: Native North American Presence in Britain (GBP325,041, 2017-21) and, with Tillett,
 creation of the Native Studies Research Network. Ruys Smith’s research on travel on the
 Mississippi speaks to Jowitt’s on early modern maritime culture. Innovations in the intersection of
 literature, visual art, and Avant-Folk link other members of the group (Selby, Hair, Smith,
 Garland). Suffusing all are concerns for the applied practice of the humanities illustrated by
 Hilary Emmett’s innovative comparative American-Australian studies and Jon Mitchell’s work on
 American masculinities, gender, and queer film.

 Impact
 This group combines investigatory methodologies and approaches to benefit local communities.
 Interdisciplinary Research (IDR) sheds light on the local like Barrow’s exploration of gender in
 Latin American (LA) film and the fate of women and children. McMahon’s research (AHRC,
 GBP80,076, 2016-18) uses American/Caribbean literatures to provide insights into social justice
 and resilience of communities at risk from volcanic explosions (RS, GBP100,716, 2019-20), as
 does Clarke’s work in Africa for IPCC (NERC, GBP168,435, 2017). One Impact Case Study
 was submitted from this group: Fear-Segal’s hidden American history and investigation of the
 Indian Industrial Boarding School at Carlisle, Pennsylvania − the template for a genocidal
 system across North America to “Kill the Indian [and], save the man”.

 Postgraduate Researchers
 In preparing the next generation of researchers, we have achieved notable successes. Azelina
 Flint (PhD, 2019), a Fulbright scholar (Harvard), held a CHASE placement at the Delaware Art
 Museum. Her monograph, and an edited collection from a CHASE sponsored conference
 organised in Paris, are to be published. Former student Suzanne Doyle (PhD, 2015) was
 appointed Lecturer in PPL having published in International History Review and the Journal of
 Strategic Studies. Jon Ward (PhD, 2016), whose thesis explored the Black Male Body in
 American Popular Culture, recently published in Slavery and Abolition (2020) 41(1) and lectures
 at Kings College London (KCL). Kim Lockwood (PhD, 2018) lectures in Liberal Arts at
 Nottingham University. Her research centres on American modernity and materiality; she has
 published poetry, edited Lung Jazz, and is Book Review Editor for Comparative American
 Studies.

 Group 3: Global and Transnational Communication
 This cross-unit group communicates ideas in transnational frames - through culture, language,
 cognition, typology, memory, and translation. Musolff provides leadership in Cognitive Linguistics
 and Critical Discourse Studies, notably though his National Conceptualisations of the Body
 Politic: Cultural Experience and Political Imagination, as does Elder in Context, Cognition and
 Conditionals (2019). Colleagues from AMS and LCS share interests in transatlantic poetics,
 modernism, and postmodernist themes (Garland, Hair, McLennan, Selby), in music (Smith,
 Hair), and film (Guillott’s AHRC Tapping the Power of Foreign Language Films, researching
 cross-cultural pragmatics with UCL and the British FiIm Institute http://www.filmsintranslation.org/.
 Expertise on translation, interpretation, linguistics, and pragmatics is supported by weekly
 Language and Communication Seminars featuring external speakers, by a public lecture
 series/online and by affiliated distinguished visiting scholars including John A. Hawkins
 (California Davis/Cambridge), Chris Sinha (Hunan), and Maria Pavesi (Pavia).

 Impact
 This group addresses language in real-world situations. Filipovic leads the multilingual
 Translation and Communication in Training Project working with police forces, UK and abroad,
 and interpreters (involving Carlos De Pablos-Ortega, Gascon, Pounds, Musolff, winning a UEA
 Engagement Award, 2017), in medical education (Pounds), and in assessment for interpreting
 and translation services for adults and children (Drugan, Baines, Black). Drugan’s ESRC
 Transnational Organised Crime and Translation Project (GBP85,705, 2016-18) worked with
 police combatting crime networks, people trafficking, and child sexual exploitation. One Impact
 Case Study is submitted based on the work of Eylem Atakav and her Turkish documentary film
 Growing Up Married which informed UK Parliamentary Policy and training on the trauma of
 forced child marriage.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Postgraduate Researchers
 This research group nurtured remarkable students including Vera Da Silva Sinha who undertook
 an internship at Research England, was an RA at UEA, then appointed Humboldt Postdoctoral
 Research Fellow. Maria Tsimpiri was PGR representative and worked with the COURAGE
 project (see section 2), while Sara Vilar Lluch co-organised the annual PPL PGR symposium
 (2019). All three assisted Elder co-edit Papers in Language and Communication Studies, an
 online journal for staff/student researchers at UEA. Representation and communication are
 shared themes − Zahra Khosroshahi delving into Banietamad’s film, gender and Iranian cinema
 (PhD, 2020), Khaldoun Shami (2017-21) examining expressions of Middle East secularism, and
 Haylan Bin Libdah representations of the women’s driving ban in Saudi media (2019-22).
 Successful post-doctoral careers include Kim Kayo Kondo who researched health-care
 communication (now a lecturer in East Asian Studies at Sheffield University) and Lorella Voila, a
 Researcher in Linguistics and Digital Humanities, University of Luxembourg.

 Group 4: Representation and Identity Studies
 The excavation of cultural and historical trauma, the investigation of racial, ethnic, religious, and
 gender identities, and a focus on intercultural communication unify this group supported by
 weekly Qualitative Methods Research Seminars. Notions of national identity bring together work
 by Wolf and Stonebridge (AHRC, GBP51,912, 2016-18) exploring emigration, statelessness,
 humanitarianism, and displacement. Similar themes pervade Hugo Chávez, Alí Primera and
 Venezuela: The Politics of Music in Latin America by Marsh (2016). Mason’s research on Japan
 reflects interest in identity formation through trauma and dislocation seen in Grant’s (2017)
 BAAS prize-winning book Winning Our Freedoms Together: African Americans and Apartheid,
 1945-1960 and Atakav/Marsden’s British Muslim Values’ Project (AHRC, GBP77,974). Mistry’s
 U.S. whistleblowing and national security research (AHRC, GBP214,499, 2017-19) and on civil
 society (AHRC, GBP46,056, 2020) touches similar issues.

 Impact
 The decolonial turn looms large with Dawson’s (ESRC) Indigenous-International Interactions for
 Sustainable Development (GBP692,622, 2018-21) and Rodriguez’s Academic and activist co-
 produced knowledge of environmental justice (UNESCO, GBP103,430, 2016-18). Her UEA
 Engagement Award (2015) recognized coproduction of knowledge in creation of participatory
 videos with communities in Bolivia and Tanzania, the indigenous organization CICOL, exploring
 environmental injustice and providing training in film production in Bolivia, Argentina, Venezuela,
 Colombia, Chile, and Ecuador. Methodological innovation is evident too in Burneo’s (2014)
 filmmaking on communal water management in Bolivia and Ecuador (Institute for Development
 Studies, Bulletin 45) and on storytelling in volcanic eruptions in Monserrat, St. Vincent, and
 Ecuador (McMahon and Few). One Impact Case Study, a pioneering project with displaced
 people utilising performance, art, storytelling, and music, on managing disaster-risk in LA was
 submitted involving Few, Burneo, and Marsh supported by ESRC Moving with Risk
 (GBP247,818, 2016-19) and AHRC (GBP91,220, 2019-20)
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aK80zdPw7dQ.

 Postgraduate Researchers
 Researchers in this group investigate practical and identity/political issues. James Hadley (PhD,
 2018) challenged the hegemony of translation theories and cultural contexts in Translation
 Studies. As Ussher Assistant Professor, Trinity College Dublin, he recently published a
 monograph on Indirect Translation (2020). Ali Alsohaibani whose PhD (2018) studied “The
 Influence of Religion on Language Use” is now Assistant Professor in English Linguistics at
 Qassim University (Saudi Arabia). Adil Zaman Kasi, worked on US-Pakistan Relations (PhD,
 2015) and is Associate Professor and Dean, University of Balochistan, Pakistan, editor-in-chief
 of Pakistan Studies, and author of numerous peer-reviewed journal articles. Dr. Wisam F.
 Hazimah (PhD, 2015, on “The Political Survival of the Muslim Brotherhood: From Participation to
 Boycott”) is currently lecturer at the University of Jordan with eight published articles. Raed
 Ayad, (PhD, 2017) worked on “The Reconstruction of Palestinian National Identity” is Deputy
 Director at the Diplomatic Academy of Canada, and a leading spokesperson for the Palestinian

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diaspora. Najah Al-Osaimi’s PhD (2019) on “Public Diplomacy and Soft power: Saudi Arabia's
 Image Projection in the UK”, is a researcher and journalist specializing in IR and diplomacy in
 the Middle East. She was a winner of the "Every Human Has Rights" awards marking the 60th
 anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Al-Osaimi’s articles and columns
 have appeared in The World Today (Chatham House), the Centre on Religion and Geopolitics
 website, Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper, and in Saudi Gazette. She appears regularly on BBC and
 Arab news channels. Nansata Yakubu, (PhD, 2015) researched conflict prevention in West
 Africa and currently works as a consultant on gender, children, and social protection in Ghana.

 Future Strategic Aims
 Our strategy is to:
    • invest in new/existing staff, enhance research strengths, and pursue interdisciplinary
        innovation;
    • seek appointments to ensure sustainability and expand expertise in new world regions
        (Asia/Middle East) plus methodological innovation. Deliver strategic appointments (e.g.
        Assistant Director AS) to strengthen expertise in established domains (language-based
        area studies, inter/cross cultural communication, Latin and North American Studies,
        African Studies);
    • collectively plan future growth through our annual New Area Studies Colloquium so
        supporting the unit’s growth and collaborative ethos;
    • pursue greater cross-disciplinary research collaborations within UEA with: SISJAC,
        International Development, the British Centre for Literary Translation and Centre for East
        Anglian Studies, ClimateUEA, creativeUEA, and Medical Humanities. AS now spans the
        Faculty as a lynchpin of multi and interdisciplinary projects across UEA;
    • nurture staff collaborations at international (Virginia, Bonn, Harvard, Berkley, Melbourne,
        Southern California, Temple, Ibadan, UNAM, PUCP) and national levels (UCL,
        Manchester, Southampton, Portsmouth, Warwick);
    • evolve our impact support system (workload allowance/funding) facilitating staff to reach
        beyond the academy;
    • enhance our annual New Area Studies Colloquium with international focus, taking
        account of the post-Brexit world;
    • develop an MA Area Studies pathway for increased p/g study to grow vitality in the
        research base;
    • realise a New Area Studies Research Centre, promoting strategic developments,
        augmenting grant capture, and increasing research collaboration.


 2. People

 Equality and Diversity
 UEA has clear policies supporting equality and diversity in relation to staff and students which
 the unit fully endorses. This informs specific objectives set annually indicating achievements
 against objectives. The unit operates flexible working and benefits from UEA’s team of
 harassment advisers, trains staff involved in appointments, while encouraging applications from
 under-represented groups. The UoA ensures that the Code of Practice for staff on Equality and
 Diversity is implemented in compliance with the 2010 Equality Act and for those with protected
 characteristics (see REF5a). Significant progress has been made in staff support since 2014.
 For instance, in 2018 the Faculty established a Childcare Conference Support Fund to assist
 caregivers of dependent children (GBP500 per annum) used for caring costs (parental or
 eldercare) associated with conferences, fieldwork, or career development opportunities. Close
 attention is paid to gender balance in all appointments (staff, slate roles/workloads/ PGR) (see
 REF5a), in the distribution of resources, funding for research, travel, impact, speaker rosters,
 and research events internally and externally.

 The UoA is currently made up of 15 Professors (53% female/47% male), 1 Professorial
 Research Associate (male), 1 Reader (male),19 Associate Professors/SL/Senior RA (58%

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 female/42% male), 8 Lecturers (50% female/50% male), and 2 RA (male). Staff turnover has
 been low during the census period (Jeffries, Stonebridge, Coates). Striving to encourage and
 recognise staff achievements, the record of advancement within AS is strong with 17 staff (37%)
 gaining promotion during the REF period. Sustainability is robust and during the census period 5
 staff have moved from RA to Lecturer contracts. At present, the unit is equally divided between
 female and male staff including 7 part-time contracts (5 male and 2 female).

 We strive hard to encourage colleagues in flourishing research careers. Every opportunity is
 taken to provide support through initiatives like Athena SWAN (see REF5a). UEA has a silver
 award and PPL was one of the first non-STEM schools to secure an Athena SWAN Bronze
 award; PPL/AMS have staff members responsible for improving performance against the
 scheme. An Athena SWAN Return to Work Career Development Fund is available following
 significant absence, parental or adoption leave, caring responsibilities or ill-health. The university
 provides a campus-based multi-cultural nursery operating a salary-sacrifice scheme. Since
 2014, 9 periods of parental leave have been taken (7 Male /2 Female). Recognising the special
 challenges imposed by the pandemic, Faculty implemented a Care Support Fund (Covid19) to
 help with caring or home-schooling responsibilities and worked with Advance HE to assess the
 impact of remote-working and gender. Given historical inequities, female research staff are
 encouraged to join ResNET, a contact, support, and information network for women (see
 REF5a). Colleagues contributed to the programme (Barrow, Drugan, Fear-Segal) and benefitted
 from leadership mentoring via the international Aurora network (Black, Fraser, Marsh, Ridealgh)
 https://aurora-network.global/. Furthermore, our Vice-Chancellor David Richardson fronts a
 national UUK advisory group to tackle racial harassment in higher education supporting BAME
 and LGBTQ+ staff/students (see REF5a).

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The university has addressed equality and diversity issues by investing in the unit’s intellectual
 project by recruiting three female Professors. Hodgett, previously President of the UK Council of
 Area Studies Associations, was appointed founding Professor and Director of Area Studies in
 2018 to lead development of the field and reconceptualise the theoretical foundations of the
 discipline. Her book Necessary Travel: New Area Studies and Canada in Comparative
 Perspective (2018) helped redraw international debate, demonstrating a wealth of intellectual
 approaches to, and definitions of, AS in the twenty-first century. PVC (Arts and Humanities,
 2017-) Barrow, Professor of Film and Media, concentrates on examining Latin American politics
 and cultural policy. Her prize-winning work on Contemporary Peruvian Cinema (2017)
 exemplifies deep concerns for people and place fundamental to AS while interrogating history,
 identity, violence, and relationships between state and fiction cinema. Barrow’s intellectual
 leadership is demonstrated by her contribution to the Festival of Latin American Women's Arts
 (London, 2019), a round table, with activists and filmmakers, discussing the Peruvian film Volver
 a Ver (Judith Velez, 2019): http://flawafestival.co.uk/ and her establishment of the Latin
 American Studies Network at UEA. Jowitt was recruited in 2015 as Associate Dean Research
 (ADR) for Arts and Humanities to provide research leadership at Faculty level. Professor of
 Renaissance Studies, Jowitt’s work examines a developing theme in the unit of global travel and
 border-crossing. Her Travel and Drama in Early Modern England (2018) and her Hakluyt Edition
 Project on early modern travel addresses place, migration, cultural encounter, and
 cosmopolitanism. The leadership of this professorial triumvirate imbues the unit with a
 collaborative and collegial approach, exemplifying our belief in the multifaceted advantage of
 IDR.

 Since 2014 Area Studies has further benefitted from targeted investment involving:
    • balancing appointments of internationally renowned, established scholars with ECRs;
        provision for internal promotion of excellence in research, including a “Development
        Year” programme (see below) where colleagues were supported to transfer onto
        research contracts;
    • use of mentoring and support schemes for staff development;
    • commitment to a flexible working/open research culture that incorporates all staff

                                                                                                Page 8
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           (including part-time and short-term contracts) (see REF5a).

   Recruitment and Appointment Strategy
   Staff have joined the unit at different career levels and seniority.

a) External Appointments
   In addition to the three new externally appointed professors with different regional specialisms
   (Barrow, Latin America Studies; Hodgett, North American Studies; Jowitt, Early North American
   Studies), 10 new lecturer/SRA positions have improved our proficiency in intercultural
   communication, pragmatics, regions, and methods: Black (Translation Studies), Burneo (Natural
   Resources), Carruthers Leverhulme Early Career (LEC) Fellow (Egyptian post-colonialism),
   Elder, LEC Fellow, now lecturer (Pragmatics), Jeffries (America) (2 year contract), Køhlert
   (American Comics), Mason (Japanese IR), Osborne (Japanese Literature), Ridealgh (Egypt and
   Historical Pragmatics), Wilson (.5) (Translation Studies/Philosophy). These 12.5 FTE new hires
   continued the unit’s “innovation within area studies” acknowledged in our 2014 REF feedback.

   Internal Promotions
   A new Academic Progressions Handbook was launched in 2019 (REF5a), in consultation with
   unions, to encourage staff to prepare for promotion and address equality, diversity, and
   unconscious bias. Staff have undertaken successful training (led by Barrow) on demystifying the
   promotions process. Ten Chairs were appointed during the period: Drugan (Translation), Fear-
   Segal (American and Indigenous Histories), Few (Professorial Research Fellow, International
   Development), Filipovic (Language and Cognition), Guillott (Intercultural Communication, .2
   FTE), Haour (Arts and Archaeology of Africa), Marsden (Faith and Global Politics), Milne
   (Modern History), Selby (American Literature), Smith (American Literature and Culture). Further
   promotions have been made to Associate Professor/SL/Senior RA: Dawson (Environmental
   justice,.4FTE), Garland (American Studies),Grant (Global and Transnational History), Hair
   (Literature and Culture), Gascon (Cognitive Linguistics), Long (Modern American History), Marsh
   (Latin American Studies), McLennan (American Literature and Culture), McLaughlin, McMahon,
   and Mistry (all American Studies), Neto (Arts of the Americas), Ridealgh (Sociolinguistics),
   Rodriguez (Sociology) (13.4 FTE in total). Five staff (Grant, Marsh, McLaughlin, McMahon,
   Ridealgh) joined the unit through our Faculty “Development Year”, a twelve-month programme
   for teaching colleagues to develop a research portfolio (including research mentorship,
   developmental feedback, activity planning, reduced teaching workload, membership of the ECR
   Forum, targeted internal funding schemes including a GBP1000 research grant). One colleague
   transferred via a university-wide agreement (Wilson .5 FTE).

   Mentoring, Staff Development, and Planning
   UoA Category A (ATR) staff have 40% of their workload dedicated to research, with an
   additional allocation of up to 10% available for impact work (on application). This includes six
   semesters of a combined workload where research counts as 40% of contracted hours, plus the
   opportunity for staff to apply for study leave in the seventh semester. 44 semesters of research
   leave were granted to 2020 (14 more currently arranged to 2022). Research funding is available
   annually at School level (GBP500-1000) and at Faculty level, and awards exist to support all
   aspects of the research culture from publications to childcare. In addition, the university assists
   staff on personal and professional issues affecting home or work life, health or wellbeing,
   through its Employee Assistance Programme. Colleagues’ research is aided by different
   mechanisms across the institution. Research Directors (RDs) support annual individual research
   planning and chair research committees that manage School funds. Faculty research committee
   (chaired by ADR) awards Faculty-level grants. Linking research and impact activities, RDs work
   with Impact Champions (ICs) on partnerships and bid for impact funding liaising with the Unit of
   Assessment coordinator (UoAC). Regular research training and skills workshops are delivered at
   UoA, School, Faculty, and University level, and GCRF specific training events. The Centre for
   Staff Education and Development (CSED) provides training for research and impact. UoA
   members undertook 98 courses since 2014. Coffee mornings, mentoring schemes (formal and
   informal), membership of research teams offer opportunities for professional development and to
   undertake the PG Certificate/MA in Higher Education Practice (Black, Ridealgh) or vocational

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 courses. 24 staff achieved Advanced FHEA (or SFHEA) awards supported and paid for by
 CSED since 2014. There is an annual developmental review of research for all ATR staff with
 the School RD and Head of School (or ADR/UoAC) allied to appraisal and discretionary pay.
 School Research Committees provide strategic direction, consider improvements to structure
 and function of research groups, and RD attends Faculty Research Executive. This leads on
 developing research strategy, culture, interdisciplinary working, and grant bidding. Study Leave
 Committee meets twice a year to receive applications and reports. Staff work with ICs, take part
 in Research Away Days and the annual NAS Colloquium. University Research and Innovation
 Services (RIN) provide assistance with developing grant applications using collegial internal peer
 review.

 The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2019) informs our
 support for ECRs and the institution’s probationary system gives them a reduced teaching and
 administrative workload, protecting time for research while early consideration may be given for
 study leave (REF5a). Faculty ECR Forums (five events p.a.) facilitate interdisciplinary networks
 and career progression in research and impact. Talks, presentations, and groupwork involve
 senior and ECR colleagues (e.g. Ridealgh, Mason, 2017) and informal mentoring is arranged by
 Heads of School, ADR, or RD. ECRs can apply for funds through the Faculty “Annual
 Adventures in Research” awards (GBP2500) (Elder and Køhlert, 2020) and for fellowships
 (Elder, LEC, 2015-18, Carruthers, LEC, 2018-21). We take every opportunity to celebrate staff
 success too through book launches, annual Faculty Research Showcase (e.g. Milne, Gascon
 (2016); Atakav, Fear-Segal, Barrow (2018); Marsh, Hodgett (2019)) and School/Faculty research
 bulletins.

 Flexible Working and Open Research Culture
 Most staff are on open-ended full-time (or full-time fixed term) contracts. The University is
 committed to flexible-working and an open research culture incorporating staff immaterial of type
 or duration of contract. Where possible, research seminars, research groups, mentor meetings,
 or training events are scheduled within the working day to allow colleagues to attend (REF5a).
 Given the real-world relevance and impact of our research, we implement the UUK Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity, Open Access (OA) and Research Data Management. UEA’s
 Guidelines on Good Practice in Research support us in this endeavour
 https://www.uea.ac.uk/documents/20142/130807/RIN-ethics-guidelines-on-good-practice-in-
 research.pdf/68ac6bb6-a930-5bd2-a3c9-32097b25429b?t=1587385584786
 as does our OA Officer, and training provided by CSED since 2014 (20 colleagues). Any
 research project involving human subjects must receive advice from, and be approved by, the
 Faculty of Arts and Humanities Research Ethics Subcommittee and by the University’s Research
 Ethics Committee. This also applies to PhD research projects, Masters, and Undergraduate
 research (REF5a).

 Research Students (PGRs)
 UEA Area Studies postgraduate research community has burgeoned during the census period,
 153 undertaking PhD study and 69 completions (13 in 2014). The UoA is fortunate to have
 financial support from the SRU to help develop future specialist research careers e.g. in the
 British Museum; students may apply for grants and bursaries at master’s and doctoral level.
 Since 2014, GBP326,324 has been awarded to support all Doctoral students at SRU, plus the
 Robert Sainsbury Scholarship every three years to a postgraduate (totalling GBP154,078). SRU
 support for 17 Area Studies doctoral students totalled GBP257,706. This, plus Doctoral Training
 Partnership (DTP) funding, has facilitated the unit’s buoyant PGR research culture.

                                    PhD completions by year

       UoA      2013      2014      2015      2016      2017     2018      2019      Total
       25       9         5         16        13        8        10        8         69




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                            PGR Funding Source Over Period
               Main funder                           Number
               AHRC (CHASE)                          16
               ESRC                                  1
               Not captured                          42
               Other                                 3
               Overseas Government                   3
               Self-funded                           47
               UEA                                   41
               Total                                 153

 Recruitment is by open competition, with candidates developing applications with potential
 supervisors. PhD candidates work with a supervisory team, formed by a primary/secondary or
 co-supervisory structure. Relevant specialisms create support and expertise and multi-university
 supervision is possible. Candidates prepare for a probationary panel at the end of year one (year
 two for part-time candidates). Supervisory training (renewed every three years) is well
 signposted and student progress supported by supervisors. The unit sees doctoral students as
 an intrinsic part of its research culture and candidates are encouraged to join the research group
 closest to their interests. Progress is nurtured: Haour, for example, supporting Commonwealth
 Scholar Dartey (PhD, 2018), and Khalaf (PhD, 2016) to gain funds from the Society of Africanist
 Archaeologists to attend the Pan African Archaeological Association, Johannesburg, 2014; and
 Owoseni, to fund fieldwork in Nigeria (Faculty Graduate School GBP1000, Gilchrist Educational
 Trust Fund GBP500, Sir Philip Reckitt Education Trust GBP250).

 A new UEA Doctoral College was launched in 2018-19 with a dedicated support team and Study
 Centre. Training is provided by the Faculty of Arts and Humanities Graduate School, a member
 of the Consortium for Humanities and the Arts South-East England (CHASE) and the South East
 Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) Doctoral Training Programmes. CHASE’s GBP17 million
 AHRC DTP guarantees future provision of studentships matched by faculty-funded scholarships
 and offers opportunities for students to undertake training from partners (8 awarded). A Personal
 and Professional Development Programme offers a wide range of courses and activities for
 students (many online). CHASE PGRs may apply to the student development fund (18 awarded)
 and submit funding bids with PGR partners across the consortium or undertake placements (5
 awarded) (e.g. with government and industry). The Graduate School funds student-led
 conferences, engagement activities, and an annual IDR seminar series and prizes. Recent AS
 recipients have been for projects on Muslims in film and TV, and Carnivalesque Bodies in
 American Dustbowl fiction. Research students have access to free language courses, University
 Careers and Student Services provision, and our i-Teams initiative with business (REF5a). In
 2019, the Graduate School piloted the GBP300k “Courage” project, co-funded with ESRC,
 drawing on experience of students and staff, to improve institutional practice and resilience
 among PGRs. In 2020, UEA established Faculty-wellness and mental health initiatives on
 Blackboard and embedded teams of wellbeing (mental health and disability) along with student-
 life advisors in Schools; crisis support is available at UEA Medical Centre.

 Doctoral Alumni
 Since 2014 Area Studies students have undertaken further study and made outstanding careers.
 SRU students have been appointed to curatorships at the British Museum, National Museum
 Scotland, National Museum Sweden, Musee du quay Branly Paris, and the Metropolitan
 Museum of Art, New York. Highlights include Dr Stephanie Leclerc-Caffarel (2014) awarded a 2-
 year research fellowship at the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution,
 Washington, then Curator for Oceania Musée du quai Branly-Jacques Chirac, Paris; Dr Alice
 Christophe (2016) appointed Collections Manager at the Bishop Museum, Honolulu, (2016-20),
 then Assistant Curator at the British Museum; Rosalie Hans (2018) appointed a one-year post at
 the University of Nottingham, now collections researcher for the Dutch National Museum; Craig
 Halliday (2017) appointed an AHRC-CHASE intern at the British Institute in Eastern Africa
 (Nairobi); Vicky van Bockhaven (2014), who researched Eastern Congo, is now a Lecturer,
 University of Ghent; Carlos Rengifo (2014) Associate Professor, Universidad Nacional de

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trujillo; Julia Zumstein (2015) is Deputy Curator, LACMA, and Matthew Helmer (2015) in the
 U.S. Forest Service. Representative examples of Postdoctoral success include Postdoctoral
 Research Fellow Nadia Khalaf (2016) who worked on “Mapping Africa’s Endangered
 Archaeological Sites and Monuments” using remote sensing, records-based research, and
 selective archaeological surveys; and Sam Nixon, postdoc to Haour’s ERC Crossroads project
 to 2015, now Head of the Africa Section at the British Museum.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 In a very competitive arts and humanities funding environment, we are extremely proud of our
 colleagues’ funding performance. As a result of the more formal support system the unit has
 developed, the tripling of staff, plus peer-review, an exponential increase in research/grant
 income has been achieved from GBP75,860 (2014) to GBP5.7m (2021) This equates to a per
 annum income in 2014 of GBP12,643 and in 2020 GBP818,153 (per FTE GBP5,418 in 2014 and
 GBP19,480 in 2020). A strategic focus on grant capture within the unit encourages staff to submit
 a major funding-bid every five years. Support for this process includes a Faculty-wide buddy and
 mentor scheme (allowing, for example, Garland, Fear-Segal, and Hodgett to assist Fraser in
 successful application to AHRC’s Research Networking Scheme) a compulsory process of
 anonymized internal peer-review for grant applications, encouragement for staff to use study
 leave to develop major grant applications, best practice events/documentation, internal seed-
 funding, discussion of annual research plans, and dedicated administrative support from a
 Research and Innovation Services (RIN) Project Officer. Equality and diversity issues are
 prioritised, and support is offered to colleagues at all career stages. Facilities and office
 provision are also good, all staff have networked PCs with office-sharing amongst full-time
 colleagues kept to a minimum.

 Active awards over the current REF period were GBP16.8m (77 research projects totalling
 GBP16.1m). Research, consultancy, and training awards included UK funding of GBP13.8m for
 97 projects. UKRI accounted for 42 projects to GBP7.3m; 22 projects from UK charities totalling
 GBP5m; 1 from NIHR of GBP0.8M; 14 from UK Government totalling GBP0.1M; 5 from UK
 industry totalling GBP0.1m; 13 other UK projects totalling GBP0.4m. EU sources funded 7
 projects to GBP1.3m; and 9 Non-EU projects totalled GBP1.7m. Large grants were awarded by
 AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC, BA, Department for International Development (DFID), the
 Gatsby Foundation, International Development Research Centre (IDRC), Leverhulme Trust, and
 Royal Society; supplemented by numerous smaller amounts e.g. British Council, Darwin
 Initiative, The Japan Foundation, GB Sasakawa Foundation, Water Aid etc. Charity/industry
 funding reached GBP5.1m.

 The breadth of funders of the unit’s research is equally striking, including the African Wildlife
 Foundation, African Development Bank, the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre, DeJusticia
 and the Overseas Development Institute, and indicates the social justice emphasis of our work.
 Faculty-specific GCRF information and networking events are supported and HUM is
 represented on the University GCRF steering-group allocating funding for activities through the
 ODA QR allocation. Substantial GCRF-funded work has been undertaken by unit members
 (Burneo, Few, Haour, Jowitt, Marsh, Marsden, McMahon, Stonebridge) in Colombia, Dominica,
 Ethiopia, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, Vanuatu, and the UK since 2014.

 Internal research infrastructures and support
 Support for colleagues’ research comes in many forms, shaped around mentoring and the
 sharing of best practice. RDs, UoACs and ICs are responsible for School and unit-level research
 management; they also form School Research Committees which are responsible for the
 distribution of funds to help support individual research activity and grant-bidding. Generous
 faculty funds are available to support these and other research activities including specific
 awards targeted at ECR researchers and those who require support to cover caring
 responsibilities in order to undertake fieldwork or attend conferences.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Funding scheme                   Maximum award        Amount awarded           UoA25 awards
                                   per person, per      per annum                in period
                                   year
  Annual Adventures in             GBP2500              Up to GBP10,000          2 awards
  Research (ECR only)
  Childcare Conference             GBP500               Up to GBP5000            3 awards
  Support
  Publications Fund                GBP1000              Up to GBP10,000 -        10 awards
                                                        GBP15,000
  Research Training Fund           GBP1000              Up to GBP10,000          1 award

  Small Awards scheme              GBP500               Up to GBP10,000 -        25 awards
                                                        GBP15,000
  School-level Research            GBP500-1000          Up to GBP15,000          Per person p.a.
  Funds

 A robust mentoring system (including from colleagues with AHRC and ESRC peer-review
 experience and an Internal Peer-Review Panel for ESRC) is in place to support colleagues at all
 career levels, particularly in relation to grant applications. The UoA is supported by RIN, a
 dedicated and experienced team to aid in the development and submission of grant applications.
 RIN organizes peer-review of prospective applications; hosts research and grant-specific training
 sessions (often in partnership with academics with special expertise, or major external funders
 e.g. BA); and provides post-award financial and planning support. RIN includes Relationship
 Managers and Impact Officers (increased by 6.5 FTE since 2014) who help to develop external
 partnerships. CSED implements the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Research Staff ensuring personal, professional, and career development. The
 success of these infrastructure arrangements and initiatives is evident in the significant increase
 in grant capture that can be seen since 2014.

  Engagement, Impact and Innovation activities are supported via funds at School, Faculty, and
                                     University-level:
   Funding scheme                     Maximum award per Amount awarded per
                                      project, per year         annum
   Engagement Fund                    GBP500                    Up to GBP10,000
   Faculty Innovation Fund            Up to GBP2000             Up to GBP30,000
   University Proof of Concept Fund   Up to GBP20,000           Up to GBP100,000
   University Development Fund        Up to GBP50,000           Up to GBP200,000
   Pro-Vice Chancellor’s Impact Fund GBP20,000 p.a.             GBP250,000

 Infrastructure to Support Impact
 Since the last REF our impact work has been supported through a generous PVC Research
 Initiative using Higher Education Innovation Funds managed by RIN and to which staff can apply
 several times each year. The unit successfully bid for GBP60,806 to develop seven potential
 impact case studies since 2014. Four were selected for submission to REF2021, while further
 examples of impactful work can be seen in section 4. Case Studies selected for REF are closely
 supported and regularly reviewed by RIN working with ADR, RDs, ICs, UoACs, and academics.
 Open Access Publications
 The University has had open access for all outputs since 2013 and uploads manuscripts to its
 online repository PURE. Research papers/pre-prints are made available through PURE, with
 colleagues using platforms like academia.edu. Unit members profit from awareness and
 training events organized by the University’s OA officer (REF5a). Dissemination of findings
 benefits from an OA agreement between the University and major publishers Springer,
 Taylor and Francis, and SAGE. In addition, funds from the Faculty for Open Access were
 used to purchase gold open access rights for two publications (Drugan, 2017; Filipovic,
 2018). Our commitment to OA is reflected in our deliberate decision to make our New Area
 Studies journal free to both authors and readers. One further success has been Neto’s OA

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with University of Sao Paulo https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zV_g8dboy7o
 (95,111 views, 2020).

 Specialist Research Infrastructure/Incoming Visiting Fellows
 UEA has a number of specialist resources that underpin the work of the unit including the

    •   SRU http://www.sru.uea.ac.uk/ a world-leading centre for the study of the arts and
        material cultures of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas supported by library and
        administrative staff working with visiting fellows, research associates and postdoctoral
        researchers. SRU has its own teaching and study facilities, the Robert Sainsbury Library,
        offers MA and PhD degrees, with scholarships based at a permanent collection of world
        art and visiting exhibitions at SCVA https://sainsburycentre.ac.uk/. It also supported the
        research of five Area Studies staff amounting to GBP77,370 (2014-20).
    •   SRU Visiting Fellowships add research diversity and vitality to the unit. Visitors have
        included Coll Thrush (British Columbia, 2018-21); Maya Stanfield-Mazzi (Florida, 2015);
        Joseph Adande (Universite d'Abomey-Calavi, Benin, 2014); Emmanuelle Honoré
        (Sorbonne/ Cambridge, 2020), Andrew Finegold (Illinois, 2018); Vicky
        VonBockhaven (Leiden, 2019). The unit recently hosted Abigail Moffett, University of
        Cape Town, as a BA Newtown International Fellow.
    •   Faculty Archive and Visiting Fellowship scheme provides GBP2.5k for four weeks
        work within our archives, museums, and collections. Eleven fellowships were offered in
        2020. (www.uea.ac.uk/research/fellowships/uea-archives-and-collections).
    •   Robert Sainsbury Lectures (organised annually by Mack/Hooper) most recently given
        by Dr. Gus Casely-Hayford, Director of the National Museum of African Art, Smithsonian,
        Washington (2019).
    •   Arthur Miller Institute (AMI) (https://www.uea.ac.uk/groups-and-centres/the-arthur-
        miller-institute) promotes the study and understanding of the Americas in the UK. It
        supports its research community through annual awards for the best first book on an
        American Studies topic and the best article-length work published in a British journal or
        by a UK-based academic. AMI runs informal research forums (including lecture series at
        the Millennium Library Norwich), and provides funding for public-facing events,
        conference organization or attendance, and archival research trips.
    •   UEA Library: colleagues work with a dedicated subject librarian to identify key academic
        resources relevant to our disciplinary needs with a balance between electronic resources
        and physical materials. In 2018-19, for example, the library expended GBP4,186,000 on
        information provision and access. Across the period, average expenditure per user was
        significantly higher than the national HEI average (a mean figure of GBP213 versus
        GBP153).
    •   UEA Media Suite: a state-of-the-art production facility comprising avid-equipped edit
        labs, a digitization lab, recording and television studio, and three dedicated technicians.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 This unit has a strong history of working with research users, and with diverse communities and
 publics. Innovative, interdisciplinary projects are fundamental to our approach pushing out
 disciplinary boundaries and knowledge exchange. Our researchers work extensively with
 governments (federal, provincial, and local) and authorities e.g. U.S. (Milne), Canada
 (Hodgett), Latin America, Africa, and India (Burneo, Dawson, Few, Marsh, Rodriguez), UK
 (Atakav). Our Intercultural Communication experts work with users including Home Office, local
 constabularies, College of Policing, medics, sporting and linguists’ professional associations.
 The Transnational Organised Crime and Translation Project (TOCAT) (Drugan) ESRC/AHRC
 GBP85,705 examined how police fight transnational crime by working with translators, victims,
 witnesses, and suspects. The project worked also with the Ministry of Justice and NHS maternity
 services using interpretation (Barts Hospital/AHRC Doctoral Award). Filipovic served on the
 Cross-Whitehall Advisory Panel on Experimental Government. We have formidable expertise
 working with the heritage sector and archives e.g. Fiji Museum (Hooper), Senegal Colonial

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archives (DeJong), Small Publishers UK (Hair). Much of our research has centred on
 communities under stress in Latin America (Marsh, Barrow, Rodriguez, Dawson) and
 indigenous communities in North/South America and Asia (Rodriguez, Few, Fear-Segal,
 Barcelos Neto, Lau). AHRC funded work (GBP325,041,2016-20) focussed on minority
 communities including Fear-Segal’s (Stirrup, Kent/Thrush, British Columbia) “Beyond the
 Spectacle – Native North American presence in Britain”, which reconfigured scholarship on the
 native North American presence in Britain. The project counterbalanced the prevailing colonial
 view of collaborative relationships developing new ongoing relations with Eastern Bank,
 Cherokee and Osage communities. A digitisation project funded by Mellon (US$700,000)
 created teaching resources and three, month-long UK residencies at UEA for Indigenous artists
 who developed exhibitions at SCVA. Sonny Assu (Ligwilda'xw Kwakwaka'wakw) was Resident
 Artist at SCVA (2019) running: an “Open Studio” for staff, students and the public; three primary
 school workshops (with Fear-Segal) and a solo exhibition at SCVA. His keynote lecture on
 “Bringing Light to the Dark: Visual Sovereignties in Contemporary Indigenous Art of the
 Americas” took place within a 3-day symposium at UEA https://www.sonnyassu.com/. Marla
 Allison (Laguna Pueblo) was Resident Artist at the Rainmaker Gallery, Bristol (2018) offering a
 keynote on “Indigenous Art in Britain”. Fraser’s Black Female Intellectuals Research Network
 brought together scholars interested in historical and contemporary societies, ECRs, and PGRs
 for a series of workshops and public lectures by luminaries like Barbara Savage (Pennsylvania),
 Bonnie Greer (Playwright), and Aviah Day (Birkbeck/Sisters Uncut).

 UoA members have also made important contributions on Environment and Climate. They
 have contributed to IPCC 2019 (Assessment Round 6, Working Group II) creating new
 standards of evidence synthesis with an enhanced focus on adaptation and vulnerability in
 African heritage (Clarke). Others including Few, Burneo, and Marsh (2012-18) worked with
 colleagues in Ecuador, Colombia, and St. Vincent to undertake research with communities living
 on active volcanoes, understanding hazards and risks (NERC-ESRC). Community engagement
 events featured the use of narrative films and public discussion forums in conjunction with risk
 management agencies in all three countries. Few also led the East African component of an
 IDRC/DFID funded Adaptation at Scale in Semi-Arid Regions project using mobile exhibitions on
 Strengthening Resilience in Disaster Risk Areas (2014-18) focusing on climatic vulnerability and
 population in Kenya and Ethiopia with colleagues in Nairobi and Addis Ababa. Working with
 Marsh and Burneo on the ESRC/AHRC/GCRF Moving with Risk: Forced Displacement and
 Vulnerability to Hazards in Colombia (2016-19) and The Art of Disaster Risk Reduction
 (AHRC/GCRF follow-on impact grant), Few also engaged with those displaced by conflict and
 living at risk from natural hazards (working with the University of Manizales, local and national
 government, and the Colombian Red Cross). Other important research collaborations, networks,
 and partnerships include Dawson’s service as a Steering Committee member of the International
 Union on the Conservation of Nature, Commission on Environmental, Economic, and Social
 Policy. He chaired the Human Wellbeing and Sustainable Livelihoods group (300 experts, 60
 countries, spanning policy, practice, and academia) which reviewed evidence and developed
 global case studies on links between human wellbeing, governance, and conservation
 effectiveness for the 2020 World Conservation Congress https://www.iucn.org/. Dawson is also
 CI (2018-21) of the ESRC, GBP692,622 Indigenous-International Interactions for Sustainable
 Development Project, managing action research with Indigenous Peoples and policy advocacy
 through NGOs and academics in Uganda.

 Contributions to Research Base

 Research Councils
 The UoA has strong relationships with UKRI/Research Councils including Research England,
 AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, and NERC. It encourages, and mentors, new staff to serve. Hodgett was
 a founding member of the Research England Council (2017-20), Drugan is Panel Chair and
 member for AHRC’s Follow-On Funding scheme and Deputy Director of the AHRC CHASE
 consortium (2019-24). Staff served on Peer-Review Colleges: AHRC (Drugan, Filipovic, Fraser,
 Guillott, Hodgett, Jowitt, Long, Marsden, Milne, Selby; Strategic Reviewers, Jowitt and Selby
 2014-18); ESRC (Filopovic, Hodgett, Marsden, Milne, Mussolff); and UKRI (Hodgett). Mistry was

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a member of the Italian Scientific Evaluation Committee (2017) and an expert peer-reviewer for
 Italian Scientific Evaluation (2017). Gascon reviewed for the Agencia Estatal de Investigacion,
 and Guillot for the Australian Research Council (2015-17). De Jong reviewed for the Polish
 National Research Centre, 2018, Milne assessed ERC grants for the Italian Ministry for
 University Research. Filipovic served on the ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (Linguistics and
 Psychology) (2017-21), worked with the Royal Society, the Israel National Science Foundation,
 and the Swiss National Science Foundation. She and Lau served on the National Science
 Foundation (USA), while Clarke reviewed for Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft.

 Learned Societies, Professional Bodies, Other
 Colleagues have undertaken leadership roles in learned societies or professional bodies and
 encourage ECRs to become involved. Mack is a Fellow of the BA for three sections including
 Area Studies, the Royal Anthropological Society, the Societies of Antiquaries and the Salzburg
 Global Seminar. Haour served on the Committee for BA International Research Institutes and
 Hooper was President of the Pacific Arts Association (2013-19). Hodgett was President of the
 UK Council for Area Studies Associations (2013-16), President, International Council for
 Canadian Studies (2015-17) and Committee Member of the British Association for Canadian
 Studies (2016-). Jowitt is on the English Association Higher Education Committee (2010-) and
 co-edits the English Association Monograph Series: English at the Interface; and is a trustee and
 member of the Hakluyt Society Council 2012-18 and 2019-. Long was on the Executive Board of
 Historians of the 20th Century U.S. (2011-16) and member of the British Association for
 American Studies Executive (2016-19). Guillott served as Chair of Research for the Association
 for French Language Studies to 2017. Drugan is Vice-Chair (Research) of the University Council
 for Modern Languages. Milne served on the Committee for the Society for Historians of
 American Foreign Relations to 2017 and Mistry was Chair of the Membership Committee. Fraser
 is Secretary of British American Nineteenth Century Historians (2017-). Black is Treasurer of the
 European Association for Studies in Screen Translation (2018-21) and Marsh on the Advisory
 Council for the Education of Romany and other Travellers (2015-20). Rodriguez and Haour
 reviewed for the Leverhulme Trust. Haour worked with Volkswagen Foundation and the ERC,
 and with Neto, reviewed for the Sao Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP). Mack reviewed BA
 Global Professorships (2018) and Newton International fellowships (2011-18) while Rodrigeuz
 and Marsh worked on the Global Challenges Research Fund (2017-18). Hooper reviewed for the
 Marsden Fund (New Zealand Royal Society), Leverhulme Fund, the Musée du quai Branly
 (Paris), and Musée Barbier-Mueller (Geneva).

 External Examining, Promotions Committees and Consultancy
 The unit made substantial contributions to Doctoral External Examining (69 since 2014)
 including, Cambridge (Hodgett, 2019, Milne, 2016, Lau, 2014), Sorbonne (Lau, 2019), KCL and
 the Australian Catholic University (Grant, 2020), Ghent (Mack, 2017), Université Libre de
 Bruxelles, (Lau, 2014), University of Sao Paulo (Neto, 2016), Universidad de Los Andes, Bogotá
 (Lau, 2017), Coventry (Rodriguez, 2019), Birkbeck (Jowitt, 2020), Durham (Jowitt, 2018),
 Manchester (Ruys Smith, 2017), Liverpool (Jowitt, 2015), ANU (Few, 2014), Geneva (Haour,
 2018), Sao Paulo (Neto, 2015), Barcelona (Filipovic, 2014), Trinity College and St. Andrews
 (Marsden, 2016), UCL (Mack, 2014). Several colleagues have served on External Promotions
 Committees including Wisconsin, Brown, Rhode Island, UCD, Cardiff, Bishop Grosseteste,
 Newman, UCL, Reading, Southampton. Staff have worked on consultancies Haour (BBC,
 Talkback Productions and If Not Us Films), Few (International Red Cross, DFID), Drugan (The
 Language Shop), Hooper (British Museum, New Zealand TV, Bishops Museum Hawaii, and
 French TV).

 Editorial Contributions
 The UoA has made extensive editorial contributions. A variety of journals were edited out of
 UEA, including the open access New Area Studies (Smith and Hodgett). Selby was Editor
 of Comparative American Studies to 2019; Smith currently coedits the journal with McLennan
 (2018-23). Lau serves as editor of World Art. Osborne took over the editorship of Japan Forum
 in 2020. Hodgett was on the editorial board of the International Journal for Canadian Studies and
 Canadian Foreign Policy during the period. Guillot is currently Co-Editor of Perspectives: Studies

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in Translation Theory and Practice. Jowitt edits the “Maritime Humanities 1400-1800” series for
 Amsterdam University Press and on the Editorial Board of Journal of Maritime Culture (2010-);
 Clarke is Associate Editor, Levant, and Arid Zone Archaeology, and Chairs the Publications
 Committee of the Council for British Research in the Levant.

 Colleagues edited a variety of significant special issues: Gascon (2019) International Review of
 Applied Linguistics in Language Teaching (IRAL) 57; Drugan was guest editor of The Translator,
 (2017) on Translation, Ethics and Social Responsibility. Ridealgh curated Journal of Politeness
 Research (2016) and Journal of Historical Pragmatics (2019). De Jong edited an issue of World
 Art (“At Work in the Archive”) and, with Basu, “Utopian Archives, Decolonial Affordances” (2016)
 in Social Anthropology. Guillot edited a special issue of Multilingua on Audiovisual Translation
 and Cross-cultural Pragmatics (2016); an issue of Border Crossings in Language: Intercultural
 Encounters at the Crossroads of Disciplines (2015), and with Filipovic (2019) a special issue of
 Pragmatics and Society on Police Interviews: Communication Challenges and Solutions.
 Carruthers edited Histories of Egyptology: Interdisciplinary Measures (2014) and Køhlert guest
 edited “Rebel Lines: Comics and the Anarchist Imagination” in Substance and is series editor of
 Routledge Focus on Gender, Sexuality and Comics Studies.

 Awards/Visiting Fellowships/Appointments/Conferences
 Notable awards include Barrow’s Choice Outstanding Academic Title for Contemporary Peruvian
 Cinema from IB Tauris. Fear-Segal was the recipient of the (2018) Cumberland County
 Historical Society’s Milton E. Flower Historian of the Year Award and a finalist in the College of
 Art of America’s Alfred Barr, Jr. Museum Book Award 2019 for Shan Goshorn: Resisting the
 Mission (2019). Drugan was made a Lifetime Honorary Member of the Chartered Institute of
 Linguists (2018), and the Institute of Translation and Interpreting, and was awarded the John
 Sykes Memorial Prize for Excellence (2019). Hooper was appointed Honorary Adviser to Fiji
 Museum in 2016.

 Area Studies colleagues have held various visiting appointments: Neto’s Newton Fund/FAPESP
 International Researcher fellowship (2016 -17) in Brazil and at the Universidad
 Nacional Autónoma de México (2018). Mason’s Visiting Professor at Ritsumeikan University,
 Japan (2018-19). Milne was a Visiting Fellow at the Center for Humanities at Oregon State
 (2019) and a Mosse-Friends Fellow at Wisconsin (2020). Ruys Smith had the Quarry Farm
 Fellowship at the Center for Mark Twain Studies, Elmira College (2018). Guillott was Visiting
 Professor at Pavia University (2019). Hodgett held an Adjunct Professorship at Dalhousie
 University, Nova Scotia 2013-18. Jowitt held visiting fellowships at the John Carter Brown
 Library, Rhode Island (2019); Moore Institute, NUI, Galway (2017) and at the Huntington Library,
 California (2015). Carruthers was an Honorary Lecturer at UCL Institute of Archaeology 2017-
 19.

 Many have organised conferences like Haour’s Society of Africanist Archaeologists, 2020 and
 Archaeology and Prehistory, at the 6th European Conference on African Studies, 2015. Hooper
 led the SRU’s 25th Annual Conference with the Pacific Arts Association (2014). Ridealgh put
 together the (2016) Historical Politeness Conference at UEA. Tillett and Fear-Segal hosted the
 Native Studies Research Network UK (2016) “Indigenous Environments: Contested, Negotiated,
 Sustained”. Jowitt co-organised the “Richard Hakluyt and the Renaissance Discovery of the
 World” conference at Christ Church and the Bodleian Library, Oxford (2016). Mistry was
 Program Committee Co-Chair of the Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations, 2019,
 and Conference Co-organiser of “Exposing Secrets: The Past, Present and Future of U.S.
 National Security Whistleblowing and Government Secrecy”, New York University, 2019. Milne
 served on the Program Committee for the 2020 Society for Historians of American Foreign
 Relations conference and Carruthers co-organised the “Heritage, Decolonisation and the Field”
 conference at UCL 2018.

 Plenaries, Talks and Panels
 Colleagues delivered presentations too numerous to mention. Highlights include Milne’s lectures
 on “Worldmaking: The Art and Science of American Diplomacy” at the Office of the Historian,

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 State Department, USA, at the U.S. Air War College, Montgomery, Alabama (2019), the
 Brookings Institution 2018, and the Council on Foreign Relations New York. Guillott’s plenaries
 (2017) at the University of Catania on “Ragusa and Montalbano: Translating”. Hodgett’s plenary
 on “The Future of Area Studies” at UCL (2015) became part of a book on the Rebirth of Area
 Studies. Fear-Segal addressed the Native American and Indigenous Studies Association in
 Washington, and the Johannes Gutenberg-Universität on “Settler Colonialism and Indigenous
 Presences in North America” (2015). Jowitt’s plenaries included “Buccaneers, Corsairs, Pirates
 and Privateers: Connecting the Early Modern Seas”, Bielefeld University (2018), the National
 Maritime Museum, and the Sorbonne. Filipovic spoke to the International Symposium on
 Bilingualism 2019, (Alberta) and the year before at University California, Davis. Mason
 considered “Crisis Narratives in Japan” at Tohoku University (2019). De Jong addressed “Ruins
 of Utopia” at École William Ponty, at Sciences Po, and the University of the African Future. Elder
 addressed the Universities of Ajou (2015) and Cambridge Linguistic Society (2015). Rodriguez
 organised a (2015) Round Table on Environmental Justice and Indigenous Territorial
 Autonomy in Bolivia. Hooper convened a panel at the biennial Pacific History Association
 conference, Cambridge (2018). Neto planned a panel on Indigenous Art in Latin America at the
 56th International Congress of Americanists (2018). Mistry was symposium co-organiser of
 “Secrets, the State and Democracy: Discussion with Whistleblowers, Advocates and Historians”
 at New York University (2018).

 Collaborations
 Colleagues collaborated with the following universities (not exhaustive) Africa (Addis Adaba,
 Makerere, Botswana, Cape Town, Ghana, Namibia, Nigeria); Middle East (American University,
 Beirut); Asia (Bangladesh Agricultural University, National University of Laos, Tohoku
 University); Europe (Copenhagen University, Autonomous University of Barcelona, Catholic
 University of Leuven); USA (Berkeley, Yale, Louisiana State, Arizona, Temple); Latin America
 (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, UNAM, Pontifical Catholic University of Ecuador,
 Manizales, Universidad Nacional Santiago Antúnez de Mayolo), Australia (Griffith); UK (21
 institutions).
 Museums: British Museum, Fiji Museum, Royal Museum for Central Africa, National Maritime
 Museum, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, Ethnologisches Museum Berlin, Musée du quai
 Branly-Jacques Chirac Paris, National Museums of World Cultures The Netherlands, National
 Museums of World Culture Sweden, National Museum of Kenya, National Museum of Ghana,
 Metropolitan Museum of Art New York, National Museum of New Zealand, National Museum of
 Anthropology Mexico City, and Bishop Museum Honolulu.
 Research and Training partners included the British Library, Red Cross, College of Policing,
 Monserrat Volcano Observatory, Global Water Partnership, and the Buffalo Bill Centre.
 Colleagues made a variety of links to practitioners: Rodriguez, for example, is co-founder of
 Grupo Confluencias, a consortium of Latin American conflict-resolution practitioners, and
 honorary member of the ICCA Consortium https://www.iccaconsortium.org/ supporting
 indigenous peoples.




                                                                                            Page 18
