Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: School of Management, University of Bath

 Unit of Assessment: C17: Business and Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Bath School of Management (SoM) continues to be research-led. This is not only a strategic aim,
 but also a deeply embedded and longstanding element of the SoM’s identity and values. Our
 research capability is strongly evident across early-career, mid-career, and senior academic
 positions and in all our academic fields and specialisms. We sustain the future of business and
 management research through our doctoral training and extensive support for early-career
 academics. We collaborate globally, provide leadership to international research communities,
 and develop global research networks. We attract research income from diverse sources and
 engage with corporate, social and public organizations to enrich and enliven our impact with non-
 academic audiences. For three decades, the SoM has actively nurtured an inclusive, international
 and interdisciplinary research culture in which our academic staff generate intellectually ambitious
 and socially and economically purposeful outputs and outcomes.

 The School’s research excellence has been recognized in successive rounds of research
 assessment. We were ranked joint 6th in REF 2014 in terms of share of internationally leading
 and excellent research. This built upon being ranked 5th equal in RAE 2008, a rating of 5A in RAE
 2001, and a rating of 5 in RAE 1996. Since 2014, we have further developed and extended our
 research-intensity and impact. For example, we are now at our highest ever level of resourcing of
 both individual research staff and our research environment, including the provision of funded
 doctoral studentships, databases, administrative support, impact and research funding. We are
 submitting a high volume of outputs that are novel, rigorous, and significant, while also maintaining
 consistent engagement and impact with our research partners. Our consistency has made Bath
 one of the leading research-intensive Management Schools in Europe. Evidence regarding the
 quality of SoM research is reflected in external rankings, such as the QS Business and
 Management Rankings 2020 where we were ranked 3rd in the UK for citations per paper (15th in
 the World) and 3rd-equal in the UK for the departmental H-index (joint 12th in the World). To
 sustain and enhance our future research environment, the University has invested £70 million in
 a new, dedicated SoM building, which has been designed with research at its heart, opening in
 2021.

 The SoM’s research strategy is a process of continuous development, seeking to further enhance
 and extend our reputation for research and creating a supportive working environment. Our current
 strategy was developed by the senior management team of the School. It is managed by the Dean,
 the Research Committee and Executive Board. In implementing this strategy, we benefit from
 having a talented and committed faculty that actively co-create our research culture. Research as
 a collective community pursuit is underpinned by the equitable provision of research time and
 resources for staff at all levels, as well as a culture of collegiality and mutual respect. In REF 2014,
 we highlighted five underpinning objectives of our research strategy and have made strong
 progress in each of these areas:

 1) To produce world leading and internationally excellent research: The School is submitting the
    largest number of faculty in our history, 94.7 FTE, an increase from 64.9 FTE in REF 2014.
    This growth in faculty has been accompanied by an increase in the quality of our outputs,
    demonstrated, for example, by an increase in the number of FT50 articles in our REF pool
    from 62 in 2014 to 141 in 2020. We have also increased the number of our outputs in the top
    10% journal percentiles, as assessed in SciVal by CiteScore, from 133 to 314, over the past
    two REF periods.
 2) To maximize the economic, social and organizational impact of our research: We continue to
    have a strong focus on creating economic, social and public value within businesses,
    government and charitable organizations. To this end, in 2015, we have revamped and
    enhanced our engagement and impact strategy, launching new funds that have directly
    supported almost half our faculty to expand their external outreach efforts. Our impact cases

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    stem from these investments and testify to our local and global approach to external
    engagement, including collaborations with medical professionals and social entrepreneurs in
    the southeast of England, civil servants in Whitehall and Cheltenham, central bankers in India,
    Germany and France, and logistics managers in the USA, Argentina, Finland and Taiwan.
 3) To generate research income from all available sources: Over the REF window, we have
    grown substantially our external funding. We report research income in excess of £1 million
    per year over last four years, including a £1.5m donation from EDF for our Supply Chain
    Innovation Lab. In total, we secured £5.8m, and have a pipeline of £3m worth of new grants.
    To sustain these efforts, we increased our support for grant development, and embedded
    expectations for grant capture in our promotion procedures for senior faculty. We have also
    made strategic hires to build new, externally facing research programmes. For example, our
    investments in cybersecurity and health care operations have generated over £1 million
    funding in each of these areas.
 4) To support international scholarly contributions: Our research is enabled through our
    collaborations with colleagues from around the world, and by our highly diverse faculty. As of
    July 2019, 65% of our faculty were born outside the UK, representing over 25 nationalities.
    This diversity is critical to the success of our research strategy because it enriches the range
    of our research perspectives and connects us to a broad range of communities. Since the last
    REF, our share of internationally co-authored papers has increased from 39% to 47%.
    Internationally co-authored papers account for 60% of our REF submission, up from 45% in
    2014. To underpin these international efforts, we have increased our support for conferences,
    sabbaticals, events and workshops.
 5) To lead the development of doctoral and early career researchers. We have expanded and
    redesigned our doctoral programmes, created new scholarships, and increased support for
    student and staff wellbeing and personal development. We have augmented our existing
    mentoring for early career researchers, created dedicated fellowships, increased seed corn
    funding, and introduced more flexible probation requirements.

 Engagement and impact
 Undertaking research that is purposeful and which seeks to generate benefits for business and
 society is central to our research strategy. The SoM has a strong history of research that shapes
 practice. Our engagement and impact strategy focuses on sustaining this goal through multiple
 channels:
 • Recognising that long-term relationships are key to achieving impact. The School maintains
    relationships with private firms (e.g. EDF, Peak, YH Global); with public service institutions
    (e.g. Wiltshire Police, United Nations Capital Development Fund, Royal United Hospital); and
    with professional organizations (e.g. CIPD). Our impact cases attest to the value of these
    relationships, both as a source of behavioural change in our partners’ practices, and as a
    source of intellectual challenge and renewal for our faculty.
 • Providing financial resources and administrative support. In 2014, we appointed an Impact and
    Information Officer to work alongside faculty, to help them develop and gather evidence for
    impact. In 2015, we launched an Impact Fund, investing £50k to support engagement and
    impact. Since its launch, the fund has been popular with our faculty, receiving over 40
    submissions, of which 75% were funded. This funding has directly underpinned our impact
    cases, providing resources and workload remissions.
 • Recognition that interdisciplinary research can open important avenues for impact. Our
    researchers contribute significantly to the University’s two interdisciplinary institutes: The
    Institute for Policy Research (IPR) and the Institute for Mathematical Innovation (IMI). For
    example, Fai spent six months working within the IPR developing an overview of local
    approaches to engaging with the UK Government’s Industrial Strategy. Two of our Professors,
    Erdoğan and Zalewska are senior members of the IMI. In addition, over 20 staff from other
    University faculties participate in the School’s Research Centres. The School is involved in
    various large interdisciplinary projects. For example, Tackling the Root Causes Upstream of
    Unhealthy Urban Development Decision-making (TRUUD) is a five-year project that brings
    together expertise from a broad range of disciplines, including urban planning, chemistry,
    economics and management.
 • Considering the potential for impact as well as excellent research in hiring. Our strategic

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     investments in health care management, operations research and cybersecurity were driven
     in part by recruiting colleagues who have an impact on practice as well as academic
     communities. This investment has been rewarded by three impact cases from faculty working
     in these areas (Joinson, Vasilakis and Erdoğan) as well as numerous grants.
 •   Rewarding and celebrating engagement and impact. Impact is embedded in University
     probation and promotion processes that recognise impact and engagement as well as
     research outputs, and in the SoM workload model with significant remissions for impact case
     development. We initiated a new biannual Dean’s Award for Engagement and Impact to
     recognize faculty achievements. For example, Leidong’s work on the role of business schools
     in helping mitigate corruption in Africa was recognised in 2019.
 •   Encouraging and supporting public engagement: Through our Reserach4Good campaign,
     which highlights the positive difference through management research we have made via
     social media, press office and our website, we have increased the visibility and influence of
     our research.

 Internal structures for supporting and developing our strategic research aims
 Since 2016, SoM faculty have been structured into four divisions: Strategy and Organization
 (S&O), Information Decision and Operations (IDO), Marketing, Business and Society (MBS) and
 Accounting, Finance and Law (AFL). Each is led by a Head (HoD) with responsibility for the
 strategic and career development of faculty. Previously, the School was organised around
 teaching groups, but this approach did not ensure sufficient coordination with respect to research
 and faculty development. The divisions were created to enhance our research effectiveness by
 creating greater critical mass in our core research domains and by enriching scholarly
 communities within the School. To ensure this vision, teaching allocations were delegated to
 subject group leads, freeing up the time of HoDs to focus on research and faculty development.
 The divisions are not autonomous departments, which helps to ensure that the research practices
 and culture of the School are consistent and commensurate. Our research centres (described in
 Section 3) cut across these divisions, drawing together and integrating expertise from each.

 The Strategy and Organization (S&O) division was created through a merger of the Organization
 Studies and Strategy and International Management groups. As a result of its research strengths,
 S&O has expanded to 39 academic staff (30 were included in REF 2014), supported an ambitious
 investment strategy in leadership and development. We added new professorial roles and
 recruited outstanding replacements (Adam, Dahlander, Giarratana, Giorgi, Harding, Maclean,
 Obodaru); talented and highly productive early career researchers have been recruited (Baruffaldi,
 Brewis, Defazio, Failla, Gustaffson, Liedong, Mughal, Salandra, Zhang); and outstanding mid-
 career researchers have taken up their first position as senior lecturers/readers (Barzotto, Bui,
 Herepath, Qin, Richards, Rofcanin, Soundararajan and Stoyanov).

 Research in S&O is organized around three major themes: entrepreneurship and innovation;
 identities, people and work; and management and leadership. Research in Entrepreneurship and
 Innovation, an area that has been significantly strengthened since REF 2014, focuses on
 identifying and utilising new ideas for commercial and social gain, in the context of new and
 established organizations. Notable academic and practical contributions to an understanding of
 entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs include: insights into the role of families (Richards),
 international mobility (Stoyanov, Baruffaldi), founders’ networks (Zhang), opportunity recognition
 and design thinking (Dimov), scientific collaboration (Dahlander), exit modes (Marsili), careers
 (Failla), returnees (Qin), and crowdfunding (Defazio). Our work on innovation in established firms
 has made significant contributions to open innovation and networks (Dahlander, Salter),
 diversification (Giarratana), university-industry collaboration (Salter, Salandra), and service
 innovation (Desyllas). Our Social Enterprise and Innovation Programme (SEIP) grant, led by
 Dimov, generated over £16.3 million in economic impact, supporting hundreds of social
 enterprises in the southwest of England (see REF impact case studies (ICS)).

 The Identities, People and Work research stream explores how organizations, and the people who
 work in them, perform, develop and change. There are two sub-themes: Human Resource
 Management (HRM) and Identity. Research in HRM has generated insights into daily practices,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such as how to develop reward systems that will motivate staff (Rofcanin), engage staff’s
 commitment (Yalabik), and develop intellectual capital to improve performance (Swart). Our
 research has shown how existing HR practices are challenged by new conceptualisations of
 careers and their evolving lived experience (Chudzikowski, Gustafsson). The SoM is a global
 centre of excellence in research on identity (Brown, Adam, Gabriel, Giorgi, Harding, Obodaru),
 which has now been housed in a new research centre. In 2020, Brown edited a major international
 research retrospective on identity: The Oxford Handbook of Identities in Organizations. The
 School also specialises in research into contemporary social issues associated with identity.
 These include gender (Harding); ethnicity and race (Brewis); the hegemony of the global
 north/agency of the global south (Soundararajan); and practical ways of challenging corruption
 (Liedong).

 The third major research stream in S&O is organizations, management and leadership. Faculty
 have contributed to the development and implementation of organizational strategies (Mayer); the
 psychology of decision-making (Gore); professional roles (Gustaffson); the management of
 change in complex organizational environments (Colville, Herepath); and the ongoing challenges
 of organisational learning (Mughal, Swart). The School produces cutting-edge research on leaders
 and leadership. This includes contributions to understanding leaders’ experience (Maclean),
 leadership practices (Gabriel, Harding, Mughal, Rofcanin, Bui), leadership psychodynamics
 (Gabriel, Vince), and leadership in its social and political context (Harding, Mughal, Vince).
 Research into management and leadership is set into the emotional, social and political context
 of organizations, as well as the complexities of human behaviour and action that are integral to
 peoples’ experience of organizations/organizing. Studies have contributed to our understanding
 of organizations as irrational as well as rational places (Vince), as infused with emotion (Adam,
 Gabriel, as challenging environments for sense-making (Colville), and as sites of control and
 resistance (Harding). Broader issues have been explored in relation to the impacts of philanthropy
 (Maclean), and how culture has been theorized and applied within organization studies (Giorgi).
 This stream sustains a wide range of productive links with external organisations. For example,
 Herepath’s work with the NHS has a particular focus on patient safety, seeking to identify ways of
 reducing infant mortality rates. Gore draws on research in decision psychology to advise UK public
 sector organisations such as the Ministry of Defence, Department of Work and Pensions, and the
 Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI).

 The core strengths of the Information, Decisions and Operations (IDO) division are in
 Information Systems (particularly cybersecurity); Decision Sciences and Operational Research;
 and Operations Management. The division, which has 19 academic staff, has a long history of
 scholarly excellence in operations and supply chain management. IDO has an established
 reputation for forecasting (Meeran and Petropolous) and operations management (Lewis,
 Brandon-Jones, Squire). Research in supply chain risk management (Squire) has led to IP
 Licensing agreements and was influential in the SoM’s engagement with the EDF/Hinkley Point
 project (a major new atomic power station in Somerset). This group has contributed to
 understanding improved operations in professional services (Brandon-Jones and Lewis),
 contracting and procurement (Roehrich) and sustainability (Yalabik). Warehouse automation and
 logistics integration is a major focus for Giannikas, underpinned by grant funding from YH Global,
 Boeing and the British Academy, which is now housed in a new research centre: Smart
 Warehousing and Logistics Systems.

 Since REF 2014, there have been three major developments in IDO. First, the Information
 Systems portfolio has been extended to include understanding, mitigating and countering threats
 to individual, organizational and national security. Joinson leads an interdisciplinary team
 delivering ‘Understanding and Countering Online Behaviour’ within CREST (Centre for Research
 and Evidence on Security Threats), which is funded by UK security and intelligence agencies. The
 research team was awarded EPSRC funding (jointly with the University of Bristol) for a new Centre
 for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Cyber Security (TIPS-at-Scale) in 2018, as well as leading the
 EPSRC ‘CyberSecurity Across the LifeSpan’ (cSALSA) project, launched in 2017. The research
 has generated broader impact through its work to mitigate phishing (REF ICS). Its research on
 wearable technologies (Piwek, Ellis and Joinson) and research into ‘security nudges’ (Hinds) has

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also received extensive media attention.

 Second, there is a strong behavioural aspect to IDO research. Experimental work has informed
 operations, supply and project-related research. For example, EDF donated £1.5 million to
 establish a Supply Chain Innovation Lab (SCIL) to support engaged scholarship and behavioural,
 experimental work. This aligns with wider School developments, including a state-of-the-art
 behavioural laboratory as part of the new building. It extends existing research to create
 experimental scenarios to better address judgmental bias and heuristics. For example,
 Petropolous’ research in forecasting has been incorporated in Fiddlehead’s leading forecasting
 software, which is used by top international organizations, including McCain and Pepsico. Also
 notable in this respect is Lewis’ recent research, part of the Cabinet Office Project X collective.
 The ESRC-funded Improving Project Delivery grant with Project X has led to the joint appointment
 of a PDRA and a PhD student with Cabinet Office experience. Further, Lewis was recently invited
 to give evidence to a House of Commons committee (PACAC) investigating UK project
 performance.

 The SoM made a strategic decision to develop capability in Operational Research. The recruitment
 of established scholars (Erdoğan, Battara, Laporte, Çelik) and ECRs (Sanci and Şafak) has
 created a strong focus on routing and optimisation. For example, Erdoğan’s open source VRP
 solver has been downloaded over 10k times and has generated over £2.0m in direct impact on
 business (REF ICS). Further excellence in operations research has been generated through the
 Centre for Healthcare Improvement and Innovation (CHI²), led by Vasilakis. CHI² works with a
 wide range of local care providers to marry simulation and modelling with clinical knowledge. To
 facilitate awareness of these tools and their use in practice, it developed a MOOC, which has over
 12k active learners across more than 100 countries (REF ICS).

 The Marketing, Business, and Society (MBS) division brings together an interdisciplinary group
 with backgrounds in business ethics, marketing, business economics, retailing and social
 psychology. Staff have a common interest in how their sub-disciplines interface with contemporary
 issues in society. MBS has 27 academic staff. Recent, strategic, professorial appointments have
 strengthened research within MBS on the themes of business and society (Crane, Brammer),
 consumer behaviour (Puccinelli), and retailing (Grewal, Nordfält).

 MBS delivers on three core thematic areas of research: business and society, marketing, and
 regional development and governance. Business and Society supports business to be a force for
 social and environmental good. The Centre for Business and Society (CBOS), led by Crane,
 Glozer and Ward-Grosvold, has sustained a leading international profile in business and society
 research over the past twenty years (with key contributions from Brammer, Bondy, Hielscher,
 Iatridis, Millington, Pavelin, Porter, Rayton, Snelson-Powell). Its aim is to rethink the role and
 responsibilities of business in creating a sustainable society, and to provide a theoretically and
 empirically robust evidence base to help translate these ideas into practices. The SoM is
 consistently ranked among the global leaders in Corporate Knights’ Better World ranking of
 Business Schools. In 2020, we ranked third in terms of sustainability across all business schools,
 including third for share of publications in sustainability per faculty and for the number of citations
 to those publications. In 2016, CBOS was relaunched and expanded in size and scope, more than
 trebling its number of faculty members from the School. It has affiliate members from other
 Faculties across the university, and 13 associate members from across the globe.

 Since 2014, research expertise within the broad area of consumer research has been
 consolidated. To complement the group’s long-standing strength within consumer culture theory
 (Hill, McDonagh, Shankar, Nuttall, Stevens), the SoM invested in the development of research
 expertise within consumer behaviour and retailing (Ahlbom, Desrochers, Grewal, Hang, Ikonen,
 Nordfält, Puccinelli, Simonyan). Research on marketing has made contributions to: (1)
 understanding consumers’ experiences of contemporary marketing and consumption related
 phenomena through the lens of social and cultural theories. For example, the reproduction of
 wedding rituals in same-sex marriages (Stevens); and the nature of consumer activism in a digital
 era (Hill); (2) using psychological theories and methods to unpack social issues, for example,

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 charitable giving (Simonyan), healthy eating in children (Hang) and childhood obesity
 (Desrochers); and (3) practice-led, applied marketing research particularly within retailing. For
 example, our research has explored the role of new, in-store technologies in shaping consumers’
 experiences of retail environments and shopping experiences, through large-scale field studies
 (Nordfält, Grewal and Ahlbom).

 The third research theme in MBS is regional development and governance. Research in this area
 has addressed issues of governance and social relations. For example, studies on migrant
 workers and biases among entrepreneurs (Dawson), and wellbeing and pay differentials between
 heterosexual couples (Sydra). A characteristic of this research is its pragmatic and applied nature.
 Tomlinson has worked with the British Ceramics Confederation (BCC), Lucideon and the North
 Staffordshire Chamber of Commerce (NSCC) on issues relating to the development of Stoke-on-
 Trent’s ceramics industrial district, producing two highly regarded industry reports on: (a) inter-firm
 governance and networking, and (b) the impact of attending international trade fairs to stimulate
 innovation within the district.

 The Accounting, Finance and Law (AFL) division has 15 academic faculty. The SOM’s strategic
 aim for AFL has been gradually to increase its research power, as well as diversifying the range
 of research interests and topics of the division. Since 2014, two new professors have been
 appointed (Gounopoulos and Newton), as well as five new senior lecturers and lecturers
 (Hassanniakalager, Huang, Platanakis, Sun, Xie). AFL’s research focuses on the operation of
 financial markets and accounting practices, such as regulation (Zalewska, Cooper), valuation of
 derivatives (Newton), risk and insurance (Adams), insider trading (Sun), Quantitative Easing (Sun,
 Tonks), Fintech (Platanakis), network risks in financial systems (Giansante), negative interest
 rates (Xie), reporting practices (Perotti, Lennox and Tsoligkas), SME performance (Liu), gambling
 markets (Hassanniakalager), and venture funding (Gounopoulos, Fairchild, Huang). To underpin
 research in this area, the School increased its expenditure in accounting and financial databases,
 tripling the amount spent to £400k annually.

 In addition to producing high quality research, a particular strength of the AFL division is its impact,
 producing significant benefits for non-academic audiences. For example, Zalewska’s work on the
 market risk of utilities played a significant role in changing the UK Government’s regulatory
 responses to achieving Net Zero 2050 targets by lowering cost of meeting renewable targets and
 improving the mix of renewable energy generation (REF ICS), leading to a major expansion of
 funding for renewable projects in successive rounds of funding. Giansante’s work on network risks
 in financial systems has been developed and implemented in collaboration with the Reserve Bank
 of India, leading the Bank to develop a new monitoring and reporting system for assessing
 systemic network risks in the financial system (REF ICS). More recently, Xie’s research into
 negative interest rates showed that although these rates were intended to spur economic
 development, they have instead depressed economic activity. This work received significant
 media and policy attention, including CNN Business, NBC News, MSN News and 120 other outlets
 and presentations to central banks.

 Future strategy
 The SoM’s future research strategy aims both to ensure the sustainability of longstanding sources
 of achievement and to significantly extend the vitality of our research activities. The growth of the
 SoM accompanying our new building, and its cutting-edge research and engagement facilities, will
 provide opportunities to increase our research influence and impact. We aim to improve global
 recognition of our research by obtaining a top 50 global place in the QS ranking for business and
 management and by enhancing our research translation and engagement activities. To achieve
 our goals, key strategic initiatives include:
     1. identifying and more intensively resourcing areas of international research excellence,
         building critical mass in order to enable us to achieve global reach and impact;
     2. cementing the SoM as a leading source of purposeful research that proactively and
         positively impacts business and society locally, nationally, and globally by increasing
         resourcing for research co-creation, translation, and communication, especially our
         Research4Good campaign;

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. investing more heavily in a larger community of doctoral and early-career researchers,
       deepening our commitment to the next generation of business and management
       researchers and improving our capacity to offer world-class theoretical and methodological
       training; and
    4. actively deploying the new specialist research laboratories and engagement facilities in
       our new building to extend our interdisciplinary research activity, hosting more major
       national and international conferences and events, and scaling-up our engagement with
       external communities. Alongside these initiatives, continuity of our research efforts will be
       maintained by providing enhanced research support to all staff, sustained investment in
       excellent staff at all levels, and the active recruitment and development of individuals with
       the highest research and impact potential from a diverse range of backgrounds.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Since 2014, we have recruited and developed a mix of experienced and new-blood professors,
 mid-career researchers on fast-track development to senior academic positions, and promising
 early career researchers (ECRs) (see Figure 1). Research is an essential component in all our
 faculty hiring, as we seek to attract the best talent from a diverse range of backgrounds and
 heritages. The Associate Dean for Research, as well as Deputy Dean and/or Dean, sits on all
 hiring panels. We value the input of all colleagues in hiring decisions, and potential candidates
 present their research to all members of a division who then provide feedback and guidance to
 the hiring panel for each candidate. In total, we have renewed our faculty with 62 appointments,
 of which 18 were ECRs and 28 who identified as women. We have recruited like-for-like
 replacements for key senior retiring or departing staff, such as Gabriel/Giorgi, Kinnie/Adam,
 Millington/Crane, Pitelis/Maclean, Hope-Hailey/Obodaru, and Balogun/Harding. This strategy has
 helped us to sustain our faculty research strength, particularly in organization studies. We have
 recruited four outstanding women professors in this area (Giorgi, Harding, Maclean and Obodaru).




 We are also keen to ensure that our staff have a clear pathway to reach their career aspirations
 with us. Our track record demonstrates this: since 2014, we have had nine Professorial promotions
 and ten promotions to Reader and Senior Lecturer. Promotions to senior positions are considered
 by the University’s Academic Staff Committee, adhering to a clear career progression framework
 and well-developed set of criteria. This framework enables individuals to showcase and be
 rewarded for different aspects of their contribution, including research and impact, teaching, and
 leadership and management.

 As a baseline for research excellence, we continue to guarantee equal research time and
 resources for all research-active faculty. Where desired by staff, workloads are skewed so
 teaching responsibilities are concentrated in one semester or concentrated periods, thereby
 ensuring significant blocks of time are available for research. In 2020, 61% of our faculty had
 single semester and/or concentrated teaching workloads. All staff have an allowance of 600 hours
 per year for research (pro rata for part-time members), as well as a significant number of hours

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for internal and external academic citizenship roles (e.g. external examining, reviewing,
 conference, seminar and workshop organisation). PhD supervision is allocated to teaching and
 learning workload. Overall, these measures ensure that staff have roughly 50% of their individual
 workloads dedicated to their own research and academic citizenship.

 All staff undertake an annual Staff Development and Performance Review (SDPR). SDPRs
 provide staff with the opportunity to: receive feedback on their research performance; discuss and
 set objectives for the coming year; and explore and support their learning needs and career
 aspirations. They are designed to give balanced and constructive feedback, enabling reflection
 that underpins the development of each individual’s research and professional goals. Professional
 development is balanced with a family friendly approach. For example, our workload model
 provides a 50% remission from teaching in the year faculty return from family care leave. Similarly,
 the SoM supports requests from staff to adjust their working hours after a period of leave for caring
 or health reasons.

 Examples of strategic investments in individual’s research
 We have increased investment in the resources available to all faculty. Our approach is based on
 positive incentives, with additional funding directed to individual’s personal research accounts to
 ensure that these resources are reinvested in achieving the School’s research strategy.
 Specifically:

 •   We increased each faculty member’s annual conference budget from £1.5k to £2.5k. We also
     enable faculty to pool these funds over two years.
 •   We have extended our recognition scheme for outputs in top-tier journals. We offer transfers
     into individual research accounts for R&Rs and acceptances at leading journals on a sliding
     scale up to £3k, while capping the total amount of funding an individual can receive in an
     academic year at £5K. These transfers have encouraged staff to be ambitious in their
     individual publication strategies. Since extending our incentive scheme in 2017, we have made
     251 transfers to faculty totalling £223k. Over 70% of eligible faculty have benefited from the
     scheme.
 •   We have increased our annual seed corn funding available for faculty, which supports research
     projects and events, from £10K to £25K’. We particularly encourage early career staff to apply.
     These funds are allocated through biannual internal competition overseen by the School
     Research Committee. In total, we have awarded 61 seed corn grants.
 •   We have obtained financial support for replacement teaching costs from the university for six
     month and year-long sabbaticals and locally funded study-leaves. In total, we secured 24
     sabbaticals/study leaves between 2014 and 2020, the equivalent of 16 years of additional
     research time over and above our normal workload allocation. This equates to roughly £1.3
     million in additional investment in research during the REF period.
 •   We have developed a remission scheme for leading international journal editorship roles,
     providing 150 hours of relief from teaching and administration duties.
 •   We have revised our reward scheme for grant capture, providing greater resources to
     individuals to take time off from teaching and administration to develop grant proposals and
     conduct the associated research.
 •   We now fund an external professional proofreading service, focusing these resources on early
     career researchers and/or those who are non-native English speakers.
 •   Where levied, we pay for all initial submission fees (and for subsequent rounds of review) for
     leading journals.

 Support for Early Career Researchers
 We have identified and recruited high potential early career researchers, as well as improving our
 support for these individuals once appointed. We have 18 early career researchers, which
 constitutes 19% of total faculty. These staff have joined us from leading institutions, such as Yale,
 Imperial College, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Cambridge, Copenhagen Business
 School, Michigan, Warwick and UCL. ECRs make an important contribution to our REF pool,
 accounting for 15% of outputs. We support ECRs in the full knowledge that they will be the
 research leaders of tomorrow. Newly appointed ECRs undertake a three-year probation, with

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 objectives co-developed by the probationer and the relevant HoD and supported by a personal
 development plan that is updated annually. The specific measures we have taken to extend and
 enrich our support for ECRs include:

 •   Prize Fellowships. We have drawn on a University-wide initiative to create six new Prize Fellow
     positions for ECRs. These Fellowships provide two years of dedicated research time (without
     teaching) prior to beginning probation. In addition, Prize Fellows participate in a university-
     wide scheme of mentorship, peer exchange and development.
 •   Revised probation expectations. We have revised our probation requirements to reduce
     teaching expectations and to be more flexible in terms of research outcomes. In terms of
     teaching, we use peer assessment and support married to student feedback to look for
     developmental improvements. In terms of research, we extended the ways in which staff can
     realize research expectations during their probation, enabling them to achieve the standard
     through two internationally excellent outputs or one internationally leading publication over
     three years. We also now encourage and recognize potential impact (in terms of social,
     economic, policy, or other benefits) of the ECR’s research. This approach rewards them for
     being ambitious. In addition, we have been flexible in granting additional years of probation to
     ECRs who are making progress but need require further time to demonstrate their research
     capability.
 •   New induction, training and support programme. We have put in place a revised induction
     programme to help ECRs settle in. It provides an overview of all university facilities and
     resources, the organization of the School, including the teaching expectations and procedures,
     as well as an overview of our research strategy, ethics and support from the Research Office.
 •   Pathway to HEA Fellowship for Probationary Lecturers. Each probationary lecturer participates
     in a two-year development programme, supported by the Teaching and Learning Office of the
     University. As part of this programme, ECRs are trained in teaching methodologies, given peer
     mentoring and support on their teaching, and advice and training in dealing with students.
     Successful completion leads to HEA Fellowship.
 •   Remission for early career academics. We provide each probationary member of staff with a
     significant remission (20%) from their annual teaching workload.
 •   Profile raising. We work to promote the research of our ECRs in our media, impact and
     engagement efforts, and research events. For example, Ahlbom’s research on the impact of
     mobile use while shopping at sales was covered by over 30 different international media
     organizations.
 •   Mentoring and advice networks. We are proud of our mentoring support, which is overseen by
     our Associate Dean for Faculty and HoDs. Each ECR has two mentors, one for research and
     one for teaching. Mentors are outside of the formal line of reporting and provide personal
     feedback and support.

 Specific support for Post-Doctoral Researchers (PDRAs)
 The University holds the HR Excellence in Research Award, which reflects our commitment to
 support researchers throughout their careers, implement the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, and, implement the Vision for Research Staff working at the
 University. To reflect this commitment, we offer extra support, training and career development
 when PDRAs are appointed, encouraging them to participate in the University’s Academic Career
 Academy, which is an intensive and practical programme to explore the big picture and detail of
 academic jobs. We have also been keen to appoint internal PDRAs to open faculty positions
 (Piwek and Hinds). To help build their research independence, PDRAs are encouraged to spend
 up to 10% of their time on their own research.

 Seminars and workshops
 The School runs an extensive range of seminars and workshops with internal and external
 colleagues. We allocate £20k annually across our divisions to support seminars, and each division
 has a seminars organizer. Logistical support is provided by the School Research Office. Seminars
 reflect the extensive, international academic networks of our staff. They are widely advertised, and
 open to both faculty and doctoral students. In total, we hosted 278 seminars between 2014 and
 2020, drawing speakers from 160 different institutions and 30 different countries. During the Covid

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 crisis, we shifted to online events, maintaining the same intensity of activity as before the
 pandemic.

 Equality and Diversity
 Diversity is critical to the success of our research strategy because it enriches the range of our
 research perspectives and connects us with diverse communities across the globe. The SoM has
 faculty from a wide range of backgrounds, perspectives and heritages. Our global approach has
 created a highly diverse faculty, with 65% of our staff born outside the UK. A high percentage of
 our faculty have foreign language skills (80%) and international work experience (85%).

 Across the University, we have well-defined and frequently updated policies on Trans Equality,
 Dignity and Respect, Recruitment and Selection code of practice, Flexible working hours scheme,
 Maternity rights, Occupational Stress Management and Childcare. The University’s Dignity and
 Respect policies apply to all staff, students and third parties. Mandatory online training on
 ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ and ‘Unconscious Bias Training’ is required for all managers and
 interview panel members. University EDI support of staff includes the LGBT staff network, the
 Disabled Staff Support group, the Carers Support group and the Race Equality Task group. In
 2019, the University established a Gender Pay Gap Working Group (chaired by Marsili), jointly
 with the Trades Unions, to investigate gender pay gaps and to identify systemic causes that might
 be addressed. As a result, an action plan, which focuses on recruitment and progression, was
 developed and is being implemented. The University has also launched a network of Staff
 Wellbeing Champions in 2019 to support initiatives and signpost resources, including the
 appointment of a Wellbeing Champion for the School.

 In this context, the SoM has given significant attention to improving our gender equality. The
 School has benefitted from having a strong group of women academic leaders, including our Dean
 from 2013-2019 (Hope-Hailey). Five of our eight research centres, and two of our four divisions
 are led by women. We have an ongoing and comprehensive strategy to further improve gender
 equality, a strategy that been recognised through the award of Athena SWAN Bronze in 2019. The
 application itself enabled an extensive appraisal of current practices within the School. Equality
 and inclusion themes are a standing item on the School’s Executive Board agenda, are regularly
 discussed at School Meetings, and consistently monitored through data monitoring and staff
 surveys. The SoM is working through a five-year equality and diversity action plan, led by our
 Athena SWAN Implementation Committee, co-chaired by two senior professors (Marsili and
 Lewis).

 The action plan focuses on:
 • Recruitment – We have developed a recruitment and promotion plan for women staff,
    especially to senior positions, in each division. We have increased the diversity of our
    recruitment panels by involving all staff in recruitment planning and process, lowering our
    reliance on several key women professors. We have also grouped available positions by
    advertising them simultaneously, where appropriate. This has increased the possibility for us
    to hire academic couples, five of which have joined the School in recent years.
 • Appraisal and promotion – We have provided increased support for women’s promotion
    applications, including workshops with key figures in the university to improve understanding
    of expectations. Special circumstances are clearly highlighted in promotion applications and
    an HR representative attends all senior promotion meetings.
 • Building a supportive workplace – We negotiate bespoke contracts and working
    arrangements for staff wishing to work part-time or flexibly, for example enabling remote
    working for a staff member whose family commitments have moved them away from Bath. We
    schedule all formal meetings within core working hours. Staff may additionally request
    particular hours of the day or week to be blocked out to accommodate their caring
    responsibilities. We also make significant adjustments for ‘at risk’ staff, those with significant
    caring responsibilities, and for ECRs. To raise awareness, all members of the Executive Board
    attended ‘Bringing in the Bystander’ training course to engage stakeholders in issues of sexual
    violence, equip them with skills to identify and intervene safely in risky situations, and build
    empathy for survivors of sexual violence.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •     Ensuring balance – We always seek gender balance on major School committees and have
       improved the gender balance of our Advisory Board. We have also sought to ensure gender
       balance in our internal and external seminars. We audited our promotional/web materials to
       ensure that they reflect the diversity of our faculty and students.

 Support for staff with protected characteristics, whose needs can be diverse, is provided on a
 case-by-case basis with guidance from the University’s Occupational Health team. This support
 includes workplace assessments, training for staff working with others who require more support
 (e.g., neuro-atypical staff and students), training for staff with a disability where indicated by an
 Access to Work assessment, Personal Emergency Evacuation Planning, and reasonable
 adjustments developed on the basis of Access to Work assessments and on a case-by-case basis
 through discussion with affected staff.

 The SoM’s REF submission has been based on the University’s ‘Research Excellence 2021 Code
 of Practice’, ensuring that the procedures used in preparing this submission were consistent,
 transparent, accountable, and conducted in an inclusive manner and in accordance with our
 institutional values and existing policies, including Equality and Diversity policies. To check
 whether the outcomes of our scoring reflected these procedures, we conducted a statistical
 analysis of the internal output scoring for our REF pool by gender, nationality and BAME. It showed
 that women received almost identical scores to men of the same grade and represented a
 proportionate share of outputs included. In addition, the scores assigned to outputs of UK/non-UK
 nationalities and BAME/non-BAME were also consistent by grade, as was the proportion of total
 outputs. In total, we found no statistically significant differences between the output scores for any
 of these different groups.

 Supporting the development of Postgraduate Research (PGR) students
 Our research-led environment provides a stimulating and robust setting for PGR learning and for
 the effective education of future business and management scholars and leaders. The School is
 a member of the ESRC funded South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP), an
 internationally recognised centre of excellence. In 2017, the University created the Doctoral
 College (DC), a cross-faculty function that provides guidance and support for PhD students and
 supervisors across the University. The DC coordinates the recruitment and induction of students
 as well as University-wide training, including research ethics and data management. Within this
 context, the School runs an ‘integrated’ PhD programme for full-time students (a 1 + 3 model),
 which is tailored to the skills and knowledge expected for an academic career. The programme,
 led by Thompson, is staffed by members of the School’s Professoriate, reflecting a high level of
 expertise across a range of philosophical, quantitative and qualitative research methods. It has a
 strong taught element and is designed to attract and train exceptionally qualified and strongly
 motivated individuals from around the world who want to excel in careers as professional business
 academics. Our PGR students are funded through ESRC Studentships, University Research
 Studentships, Overseas Research Studentships and Knowledge Exchange Partnerships. In
 addition, the SoM currently supports 22 research students per annum on enhanced, four-year
 Graduate Research Scholarships (GRS), which fund full-time research towards a PhD and include
 a teaching requirement and associated training.

 In total, the SoM graduated 129 students over the REF cycle (equal to 122.9 FTE), including 30
 professional doctorates. Of these, 60% were women and 65% described themselves as BAME,
 hailing from dozens of countries across every continent.

 Table 1. Number of doctoral degrees awarded by year

     Degree type    2013/4   2014/5     2015/6     2016/7    2017/8     2018/9     2019/0    Total
     Professional
                    2.5      9.5        5.9        5.1       3.2        2.3        1.9       30.4
     doctorate
     PhD            14.7     9.3        12.8       7.3       15.8       15.8       16.9      92.5
     Total          17.2     18.8       18.7       12.4      19.0       18.1       18.8      122.9

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The School is an exemplar of PGR employability. Since 2014, 65 PhD students trained at Bath
 have been employed in Business and Management Schools within the UK and internationally. For
 example, our students have taken up academic posts in Cambridge, Cardiff, Warwick, Lancaster,
 Liverpool, Southampton, Kent, and Aberdeen Management Schools; as well as at Universities in
 Argentina, China, France, the Netherlands, Oman, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand and Turkey. Two
 of our PhDs have taken up roles in the Thai and Malaysian governments.

 PGR employability stems in part from our highly selective approach to PhD recruitment. Between
 2014 and July 2020, the School accepted 132 doctoral students from 1810 applications. An active
 PGR student community is central to our underlying ethos for the support and development of
 excellent reflective business school academics and management practitioners. Figures
 evidencing the importance the School places on doctoral training include, for example: (i) the
 annual value of our doctoral scholarships is approximately £453k and (ii) over the REF period, we
 have invested close to £2 million in supporting and developing PGRs.

 Support to PGRs: our support for PGR students is designed to help them become an integral part
 of the academic community. The University’s DC provides full time support for the well-being of
 students and supervisors throughout the whole postgraduate experience. We have several
 students with disabilities who are continuously supported by the DC and the well-being services
 on campus. Students with disabilities are encouraged to speak to a dedicated advisor within the
 university disability team who can help them to undertake a Disability Action Plan. The action plan
 is tailored to the individual to ensure they get the support they need. International students can
 work with the International Experience Coordinator in Student Services who can offer bespoke
 advice. Sessions in induction are arranged to inform international students of life in the UK and to
 help them settle in. Student Services also have a dedicated Wellbeing Team to support PhD
 students at the University. To help our students during Covid, we have granted them a four-month
 automatic extension to their studies, with funding to match for all those eligible and applying.
 Further extensions of time and funding are currently in process.

 We facilitate appropriate collegiality between faculty and PGR students in a variety of ways. We
 have made changes in physical space – by co-locating PGR and staff offices. The research
 centres lead monthly reading groups where faculty introduce three seminal works from their field
 for discussion with PhD students to encourage students to gain critical exposure of their work both
 at Bath and internationally. We provide funding for all PGR students to present at international
 conferences. We have an annual, internal, student-led PhD conference (now in its 9th year) where
 students present their projects to other students and faculty over two-days. We have a monthly
 PhD seminar series where students present to each other in preparation for PGR presentations
 at the regular staff seminar series run by research centres and groups. Our new building co-locates
 doctoral students and supervisors in adjoining spaces.

 We ensure that all PGR students have active and engaged supervisory teams of at least two and
 preferably three members of staff. The practice of supervisory work in teams allows us to extend
 the range of supervision and to provide mentoring to junior faculty on good supervision practice.
 In addition to generic supervisory training provided by the University’s Doctoral College, we have
 introduced a School supervisory training course to train faculty in approaches specifically to
 business/management.

 Our support to PGR students ensures that they have strong and highly competitive career
 prospects. We have adapted our PhD format and submission criteria to allow for an ‘alternative
 format’ in which a PhD document is present in a multiple-paper form with an overarching thematic
 commentary, meaning students have already produced and usually submitted papers for review
 before their viva. We also focus on pedagogic training to prepare PGR students for the business
 and academic world, with more than half of students teaching at Bath during their tenure here.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 Since REF 2014, we have increased our externally funded research, a key objective of our
 research strategy. In total, we secured £5.8 million in grant income, from a wide range of sources.
 Our highest annual grant income figures were achieved through the years from 2017-2020. In
 addition, we have secured £3m in new grants for the next REF period. To support our efforts, the
 School has augmented the capacity of our Research Office, which works alongside central
 services to provide all aspects of research support. Investment during the REF period has included
 hiring a full-time Research Manager, increasing the hours of our Research Support Administrator,
 and adding a new full-time position to support research events and research content. This has
 enabled us to increase the visibility of our research efforts internally and externally. We created a
 monthly research newsletter, showcasing the achievements of our faculty and highlighting funding
 opportunities. Our dedicated SoM marketing team track and celebrate media interaction and public
 engagement activities undertaken by our faculty, and actively support events that develop and
 enhance our research culture.

 In direct support of research income generation, we offer our faculty remissions in the School’s
 load model, as well as seed corn funding to develop large grant applications. Our appraisal
 process is partly focused on planning for grant income applications for the coming year. The
 University has revised its promotion guidelines for Professor and now requires candidates to
 demonstrate grant income consistent with their discipline. We also provide an incentive transfer
 of £1k into individual’s research accounts for preparing large grant applications.

 Our grant funding approach is deliberately focused and direct. We proactively identify relevant
 funding opportunities and align our staff to them. Recently, we have invested in the themes:
 modern slavery, cybersecurity and global supply chains. We have seen significant success in
 these areas, with funding from the ESRC, EPSRC, British Academy, the Global Challenges
 Research Fund and Newton Fund. On average, we conduct three school focused workshops per
 annum on funding opportunities, events that include input from external speakers, internal
 academics with a strong track history of attracting grants and research support staff. The research
 office undertakes the administrative duties associated with applying for grants, such as costings,
 liaising with external partners, coordinating the review of applications and being the point of
 contact for data sharing agreements and contract negotiations. It also takes the lead on
 responding to complex requirements associated with access to government funding on security
 and defence research. For example, we are members of the Human Social Science Research
 Capability (HSSRC) framework with BAE Systems as its prime contractor, which provides access
 to external human, behavioural and social sciences research for the Defence Science and
 Technology Laboratory (Dstl), MOD and other government departments.

 The University’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) provides comprehensive support for
 anyone putting together a large bid. For fellowship applications, a cohort model operates, with
 guidance over a 12-month period to support academics in every aspect of a large application. A
 dedicated research development officer works with individual academics over several months to
 develop their proposal. There are then several rounds of review, with senior faculty members as
 well as external experts contributing. For example, Gustafsson won an ESRC Future Leaders
 Fellowship (£152k) in 2017, to explore how paraprofessionals experience work and conduct a
 career in contemporary professional environments. We have also harnessed Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (KTPs), with a new KTP between Dimov and CheckRisk Management Services Ltd,
 which will deliver a Risk Profiler tool.

 Research centres
 A key infrastructure for delivering our research strategy is our research centres. These centres
 help us to utilize and develop our research capacity and are a focal point for our external
 engagement and income generation. Centres are led by senior faculty members, have broad
 cross-disciplinary appeal and draw members from across the divisions and the wider university.
 For example, CBOS has 41 members from all divisions of the School, as well as four members
 from other faculties of the University. Directors of research centres make annual bids to the SoM

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Committee for funding for new initiatives (up to £10K). Academic leadership of research
 is supported with teaching remission for Centre Directors (150 hours). The centres are subject to
 a three-year review process, and we have strategically updated and renewed our portfolio since
 2014. For example, we disestablished five centres: The Lean and Agile Research Group (LARG),
 Centre for Strategic Risk and Insurance (CSR), Centre for Research in Advertising and
 Consumption (CRiAC), the Centre for International Business and Management (CIBAM) and the
 Centre for Leadership and Change (CLC), while creating four new ones.

 The School’s current Research Centres are:
 • The Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation (CREI), led by Marsili. CREI was launched in
    2016 and has been strengthened since then with the appointment of high quality ECRs (e.g.,
    Barufaldi, Failla, Salandra, Zhang) alongside internationally renowned professors (Giarratana,
    Dahlander, Dimov, and Salter).
 • The Future of Work Research Centre (FoW), led by Rofcanin, replaced the Work Employment
    Research Centre. The international research profile of the Centre has benefitted from the
    appointment of both leading professors (Adam, Giorgi, Harding, Maclean) and impressively
    productive new ECRs (Brewis, Mughal, Gustafsson).
 • The Centre for Governance, Regulation and Industrial Strategy (CGRIS) replaced the Centre
    for Governance and Regulation in 2017. Under the leadership of Zalewska and Tomlinson,
    CGRIS has broadened its remit to focus on finding the balance between governance,
    regulation and strategic planning to ensure the effective functioning of organisations, regions
    and markets, and seeks to contribute to UK industrial policy.
 • The Centre for Healthcare Innovation and Improvement (CHI²) was established in 2015. Led
    by Vasilakis, CHI² undertakes multidisciplinary research into health and care systems, and
    ways to improve them. CHI² has secured over £1.4m direct funding since its inception,
    collaborating with Royal United Hospital, Yeovil NHS Trust; and the West of England Health
    Science Network and developing a popular MOOC on the use of operations research in health
    care (REF ICS).
 • The Centre for Business, Organizations and Society (CBOS) is a major global centre for
    research on the intersection of business and society, led by Crane, Grosvold and Glozer, which
    draws upon a long-standing area of excellence in the school. CBOS has led significant projects
    on greening urban development and combatting modern slavery.
 • The International Centre for Higher Education Management (ICHEM), led by Naidoo, focuses
    on interdisciplinary research to advance the field of higher education studies (cross-referred
    to Education), bringing together scholars from across the University with visiting professors
    and doctoral researchers from over 25 countries.
 • The Centre for Research on Identities in Organizations was launched in 2020, led by Obodaru,
    in order to exploit the high concentration of international experts in identities research now
    employed at the School (Adam, Brown, Giorgi, Harding, Maclean).
 • The Centre for Smart Warehouse and Logistics Systems (Smart WALOS) was established in
    2020 to bring together research in warehousing and logistics applications to develop new
    methods to improve operations management and decision-making. It draws together
    established faculty in the area of logistics and forecasting (Battara, Brandon-Jones, Erdoğan,
    Petropoulos, Giannikas) and our newer hires (Laporte, Çelik, Şafak, Sanci).

 Engagement and impact
 As part of our engagement and impact strategy, we created an impact fund that helps faculty to
 realise the potential of their work for non-academic audiences. The fund is open to all faculty, with
 funding allocated in biannual calls. This provides academic staff with resources to enhance and
 enrich their engagement with external actors, and leverage potential impact arising from their
 research. The fund is divided into two parts: impact initiation and impact delivery. Impact initiation
 offers up to £2.5k to allow staff to build strong research links with potential partners. The rules of
 the funding are flexible, providing resources for hosting meetings and events, developing software,
 and funding on-site visits. For example, the fund sponsored Fairchild’s work with the European
 Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), helping them to develop effective
 mechanisms for assessing financial and delivery risk in funding applications. The fund also
 provides support for those staff who are developing a potential impact case, including up to £5k

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of additional funding and 100 hours remission. In total, more than 40% of our staff received impact
 initiation funding and nine staff received support for impact delivery.

 To support our engagement and impact with external audiences, we have invested in a full-time
 research events and content officer, as well as redesigning our web and social media presence.
 In 2018, our web faculty profiles were updated and moved onto Pure, which provides an online
 database of all research outputs. We have also overhauled our research landing pages, adopting
 a user-centric approach to redesign. Visitors are directed quickly to our research centre webpages,
 which were extended with accessible content and case studies. As a result of this revamp, the
 research landing page has seen an 80% increase in unique page views when comparing the
 period August 2019 – July 2020 with the equivalent period in 2018-19.

 The School operates a Business and Society blog, which was launched in February 2017 and has
 become a successful vehicle for promoting our research, with over 150 blog posts published on a
 variety of topics including the implications of Brexit, decent work, diversity, entrepreneurship, and
 the environment. Blog posts are authored by academics and PhD students across the School, as
 well as affiliate members of our research centres and visiting academics. Since going live, it has
 attracted over 60k unique page views. Alongside the blog, a dedicated CBOS Twitter account has
 been launched which has increased in followers’ month-on-month and sees a significant level of
 interaction. The account routinely gets over 30k monthly ‘impressions’ (people who saw the tweet),
 sometimes reaching 70k. It has proved an excellent way to promote our academics’ publications
 and research events as well as linking up with other institutions and collaborators for mutual
 benefit. This has been most evident in our #ThinklistThursday campaign, a ranking of social
 media’s most influential academics in the fields of responsible business.

 Faculty work closely with the research office and the University’s press office to promote their new
 research simultaneously across a wide range of different communication channels. This enables
 us to tailor communications to our audiences in the language and vehicle to which they are most
 receptive. These efforts have resulted in both a higher number of press releases, greater media
 coverage and our research being promoted across a wide range of management challenges. For
 example, Dawson’s research on the migrant work ethic reached around 13 million people, with
 nearly 400 news outlets covering it. Also, Hinds’ research on cybersecurity at work was featured
 in just under 200 media outlets across the world, reaching approximately 50 million people.

 Research integrity
 As a research-led school, it is essential that everyone conducts research in a way that allows
 others to have trust and confidence in the methods used and the findings. The University takes as
 its starting point the definition of research integrity provided by the Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. It operates a Code of Good Practice in Research Integrity, which sets out the principles
 and standards that are expected of all research conducted at the University. The SoM has
 developed systems and practices that embed these principles into all our research, alongside
 procedures to investigate potential cases of misconduct, and the requirement that staff declare
 any conflicts of interest.

 Prior to undertaking any research, all faculty and PGR students are required to complete an Ethical
 Implications of Research Activity Form. The form requires researchers discuss any matters that
 might raise ethical issues, demonstrating that they have carefully considered the ethical
 implications of their project. This is then reviewed by a second reader (someone who has some
 familiarity with the research area but who is not directly involved in the research project). Where
 additional oversight is needed due to the nature of risk associated with the project, such as the
 collection of data from human subjects, projects are then referred to the University’s Social
 Sciences Research Ethics Committee. The School ensures that researchers have access to a
 range of resources and training to make sure that there is a thorough understanding of research
 integrity. There is a mandatory e-learning module “Research ethics and governance” that all
 researchers complete, and ethical requirements are included in induction.



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2017, the University set out its Principles of Research Assessment and Management, only the
 second University in the UK to do so. These principles focused on the importance of expert
 judgement, transparency and reliability, covering all disciplines and indicators.

 Open data and access
 The University of Bath Library was one of the first UK academic libraries to establish a
 permanent data management service. The SoM engages with and benefits from this mature
 service that supports us in the planning, curation, preservation, and publication of research
 data and software. Our highly experienced team of data librarians provide extensive guidance,
 training, advice, and advocacy. Data management is also embedded in our doctoral training.
 Our expectations on researchers for open data are aligned with the Concordat on Open
 Research Data and the FAIR principles set out in our Research Data Policy. Information
 Security Awareness training is mandatory for all staff and students.

 The University of Bath Library was one of the first UK academic libraries to establish a permanent
 open access team. This service supports researchers in ensuring their research can be made
 available via open access, supporting the process from training, to grant applications and through
 to actual publishing. CWTS Leiden Ranking 2020 placed Bath in the top 50 institutions in the world
 for the proportion of outputs that were open access.

 Physical Infrastructure
 We currently have high quality workspaces located across three different buildings distributed
 across the campus. To create an even more collegial and interactive environment, the School will
 move into a new £70 million dedicated building. In designing our new building, we have put
 research at the heart of the process, with new behavioural and entrepreneurship labs. It also has
 the capacity to host large conferences, further enhancing our ability to shape the progress of
 academic and practitioner communities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our research is conceived, informed and developed through collaborations, networks and
 partnerships: with public and private organizations, with the general public, and through extensive
 roles and relationships within the international academic community.

 Engagement with the private sector
 The School benefits from strong research links with the private sector, both large, international
 organizations and local social enterprises. Notable examples include:

 •   The HPC Supply Chain Innovation Lab demonstrates a strong link between the University and
     industry. Building on previous work with Squire, Hinkley Point C funded the Lab at £1.5 million
     across five years. The collaboration provides a platform for international thought leadership to
     connect business leaders, policymakers and academics in the fields of supply chain,
     innovation and complex capital projects. The Lab (led by Roehrich) analyses how the HPC
     model could help inform future UK capital projects and provides insights into how local
     suppliers can have a bigger role in the construction process. The lab works extensively with
     public and private organisations across sectors such as utilities (e.g. EDF Group, ARUP, SITA,
     Veolia), construction (e.g. Kier Group, Skanska), healthcare (e.g. ECHAA, NHS),
     transportation (e.g. Highways England), automotive (e.g. Volkswagen), environment (e.g.
     Environment Agency) and aerospace (e.g. Airbus, GKN).
 •   The Social Enterprise and Innovation Project (SEIP) project demonstrates our approach to
     local partnerships. We co-developed with SETsquared a social enterprise outreach
     programme, which supported 300 individuals through its advice, upskilling and selection
     support, and 125 social enterprises under its business incubation support. The programme
     design was underpinned by Dimov’s research and enabled by a £1.5 million grant from the
     ERDF. Its impact was captured by external evaluation, demonstrating that participants on the
     programme have started an estimated 188 new business, with a further 132 expected to start
     soon. These organizations are already making a difference to an estimated 4 million
     beneficiaries every year. The total financial impact of the project is estimated at £16.3m (REF

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     ICS).
 •   Drawing on leading-edge research on logistics, Erdoğan developed a suite of open-source
     tools to help improve operational efficiency. The Vehicle Routing Problems (VRP) spreadsheet
     solver represents, solves, and visualises vehicle routes using Bing maps and is accessible
     free software. VRP spreadsheet solver has been widely adopted and led to significant impact
     on a range of companies (REF ICS), leading to direct and evidenced savings equal to over £2
     million for companies based in the US, Finland, Argentina, and Taiwan. This innovative tool
     supports cost efficiencies through the optimisation of routes, and effectiveness through
     improved on-time delivery. It reduces the time spent in traffic, thereby supporting lower CO2
     emissions. The tool is freely available and has been downloaded over 7,000 times since its
     launch. The tutorial video for the tool on YouTube has been watched over 74,000 times.
 •   As part of our long-term relationships with established firms, Salter has worked with ARUP
     (alongside colleagues at Imperial College). Based on the research, ARUP implemented a new
     value report system for its R&D projects. Projects are required to declare their impact and
     these statements are then peer reviewed within the firm. ARUPs Global Research Leader
     stated that the research was ‘critical in helping to design this feedback system and in
     identifying this as a vehicle for the dissemination of the outcomes of our R&D projects to the
     wider organization’. They added that ‘this research had a significant impact on the way we
     consider and manage our R&D efforts’.
 •   Drawing on a grant from the Hughes family (£60k) and an EPSRC impact accelerator grant
     (£65k), Squire developed a software prototype for monitoring and mapping supply chain risks.
     The tool draws on a semantic library, machine learning and supply chain information to provide
     managers real time information about upcoming risks. The software was licensed by the
     University to Peak Software, which is a fast-growing Manchester-based AI company with 100
     employees, for £100k. As part of the on-going relationship with Peak, Squire and the
     postdoctoral researcher who worked on the original supply chain software tool, helped Peak
     Software to develop a new data science department. The CEO of Peak states that working
     with Squire was instrumental in helping the firm grow and develop its capacity in AI and data
     science, which has helped to underpin their rapid growth. Subsequently, Peak has raised £6
     million in external finance over two funding rounds and expanded its business globally.
 •   Giannikas has been collaborating with YH Global, a leading logistics firm in China, on how to
     respond to supply chain shocks. This work, done in collaboration with the University of
     Cambridge, uses data from YH Global to identify the sources of these shocks and potential
     remedies. A similar collaboration approach has also been used in a project with Boeing,
     Jeppesen, Swiss Air, Emirates Airlines and Aegean Airlines to analyse airplane disruptions
     management and re-scheduling. In addition, Giannikas is working with Chep, the UK’s leading
     pallet provider, on a project funded by the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust, to explore
     the potential for collaboration between companies in the use of delivery trucks. The goal of the
     project is to find ways of pooling cargo from different companies on the same lorry, helping to
     enable more sustainable transportation solutions.

 Engagement with government and charity sectors
 We collaborate with policy makers and public bodies to further our research goals and to
 enhance the impact of our research. Notable examples include:

 •   Swart collaborated with the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) to develop a
     new five-year knowledge management strategy. This strategy involved the adoption of new
     approach to integrate specialist knowledge across UNCDF offices, which are based in the
     world's 46 least developed countries.
 •   Tonks was seconded to Bank of England to explore how institutional investors changed their
     asset allocation in response to ‘quantitative easing’ (QE). Tonks’ research provided evidence
     on the effectiveness of the ‘portfolio balance channel’, giving confidence to the BoE to further
     extend QE. It was cited by the President of the European Central Bank (ECB) as evidence to
     support its own asset purchase programme initially worth €1.1 trillion, confident that there was
     a mechanism through which QE operated (REF ICS).
 •   Colville collaborated with Wiltshire Police Service (WPS) to understand sensemaking in
     organizations in the context of high-risk, novel situations. This research has been applied

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     within WPS to underpin changes in policy and practice. According to the Chief Constable the
     research has been critical to build WPS’s ability to effectively engage with the complex,
     unexpected circumstances of the Novichok poisonings in Salisbury, and with the Covid-19
     pandemic. These changes in WPS have been widely showcased nationally and internationally.
 •   The ‘Good Garments Project’, funded by the British Academy in partnership with DFID, seeks
     to understand how the firms at the end of the big garment brands’ supply chains can improve
     labour standards (Crane and Soundararajan). The research found that while worker
     exploitation was declining, it also remained prevalent through low pay, health and safety
     violations, and verbal abuse. The project identified twelve pathways to change, which included
     targets for eliminating health and safety violations, fair wages and tackling verbal and physical
     abuse.
 •   Joinson’s research has significantly improved awareness of when and why people are
     susceptible to ‘phishing’ attacks, underpinning changes in the policy and practice of
     government agencies, including the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure and
     HMRC. It supported the development and implementation of the UK Government’s “Don’t take
     the bait” campaign and the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre guidance on protection
     against phishing attacks. The research also underpins Cybsafe’s training resources, which
     have been used by over 150,000 employees from a range of different organisations (REF ICS).

 Engagement with the public
 We have implemented a strategy for more effectively engaging members of the general public in
 the research we produce. In 2018, we launched our Research4Good campaign to showcase our
 research within local and global communities. We use our public webpages, and various social
 media platforms, to demonstrate the practical relevance of our research. We emphasise how our
 research impacts positively on people’s lives, on our local communities and economy, and
 internationally. Examples of our public engagement include: an ‘art exhibition’ on our research;
 and an EU funded ‘FUTURES night’, run across Bath and Bristol. Events included, for example,
 engaging with members of public on trains, using stand-up comedy (aimed at the 16-25 age
 range); and a Women and Creativity event at the Holburne Museum.

 Our research is also helping to make a difference internationally, helping distressed and
 disadvantaged communities. A scheduling tool is being used by multiple NGOs in Syria, software
 to aid decisions for post-disaster debris clearance being employed by the US Army Corps of
 Engineers, and a decision support tool for expansion of the donated breastmilk banking network
 used by the South African Breastmilk Reserve, are all based on SoM research. Erdoğan’s ‘solvers’
 are not only cutting-edge but also made widely available through an open-source policy. For
 example, these (2D and 3D Bin Packing) solvers have been used in a diverse range of
 applications: from sheet metal cutting, planning the shipment of Personal Mobility Devices to Haiti,
 and a Swiss museum of Ethnography optimizing its artefact storage.

 The School produces videos and case studies for public consumption that highlight and celebrate
 the research that we do. These videos have broadened public awareness of our research. For
 example, Shankar’s short film about marketing research in the School was a spur for a personal
 invitation to appear on the BBC1 programme ‘Shop Well for Less’ (Viewing figures: 3.5-5 million).
 Shankar was the academic consultant to the production company RDF TV. He appeared in the
 first two series of the show, eight one-hour episodes in total, as the academic expert. They
 discussed the marketing approaches used by retailers and large firms to shape purchasing
 behaviour. These commentaries helped to raise viewers’ awareness of the wide range of subtle
 but effective approaches used by companies to manipulate their consumption choices.

 Engagement with the academic community
 Our faculty are internationally engaged academics who make a wide range of contributions to the
 global scholarly community. These contributions have been recognised through significant
 awards, honours and commissions of trust.

 Major editorial roles. Our faculty have held important editorial roles at leading journals. For
 example, Dimov was field editor for Journal of Business Venturing and is editor-in-chief for Journal

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Business Venturing Insights and Salter is an editor at Research Policy. Associate Editor roles
 include: Vince at Academy of Management Learning and Education, Giorgi at Academy of
 Management Review, Salter at Industrial and Corporate Change, Swart at Human Resource
 Management Journal, Rofcanin at Human Relations, Giarratana at European Management
 Review, Roehrich at International Journal of Operations and Production Management, Lewis and
 Squire at Journal of Operations Management, Dahlander at Academy of Management Journal,
 Lennox at The Accounting Review and Contemporary Accounting Research, Brown at
 Organization Studies and Human Relations, and Adams at British Accounting Review.

 Membership in editorial boards. Our staff participate on a wide range of editorial boards. For
 example, Dimov at Journal of Business Venturing, Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice, Journal
 of Management Studies, International Small Business Journal, Vince at Organization Studies,
 Management Learning, and Academy of Management Learning and Education. Gounopoulos at
 Corporate Governance: An International Review and the International Journal of Accounting,
 Laporte at Operations Research and Transportation Science, Giarratana at Strategic Management
 Journal and Journal of Management, Mughal at Human Relations, Grewal at Journal of Marketing
 and Journal of Marketing Research, Salter at Industry and Innovation and Innovation: Organization
 and Management, Brown at Journal of Management Studies and Organization, Roehrich, at the
 Journal of Operations Management, Lenox at Journal of Accounting Research and Journal of
 Business Finance and Accounting, Rofcanin at the Journal of Occupational Health Psychology
 and the British Journal of Management. Maclean at Management Learning, and Xie at European
 Journal of Finance.

 Special issue development and editing. Since 2014, our faculty have edited 14 special issues.
 Notable examples include Tomlinson served as Guest Editor for Competition and Change and for
 two special issues of Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society. Marsili was the guest
 editor for special issues in Industrial and Corporate Change and Small Business Economics.
 Giannikas was guest editor of the International Journal of Production Research. Brown and
 Colville were guest editors of a special issue of Management Learning. Soundararajan is guest
 editor for a special issue of the Journal of Management and the Journal of Supply Chain
 Management.

 Major roles in professional and scientific communities. Roehrich was elected Distinguished Fellow
 and Qualified Member of ‘The Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply’ (CIPS), in recognition
 of contributions to the procurement and supply field. Petropoulos was elected Director of the
 International Institute of Forecasters. Dimov was the Chair of the Research Committee of the
 Entrepreneurship Division at the Academy of Management.

 Visiting professorships and fellowships. We encourage our faculty to undertake visiting positions
 at other universities. During this REF period, our faculty have held 15 appointments with a wide
 range of academic institutions within the UK, including UCL, Leicester, Manchester among others.
 Around a quarter of our faculty have (or had) visiting positions in various European countries,
 including INSEAD, Paris-Sorbonne, Reykjavik University, NOVA Portugal, IESE, Istanbul
 Sabanci, and Bogazici and Visiting Scholar positions at University of St Gallen, Bocconi, EPFL,
 Audencia Business School, Copenhagen Business School, and Vienna University. Our academics
 also held appointments outside Europe, including George Washington, Stanford, Cornell, Indiana,
 UC Berkeley, Texas, Connecticut, Queensland University of Technology, University of Technology
 Sydney and RMIT, Nelson Mandela University, and McGill University. Notably, Adams held a
 Handelsbanken-Wallander Research Fellow and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from Umea
 University in October 2019.

 We are keen to welcome visiting scholars to foster the cross-fertilization of ideas with international
 partners; and to help build, cement and sustain strong international collaborations. Since 2014,
 we have had 82 Visiting Professorships and Fellowships from 68 different institutions. All visiting
 scholars have internal sponsor and a well-articulated research programme. Visitors deliver
 seminars, offer supervision and mentoring to PhD students, undertake joint research, and
 collaborate in grant funding applications. Visiting professors have included: Alvesson (Lund), Cefis

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Bergamo). Smith (Delaware), Cunliffe (Fundação Getulio Vargas-EAESP), Santangelo (Catania),
 Snell (Virginia), Levy (Adelaide), Tyler (North Carolina State), and Vogel (Hamburg).

 Major prizes and awards. Our faculty consistently win prizes and awards for their research. Glozer,
 Soundararajan, Crane and Ward-Grosvold have all won best paper prizes within AOM’s SIM and
 ONE Division. Snelson-Powell, Ward-Grosvold, Crane, Liu and Glozer have also won best paper
 awards at the International Association for Business and Society Conference. Other notable
 examples include: Soundararajan, the Business and Society Journal Best Paper Award; Grewal,
 two time winner of the Stern Award at the American Marketing Association and three time winner
 of the Davidson Award at the Journal of Retailing; Giorgi, the Journal of Management Studies Best
 Paper Award; Vince: The Learning Organization Journal, Best Paper Award; Maclean, Best Full
 Paper Award at BAM’s Management and Business History Division; Petropoulos, International
 Journal of Forecasting Best Paper Award; Dimov, Entrepreneurship Division of AOM Best Paper;
 Gustafsson and Swart, Careers Division of AOM Best Overall Paper. Vasilakis and Lewis won the
 Chris Voss Best Paper Award at EUROMA Conference. Dahlander received the TUM Research
 Excellence Award of the Peter Pribilla Foundation for outstanding research in Innovation and
 Leadership. Laporte was awarded the Order of Canada and membership of National Academy of
 Engineering (USA), alongside receiving honorary doctorates from Eindhoven and Liege.

 Reviewing for research councils and foundations: Many of our academics routinely review for UK
 based grant funding bodies: ESRC (Gore, Soundararajan, Roehrich, Gounopoulos, Tonks),
 EPSRC (Jeon, Gore, Vasilakis), MRC, NIHR, Wales Health and Care Research as well as several
 health funding panels through CLAHRC West and the GW4 network (Vasilakis), The British
 Academy and Leverhulme Trust (Roehrich, Gounopoulos, Vasilakis, Chudzikowski, Salter), and
 The Wellcome Trust (Vasilakis). In addition, we also are active reviewers for a wide range of
 international and national funding countries: Germany: Max Plank Society (Zalewska) and the
 German Academic Exchange Service (Roehrich), Poland: the Polish Science Foundation
 (Zalewska), Switzerland: the Swiss National Science Foundation (Soundararajan, Salter and
 Roehrich), European Commission: European Research Council (Salter), USA: National Science
 Foundation (Roehrich); Academy of Marketing (McDonagh), and Canada: Natural Sciences and
 Engineering Research Council (Battarra).




                                                                                            Page 20
