Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit context and structure

 This Unit of Assessment (UoA) sits within the School of Engineering (SoE) at the University of
 Lincoln. Founded initially in 2010, the SoE has developed substantial collaborative research
 activities at both national and international levels. The SoE has successfully steered its
 research growth explicitly in the Energy and Industrial Digitalisation sectors. It spans broad
 technological themes of power systems, robotics and automation, smart grid, vehicle technology,
 communications, industrial prognostics and diagnostics, materials research and
 thermodynamics. Starting from a baseline in 2013/2014, the portfolio of successful research
 grants has more than doubled, on average, between 2014 and 2020. Research contracts were
 funded directly by industry and other funding bodies including EPSRC, H2020 and IUK; research
 outputs are demonstrable and highly impactful (see below).
   The SoE’s research has had a significant reach, at an international level, due to its increasing
 links with Africa, India, the EU, and China. A very notable example of recognition of research
 achievements since the 2014 REF is the elite Siemens Global Principal Partner Status. It was
 awarded ‘in recognition of the valued contribution that the University makes to Research and
 Development through the School of Engineering’. The University of Lincoln is one of only 5 UK
 Universities and one of 17 globally to possess this privileged status. Further, the strategic
 recruitment of outstanding academic staff has also strengthened, with more than 47% of
 the SoE’s research staff now being non-UK. Since the previous 2014 census, the number of
 PGR students has increased by 67% from 2014 to 2020.

 1.2 Achievement of Strategic Research Aims

 Since its inception in 2010, the SoE has successfully established well-
 sustained research activities with a strong emphasis on industrial relevance and aggressively
 pursues opportunities to facilitate market penetration stemming from its research outputs. For
 the 2014 REF, the SoE described its strategic aims as:
     1. To be a key facilitator in ensuring research outputs are disseminated in a timely manner
         with due consideration for IP protection.
 Evidence of Achievement: The achievement of this aim can be seen from 41% of our
 outputs (>65 total per annum (mean) being in the top 10 percentile of journals throughout the
 census period, with a Field Weighted Citation Impact of 2.3, underpinning the SoE’s commitment
 to high quality peer-reviewed research. Moreover, research has translated into industrial
 collaborator (Siemens) patent applications eg. Invention Disclosures ‘Sensing and Analysis of
 Fuel Composition using Remote laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy’, and ‘Articulated Laser
 Delivery System for Ignition purposes of combustible fuels’, 2017. Also, see point 3 below for
 examples of impactful research outcomes.
     2. To act as a research conduit so that multi-disciplinary and cross-sector research
 opportunities can be identified and exploited.
 Evidence of Achievement: During the REF2021 census period, it is notable that ~50% of all
 successful research grants to which the SoE has contributed involved disciplines in addition to
 Engineering. For instance, the SoE took a pivotal role in successfully establishing
 the Lincoln Institute for Agri-food Technology created in
 2016. SoE academics also contributed towards more than £6m of research projects, most
 notably with the SoE leading an Innovate UK/EPSRC Demand Side Response project
 with IMS/Tesco. For this project, the SoE developed the Lincoln Refrigeration Research
 Centre at the Riseholme campus (Lincoln).
     3. To facilitate step-changes in technology to improve productivity, growth and market
         leadership.
 Evidence of Achievement: Mitsubishi Electric
 (Japan) adopted the SoE’s thermodynamic research for developing a new type of air

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conditioning unit that is now in production. It has led to the submitted Impact Case
 Study on ‘Improving performance in air source heat pumps through computational
 fluid dynamics. Further, the outcomes from a PhD research programme are now being used
 by Napier Turbochargers Ltd. for optimising marine turbocharger designs and reducing material
 waste.
      4. To provide an integrated environment for wider intellectual inter-disciplinary debate and
 academic enquiry.
 Evidence of Achievement: The SoE has been instrumental in organising industry-
 based research seminars and knowledge transfer programmes. For example, a Siemens
 workshop on Laser Ignition ultimately led to direct funded research support and the submission
 of multiple patent applications (decisions pending). The SoE has provided support and access
 to facilities for external and industrial visiting research fellows and Chairs e.g. Adam Taylor
 (formerly of Teledyne e2v, and visiting Professor of Embedded Systems); Lei Shu (Honorary
 visiting Professor and the director of NAU-Lincoln Joint Research Center of Intelligent
 Engineering, Nanjing, China) and Festus Agbonzikilo (industrial Research Fellow in combustion
 dynamics from Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery (Lincoln)), among others (see below).
      5. To foster strategic research collaborations with regional, national and international
 organisations and the respective UKRI, EU Horizon2020, and other funders and programmes.
 Evidence of Achievement: This has been a particular success for the SoE during the census
 period due to the strong international research links coalescing in Asia, Europe and South
 America. To list a few, in China, CRRC is collaborating with Gordon on road and rail transport
 research; research organisations in India and Columbia are
 collaborating with Srivistava and Nurellari to investigate field monitoring using IoT and smart
 energy, agricultural waste reduction, and digitising cacao production (funded by Innovate-
 UK/Newton Bhabha funding totalling >£1.6m); EU Interreg ICaRe4Farms project, led
 by Bingham, is researching new methods of optimised solar-based water preheating for
 agricultural applications across the EU and brings together more than 16 partners and
 stakeholders.
      6. To be receptive to timely opportunities in high-technology commercial market sectors that
           the School’s research outputs can penetrate.
 Evidence of Achievement: Research on vehicle road dynamics as a consequence of loss of
 driver control, based on original results from a PhD programme supervised by Gordon, is now
 being trialled by Volvo Trucks in Sweden, and led by the PGR (now a Volvo employee) who
 originally researched at Lincoln.

 1.3 Research Impact Strategy

 Impact is underpinned by the creation of an environment for cross-disciplinary and multi-
 disciplinary research activities that are aligned with the University’s strategic plan. It states, “We
 will create purposeful research on the key challenges facing the world, working collaboratively
 with partners to meet the needs of the 21st Century, promoting communication, freedom of
 thought, and personal and team achievement whilst recognizing the benefits of contributing to
 the solution of current and future environmental challenges.”

 The pursuit of internationally leading impactful research with continual and sustainable growth is
 fundamental to the SoE. Therefore, pursuing “Research with Impact” is a primary component of
 our strategic plan and staff development. Impact forms a key criterion for academic appraisal
 and progression and it is embedded at all career levels. We recognise the value of professional
 practice by academic staff and ‘blended professionals’ in generating impact; the SoE has a
 range of role profiles recognising this contribution. The University of Lincoln is a signatory of the
 National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement Manifesto and has one of the
 first Professorial Chairs for Public Understanding of Research. Impact champions, an annual
 conference, and internal grants help researchers actively engage with the public.

 The SoE emphasises industrially relevant research and aggressively pursues opportunities to
 facilitate market penetration stemming from its research outputs. To maximize the efficacy of its


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research impact, the SoE is organized around two highly integrated multidisciplinary research
 groups with strong industrial and multinational links:

     i.  Sustainable Energy and Power (SEP) research group
 Led by Bingham, the SEP group conducts fundamental and applied research in all aspects of
 power and energy production, sustainability, distribution and control. The research group
 provides a strategic focus of research activity within the SoE and encompasses two sub-groups
 viz. Power Systems, and Sustainable Systems. Since its rebranding in 2019, the Group has
 attracted an average research income of >£51k/annum per FTE, with a current bid success rate
 of 78%.
    ii.  Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence (IDSI) research group
 Led by Saaj, IDSI group focuses on use-inspired cross-sector research steered by three sub-
 groups, viz. Industrial AI; Robotics and Automated Systems; Communications,
 Networks and Embedded Systems. The IDSI group conducts application-driven theoretical and
 applied research. It covers topics on dynamics, systems and control, high-tech industry
 technology, fault tolerance, artificial intelligence, healthcare technologies and advanced multi-
 objective optimisation systems for a broad portfolio of real-life engineering problems.
 Organisations spanning the automotive, aerospace and other industry sectors are primary
 funders of collaborative research for IDSI members who have an overarching driver for the rapid
 transfer of its research into the field or marketplace. Since its rebranding in
 2019, the IDSI Group has attracted an average research income
 of approximately £59k/annum per FTE, with a current bid success rate of 75%.

 The Impact strategy is underpinned by a Research Action Plan aligned with the SoE’s strategic
 plan, which includes:
     ▪ Full-day workshops for staff to engage with industry facilitate ideas generation and
        dissemination of highly impactful research.
     ▪ The establishment of School-level pump-priming opportunities for internal funding of
        high-risk/high benefit research and/or market exploitation of its impact.
     ▪ The establishment of internally funded annual PGR studentships for growing the PGR
        cohort. During the census period, the SoE has contributed £60k each year to
        support internally funded PGR studentships, including high-calibre international
        students.
     ▪ Bid-writing workshops to aid ECRs in developing research bids that integrate impact
        consideration at the inception stage.

 1.4 Five-Year Plan for Enhancing Impact Generation

 With University support, the SoE has committed to a 5-year plan for
 further developing research activities and raising its international profile by creating societal and
 economic impact. A unique feature of this critical planning exercise is the substantial expansion
 of Engineering research capability through Strategic Academic Appointments. The SoE will
 submit a business case for increasing Engineering academic FTEs from 19 (in 2020) to 46 (by
 2025). The prospects for impact generation will be a crucial criterion for a successful
 appointment. As part of this expansion, a Professorial Lead for Impact
 Generation will be recruited by 2025. Encouraging and promoting the value of impact by
 academic staff is vital for success. Therefore, future workload
 models will incorporate evidence-based impact.
 The SoE has seen the benefits of attracting Visiting Research Fellows and Visiting
 Research Chairs to support the generation of impact, e.g. Dr. Vili Panov joined the University of
 Lincoln in 2016 as a RAEng Visiting Professor in Gas Turbine Performance Diagnostics and
 Health Management. His research is now being used in Siemens for combustion dynamics
 modelling to predict and diagnose operational combustion abnormalities. Building on this
 success, the SoE has further extended its Visiting Chair appointments. For example,
 in 2020, Prof Duncan Botting was appointed to enhance the industrial collaborative scope for
 impact in short/medium term. By further growing its pool of visiting scholars, the SoE will
 generate new impact case studies in the future.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through continued support for Internal PGR Scholarships and joint funding opportunities with
 stakeholders, the SoE will continue to expand its PGR provision towards its goal of 4 x PGR per
 FTE by 2025. A significant aspect of this growth model will be to encourage part-time
 PGR registrations from industry for dovetailing research outcomes rapidly into an industrial
 environment.
 International collaborations are pivotal for extending the future reach of impactful
 research carried out in the SoE. Accordingly, the SoE has recently appointed a Lead for
 International Development (O’Grady) and a further academic staff member as the Director of
 Enterprise (Elseragy). The target is to secure 50% of successful research funding through
 collaborating with non-UK organisations by 2025.

 1.5 REF Submission

 The SoE is submitting a single unit of assessment that encompasses the combined outputs and
 impact of the two strategic research groups, to UoA (B) 12: Engineering.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development

 Currently, there are 19 research-active academic staff in the SoE; an increase of 58% in
 research staff submitted to the UoA since the previous submission in 2014. Academic staff are
 recruited strategically according to the alignment of their profiles with the SoE’s research
 strategy and associated research groups (SEP and IDSI). The SoE’s recruitment
 criteria is primarily academic pedigree in terms of quality of outputs, income generation, and
 impact. The recruitment of academic staff helped to grow critical mass in key areas of strength
 for the SoE, thereby supporting intra-disciplinary working. It also led to an increase in the value
 of research bids submitted and a corresponding rise in research income (£51k per FTE for SEP
 and £59k per FTE for IDSI); this growth is from a baseline of £12k per FTE at the start of this
 census period. Recruitment of staff has taken place at all levels since 2014, including the recent
 appointment of a Global Chair in Robotic Engineering, but has predominately focused on Early
 Career Researchers (ECRs) to reflect the SoE’s strategy of developing staff from early stages in
 their careers. This approach has proven to be a very effective recruitment strategy, with 100% of
 research staff appointed at Lecturer grade being promoted to Senior Lecturer within two
 years, and two members of staff being promoted to Associate Professor
 (Tucker and Gallimore).

 The research imperative is well understood by all members of the SoE, as is its Research
 Strategy. An environment for cultivating academic research creativity is a priority for the SoE to
 significantly increase the number of research students, Research Assistants and Fellows, and
 promote wider external income generation opportunities. The SoE’s Director of Research along
 with the Head of SoE are responsible for overseeing and monitoring academic staff research
 attainment to ensure the strategic aims of the SoE are achieved. Measures are in place to
 ensure transparency of the expectations and offer support mechanisms for research. In addition
 to the SoE’s Research Committee, weekly staff meetings and annual all-staff research away
 days are platforms for effective communication with staff.

  Researchers receive comprehensive support from within the SoE, the College of Science,
 and the wider university. The following mechanisms are in place to ensure timeliness
 of support:
     1. An annual appraisal meeting, with the Head of School, discusses progress against
        objectives and identifies individual needs in relation to SoE’s strategic direction and
        career planning.
     2. An annual Individual Research Planning (IRP) meeting, with a senior member of staff
        (either the Head of School, Director of Research or Global Chair), discusses all aspects
        of research development. This includes outputs, income generation, enterprise

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        activities, impact, public engagement and support needs. The on-line IRP system draws
        data automatically from centrally managed facilities viz. an output repository and REF
        databases, providing staff members with an individual summary of key
        achievements. The College of Science Research Committee further reviews the
        outcomes of IRP meetings in the SoE. Accordingly, the Committee makes
        recommendations on continuing professional development for research, PhD
        studentships, the release of pump-priming funds and support for new equipment and
        facilities as needed.
    3. A SoE pump-priming scheme is available to all staff, allowing staff to apply for up to
        £5k in funding each year to promote and support innovative research and provide a
        foundation for further grant applications.
    4. Provision of facilities and support for ECR academics, including access to
        external collaborators' facilities in industry and academia.
    5. Institution-wide training and support for Continuing Personal and Professional
        Development (CPPD) framework.
    6. ECRs are provided with an experienced research mentor from within the SoE or College
        of Science to give individual support for bid writing, generating outputs, enterprise and
        impact activity.
    7. ECRs are allocated a lower teaching/admin load in their first year in post to allow
        more time for research.
    8. A SoE travel and conference budget of £20k is ring-fenced each year to
        promote the dissemination of research and provide networking opportunities for
        staff. The SoE also provides funding for laboratory consumables.
    9. New staff are supported with start-up funds to establish a robust platform needed
        for developing their research within the SoE, including the purchase of new
        equipment and recruitment of PGRs and Post-Doctoral Research Associates.
        For instance, Chalashkanov (appointed 2020) was recently supported with the purchase
        of a high-voltage power supply costing ~£15k for his research in the area of di-electric
        breakdown. Samson was supported with funds to develop
        a dedicated biofuels laboratory to facilitate research on biomass gasification (>£60k).
    10. A research leave scheme is available to all SoE staff which allows up to two
        members, each year, to have a full semester free of teaching duties to focus exclusively
        on research. Annually, SoE invites applications from interested staff who
        must demonstrate how they intend to avail this scheme. Successful applications may
        involve writing a specific large grant application, learning new skills or developing new
        tools likely to be of use for interdisciplinary research in the future, or extended research
        visits to other laboratories worldwide to facilitate collaborations.
    11. SoE offers research leadership opportunities to staff for enhancing their overall profiles
        and supporting career development. For example, Yao has taken over the Postgraduate
        Research Lead's role in response to career planning discussions during the annual
        appraisal process.
    12. Staff at all levels are encouraged to attend courses that enhance their research
        skills. Moreover, staff are encouraged to improve their research exposure and work
        on intra-disciplinary research topics facilitated by SoE’s monthly research seminar
        series.
    13. Expansion of facilities (see section 3).


 2.2 PGR Students

 Developing a vibrant postgraduate research experience is a priority for the SoE. It
 helps to guarantee the continued growth of the SoE’s research activity and promote a culture of
 innovation and produce a pipeline of research talent to help build the next generation
 of SoE academic staff. PGR students in this UoA are predominantly PhD (90%) with
 a lower number of MSc by Research (10%). The majority of students are either self-funded (the
 case for most MSc by Research) or funded through external grants and industry funding. Further,
 three PhD studentships funded by the SoE are made available to staff on a rolling basis;

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this equates to £60k of investment per annum on PhD studentships. The number of PGRs has
 grown by 67% between REF periods, with 41% being female and 50% identifying as
 BAME. Attracting the highest quality PGRs from across the globe is considered fundamental to
 the SoE’s longer term research success, with 65% of PGRs being non-UK.

 The success in recruiting PGRs is mainly attributed to the following strategies:
    1. The SoE has accelerated its research engagement to increase the number of high-
        potential international partners worldwide, particularly in China. This has led to two
        significant joint research initiatives with the Guangdong University of Petrochemical
        Technology and Zhaoqing University, including joint PhD arrangements of 10 per institute
        over five years.
    2. Industry engagement has increased significantly during the census period, both
        nationally and internationally. Since 2013/14, the number of successful collaborative
        industrial research projects, per annum, has more than
        doubled. The recently appointed Director of
        Enterprise within the SoE supports SoE staff in all enterprise activities; the staff also
        receive further support from the central Research and Enterprise office.
    3. A £37m investment in new facilities and equipment has made the University much more
        attractive to prospective students, including those who self-fund. This increase in facilities
        has also provided all students with their own desk space in a dedicated
        PGR Office, creating a sense of community amongst fellow students.
    4. A boost in the SoE’s external profile due to growth in overall research, development of
        critical mass in key areas of strength, and the appointment of internationally renowned
        staff (see Staffing Strategy and Development section). This has broadened the research
        specialities that students can engage in.

 PGR support is overseen by the School Postgraduate Research Lead, who reports to the School
 Director of Research and Head of School. It is governed through the School Research
 Committee, which reports to the School Leadership Team. PGR support focuses on two key
 areas, namely, research experience and achievement, and career development.

    1. PGRs get support for gaining teaching experience through paid teaching activity, subject
       to undertaking mandatory training, and with the help of experienced teaching
       mentors. Carrying out teaching accelerates their future
       career progression (e.g. O’Grady who was an Associate Lecturer alongside her PhD
       studies and progressed directly to Lecturer upon completion) and ensures that they have
       the skills needed to convey their research to peers.
    2. All PGR students complete a Research Training Needs Analysis that establishes an
       individual Research Development Plan. This process helps to identify future support
       needs, such as attendance on training programmes, mentoring requirements and broader
       research and technical skills development.
    3. Students have access to SoE funds to support attendance at conferences and for
       networking opportunities (e.g. De Barrie (supervised by Goher), who presented at the
       international ICRA2020 conference and followed with a related publication in
       the international journal - IEEE Robotic and Automation Letters). Students are also
       encouraged to develop their research dissemination skills through engagement with
       the SoE’s research seminar series.
    4. All students have a minimum of two academic supervisors. Monthly meetings are held in
       order to monitor and record progress and to discuss ongoing training and support
       needs. All students are subject to an annual review of progress and PhD
       Confirmation viva when transferring from MPhil to PhD.
    5. Where appropriate, students are allocated an industry supervisor/mentor in
       order to provide additional support and to maximise the impact of their
       research (e.g. Borman with Teledyne-e2v, Gallimore with Siemens, Rahman with Volvo
       Trucks).



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further expansion of PGR support can be evidenced by the SoE recently attracting KA107
 Erasmus funding (165k Euros over 3 years) to facilitate international
 research, recruit prospective PGR/PhD students and aid their mobility between Lincoln and
 three Jordanian HEIs. The SoE is the principal coordinator of this initiative which supports the
 three collaborative thematic areas of Engineering, IT/Computer Science and Pharmaceutical
 Studies.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 The UoA has 19 T&R (Teaching and Research contract) staff members, with 21% female and
 47% of staff identifying as BAME; the latter being significantly higher than the Lincolnshire
 average of <5% and the UK national population average of 14%. BAME academics constitute
 62% of Grade 7-8 staff submitted to the UoA. Investment and support of young, high quality
 academics also features strongly in the School’s ethos, as evidenced by 36% of staff being
 34years or under.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion within the SoE is overseen by the School’s Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion (EDI) Committee. The EDI Committee consists of academic and support staff and
 students from all levels (UG to Head of School). Members are selected ensuring diversity in
 background and experiences (i.e. those with caring responsibilities, ethnicity, gender, disabilities
 etc.). The committee is co-chaired by the Head of School (male) and the Lead for International
 Development (female) to ensure equal gender balance. Further, this arrangement assures that
 matters concerning both staff and students are fully considered in all
 committee meetings and SoE activities. The SoE EDI Committee reports to the College of
 Science EDI Committee.

 The SoE EDI Committee continues to ensure that EDI considerations underpin all SoE activities.
 For example, all whole staff SoE meetings run no later than 3pm to better support staff with
 childcare responsibilities to attend. One of the primary roles of the Lead for International
 Development is to ensure the international student voice is at the forefront of any SoE decisions
 and to ensure maximum integration and promote a sense of belonging. Another paramount focus
 is raising the cultural awareness of all students (born within or outside the UK) and includes
 a SoE ‘Global Award’ to promote students' opportunities to engage in cultural awareness
 activities, e.g. summer schools, peer mentoring etc.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 Research income has become a priority during this census period to facilitate our rapidly
 growing research profile. During this period 2014-2018/2019, SoE academics have secured
 more than £3.8m in external funding as PI and contributing to more than 30 individual projects in
 total. The current proposal submission-to-success ratio is over 75% (new research group
 structure), with a mean submission-to-success ratio over the total census period of
 50%. Funding secured has increased substantially over the period 2019/20 with the inclusion of
 two internationally funded projects worth more than £1.3m alone with China and India, for
 instance. This also reflects the increased diversity of research partnerships during the census
 period, of which 38% has been national and international industrial collaborative research. This
 has lead to a rapid growth seen in our income generation profile of 168% (mean) over the past 5
 years.
 The SoE was formed in 2010 in partnership with Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery (Lincoln).
 Our early research focus was on industrial gas turbine technology and the majority of research
 income came directly from Siemens. During the census period, direct funding from Siemens has
 amounted to over £700k. Subsequently, the SoE has substantially broadened its portfolio of
 funded research, gaining support from a range of new industrial sponsors, including Tesco,
 Teledyne e2v, CRRC (Chinese National Railways), Huawei Internet of Vehicles

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (IoV), and Mitsubishi Electric. For example, the collaboration with Mitsubishi has brought in more
 than £140k of funding during the census period, while the two vehicle projects with Chinese
 industry has generated over £300k during 2019-20.
 While over half of our funded research is in direct collaboration with industrial partners, there
 have been notable successes with grant awarding agencies. Research Councils have funded
 projects such as novel robotic automation of food manufacturing (£139k), optimal ground
 transportation (airport operational engineering, TRANSIT, £316k) and evolutionary digital expert
 systems (£96k), among others (total £1.3m). The SoE also received funding for research in air
 transportation via the EU FP7 programme. In addition, the Royal Academy of
 Engineering has supported several research activities, including international collaborations and
 an industrial Visiting Chair.
 The overall scope of SoE funded research covers a
 wide spectrum of applications and industrial sectors. Focus areas include smart energy and
 renewables, packaging from waste and laser induced breakdown spectroscopy for real-time
 emissions monitoring, automation in the agri-food sector, and the intelligent control of mobile
 robots and ground vehicles – including autonomous safety of road vehicles, inspection robots
 for space applications, aircraft ground movement optimization (IDSI research group).
 A particular highlight, mainly from the SEP research group, has been its collaboration with
 the Lincoln Institute of Agri-food Technology, with SoE academics contributing, both as PI’s and
 Co-I’s towards more than £6m of research
 funding. Most notably, researchers and academics from the SoE participated in
 a £5.5m (total) project on dynamic energy control for food retailing refrigeration systems (IUK).
 Led by Intelligent Maintenance Systems Limited, the SoE took the research lead in
 the University’s £1.03m of attributed funding.
 A special highlight from the IDSI group has been its long-standing collaboration with Siemens in
 the area of Industrial Digitalization with the STARMS project (Siemens Turbomachinery
 Applications – Remote Monitoring System). This project is focused on remote diagnostics and
 health monitoring of the global network of gas turbines used in the field. SoE research has led to
 a new generation of validated algorithms, based on signal processing and machine intelligence,
 to improve the reliability and scope of this service that Siemens offers to its worldwide network of
 customers. Funding has further expanded into Siemens of Germany, as the work has become
 widely known and respected within the company. Impact of this research is detailed in the
 submitted impact case study ‘STARMS: Online Diagnostics for Improved Operational
 Behaviour of Industrial Gas Turbines’.
 Our strategy for building research income and associated industrial impact encompasses
 four significant areas:-
      1. Supporting individual researchers by providing time, mentoring and expertise to help with
         grant applications.
      2. Expanding the proportion of collaborative bids through extended networking opportunities
         and researcher training.
      3. Improving the quality of research proposals through internal peer review
         and strategic research planning.
      4. Developing the track record of each academic by increasing the number of their top-
         rated outputs, including small-scale feasibility studies and the generation of pilot data.

 The SoE has incorporated time spent on writing research proposals within an annual workload
 model to ensure that researchers have time to work on them. All ECRs are assigned a
 senior academic as a research mentor to ensure they have one-to-one support from someone
 experienced in successful bid writing. The College of Science also provides grant writing
 workshops and seminars. Identification of appropriate funding schemes, interpretation of
 scheme rules and requirements, and support for costings and budgets, are provided
 by dedicated research officers at both the College and University levels (the latter through the
 division of Research & Enterprise—a central professional support department).
 The SoE promotes collaborative bids through structures that support interdisciplinary
 research both within and beyond higher education. In particular, funding is available at School,
 College and University level, for facilitating collaborative bids. Networking (through conference


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and collaborator visits) is also supported financially through the SoE research fund and via
 the College of Science research fund.
 A formal peer review scheme has been established within the College of Science to improve the
 quality of research proposals submitted. Drafts of grant applications are to be made available six
 weeks ahead of the submission deadline and sent for peer review by one expert and one lay
 reviewer (minimum). This provides time for researchers to make appropriate improvements in
 good time. All submitted bids are further reviewed by Research & Enterprise for correct costings
 and compliance with scheme rules before being signed off. As required for peer review, the
 individual research planning process ensures that funding bids are planned well in advance and
 fit with the individual researcher's overall profile. Peer review is also conducted at
 the SoE level to provide earlier feedback and more subject-specialist support for research
 proposals. Typically, bids are reviewed by a senior colleague with a successful track record
 of relevant funding. Where no subject specialist is available, the scheme allows for external
 reviewers to be hired.
 To ensure that bids are supported by an appropriate foundation work and track record,
 the College of Science research fund supports small studies to demonstrate the feasibility and
 produce pilot data. The SoE has successfully won several small ‘pump-priming’ funds via
 the European Structural Investment Fund (ESIF) supported Innovation Programme and
 Productivity Programme which provide Innovation Vouchers, each with budget up to
 £5k. Although the income is small, the diversity is essential, and local companies have benefitted
 from several start-up projects with the SoE. A recent example (Margetts) has collaborated with a
 local company, Mibrid (formed in 2016 to supply low cost EVs), to design and develop a low-cost
 electric vehicle chassis. The project focussed on handling stability and early results have
 been encouraging. Contact with Mibrid remains active, and several additional collaborations
 have built upon this initial project, including three MSc projects funded by ERASMUS+ from
 SIGMA-Clermont (France). A further travel grant came from this partnership, leading to an
 ongoing collaboration with UC Davis (USA) to explore advanced vehicle modelling with Hyundai
 Research Centre (South Korea). This is a notable example where pump-priming via a small
 project has created new opportunities for future funding, creating a research cluster between the
 UK, France, USA and South Korea in this instance.


 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The University of Lincoln has made a step-change investment
 in Science and Engineering facilities during the census period. Following the Phase 1
 construction of the Engineering Hub (EHub) in 2011, the University made a further £6m
 investment for Phase 2 extension in 2016 which created a 50% expansion in office and
 laboratory space compared to the original EHub. The
 expanded EHub also hosts extensive Siemens Global Product Training facilities, including gas
 turbine engines and peripheral technologies valued at more than £10m. These facilities provide
 a foundation for several research collaborations with Siemens.

 After the completion of Phase 2, the Engineering Hub was further expanded to create the Isaac
 Newton Building. The overall project costs were £30m (including Phase 2) and
 included £500k for Engineering facilities and equipment. As a result, the SoE has access to a
 wide range of laboratory and technical facilities, including: biofuels research laboratory with new
 equipment for gasification and gas analysis; high power electrical systems including a Faraday
 cage structure enclosing the whole laboratory; renewable energy research laboratory; robotics
 and automation laboratories which are shared with Computer Science and host a wide range of
 industrial robots; the Laser Systems Laboratory used for research with Siemens and with food
 industry collaborators; a full-size vehicle simulation laboratory with 360˚ visualization and
 hardware-in-the-loop vehicle control simulation; a semi-anechoic chamber used in
 conjunction with machine fault diagnostics; an EMC pre-compliance testing chamber with
 associated high gain antennas and data acquisition; a dedicated vibration testing laboratory with
 seismic slab and isolated vibration measurement tables. Multiple teaching laboratories include


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 space for PhD research, and all of these facilities are supported by a new
 100 m2 electrical/mechanical workshop.

 SoE also has access to multiple research facilities outside of the Isaac Newton Building. This
 includes materials and thermo-fluids testing labs situated at other sites within Siemens Energy
 (Lincoln). For example, Siemens has given SoE staff access to its large-scale atmospheric and
 high-pressure testing chambers to support our advanced combustion research, including laser
 ignition systems research and development. Other facilities include materials and chemical test
 facilities in the Joseph Banks Laboratories (main University campus), and laboratories for agri-
 robotics at the Riseholme campus.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The SoE believes that a vital part of its professional duty includes contributing to the wider
 academic and professional research base, collaborating with key stakeholder groups and
 engaging with the public. The SoE has had an important and active contribution to
 society. SoE research staff continue to explore new ways of creating scientific, societal and
 economic impact.

 4.1 UoA Collaboration and Contribution

 Wider Academic and Professional Contribution
 In terms of wider engagement during the census period, Engineering has hosted events for the
 Royal Academy of Engineering East Midlands Regional Lecture (2018); The Ogden Trust’s
 Young Physicist of the Year Ceremony; and regularly exhibits its research in the
 renowned Lincoln SPARK! Engineering festival. The SoE is also a longstanding organiser and
 regular contributor to Lincoln regional industry breakfast events that have lead to further
 collaboration and projects. For example, the Breakfast Club catalysed the formation of The
 Bridge – an Advanced Engineering R&D Centre. It was a critical mechanism
 for attracting multiple engineering companies with diverse business needs, into the initiative.
    The HEIF-funded IP Commercialisation Fund and Impact Accelerator programme allow
 researchers to engage with industry via Knowledge Exchange Secondments, Innovation
 Fellowships and Mobility Awards. We have built long-term strategic partnerships with
 key collaborators – for example, we are one of Siemens 17 Global Principal Partner Universities,
 and have contributed to the success of the Lincoln Science and Innovation Park with the
 Lincolnshire Cooperative, which now hosts 15 companies.

 Researchers within the UoA regularly peer-review articles for internationally recognised journals,
 and others also review grant applications for major awarding bodies both in the UK (
 e.g. Gordon is a reviewer for the EPSRC, Saaj is a panel interviewer for the UKRI FLF,
 and Yao for the British Council (UK National Commission for UNESCO) UK Researcher Links
 Newton Fund) and internationally (e.g. Bingham for the Qatar National Research Fund (2014),
 and Yao for The National Fund for Scientific and Technological Development (FONDECYT) of
 the Chilean National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research
 (CONICYT)). Samson is a Member of the Committee for the Clean Energy Special Interest
 Group for the Institution of Chemical Engineers (CE SIG, IChemE), and a Member of the Royal
 Society of Chemistry. Additionally, Gordon has acted as a reviewer for academic promotions at
 several international universities such as Politecnico de Milano and the University of Cambridge,
 and Griffiths is a Visiting Professor to the National Institute for laser, plasma and radiation
 Physics, Romania. Many members continue to offer keynote/invited talks (e.g. Gordon for the
 Royal Academy of Engineering’s annual regional lecture at Nottingham and Samson to the
 Flame and Energy Research Forum) and are involved in event organisation such as leading the
 Greater Lincolnshire Manufacturing Network hosted by the University (SoE) and funded
 by the Greater Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnership and Greater
 Lincolnshire County Council, as well as coordinating the organisation of annual International

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engineering Summer School (Elseragy). Members of this UoA are also involved in editorial
 duties, such as Bingham acting as special issue editor for Energies and guest editor for MDPI
 (books) Electrical Power and Energy Systems for Transport Applications; Yao as a board
 member for the Journal of Applied Research and Smart Technology (ARSTech); Tucker as a
 Guest Editor for the Journal of Bioengineering (special issue: Electrospinning for Tissue
 Engineering) and Calashkanov as a board member of the IEEE Conference on Electrical
 Insulation and Dielectric Phenomena (CEIDP).

 Members of the SoE are actively involved in national and international professional bodies
 beyond Higher Education (IMechE, IChemE, IET, IEEE, AIAA, BCS, RSC etc.).

 SoE regards these wider contributions as highly critical and valuable, and supports them through
 financial, developmental and organisational means. Individuals contributing to this UoA are
 encouraged to take up opportunities where they exist and asked to identify areas where they
 would like to participate as part of their annual development and appraisals. Any
 wider academic and professional activities are accounted for in the workload model and funds to
 support travel to relevant events is departmentally provided. Additionally, further support is also
 available from the Lincoln Institute of Advanced Studies for international
 opportunities. Research mentorship offered by the SoE provides early career staff with advice
 and knowledge of professional opportunities. Further, useful contacts and networking
 opportunities are also made visible to faculty and researchers.

  The SoE has a mission to increase regional investment and employability in high technology
 research and development. With SMEs and OEMs coalescing around the Engineering
 Hub, knowledge transfer between academic-industry became more effective. For instance,
 e2v (Teledyne) has quoted closer links with the SoE as a motivator for part-relocation of their
 business.

 The SoE also recognises the value of timely knowledge dissemination. It uses the University of
 Lincoln’s ePrints open-access data repository, facilitating external access to both outputs and
 underpinning data.

 4.2 Research Group Collaboration and Contribution

 Sustainable Energy and Power (SEP) research group
 Led by Bingham the SEP group has already established on-going research activity, with key
 application sectors currently including smart energy and renewables research
 (e.g. Bingham/Bickerton’s work on Demand Side Response of widely distributed retail
 refrigeration systems in Tesco stores; packaging from waste (e.g. Tucker’s CERES agri-tech
 knowledge exchange partnership, £245k (Lincoln income), part funded through Ceres Agri-tech
 partnership and partly through HEIF); novel biofuels research (e.g. Samson’s time-on-stream
 impact on carbon deactivation, enabling the use of inexpensive char to mitigate tar problems);
 alternative fuel and low carbon-emissions engines (e.g. Bickerton demonstrating the use of
 domestically disposed fat for powering ICEs); gas turbines (e.g. Bingham leads a significant
 research activity for prognostics and diagnostics of industry systems, including a global fleet of
 gas turbines). Moreover, in collaboration with the National Centre for Food Manufacturing (part
 of the College of Science), Dowding has successfully developed a new low-cost laser
 technology for improved food packaging integrity, with demonstrable repeatability, process
 flexibility and energy usage benefits. Members are also pioneering new technologies for the
 control of debris from micro-ablation and laser activated selective bonding.
 The Group leads a direct industry-funded (e2v Ltd, backed by the Anglo-French MCMITP
 initiative) research activity to investigate explosive detonation by plasma-initiated shockwaves
 (Dowding). Group members also have a pedigree in the application of novel manufacturing
 technologies, such as electrospinning (Tucker) and in particular, the manufacture of arrays
 of electrospun nanofibres with controlled orientation and density of deposition. This novel
 technology has applications in composite reinforcement, biological and chemical reactor
 substrates, and cell growth scaffolds. Members have a longstanding track record for the

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research and development of renewable and energy harvesting technologies for both built
 environment and transport sectors. Continuing strategic expansion of SEP academic expertise
 is planned to support increasing electrical and control based disciplines
 to complement the University’s/College’s core strategic research themes eg. agri-tech/robotics,
 energy harvesting, vision/image/health. In addition, members’ academic recognition
 includes a Visiting Professorship at Tongji University, Shanghai (Gordon), Presidency of the
 International Association for Vehicle System Dynamics, IEEE — Co-chair, Technical Committee
 on Intelligent Vehicular Systems and Control, Fellowship of the Inst of Materials, Minerals, and
 Mining (Tucker), membership of the IChemE’s Clean Energy Special Interest Group (Samson)
 and on the scientific committee of several conferences such as the 12th European Conference
 on Industrial Furnaces and Boilers.

 Industrial Digitalisation and System Intelligence (IDSI) research group
 The IDSI group, led by Saaj, conducts both theoretical and industry-
 driven research to advance innovation beyond the horizon. For example, significant activity
 concerns industry-funded research investigating sensor-fusion techniques for sub-15 MW
 industrial gas turbines to maximize unit operational availability. The outputs of the research are
 now also being used for forecasting customer operational behaviour (Maleki). The intelligent
 ground vehicles research conducted in parnership with Chalmers University in Gothenburg,
 Sweden, and also with Volvo Cars and National Electric Vehicle of Sweden is another area of
 strength. Ongoing research includes developing autonomous and semi-autonomous safety
 systems for cars (£300k). Members of the IDSI group have international recognition in their
 respective fields that includes, but not limited to, the following areas: multivariable and applied
 robust control, multi-objective optimisation and fuzzy methods applied to health (e.g. Gallimore’s
 prizeworthy research into the automatic classification of human heart abnormalities from ECGs),
 energy efficiency and air transportation, advanced
 engineering optimisation (eg. Bickerton’s turbocharger multi-objective optimisation design tools
 to reduce the impact of engineering tolerances and minimise waste materials; now in use by
 Napier Turbochargers), high performance embedded systems design (eg Srivastava’s high
 performance FPGA systems for satellite and microwave systems), intelligent laser ignition
 systems (e.g. Griffiths demonstrating the first controlled liquid-fuel ignition of gas turbines).
 Moreover, academic recognition at both national and international level includes editorial
 positions at top-ranked journals in the area of Systems and Control (e.g. IEEE Transactions
 Control Systems Technology, IET Proceedings Control Theory and Application and Frontiers in
 Robotics and AI), active memberships on highly acknowledged research committees and
 national chapters (e.g. in IEEE, IFAC – the International Federation of Automatic Control) and
 positions on conference organisation and (research-related) external roles. Recognition of the
 robotics and automation expertise residing within the SoE is evidenced by the University of
 Lincoln being a member of an international consortium, led by the Queen Mary University of
 London, which won the bid for hosting IEEE’s premier conference - the International Conference
 on Robotics and Automation (ICRA 2023). The SoE academic, Saaj, is a programme committee
 member for IEEE’s flagship conferences IROS 2021, ICRA 2023 and IROS 2024.




                                                                                             Page 12
